
                               1 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 4, 2003 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Warner Urged To Sign Bill On Driver's Licenses;
Push for Proof of Residency Rooted in Sept. 11 Terrorism

BYLINE: Michael D. Shear, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 822 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND March 3


Virginia Attorney General Jerry W. Kilgore today urged Gov. Mark R. Warner to
sign legislation prohibiting illegal immigrants from getting driver's licenses,
a measure that passed overwhelmingly in the General Assembly last month despite
protests from immigrant groups.

Kilgore, a Republican, also urged the Democratic governor to sign legislation
denying in-state tuition at Virginia colleges to illegal immigrants, saying the
state "should not, under any circumstances, be providing this public benefit to
people who have ignored our immigration laws."

Kilgore repeatedly cited the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks as motivation for
the driver's license legislation. Several of the Sept. 11 hijackers obtained
Virginia licenses for use as identification.

Flanked by local sheriffs and Rep. Eric I. Cantor (R), Kilgore said Warner
should listen to the will of the legislature, which adjourned its 46-day session
Feb. 22.

"The people of Virginia deserve this protection," Kilgore said. "The driver's
license is a passport to all sorts of places, including, of course, boarding an
airplane."

Kilgore conceded that no one "can stand here and say 9/11 wouldn't have
happened" if the bill had been law. But, he added, "I don't want it ever said
again that a portion of any terrorist network had Virginia driver's licenses."

Cantor has introduced federal legislation that would require proof of legal
residency to receive a driver's license. In Maryland, Latino groups are pushing
bills that would do the opposite: let illegal immigrants get licenses. Another
bill in Maryland would grant in-state tuition to some illegal immigrants.

Representatives of immigrant groups who lobbied against the Virginia bills
during the legislative session said they continue to believe that the measures
would be unfair to immigrants and have no beneficial effect in stopping
terrorism.

Ellen Qualls, Warner's spokeswoman, would not say whether the governor would
sign the two bills. But she said he had several concerns about their cost,
fairness and implementation.

Qualls said Warner had hoped that the legislature would study both issues for a
year before acting. She said the governor's staff is reviewing the legislation
for Warner, who could sign, veto or amend the bills this month. Qualls said the
driver's license bill could prove costly for the Department of Motor Vehicles to
implement.

"Is the DMV an agency that prepares people to drive safely?" she asked. "Or is
it now a de facto entity that has to establish citizenship and therefore work
hand in glove with the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which is adding a
whole other level of bureaucratic red tape." Qualls called the INS a "creaky,
hard-to-deal-with agency" and said that linking it to the DMV would be another
challenge.

The driver's license bill, sponsored by Del. David B. Albo (R-Fairfax) and
approved in both chambers with veto-proof majorities, would require first-time
applicants to present proof that they are in the country legally. People who
have a license could renew without providing such proof unless their case was
brought to the DMV's attention by the INS or another law enforcement agency.

Albo called it a common-sense idea, given the nation's heightened concern about
terrorism.

"This bill says, hey, I can't tell whether you are illegal or not. You go to the
INS and get the right documentation, we'll give you a license," Albo said. "We
are not asking DMV to do anything but require a certain identification."

The bill barring immigrants from paying in-state tuition formalizes an opinion
Kilgore issued last year in which he said colleges should not be granting the
perk to those not in the country legally. A Virginia resident at a state college
or university pays an average of $ 6,000 less than an out-of-state student.
Kilgore said he does not know how many illegal immigrants receive that benefit,
but he said that Warner should make sure that the subsidies end.

"To suggest that we should look the other way for certain illegal aliens is an
insult to the many millions of people who have gone through the process and done
the right thing," Kilgore said.

Claire Guthrie Gastaaga, a consultant who represented the Virginia Coalition of
Latino Organizations during the legislative session, said that many immigrants
who are in the United States legally will have difficulty securing
documentation.

"There are all sorts of immigrants who have no documents, yet they are legally
here," she said. "You are telling these people to go to some agency that isn't
named to get some piece of paper that doesn't exist."

Gastaaga said the tuition bill would be costly for colleges to administer and
would unfairly penalize children of immigrants who have attended Virginia
schools for years and have paid state income tax.

"Both of those bills should properly be characterized as anti-opportunity and
anti-immigrant rather than anti-terrorist," she said.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                               2 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 23, 2003 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Md. Approves Immigrants' Tuition Break;
Ehrlich Says He'll Likely Veto Bill to Help Illegal Students

BYLINE: Lori Montgomery, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C06

LENGTH: 780 words


The Maryland General Assembly has approved a plan to allow illegal immigrants
who grow up in Maryland to pay in-state tuition at public colleges and
universities, but Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. said yesterday that he is inclined
to veto the bill.

"My predisposition would be no," said Ehrlich (R). "I'm not enthusiastic about
that approach. I would have to be convinced."

The measure would put Maryland at the forefront of a national trend toward
inviting undocumented immigrants to participate more fully in American civil
society. And it would put the state at odds with neighboring Virginia, where
Attorney General Jerry W. Kilgore (R) has warned public colleges not to enroll
illegal immigrants at all.

Virginia Gov. Mark R. Warner (D) yesterday proposed a change in a bill that
would require illegal immigrants to pay out-of-state tuition rates at that
state's colleges and universities. The amendment would let some such students
pay in-state tuition after proving that they had graduated from a Virginia high
school, been residents for 5 years and were trying to secure legal status. The
students or their parents also would have to show that they had paid Virginia
income taxes for at least three years.

The Maryland measure's sponsors said they will try to persuade Ehrlich that the
bill is critical to Latino students, who otherwise might not be able to afford a
college education.

"It's a fairness issue," said Sen. Gwendolyn T. Britt (D-Prince George's), one
of the measure's primary sponsors.

Under the proposal, illegal immigrants would be eligible for in-state tuition
rates if they attended school in Maryland for at least three years and graduated
from a Maryland high school. They would be required to submit an affidavit
vowing to apply for citizenship as soon as they were eligible to do so.

The measure stands to save immigrant students thousands of dollars in tuition
fees. At the University of Maryland College Park, for example, Maryland
residents pay $ 4,800 per year, while out-of-state students pay more than $
14,000.

Texas, California, New York and Utah have passed similar laws, and several other
states are considering such proposals. Federal law requires public elementary
and secondary schools to enroll illegal immigrants, and advocates say the
measure would give those students the same financial access to a college
education as their classmates have.

A 1996 federal law prohibits illegal immigrants from obtaining tuition breaks
that are not available to all U.S. citizens, including in-state tuition rates.
Such state measures skirt that law by basing eligibility for in-state tuition on
where students attended high school rather than on their status as residents of
any particular state.

The tuition breaks and similar measures have drawn aggressive fire from
opponents who argue that they reward people who are in the United States
illegally at the expense of legal residents. Republicans in the Maryland Senate
made that argument yesterday as they fought to block the bill.

Sen. David R. Brinkley (R-Frederick) said Maryland colleges maintain a limited
number of spots for students paying in-state tuition. By expanding the pool of
students eligible for the cheaper rates, Brinkley and others said, the bill
would allow undocumented students to displace legal residents.

The bill would "shortchange our own students," said Sen. Nancy Jacobs
(R-Harford). "We are going to be bound to take these students -- who are, in
many cases, illegal immigrants -- at the expense of our students, and I do not
think it's fair."

The bill's Democratic sponsors countered that it primarily would benefit
students who were young children when their parents entered the United States
illegally and have since established themselves as Marylanders in every way
except immigration status.

"These are our constituents," said Sen. Sharon M. Grosfeld (D-Montgomery).
"These are the people who live here in Maryland."

Democrats argued that immigrant students would get no special treatment under
the bill and would continue to compete for admission to public colleges and
universities alongside their legal classmates. The bill would change just one
thing, they said: the tuition those students would have to pay.

"This is about people who have achieved and gotten the grades. This is about
allowing them to attend college at a reasonable tuition rate. It's about
fairness," said Sen. Paul G. Pinsky (D-Prince George's).

The Senate voted 33 to 14 to approve the bill, with Democrat Norman R. Stone Jr.
(Baltimore) joining the majority of Republicans in voting no.

The House of Delegates approved the measure 82 to 51 this week. It moves next to
Ehrlich's desk.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                               3 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 6, 2003 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrant Tuition Bill Passes in Md.

BYLINE: Brigid Schulte and Jo Becker, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 687 words


The Maryland General Assembly yesterday passed legislation to extend in-state
tuition benefits to illegal immigrants attending state colleges and
universities, but the Senate and House still must resolve a related effort to
help military personnel with tuition costs if the bill is to become law.

The effort to give illegal immigrants a break was sparked by local community
colleges, who said out-of-state tuition rates were effectively closing the door
on many immigrants who have lived in Maryland for years.

"The truth of the matter is, federal law requires that we educate these
immigrant children from kindergarten through 12th grade," said Del. Nancy J.
King (D-Montgomery), a former school board member. "It only makes sense that we
continue to educate them."

But the debate this year, particularly in the House, has been at times an
uncomfortable window into deeper views on immigrants and immigration. Some
lawmakers painted the bill as an "us vs. them" measure that would mean fewer
spots in state colleges for U.S. citizens, while others tried to substitute the
word "immigrant" for "illegal alien."

Del. Emmett C. Burns Jr., who initially supported the bill, said he was torn
after hearing from angry constituents. "I have to think about African Americans
trying to get into higher education," said Burns (D-Baltimore).

On Thursday, when the bill first came to the House floor, Del. Herbert H.
McMillan (R-Anne Arundel) offered an amendment to extend in-state tuition rates
to all active and honorably discharged military members and their families -- an
addition that many saw as a deal killer.

But, with the war in Iraq and patriotic fervor running high, many were quick to
sign onto it, despite the fact that Maryland already has a fairly liberal policy
when it comes to military families. Currently, active-duty troops must show only
that they are stationed in Maryland and they and their families will receive
in-state rates .

Several lawmakers invoked the name of Pfc. Jessica Lynch, the badly injured POW
who was dramatically rescued by U.S. Special Forces in Iraq.

"These are people who pay their taxes in blood," McMillan thundered in the
debate. "If we can extend this tuition privilege to people who are here
illegally and we can't to the military, something is wrong."

The Senate took a different approach, tacking a far narrower amendment for the
military onto its immigrant tuition bill. With so little time left to resolve
their differences -- the General Assembly is set to adjourn tomorrow --
lawmakers said they worry that the measure will die.

Kim Propeak, an advocate with Casa de Maryland, said many undocumented
immigrants have been granted asylum or temporary status, but cannot become
citizens.

Paying tuition rates two and three times those of in-state residents for
community college and nearly $ 10,000 more to attend the University of Maryland
effectively bars many from going to college, she said.

"It's so said when a kid dreams of becoming a doctor or a lawyer, we put these
barriers in the way," she said. "Don't let their immigration status bar them
from the future."

The bill, similar to laws in New York, California, Texas and Utah, requires that
the prospective immigrant student has graduated from a state high school or
attended school in state for three years and has signed an affidavit signaling
an intention to become a U.S. citizen.

State community colleges and the University System of Maryland both supported
the measure.

"It's a matter of fairness," said Francis Canavan, spokesman for the university
system. "Many of these students have been here since kindergarten."

Earlier estimates, which some dispute, found that the measure could apply to
about 160 immigrants. University budget analysts found the bill could cost $ 1.6
million a year, and the figure rises every year after that. No estimates were
available on extending tuition benefits to military families.

Ken Masters, Republican Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr.'s lobbyist, said the governor
wants to review the measure should it receive final passage. "We want to see
what shape it is in," Masters said.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                               4 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 6, 2003 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrant Tuition Bill Approved;
Md. Plan Also Would Extend In-State Rates for Military

BYLINE: Brigid Schulte and Jo Becker, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C06

LENGTH: 687 words


The Maryland General Assembly yesterday passed legislation to extend in-state
tuition benefits to illegal immigrants attending state colleges and
universities, but the Senate and House still must resolve a related effort to
help military personnel with tuition costs if the bill is to become law.

The effort to give illegal immigrants a break was sparked by local community
colleges, who said out-of-state tuition rates were effectively closing the door
on many immigrants who have lived in Maryland for years.

"The truth of the matter is, federal law requires that we educate these
immigrant children from kindergarten through 12th grade," said Del. Nancy J.
King (D-Montgomery), a former school board member. "It only makes sense that we
continue to educate them."

But the debate this year, particularly in the House, has been at times an
uncomfortable window into deeper views on immigrants and immigration. Some
lawmakers painted the bill as an "us vs. them" measure that would mean fewer
spots in state colleges for U.S. citizens, while others tried to substitute the
word "immigrant" for "illegal alien."

Del. Emmett C. Burns Jr., who initially supported the bill, said he was torn
after hearing from angry constituents. "I have to think about African Americans
trying to get into higher education," said Burns (D-Baltimore).

On Thursday, when the bill first came to the House floor, Del. Herbert H.
McMillan (R-Anne Arundel) offered an amendment to extend in-state tuition rates
to all active and honorably discharged military members and their families -- an
addition that many saw as a deal killer.

But, with the war in Iraq and patriotic fervor running high, many were quick to
sign onto it, despite the fact that Maryland already has a fairly liberal policy
when it comes to military families. Currently, active-duty troops must show only
that they are stationed in Maryland and they and their families will receive
in-state rates .

Several lawmakers invoked the name of Pfc. Jessica Lynch, the badly injured POW
who was dramatically rescued by U.S. Special Forces in Iraq.

"These are people who pay their taxes in blood," McMillan thundered in the
debate. "If we can extend this tuition privilege to people who are here
illegally and we can't to the military, something is wrong."

The Senate took a different approach, tacking a far narrower amendment for the
military onto its immigrant tuition bill. With so little time left to resolve
their differences -- the General Assembly is set to adjourn tomorrow --
lawmakers said they worry that the measure will die.

Kim Propeak, an advocate with Casa de Maryland, said many undocumented
immigrants have been granted asylum or temporary status, but cannot become
citizens.

Paying tuition rates two and three times those of in-state residents for
community college and nearly $ 10,000 more to attend the University of Maryland
effectively bars many from going to college, she said.

"It's so said when a kid dreams of becoming a doctor or a lawyer, we put these
barriers in the way," she said. "Don't let their immigration status bar them
from the future."

The bill, similar to laws in New York, California, Texas and Utah, requires that
the prospective immigrant student has graduated from a state high school or
attended school in state for three years and has signed an affidavit signaling
an intention to become a U.S. citizen.

State community colleges and the University System of Maryland both supported
the measure.

"It's a matter of fairness," said Francis Canavan, spokesman for the university
system. "Many of these students have been here since kindergarten."

Earlier estimates, which some dispute, found that the measure could apply to
about 160 immigrants. University budget analysts found the bill could cost $ 1.6
million a year, and the figure rises every year after that. No estimates were
available on extending tuition benefits to military families.

Ken Masters, Republican Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr.'s lobbyist, said the governor
wants to review the measure should it receive final passage. "We want to see
what shape it is in," Masters said.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                               5 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 19, 2003 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Veto of Va. Driver's License Bill Urged;
Illegal Immigrants Seek to Drive Legally

BYLINE: David Cho, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 581 words


Protesters rallied in a park across from Gov. Mark R. Warner's Alexandria home
yesterday afternoon, urging a veto of legislation that would prohibit illegal
immigrants from getting driver's licenses in Virginia and in-state college
tuition.

About 40 people, mostly Hispanic immigrants, took part, some marching with signs
that read "No to Racism" and, in Spanish, "Just Access to Licenses."

The demonstrators criticized Warner (D) for not coming out strongly against the
two bills, which passed by wide margins last month in the Republican-controlled
legislature.

Aides said the governor was not home during yesterday's demonstration.

Protest organizer Diego Mendez of the Tenants and Workers Support Committee said
of Warner: "It will be difficult to stick his neck out, but he has to do what's
right.

"He's talked about being an ally to the immigrant community . . . and the
community is trying to . . . call him on his word. He hasn't proved that he is
an ally yet."

Not all Hispanic leaders agreed, however. Rick Gonzalez, co-chair of the
Virginia Coalition of Latino Organizations, which includes Mendez's committee,
said the protest showed "a lack of respect for the governor" and "irked" others
in the coalition.

"Some people don't understand that there are certain things you can't change,
even by force," Gonzalez said. "We are trying to work . . . in the system. We
don't have to get into ugly situations."

Both sides agree that the two bills would be detrimental to immigrants, even
those in the United States legally.

The driver's license measure requires first-time applicants to prove they are in
the country legally.

Advocates for immigrants question whether a cash-strapped Department of Motor
Vehicles can or will spend millions of dollars training employees to decipher
complex immigration documents.

The service and construction industries, which utilize much immigrant labor,
will suffer if their employees cannot drive, the advocates argue.

The bills' supporters say the measures are necessary anti-terrorism moves, and
cite the fact that several of the Sept. 11, 2001, hijackers used a loophole in
state law to obtain Virginia licenses for identification purposes.

Last week, Virginia Attorney General Jerry W. Kilgore (R) pressed Warner to sign
the bills, saying, "The driver's license is a passport to all sorts of places,
including, of course, boarding an airplane. . . . I don't want it ever said
again that a portion of any terrorist network had Virginia driver's licenses."

Kilgore also said in-state tuition rates should not be given "to people who have
ignored our immigration laws."

Ellen Qualls, Warner's spokeswoman, indicated yesterday that the governor, who
has until Monday to act on the two bills, is close to a decision, but she would
not elaborate.

Qualls said that, no matter where Warner comes down, "he's been very supportive
of, and engaged with, Virginia's Latino community."

"I don't think that these bills should be the defining issue for the [immigrant]
community," Qualls said. "He has reached out in a number of ways, from getting
children health insurance to promoting outreach to Hispanic businesses."

Because a veto of either measure likely would be overridden by the legislature,
the Hispanic coalition wants Warner to amend the bills, pushing their effective
date back to Jan. 1, 2004, to allow further study.

Mendez said he isn't swayed by that position.

"It doesn't address the fundamental problems with these bills," he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 20, 2003, Thursday



CORRECTION:  A March 19 Metro article stated that a coalition of Hispanic groups
wants Virginia Gov. Mark R. Warner (D) to delay the date when a new driver's
license bill would take effect, but gave the wrong date. The group said that if
the governor does not veto the measure, it wants him to delay the bill's
effective date until July 1, 2004.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                               6 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 24, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

DMV Worker Charged in License Scam

BYLINE: David Nakamura, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 377 words


An employee of the District's Department of Motor Vehicles accepted bribes in
exchange for helping illegal immigrants obtain fraudulent driver's licenses,
according to charges filed yesterday in New York.

Gwendolynn Dean, 48, of Washington was part of an operation in which two men
transported the immigrants from New York to Washington and gave Dean money in
exchange for her cooperation in processing the licenses, according to court
documents.

Dean, a window clerk, was charged with conspiracy and fraud and could receive 15
years in jail and a $ 250,000 fine. The two men -- Rafet Ozoglu, 41, of
Brooklyn, N.Y., and Mustafa Ozsusamlar, 58, of Paterson, N.J. -- were charged
with conspiracy, bribery, fraud and transporting illegal immigrants and could be
sentenced to 65 years in prison and fined $ 250,000.

DMV officials declined to comment on the specifics of the matter yesterday.
Regina Williams, a DMV spokeswoman, said Dean, who has worked for the city since
1998, is on paid leave pending resolution of the case.

"We are responding in conjunction with the FBI and law enforcement," Williams
wrote to The Washington Post in an e-mail response to questions about Dean. " .
. . Be assured that this agency is addressing this matter expeditiously."

Beginning in February 2001, according to court documents, Ozoglu and Ozsusamlar
recruited "clients" in New York, most of whom were illegal immigrants, and drove
them to Washington.

At the DMV, Dean was bribed to process the license applications even though the
clients did not have proper identification, prosecutors said. Ozoglu and
Ozsusamlar charged their clients as much as $ 2,000 for the licenses and gave
some of the money to Dean.

The operation was broken up by police in June after they were tipped off by an
informant who had met with Ozoglu in May, court documents state.

Dean could not be reached for comment yesterday.

Williams said that because the department upgraded to a new computer system
called Destiny in April, it will be able to guard against such fraud in the
future.

"While there is no system or procedure to completely ensure the integrity of
information . . . it can now track all activities and give us a clearer picture
of who is doing what and where," she wrote.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                               7 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 24, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

DMV Worker Charged in Scam;
Employee Allegedly Helped Illegal Immigrants Obtain Licenses

BYLINE: David Nakamura, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 393 words


An employee of the District's Department of Motor Vehicles accepted bribes in
exchange for helping illegal immigrants obtain fraudulent driver's licenses,
according to charges filed yesterday in New York.

Gwendolynn Dean, 48, of Washington was part of an operation in which two men
transported the immigrants from New York to Washington and gave Dean money in
exchange for her cooperation in processing the licenses, according to court
documents.

Dean, a window clerk, was charged with conspiracy and fraud and could receive 15
years in jail and a $ 250,000 fine. The two men -- Rafet Ozoglu, 41, of
Brooklyn, N.Y., and Mustafa Ozsusamlar, 58, of Paterson, N.J. -- were charged
with conspiracy, bribery, fraud and transporting illegal immigrants and could be
sentenced to 65 years in prison and fined $ 250,000.

DMV officials declined to comment on the specifics of the matter yesterday.
Regina Williams, a DMV spokeswoman, said Dean, who has worked for the city since
1998, is on paid leave pending resolution of the case.

"We are responding in conjunction with the FBI and law enforcement," Williams
wrote to The Washington Post in an e-mail response to questions about Dean.
"Obviously we cannot comment on specifics at this time. However, be assured that
this agency is addressing this matter expeditiously."

Beginning in February 2001, according to court documents, Ozoglu and Ozsusamlar
recruited "clients" in New York, most of whom were illegal immigrants, and drove
them to Washington.

At the DMV, Dean was bribed to process the license applications even though the
clients did not have proper identification, prosecutors said. Ozoglu and
Ozsusamlar charged their clients as much as $ 2,000 for the licenses and gave
some of the money to Dean.

The operation was broken up by police in June after they were tipped off by an
informant who had met with Ozoglu in May, court documents state.

Dean could not be reached for comment yesterday.

Williams said that because the department upgraded to a new computer system
called Destiny in April, it will be able to guard against such fraud in the
future.

"While there is no system or procedure to completely ensure the integrity of
information that is entered into the system," the spokeswoman wrote, "it can now
track all activities and give us a clearer picture of who is doing what and
where."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                               8 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               Washingtonpost.com

                         July 3, 2003 Thursday 05:30 PM

When Immigration Reform Helps Homeland Security

SOURCE: washingtonpost.com

BYLINE: Special to washingtonpost.com

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 775 words

HIGHLIGHT: Tucked away in Tom Ridge's bulging portfolio as theCabinet secretary
charged with securing U.S. territory from futureterrorist attacks is the
ambitious yet unstated goal of legitimizingillegal immigrants currently in this
country.


Tucked away in Tom Ridge's bulging portfolio as the Cabinet secretary charged
with securing U.S. territory from future terrorist attacks is the ambitious yet
unstated goal of legitimizing illegal immigrants currently in this country.

Neither Ridge nor anyone in the White House will say this publicly, yet logic
makes it apparent. Terrorists, after all, are people, and it is among people,
particularly those 8 million to 9 million living here with no legal status, that
those terrorists can easily hide.

There are those who say legitimacy is not an option for those who have shown no
respect for U.S. immigration laws. Deport them, one and all, or lock them up and
throw away the key. That would send the necessary warning to the world.

Politically and logistically, however, such solutions are practically
impossible. Immigration agents currently deport an average of 407 criminals or
other illegal aliens every day. At that rate, it would take more than 50 years
to oust all the scofflaws, a majority of them Mexican. So like it or not,
millions will have to somehow be brought into the fold.

In fact, this is already happening outside the federal realm. Mexican consular
officials in this country have been issuing identification cards--known as
matriculas consulares--to th! ousands of Mexicans here illegally. The cards
effectively document the undocumented. They provide no official change in status
for the immigrant but offer a foothold in society and open doors to a few basic
services such as bank accounts.

Already, 14 states and more than 900 police and sheriff's departments around the
country accept the cards as legitimate identification. Absent alternatives, the
matriculas have become a welcome tool for those authorities to get a better
handle on who's on the streets of their communities.

This local and state process has not escaped the notice of the federal
government, the FBI and Ridge himself. Just last week the FBI warned that the
documents are vulnerable to fraud and misuse by criminals and terrorists. No
surprise there. The 9/11 hijackers proved that even U.S.-issued documents were
vuln! erable.

Ridge, for his part, says his main concern is preserving the integrity of the
matriculas. Publicly, he has been sympathetic to the idea of regularizing the
status of illegal immigrants, and this week told a group of Hispanic reporters
that as member of Congress in 1986 he voted in favor of amnesty for more than a
million illegal immigrants then living in the country.

So the question now is, who at the federal level is going to shape this process
already under way and what form it will ultimately take. Washington could deport
and arrest more immigrants but that would do a disservice to national security
by pushing millions of illegals deeper into the shadows and making it even
harder to find the few ill-intentioned among them. Or Washington could act
according to today's national security nuances by distinguishing, as Ridge seems
to do, between those who want to destroy a way of life and those who want to
take part in it.

Republican Richard Lugar, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee,
called this week for an end to American reluctance to adopt positive immigration
reforms. Some of his colleagues, Republican and Democrat, already are pushing
new bills to create, for instance, a guest worker program that would match many
of those here illegally with employers who want to hire them.

Others, such as Demetrios Papademetriou of the Migration Policy Institute, a
Washington think tank, suggest a U.S.-vetted registration process similar to the
one now used for those from Arab countries. Those who cooperate could be offered
?eventual regularization of their status,'? he said.

So far there is no clear indication if, when and how President Bush will take
the lead on this issue. As all politicians and their pollsters know, there would
be much to gain for Bush and the Republican Party if he were to take radical and
concrete steps to regularize the status of illegal Hispanic immigrants. Such an
act might do for today's GOP what Lincoln did 140 years ago when he turned it
into the party of the emancipated.

But at this moment and in this White House, where punitive voices on this issue
shout down conciliatory ones! all too often, legitimization may be further swept
under the rug. Reluctance to take such a political risk would bring about mostly
half-baked measures. And so, ironically, the lack of political resolve over
immigration would trump homeland security--and play into the hands of
terrorists.

Marcela Sanchez's e-mail address is desdewash@washpost.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2003 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 20, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Rules on Detention Widened;
FBI, Marshals Can Hold Foreigners

BYLINE: Dan Eggen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 758 words


Attorney General John D. Ashcroft has issued orders that allow FBI agents and
U.S. marshals to detain foreign nationals for alleged immigration violations in
cases where there is not enough evidence to hold them on criminal charges,
according to Justice Department officials and a copy of the rules.

The regulations, issued in December but not announced publicly, significantly
breach the wall that has long separated federal law enforcement agents from
immigration officers, who previously were the only personnel authorized in most
circumstances to detain people in the country illegally.

Justice Department officials characterized the authority as a valuable tool in
the war on terrorism for FBI agents and U.S. marshals, who have complained that
overtaxed immigration officers have sometimes been difficult to locate during
sensitive investigations.

The order could be put into wide use this week, when the FBI launches a wartime
contingency plan that will include interviews with thousands of Iraqi nationals
living in the United States, officials said. Dozens of those immigrants,
including some believed to be sympathetic to Iraqi President Saddam Hussein, are
likely to be arrested on suspicion that they have violated immigration laws,
sources familiar with the pending operation said.

"There's no intent here to turn the FBI into an immigration agency," one FBI
spokesman said.  "It's really intended for counterterrorism cases, and is meant
to give us the authority to arrest or detain until [Homeland Security] officers
can arrive . . . . This is another useful tool at our disposal."

The change marks the latest attempt by the Justice Department to involve police
and other criminal enforcement officers in immigration matters, which have
traditionally been handled by officers of the former Immigration and
Naturalization Service and by special administrative courts within the Justice
Department. The INS was broken into pieces earlier this month and moved into the
new Department of Homeland Security.

Historically, the functions of law enforcement agents and immigration officers
have been kept separate in part to encourage illegal immigrants to report crimes
without fear of detention or deportation.

Police in Florida and South Carolina are participating in a pilot program that
allows them to make immigration arrests, and Justice Department lawyers
concluded in a legal opinion issued last year that states and cities have the
"inherent authority" to do so. But many police departments have said they do not
want that authority.

Several immigration advocates condemned the change as the latest in a series of
federal counterterrorism tactics that have unfairly targeted immigrants. Since
the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, the Justice Department has conducted a dragnet that
ensnared hundreds of immigrants, launched an effort to arrest more than 300,000
who have ignored deportation orders, and is photographing and fingerprinting
visitors from 25 countries, almost all of them predominantly Muslim.

"It's part of a pattern that we're seeing in which what may be minor violations
of immigration law are used as a pretext for preventive detention," said Bill
Frelick, an immigration policy expert at Amnesty International.

Judy Golub of the American Immigration Lawyers Association also questioned
whether Ashcroft was overstepping his authority, saying Congress and the public
should have been notified of the change.

The Dec. 18 order authorizes "special agents of the FBI to exercise the
functions of immigration officers for the purpose of . . . investigating,
determining the location of and apprehending any alien who is in the United
States in violation of the Immigration and Nationality Act" or other immigration
laws, according to a copy obtained by The Washington Post.

The FBI has drafted guidelines to ensure that the authority is used "only in
appropriate situations, such as when the public safety requires prompt action
before [Homeland Security] agents can arrive," a senior Justice official said in
a statement. Several FBI and Justice Department officials also said they intend
to use the powers only in counterterrorism cases.

But Ashcroft's order appears to include no such restrictions. Those covered by
the order include, but are not limited to, visiting foreign nationals who must
register with immigration officials as part of a government effort to
fingerprint and photograph visitors from countries believed to have a
significant al Qaeda presence.

Staff researcher Madonna Lebling contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              10 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 25, 2003 Friday
                                 Final Edition

More Illegal Immigrants Can Be Held;
Ashcroft's Ruling Cites National Security Issues

BYLINE: George Lardner Jr., Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 1047 words


Broad categories of foreigners who arrive in this country illegally can be
detained indefinitely without consideration of their individual circumstances if
immigration officials say their release would endanger national security,
according to a ruling by Attorney General John D. Ashcroft.

Ashcroft released the far-reaching decision yesterday in denying bond to an
18-year-old Haitian, David Joseph, who scrambled ashore at Key Biscayne, Fla.,
on Oct. 29 with more than 200 other refugees. Immigration judges had approved
the release of about 100 of them.

The order means that groups of asylum seekers and other aliens -- in this
instance Haitians -- can be locked up without hearings and without recourse to
release on bond. Ashcroft rejected claims that denying them bail on broad
national security grounds would violate their due process rights. He said it was
not clear they had any such rights.

Until now, the government has jailed individuals or groups seeking asylum for
long periods, but has not asserted the right to indefinitely detain whole
classes of illegal immigrants as security risks.

In overruling an appellate panel of immigration judges, the attorney general
said his decision was based on the danger that the release of Joseph and other
Oct. 29 immigrants "would tend to encourage further surges of mass migration
from Haiti by sea, with attendant strains on national and homeland security
resources."

Ashcroft said such migrations have "heavily taxed Coast Guard capacity and
capabilities," limiting its responsiveness in other mission areas."

He also invoked the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, saying they had increased
the necessity of preventing undocumented aliens from entering the United States
"without the screening of the immigration inspections process."

Immigration advocates denounced the 19-page ruling as a huge stretch of the
national security concept and a waste of the federal money that indefinite
detentions would consume. Dated April 17, it overturned a decision of the Board
of Immigration Appeals (BIA), which held last month that Joseph should be
released to an uncle in this country on $ 2,500 bond because he did not pose
either a danger to the community or a flight risk.

Homeland Security officials, who took over administration and enforcement of
immigration law after the breakup of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
appealed that decision to Ashcroft. He pointed out that he retains his authority
over "questions of law arising under those statutes."

A Justice Department spokesman said the decision "will serve as a binding
precedent on BIA judges for other cases where national security interests are
presented by the Department of Homeland Security."

"You would think the attorney general would have better things to do these days
than target an innocent Haitian asylum seeker," said Cheryl Little, executive
director of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center, which represented Joseph. "It
is such a waste of precious resources."

She said detentions of an earlier boatload of Haitians, most now deported, had
cost the government $ 12.5 million over a six-month period.

Eleanor Acer, director of the asylum program at the Lawyers Committee for Human
Rights, called the decision "deeply disturbing" because it invoked national
security to deprive "large numbers of asylum seekers of the chance to prove to
an immigration judge that they, in their individual cases, present no risk to
national security and merit release on bond."

She said the ruling affects not only asylum seekers, but also those others who
might be picked up in this country as undocumented aliens, on a workplace raid,
for example.

Ashcroft said his decision was "fortified by the State Department's assertion"
that it has observed an increase in immigrants from countries, such as Pakistan,
using Haiti as a staging point for entry into the United States.

He said the national security interests he was invoking were directed "at
unlawful and dangerous mass migrations by sea, not the right to seek asylum."

In its March 13 ruling in Joseph's favor, the Board of Immigration Appeals said
the likelihood of continued migrations from Haiti had been undercut by a new INS
regulation adopted in November. It had no effect on Joseph, but it said that
those who enter the country as he did, without being legally admitted, could be
detained indefinitely and would no longer be able to have their cases heard by
an immigration judge or the board.

"This largely addresses the . . .concern that granting of bond in this case will
encourage other aliens to travel to the United States, under the assumption that
they, too, will be granted release," the board said.

Ashcroft, however, said that while this new policy might reduce the number of
Haitians being released on bond, "it hardly provides airtight assurance against
future successful entries by such migrants through legal and extra-legal
maneuvers." He said it also left the door open to release not only of Joseph,
but also "hundreds of others" from the Oct. 29 boatload.

The attorney general also disputed the finding that Joseph, who is being held at
the Krome Service Processing Center southwest of Miami, was not a flight risk.
He said Joseph tried to evade capture after landing here and has since been
denied his request for asylum.

Joseph is appealing that decision, but Little said that is probably his last
hope of avoiding deportation.

"Since September 11th," she said, "it has been very difficult to challenge
decisions like this that were allegedly made in the interests of national
security." For instance, she said, when her center filed suit in Miami to
contest the detention of a boatload of Haitians who had arrived in December
2001, "the judge dismissed the case without even holding an evidentiary hearing,
and basically said it was up to the politicians in Washington, not the court, to
make the decision."

Ashcroft ordered Joseph detained "pending decision on removal." As attorney
general, he said, he has the broad authority to detain Joseph and deny him bond
"based on any reasonable consideration, individualized or general."

"The authority to expel aliens," he added, "is meaningless without the authority
to detain those who pose a danger or a flight risk."

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              11 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 8, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Not a Governor's Choice

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A30

LENGTH: 203 words


If Virginia Gov. Mark R. Warner is unwilling to enforce federal immigration laws
in Virginia, he should step down ["Warner Vetoes Tuition Curbs; Bill Sought to
Bar In-State Rates for Illegal Immigrants," front page, May 1].

Immigrants are in this country legally or illegally. If they have complied with
immigration requirements, they are here legally. If they have not coplied with
immigration requirments, they are here illegally. There is no such thing as an
undocumented immigrant.

I live in Maryland, and apparently illegal immigrants attending university and
paying in-state tuition rates is a problem here as well.

Rep. Roscoe Bartlett (R-Md.) addresses the issue better than most I've heard. He
said, "Although education is rightfully not mentioned in the Constitution, and
therefore reserved to the states, the states do not have the power to set
foreign policy or make laws that contradict federal law. A person who enters the
U.S. illegally is in violation of federal law and the states should not
facilitate further law-breaking by giving in-state tuition rates to illegal
aliens."

It's not appropriate for Gov. Warner to pick and choose which federal laws he
will comply with.

LORING SAFFORD

Laytonsville

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              12 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 25, 2002 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

INS Officers Charged in Immigrant's Death

BYLINE: Lee Hockstader, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 554 words

DATELINE: AUSTIN Sept. 24


-- In an early morning raid in March 2001, federal agents burst into a house
northwest of Houston, arrested 20 illegal immigrants and beat one of them,
Serafin Olvera-Carrera, to the point of paralysis. Olvera was never able to
speak again, and he died of his injuries 11 months later.

Today, three of the agents, all from the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
were charged with violating the civil rights of Olvera, a father of five who had
beenin the country a decade legally before allowing his immigration status to
lapse just before the raid.

The indictment, filed in U.S. District Court in Houston, charges one of the INS
officers, Carlos Reyna, with giving Olvera a beating that apparently caused a
traumatic injury to his spinal cord. Another officer, Richard Gonzales, was
charged with dousing him with pepper spray. Both of those agents as well as a
third, Louis Gomez, were charged with denying him medical care. All the agents
were based in the San Antonio INS office.

If convicted, the agents face a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a fine
of $ 250,000.

"The Justice Department is committed to vigorously prosecuting those law
enforcement officers who abuse their sworn positions of trust and mistreat those
in custody," Assistant Attorney General Ralph F. Boyd Jr. said in a statement.

Olvera's beating and subsequent death has generated some news media attention in
Mexico, whose relations with Texas have already been strained by the state's
execution of a Mexican citizen in August.

The beating took place March 25 last year in Bryan, Tex., about 90 miles
northwest of Houston. According to the INS, the agents were searching for a
fugitive when they launched their raid. However, there was no indication that
Olvera, who had come to the United States in 1977 and worked as a roofer in
Houston and Bryan, was the one who had been sought.

In a statement released within days of the raid, the INS said one of its agents
was assaulted in the course of the arrests, although it did not name Olvera as
the assailant and filed no charges against him.

However, a lawyer for Olvera's family said Olvera was beaten without
provocation, hit and kicked repeatedly and then bound, his arms and legs behind
him, and made to lie face-down on the kitchen floor. At that point, according to
a lawsuit filed on Olvera's behalf in February, one of the agents jumped up and
drove his knee into Olvera's back.

"Serafin yelled out, 'You broke me!' " said family lawyer, Sean Lyons.

Those, apparently, were the last words he spoke. Shortly afterward, his
condition deteriorated, and he was paralyzed from the neck down. He spent the
rest of his life in a hospital in Houston, unable to speak or breathe without a
respirator.

Lyons, who interviewed a number of witnesses and spent hours with Olvera in the
hospital before he died, said it was extremely unlikely that Olvera, who was
listed as 5-foot-6 and 145 pounds on his driver's license, had done anything to
provoke the INS agents.

Olvera was 47 when he died Feb. 24. An autopsy by the Harris County medical
examiner in Houston classified Olvera's death a homicide and concluded the cause
of death was complications from "blunt force trauma to the neck." The agents
posted bond in San Antonio today, but were forbidden to travel except to
Houston.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              13 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 16, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Va. Order Decried by Immigrant Advocates;
State Turning Colleges Into Police, They Say

BYLINE: Nurith C. Aizenman and Amy Argetsinger, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 958 words


A new directive from the Virginia attorney general's office that warns public
colleges not to enroll illegal immigrants has placed the state squarely at odds
with a national trend toward offering undocumented students greater access to
higher education.

The September memo by Attorney General Jerry W. Kilgore (R), which also
instructs Virginia's colleges to report to federal authorities any illegal
immigrants they find on campus, drew fire yesterday from Latino and immigrant
rights organizations.

At a news conference in Arlington, the groups said Kilgore's action unfairly
penalizes foreign-born children for their parents' decision to come to the
United States illegally and goes beyond any federal or state law by asking
educators to act as police -- potentially in violation of confidentiality
policies.

Kilgore staff members countered by saying they are concerned that illegal
immigrants could be taking seats at state schools that would otherwise go to
U.S. citizens. They also said that since last year's terrorist attacks, all
universities carry a greater responsibility to help the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service monitor foreign students.

"This is about differentiating between those who obey the law and those who
willfully break it," said the attorney general's spokesman, Tim Murtaugh.

Virginia's move comes as many states are taking a dramatically different
approach, not only allowing illegal immigrants to enroll in public colleges but
also granting them in-state tuition.

California, Texas and New York have passed laws to that effect in the last two
years. Similar measures are either pending or being drafted in Maryland, North
Carolina, Massachusetts, Minnesota and Utah.

And several bills in Congress, including one introduced by Sen. Orrin G. Hatch
(R-Utah), would encourage other states to follow suit.

There is no specific federal prohibition against colleges and universities
enrolling illegal immigrants. However, federal law places some restrictions on
allowing such students to pay in-state tuition rates, and it prohibits them from
receiving federal financial aid.

Efforts to open public colleges to undocumented students stem from a growing
view among some lawmakers -- vehemently rejected by others -- that excluding the
nation's estimated 8 million illegal immigrants from benefits such as health
care and higher education only threatens the safety and economic well-being of
the communities in which they live.

Since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, that approach has been offset by a
competing impulse among many state and federal authorities to curtail illegal
immigration.

Among other actions, more than a dozen states have cracked down on driver's
license fraud, requiring applicants to provide more extensive proof of their
identity and legal residency before issuing licenses.

Immigrant rights advocates contend that such steps merely victimize otherwise
law-abiding drivers and endanger the public by preventing them from getting auto
insurance.

Yesterday, critics offered similar arguments against Kilgore's directive.

Virginia's undocumented students "are the epitome of what we consider the
American dream," said Tisha Tallman, regional counsel for the Mexican American
Legal Defense and Educational Fund, which organized the news conference.
"They've gone to high school here, they're hardworking and high-achieving."

In Maryland, Prince George's Community College President Ronald A. Williams has
also argued that local communities have as much to gain from illegal immigrants
attending college as the immigrants themselves. "They are going to need skills
to become taxpayers who are not a burden on society," he said.

However, Steven Camarota, director of research at the Center for Immigration
Studies, countered that expanding college benefits to illegal immigrants
encourages more people to come to the United States illegally.

"It conveys to the world the message that America just isn't serious about its
immigration laws," he said. "It's also a slap in the face to the people who play
by the rules by waiting for their turn to immigrate in their home countries."

Immigrant rights advocates estimate that 50,000 illegal immigrants graduate from
U.S. high schools every year. It is unclear how many go on to college. Although
many college applications ask students if they are legal residents, the
institutions rarely do background checks unless they are verifying a student's
eligibility for federal assistance or in-state tuition.

Several higher education officials and immigration experts said there are few
illegal immigrants at U.S. colleges. "Most of these kids face huge barriers in
terms of language and their parents' lack of education, and their ability to
afford out-of-state tuition," said Josh Bernstein, a senior policy analyst at
the National Immigration Law Center.

Williams, of Prince George's Community College, said that every year a couple of
hundred illegal immigrants come to register at the school's northern county
office, which serves an area dominated by immigrants. But they walk out the door
when they find out they will have to pay out-of-state tuition, which is three
times as high as the in-county rate.

Many advocates also fear that Kilgore's directive will mainly end up affecting
students who are legal immigrants, subjecting them to undue scrutiny and
possibly even racial profiling.

Authorities at Virginia's public universities said that they believe they have
been in compliance with state and federal law and that the Kilgore memo has not
changed the way they deal with students.

Bill Walker, a spokesman for the College of William and Mary, said the memo
would serve as "a reminder for us to maintain our standards."

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              14 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 16, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrant Groups Decry Va. Directive to Colleges

BYLINE: Nurith C. Aizenman and Amy Argetsinger, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 958 words


A new directive from the Virginia attorney general's office that warns public
colleges not to enroll illegal immigrants has placed the state squarely at odds
with a national trend toward offering undocumented students greater access to
higher education.

The September memo by Attorney General Jerry W. Kilgore (R), which also
instructs Virginia's colleges to report to federal authorities any illegal
immigrants they find on campus, drew fire yesterday from Latino and immigrant
rights organizations.

At a news conference in Arlington, the groups said Kilgore's action unfairly
penalizes foreign-born children for their parents' decision to come to the
United States illegally and goes beyond any federal or state law by asking
educators to act as police -- potentially in violation of confidentiality
policies.

Kilgore staff members countered by saying they are concerned that illegal
immigrants could be taking seats at state schools that would otherwise go to
U.S. citizens. They also said that since last year's terrorist attacks, all
universities carry a greater responsibility to help the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service monitor foreign students.

"This is about differentiating between those who obey the law and those who
willfully break it," said the attorney general's spokesman, Tim Murtaugh.

Virginia's move comes as many states are taking a dramatically different
approach, not only allowing illegal immigrants to enroll in public colleges but
also granting them in-state tuition.

California, Texas and New York have passed laws to that effect in the last two
years. Similar measures are either pending or being drafted in Maryland, North
Carolina, Massachusetts, Minnesota and Utah.

And several bills in Congress, including one introduced by Sen. Orrin G. Hatch
(R-Utah), would encourage other states to follow suit.

There is no specific federal prohibition against colleges and universities
enrolling illegal immigrants. However, federal law places some restrictions on
allowing such students to pay in-state tuition rates, and it prohibits them from
receiving federal financial aid.

Efforts to open public colleges to undocumented students stem from a growing
view among some lawmakers -- vehemently rejected by others -- that excluding the
nation's estimated 8 million illegal immigrants from benefits such as health
care and higher education only threatens the safety and economic well-being of
the communities in which they live.

Since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, that approach has been offset by a
competing impulse among many state and federal authorities to curtail illegal
immigration.

Among other actions, more than a dozen states have cracked down on driver's
license fraud, requiring applicants to provide more extensive proof of their
identity and legal residency before issuing licenses.

Immigrant rights advocates contend that such steps merely victimize otherwise
law-abiding drivers and endanger the public by preventing them from getting auto
insurance.

Yesterday, critics offered similar arguments against Kilgore's directive.

Virginia's undocumented students "are the epitome of what we consider the
American dream," said Tisha Tallman, regional counsel for the Mexican American
Legal Defense and Educational Fund, which organized the news conference.
"They've gone to high school here, they're hardworking and high-achieving."

In Maryland, Prince George's Community College President Ronald A. Williams has
also argued that local communities have as much to gain from illegal immigrants
attending college as the immigrants themselves. "They are going to need skills
to become taxpayers who are not a burden on society," he said.

However, Steven Camarota, director of research at the Center for Immigration
Studies, countered that expanding college benefits to illegal immigrants
encourages more people to come to the United States illegally.

"It conveys to the world the message that America just isn't serious about its
immigration laws," he said. "It's also a slap in the face to the people who play
by the rules by waiting for their turn to immigrate in their home countries."

Immigrant rights advocates estimate that 50,000 illegal immigrants graduate from
U.S. high schools every year. It is unclear how many go on to college. Although
many college applications ask students if they are legal residents, the
institutions rarely do background checks unless they are verifying a student's
eligibility for federal assistance or in-state tuition.

Several higher education officials and immigration experts said there are few
illegal immigrants at U.S. colleges. "Most of these kids face huge barriers in
terms of language and their parents' lack of education, and their ability to
afford out-of-state tuition," said Josh Bernstein, a senior policy analyst at
the National Immigration Law Center.

Williams, of Prince George's Community College, said that every year a couple of
hundred illegal immigrants come to register at the school's northern county
office, which serves an area dominated by immigrants. But they walk out the door
when they find out they will have to pay out-of-state tuition, which is three
times as high as the in-county rate.

Many advocates also fear that Kilgore's directive will mainly end up affecting
students who are legal immigrants, subjecting them to undue scrutiny and
possibly even racial profiling.

Authorities at Virginia's public universities said that they believe they have
been in compliance with state and federal law and that the Kilgore memo has not
changed the way they deal with students.

Bill Walker, a spokesman for the College of William and Mary, said the memo
would serve as "a reminder for us to maintain our standards."

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              15 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 12, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Law Firm's Owner Convicted of Bilking Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: Tom Jackman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 926 words


The head of a renowned immigration law firm was convicted yesterday on all 57
counts of a federal indictment accusing him of a massive fraud scheme in which
illegal immigrants paid thousands of dollars to seek permission to work in the
United States, unaware that their applications were filled with false
information and phony signatures.

Samuel G. Kooritzky, 64, was led from the courtroom in handcuffs after the
verdict, which followed five hours of deliberation and a week-long trial in U.S.
District Court in Alexandria. He faces a probable prison sentence of eight to 10
years on charges of conspiracy, fraud and money laundering and could also
forfeit as much as $ 2.5 million that authorities believe was part of the
proceeds of his scheme.

Kooritzky owns the Capital Law Centers, with offices in Arlington, Takoma Park
and Washington. The firm specialized in applying to state governments for labor
certifications, in which a business claims it cannot find a U.S. citizen for a
particular job. An immigrant then uses the certification to apply for a
permanent resident visa, or "green card."

But Kooritzky's firm submitted thousands of applications for labor
certifications without telling the businesses they were being used. Kooritzky
filed 230 applications on behalf of two Chili's restaurants in Northern
Virginia, 184 applications for one Silver Diner in Arlington, and 173
applications for one Shoney's restaurant in Manassas, ostensibly for cooks and
kitchen workers. None of the restaurants had heard of Kooritzky or authorized
him to apply for labor certifications on their behalf, their officials
testified.

Kooritzky testified that he did not know that his employees and contract workers
were preparing phony documents on behalf of his clients.

Kooritzky's own handwritten internal memos and self-adhesive notes were used
against him at the trial. In one note, Kooritzky wrote to a colleague, "Please
tell me which are real clients and which are 'fake.' " Kooritzky explained that
his office used the word "fake" to describe clients who probably wouldn't last
through the application process, not to indicate a phony application.

Kooritzky also testified that he knew Chili's had "hundreds of cooks" and that
rather than apply through the dozens of different Chili's restaurants, "we
simply designated them all from the one location."

Kooritzky said he believed that the restaurants had authorized the applications
because one of his employees, Ronald W. Bogardus, told him they had. Bogardus's
job at Kooritzky's firm was to find sponsors -- businesses that needed immigrant
workers.

For years, Kooritzky said, immigrants came to his office without a job sponsor
and he had to turn them away. In the fall of 2000, he met Bogardus, a State
Department contract employee, "and it was like a miracle. Exactly the kind of
person I was looking for to do that kind of work," Kooritzky said.

Kooritzky schooled Bogardus in the labor and immigration process, and Bogardus
went in search of sponsors. But Bogardus testified that he soon found it was
easier to simply go to a restaurant, learn the manager's name and then sign the
forms himself. For documentation, he and a woman swiped company logos off the
Internet and placed them atop phony letters, Bogardus said.

Bogardus or other employees would then sign the restaurant managers' names. He
said Kooritzky "told me they could be signed by anybody, and I took him at his
word." Bogardus said he did not tell Kooritzky that he was forging signatures.
But even after businesses began calling Kooritzky and asking why they were
receiving labor certifications for people they had never heard of, Kooritzky did
not ask Bogardus about the situation or tell him to stop, Bogardus said.

Andrew Shea, a Labor Department special agent, said in a court filing that
Kooritzky filed 2,200 phony labor applications last year alone. Immigrants paid
$ 8,000 to $ 20,000 for the effort, even though most never got the green card.
None of the applicants knew they were being submitted for nonexistent jobs. Nick
Pompei, an Internal Revenue Service agent, estimated that Kooritzky's firm
reaped more than $ 10 million from the scheme in the past two years.

Bogardus, 65, and Kooritzky were arrested in July. Bogardus soon pleaded guilty
and was sentenced to eight years in prison. He also forfeited $ 4 million and
agreed to testify in hopes of receiving a sentence reduction. Two other
Kooritzky employees, Inderjeet Kaur and Carolina Trana, also pleaded guilty and
testified, but they have not been sentenced.

Testimony and Kooritzky's internal documents revealed that he paid some
businesses as much as $ 5,000 to sponsor an immigrant.

Kooritzky also argued that filing multiple applications for one person was fine
-- a process he said ensured that the applicant would be approved somewhere but
that prosecutors said enabled him to maximize his profits by "substituting"
other immigrants.

"This is all about buying and selling substitution cases for as much as you can
get, isn't it?" Assistant U.S. Attorney John Morton asked Kooritzky.

"Nothing wrong with that," Kooritzky replied.

Brian Shaughnessy, one of Kooritzky's attorneys, argued that "nobody ever
brought a forgery to Mr. Kooritzky's attention." Shaughnessy said he would
appeal but declined to make further comment.

U.S. Attorney Paul J. McNulty called the case one of the largest labor
certification frauds ever prosecuted and said it was "an important victory in
our effort to restore integrity to our immigration system."

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              16 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 3, 2003 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Report: 9/11 Detainees Abused;
Justice Dept. Review Outlines Immigrant Rights Violations

BYLINE: Steve Fainaru, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1586 words


Authorities violated the civil rights of hundreds of immigrants detained after
the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks and demonstrated "a pattern of physical and verbal
abuse" at a federal prison where 84 of them were held, according to a
long-awaited Justice Department report released yesterday.

According to a review by its Office of the Inspector General, the Justice
Department instituted a "no bond" policy for all detainees connected to the
terrorism probe after the attacks -- even though immigration officials quickly
questioned the policy's legality.

Without bail, terrorism suspects remained in jail for an average of nearly three
months, much longer than the FBI projected before it cleared most of them for
release, the report said. In addition, detainees faced monumental difficulties
and weeks of delay before they were allowed to make phone calls and find
lawyers. Some were kept for months in cells illuminated 24 hours a day and were
escorted in handcuffs, leg irons and waist chains.

In one Brooklyn detention facility, some detainees complained of being slammed
against walls and taunted by guards, claims that inspectors found credible.

The 198-page report by Inspector General Glenn A. Fine is the most thorough
account to date of the government's handling of 762 immigrants -- most of Arab
and South Asian descent -- taken into custody during the nationwide terrorism
probe. All had violated immigration laws in some way. The inquiry focused on two
detention facilities that housed the majority of the detainees, the federal
Metropolitan Detention Center in Brooklyn and the Passaic County jail in
Paterson, N.J.

In the chaotic aftermath of the attacks on the World Trade Center and the
Pentagon, senior Justice Department officials devised a far-reaching strategy to
give investigators as much time as possible to determine whether detainees were
connected to terrorism, according to the report.

The report, which emerged from internal government documents and more than 100
interviews with U.S. officials and detainees, "recognized the enormous
challenges and difficult circumstances confronting the [Justice] Department in
responding to the terrorist attacks." But the inspector general "found
significant problems in the way the September 11 detainees were treated."

Only one detainee, Zacarias Moussaoui, who was in custody before the attacks,
has been charged with a terrorism-related crime.

Justice Department spokeswoman Barbara Comstock said the report is "fully
consistent with what courts have ruled over and over -- that our actions are
fully within the law and necessary to protect the American people. We make no
apologies for finding every legal way possible to protect the American public
from further terrorist attacks."

In a letter attached to the report, Deputy Attorney General Larry Thompson
wrote: "The detention of those illegal aliens suspected of involvement with
terrorism was paramount. . . . My staff understood that the immigration
authorities of the Department should be used to keep such people in custody
until we could satisfy ourselves -- by the FBI clearance process -- that they
did not mean to do us harm. Given those circumstances, I respectfully submit
that it is unfair to criticize the conduct of members of my staff during this
period."

However, Anthony D. Romero, executive director of the American Civil Liberties
Union, called for congressional hearings into the treatment of detainees
following the Sept. 11 attacks. The inspector general's report, he said, may
form the basis for a lawsuit against Justice Department employees involved in
formulating and executing the policy.

"I think overall the report clearly talks to the wholesale abuse of immigrants'
rights in the aftermath of 9/11," Romero said. "Immigrants weren't the enemy,
but the war on terrorism quickly turned into a war on immigrants."

Elisa C. Massimino, Washington director for the Lawyers Committee for Human
Rights, said that "it's quite clear, more clear than even I expected it to be,
that the Justice Department and chiefly the attorney general, was playing this
shell game with these detainees, exploiting the immigration rules in order to
keep people in custody longer."

Among the findings by the Justice Department's independent, internal
investigator:

* Detainees at the Metropolitan Detention Center, a federal prison in Brooklyn,
were subjected to "unduly harsh" conditions. Of 19 MDC detainees interviewed by
the inspector general's office, 12 reported physical abuse that included guards
slamming detainees into walls while they were being transferred. Ten said they
were verbally abused. The inspector general's office interviewed 12 correctional
officers; each denied witnessing or participating in any active abuse.

Prosecutors, citing lack of evidence, declined to prosecute any of the guards,
the report said. However, it revealed that Fine's office is continuing to
investigate.

The report said the investigation into alleged abuses was hampered by the
destruction of hundreds of hours of videotape from MDC's Special Housing Unit,
where the detainees were held. Fine, in an interview, said destruction of the
videotapes appeared to be the result of a "general policy" to clear up space
after hundreds of hours of filming. "There's no indication they were trying to
cover anything up," he said.

* For several weeks after the attacks, Bureau of Prisons officials imposed a
"communications blackout" that severely limited detainees' efforts to contact
family and attorneys. Even after the blackout was lifted, the designation of the
detainees as "Witness Security" inmates frustrated efforts by attorneys,
families "and even law enforcement officials" to determine where a detainee was
being held, the report said.

* In some cases, the Immigration and Naturalization Service waited more than a
month before presenting detainees with charging documents, instead of the
agency's stated goal of 72 hours. The delays made it difficult for the detainees
to "understand why they were being held, obtain legal counsel, and request a
bond hearing," the report concluded.

In a Sept. 17, 2001, memorandum, Attorney General John D. Ashcroft declared that
the Justice Department sought to prevent future acts of terrorism by arresting
and detaining violators who "have been identified as persons who participate in,
or lend support to, terrorist activities. Federal law enforcement agencies and
the United States Attorneys' Offices will use every available law enforcement
tool to incapacitate these individuals and their organizations."

A senior federal law enforcement official, who spoke on condition of anonymity,
said that among the 762 detainees were some who are "very dangerous and known to
be associated with terrorists." One was a roommate of one of the Sept. 11
hijackers, the official said, and another acknowledged attending terrorist
training camps in Afghanistan.

Citizens of more than 20 countries were among the detainees, according to the
report. The largest number, 254, or 33 percent, came from Pakistan, more than
twice as many as from any other country.

Authorities held suspects on immigration violations such as overstaying their
visas or working without proper permits while investigators sought to determine
whether they were connected to terrorism. According to the report, the Justice
Department issued a "hold until cleared" policy. The policy was "not
memorialized in writing," according to the report, but was clearly understood by
INS and FBI officials in the field.

The inspector general found that Stuart Levey, the associate deputy attorney
general responsible for oversight of immigration issues, communicated the
directive to the INS and the FBI. The policy was based on the mistaken
conclusion that suspects would be cleared within days. Instead, the report
concluded, the clearance process took an average of 80 days "because it was
understaffed and not given sufficient priority by the FBI."

As the process lagged, INS officials became concerned about holding detainees
indefinitely under the "no bond" policy, and after immigration judges had
ordered them removed from the United States, according to the report.

The report concluded that the FBI did not adequately separate immigration
violators with apparent links to terrorism from those they simply discovered
during their manhunt.

A detainee's treatment depended largely on the institution to which he was sent
after investigators determined whether he was designated as "high interest," "of
interest" or "of undetermined interest to the investigation."

"High interest" detainees were usually sent to Bureau of Prisons facilities
around the country, including the Metropolitan Detention Center. Shortly after
the attacks, according to the report, BOP officials ordered the construction of
an "Administrative Maximum" Special Housing Unit there to house terrorism
suspects.

The detainees were kept in their cells at least 23 hours a day. Escort
procedures included a "four-man hold" with handcuffs, leg irons and heavy chains
anytime the detainees were moved out of their cells.

Detainees who were designated as "of interest" or "of undetermined interest"
were jailed in "significantly less harsh" conditions, according to the report.
At Passaic County jail, the 400 such detainees were generally held in much less
restrictive conditions and there was little physical abuse, the report
concluded.

Staff writer Susan Schmidt and research editor Margot Williams contributed to
this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              17 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 21, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Critic on the Defensive

BYLINE: Juliet Eilperin

SECTION: A SECTION; POLITICS JULIET EILPERIN; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 654 words


Democrats are crowing over the fact that two undocumented workers have publicly
claimed to have worked on remodeling the home of Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.),
one of the House's most prominent immigration opponents.

The workers told the Denver Post this week that all but one person in the
construction crew that built a home theater, billiards table and game area and
bedroom in the House member's basement were in the country illegally.

Tancredo has questioned the charges because the Post has not released the men's
names for fear of exposing them to prosecution.

"I have never, to my knowledge, hired anybody illegally," he said in an
interview yesterday. Tancredo said he paid a Denver contractor, Creative Drywall
Design, roughly $ 60,000 to perform the work and did not oversee the hiring of
the construction crew. "It's a wonderful company. I would recommend it to
anyone."

Tancredo has already created controversy by asking the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to investigate the legal status of Jesus Apodaca, an
honor student from Aurora, Colo., who has said that because he is undocumented,
he would have to pay out-of-state tuition to attend college in Colorado.

Tancredo said he did not urge the INS to deport Apodaca, but questioned why the
agency would let someone publicly tout the fact that he immigrated illegally.
"This sends a horrible message," Tancredo said.

While the lawmaker does not face a tough race this year, Democrats hope the
controversy will influence Hispanic voters in nearby Colorado contests and
elsewhere.

"Tom Tancredo is the current-day Pete Wilson of the Republican Party," said a
Democratic strategist, referring to the former GOP governor of California who
took strong anti-immigration positions. "His inflammatory rhetoric, coupled with
his hypocrisy, could cause serious problems for Republicans as they attempt to
hold seats around the country with rapidly growing Hispanic populations."

Greens don't only help Democrats: the League of Conservation Voters plans to
start running ads Tuesday to boost Rep. Jim Leach (R-Iowa) in his battle against
Democrat Julie Thomas. The ads, which will be airing in Davenport and other
local markets, tout the congressman's 25-year push for clean air and water.

"Jim Leach is independent. He doesn't take special interest money," the
announcer says. "And we should keep Jim Leach on the job in Congress. He's one
of a kind."

Jenny Backus, spokeswoman for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee,
said she was confident Leach's environmentally minded constituents would not be
impressed by the ads, saying that voters "understand a Democrat-controlled House
is much more environmentally friendly than one in Republican hands."

At least one potential Democratic presidential hopeful remains unconvinced that
the United States should invade Iraq. Vermont Gov. Howard Dean yesterday chided
President Bush for not adequately explaining why the nation ought to go to war.

Dean said the administration has not offered any evidence that Iraqi leader
Saddam Hussein possesses either biological or atomic weapons; that Bush has not
been "forthcoming" as to how long American soldiers might have to remain in a
post-Hussein Iraq, to ensure that it doesn't become a haven for terrorists; and
that the administration would be making a "terrible mistake" in scaling back its
efforts in Afghanistan.

"To simply say someone is 'evil' is not a justification for losing American
lives; there are many evil people who run countries in the world," Dean said in
a telephone interview.

Dean's opinions place him to the left of most of the Democrats mulling a run for
the White House in 2004. So is Dean positioning himself to be the peace
candidate in 2004?

"Whether that makes me the peace candidate or not is for others to judge," he
said. "I consider myself the common-sense candidate."

Staff researcher Brian Faler contributed

to this report.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              18 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 20, 2003 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

3 More Arrested in Immigrant Smuggling

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 243 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON May 19


Authorities said today they have arrested three more people in a smuggling
operation that packed dozens of illegal immigrants into a sweltering semitrailer
last week, killing 19 of them.

Fatima Holloway, 28, identified as riding in the cab of the truck, turned
herself in to authorities in Cleveland, U.S. Attorney Michael Shelby said.

Authorities described a brazen attempt by two of the suspects to extort money
from relatives of the immigrants for the safe return of a 3-year-old boy.

According to court papers, Juan Cisneros, 22, and Erica Cardenas, 23, were
arrested by undercover agents Thursday in McAllen after trying to get $ 1,300 to
$ 1,500 for the toddler, a son of one of those aboard the trailer.

The boy has since been returned to his mother, who is among 54 survivors in
custody of federal immigration agents in Houston.

All three suspects were charged with transporting, harboring and conspiring to
transport illegal immigrants. Authorities said they were still looking for at
least two more people.

Truck driver Tyrone Williams, 32, of Schenectady, N.Y., already faces the same
charge. He was arrested last Wednesday, hours after 17 people were found dead in
and around his trailer abandoned at a truck stop near Victoria, 100 miles
southwest of Houston.

Two people died later, making the incident what Shelby called the deadliest
smuggling attempt in U.S. history. Eighteen immigrants died in a broiling rail
car in West Texas in 1987.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              19 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 17, 2003 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 306 words


AUSTIN -- Authorities have arrested the alleged leader of the immigrant
smuggling ring responsible for the deaths of 19 people in a sweltering trailer
last month, federal prosecutors said yesterday.

Under an indictment unsealed by U.S. Attorney Michel Shelby, Karla Patricia
Chavez Joya, 25, and 13 others face 58 counts of conspiracy to conceal and
transport illegal immigrants for financial gain. Five of those named are still
at large.

All 14 are accused of playing roles in a smuggling operation that ended May 14
when a tractor-trailer packed with immigrants was abandoned at a truck stop in
Victoria, Tex.

Chavez was detained Friday by Guatemalan officials as she entered the country
from her native Honduras, Shelby said. She was deported to the United States on
Saturday, where immigration officials arrested her.

For the third time, investigators in San Antonio produced a gap in the leading
edge of a mockup of a space shuttle wing in the latest impact tests designed to
pin down the cause of the Feb. 1 Columbia disaster.

As in the earlier tests, engineers used a compressed gas cannon to fire a
"bullet" made of foam insulation from the shuttle's external propellant tank at
a facsimile of the leading edge. The tests are meant to duplicate an impact that
occurred during Columbia's Jan. 16 launch, which may have led to the loss of the
shuttle and crew.

In all three tests, the impact has dislodged a key piece of hardware and left
foam wedged into the resulting gap. In yesterday's test, with the aim point
three inches lower than before, an unusually large piece of foam -- "a huge wad"
of it -- was stuck in the opening, a board official said. Engineers are
analyzing what effects that phenomenon might have had on the shuttle's reentry
risks.

-- Compiled from reports by staff writers Karin Brulliard and Kathy Sawyer

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              20 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 19, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Illegal Immigrants Attacked In Arizona;
Two Are Killed

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 296 words

DATELINE: TUCSON Oct. 18


Gunmen opened fire on a dozen illegal immigrants who were apparently waiting to
be picked up by smugglers, and two of the border crossers were killed.

One man escaped, but the assailants -- possibly immigrant smugglers -- may have
kidnapped the other survivors, said Mike Minter, spokesman for the Pinal County
Sheriff's Department.

"We've been over 15 square miles out here and not found one track from any of
the individuals," he said Thursday.

The bodies were found Wednesday at a remote cattle pond about 35 miles northwest
of Tucson that is often used as a spot to pick up and drop off border crossers,
Minter said.

The man who ran off ended up at Red Rock Feeding Co., a cattle feed lot about a
mile west of the pond.

He told David Cook, the lot's assistant manager, that he and 27 other illegal
immigrants had been dropped off at the pond earlier in the day, Cook said.

"A car came with a [smuggler] and took eight of them. A little while later, a
car came and took another eight of them. The 12 of them just waited, and that's
when two guys came up on them and shot them," Cook said.

On Thursday, Texas troopers discovered 25 other illegal immigrants, including
children, in a locked tractor-trailer that was stopped for speeding. They lacked
food and water but appeared to be in good health.

The driver was arrested after officers found more than four grams of
methamphetamine, a pistol and $ 9,620 in cash that may have been paid by the
immigrants, officials said. The border patrol said the driver, who was not
identified, would be charged with alien smuggling.

Earlier this week, workers opening a train car at a grain elevator in Iowa found
the badly decomposed bodies of 11 people believed to have been illegal
immigrants smuggled into the country in June.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              21 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               Washingtonpost.com

                       September 5, 2003 Friday 12:34 PM

The Ghost of Prop. 187;
Identity Politics Is Once Again the Hot Issue in Calif. Politics

SOURCE: washingtonpost.com

BYLINE: Terry M. Neal, washingtonpost.com Staff Writer

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 1144 words

HIGHLIGHT: Nearly a decade after the controversial Proposition 187 referendum
vote in California, identity politics have returned with a vengeance in the
state's strange recall election.


Identity politics have returned with a vengeance in California's strange recall
election, nearly a decade after the vote on Proposition 187, the referendum that
would have denied government benefits to illegal immigrants had it not been
struck down by a federal court.

Many of the players in the 1994 controversy are now leading Arnold
Schwarzenegger's gubernatorial campaign. Former governor Pete Wilson, who led
the pro-referendum movement to success at the ballot box, has re-emerged from
the political darkness as Schwarzenegger's campaign chairman. Don Sipple, the TV
ad man who produced an incendiary pro-187 spot called "They Just Keep Coming,"
has gone to work for Schwarzenegger as well.

In recent weeks, Schwarzenegger, the leading Republican in the race, has come
under fire for hiring Wilson and Sipple as well as for his ties to a
controversial organization, U.S. English, that advocates laws requiring most
government business to be conducted only in English. Some Hispanic activists
have picketed his events, and League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC),
the nation's oldest Latino civil rights group, has asked him to resign from U.S.
English.

At the same time, Lt. Gov. Cruz Bustamante, the leading Democratic candidate,
has come under fire for his association with an organization called Movimiento
Estudiantil Chicano de Aztlan (MEChA), which has called for a separate Chicano
nation. Conservatives such as state Sen. Tom McClintock, also a GOP candidate,
have attacked Bustamante for his ties to MEChA.

The Back and Forth

http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/articles/A53646-2003Aug13.html Talking
Points first reported Schwarzenegger's ties to U.S. English last month and noted
that the group's founder and current spokesman had ties to anti-immigration and
white supremacist organizations.

Prominent conservative activist David Horowitz resigned from the U.S. English
advisory board after reading the Aug. 13 Talking Points column, saying he was
troubled by the hiring of the spokesman, James Lubinskas. Lubinskas resigned
shortly thereafter. U.S. English chairman Mauro Mujica, a Chilean immigrant
called me afterward to say that U.S. English was not an anti-immigrant
organization.

Last week LULAC criticized Schwarzenegger for his membership in U.S. English's
board and called on him to resign from it. That led to several days of coverage
in the <a
"http://www.latimes.com/news/local/la-me-usenglish30aug30,1,1067035.story Los
Angeles Times and other state media about Schwarzenegger's ties to U.S. English
and the growing opposition of Hispanics to his candidacy.

"Schwarzenegger is disingenuous if he thinks that by telling us he is
pro-immigrant and pro-Latino the Hispanic community is going to vote for him"
after hiring Wilson, said LULAC national president Hector Flores.

Schwarzenegger's campaign said today that he has not been active in or
contributed to the organization for years but generally supports the goal of
encouraging immigrants to learn how to speak English.

Lubinskas, before he resigned from U.S. English, said Schwarzenegger has donated
money to the organization over the years, but could not say how much.

Schwarzenegger's campaign today downplayed Wilson's influence, saying he was one
of about a dozen co-chairs of the campaign. In addition, it said that, contrary
to LULAC's statement, Schwarzenegger has not yet taken a position on Proposition
54.

"Our campaign has not made an issue at all of undocumented immigration,"
Schwarzenegger campaign spokesman Sean Walsh said. "The only people who are
trying to make it an issue are Cruz Bustamante and the Democratic party."

Some readers responded to the Aug. 13 Talking Points by arguing that
Schwarzenegger's positions on English-only laws and immigration were mainstream
and would help him in the election. There is no doubt a large element in
California that finds such positions appealing. In fact, Schwarzenegger's hiring
of Wilson -- who was unpopular with conservatives until he began pushing Props.
187 and 209, an anti-affirmative action measure -- can be read as a move to
balance off some of Schwarzenegger's more liberal positions.

Bustamante Trouble

The lieutenant governor has had to fend off questions about his membership in
MEChA. Two weeks ago, McClintock described the group as "racist" and called on
Bustamante to resign. The group's slogan: "For the race, everything. For those
outside the race, nothing."

MEChA (pronounced may-Cha), according to LULAC Director of Policy and
Legislation Gabriela Lemus and various media reports, is a loose-knit campus
organization of Chicano activists, formed in the radical 1960s in response to
discrimination against Mexican students.

"Aztlan refers to Southwestern United States, which an extreme wing of MEChA
believes was taken from Mexico unfairly in the Treaty of Guadalupe de Hidalgo of
1848," Emil Guillermo reported in
http://www.recordnet.com/articlelink/090403/news/articles/090403-gn-1.php The
Stockton Record on Thursday. "Radical members go as far as saying Aztlan should
be 'reconquered and reclaimed' for Mexico. . . . That rhetoric has piqued the
ire of conservative groups that view MEChA as racist, separatist and
anti-white."

Conservative, anti-immigration groups, particularly the Sherman Oaks,
Calif.-based American Patrol, have sought to make Bustamante's membership an
issue. http://www.americanpatrol.com/ The American Patrol Web site has
chronicled the issue, and its president, Glenn Spencer, has been making the case
to reporters that Bustamante should be rejected for associating with MEChA.

"The purpose of the organization is the liberation of Aztlan from the gringos,"
said Spencer

Spencer considers Bustamante just one of a host of powerful Latino politicians,
who have sought to undermine Proposition 187 and other public policies geared at
discouraging illegal immigration. While Spencer doesn't go so far as to suggest
that Bustamante is plotting with MEChA on a Chicano takeover of the American
southwest, he does assert that "he has behaved in a manner that is consistent
with its objectives."

For his part, Bustamante has overtly rejected suggestions that MEChA is racist
and refused to disassociate himself.

"Racial separatism is wrong," Bustamante said Saturday on Fox News. "You have to
look at what people do, not just what they say, and I think I've demonstrated my
ability."

While some of its more radical elements may still literally support the original
Aztlan mission, MEChA is not a racist group, Lemus said. Over the years, it has
involved into a "a very legitimate organization to celebrate Hispanic
foundations."

The impact of the concerns being raised about Bustamante and Schwarzenegger
remain to be seen, but it is clear that identity politics are back in California
- big time.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2003 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 19, 2003 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Va. Immigrants Urge Veto Of Driver's License Bill

BYLINE: David Cho, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 576 words


Protesters rallied in a park across from Gov. Mark R. Warner's Alexandria home
yesterday afternoon, urging a veto of legislation that would prohibit illegal
immigrants from getting driver's licenses in Virginia and in-state college
tuition.

About 40 people, mostly Hispanic immigrants, took part, some marching with signs
that read "No to Racism" and, in Spanish, "Just Access to Licenses."

The demonstrators criticized Warner (D) for not coming out strongly against the
two bills, which passed by wide margins last month in the Republican-controlled
legislature.

Aides said the governor was not home during yesterday's demonstration.

Protest organizer Diego Mendez of the Tenants and Workers Support Committee said
of Warner: "It will be difficult to stick his neck out, but he has to do what's
right. He's talked about being an ally to the immigrant community . . . and the
community is trying to . . . call him on his word. He hasn't proved that he is
an ally yet."

Not all Hispanic leaders agreed. Rick Gonzalez, co-chair of the Virginia
Coalition of Latino Organizations, which includes Mendez's committee, said the
protest showed "a lack of respect for the governor" and "irked" others in the
coalition.

"Some people don't understand that there are certain things you can't change,
even by force," Gonzalez said. "We are trying to work . . . in the system. We
don't have to get into ugly situations."

Both sides agree that the two bills would be detrimental to immigrants, even
those in the United States legally.

The driver's license measure requires first-time applicants to prove that they
are in the country legally. Advocates for immigrants question whether a
cash-strapped Department of Motor Vehicles can or will spend millions of dollars
training employees to decipher complex immigration documents.

The service and construction industries, which utilize much immigrant labor,
will suffer if their employees cannot drive, the advocates argue.

The bills' supporters say the measures are necessary anti-terrorism moves, and
cite the fact that several of the Sept. 11, 2001, hijackers used a loophole in
state law to obtain Virginia licenses for identification purposes.

Last week, Virginia Attorney General Jerry W. Kilgore (R) pressed Warner to sign
the bills, saying: "The driver's license is a passport to all sorts of places,
including, of course, boarding an airplane. . . . I don't want it ever said
again that a portion of any terrorist network had Virginia driver's licenses."

Kilgore also said in-state tuition rates should not be given "to people who have
ignored our immigration laws."

Ellen Qualls, Warner's spokeswoman, indicated yesterday that the governor, who
has until Monday to act on the bills, is close to a decision, but she would not
elaborate.

Qualls said that, no matter what Warner decides, "he's been very supportive of,
and engaged with, Virginia's Latino community. I don't think that these bills
should be the defining issue for the [immigrant] community. He has reached out
in a number of ways, from getting children health insurance to promoting
outreach to Hispanic businesses."

Because a veto of either bill probably would be overridden by the legislature,
the Hispanic coalition wants Warner to amend the bills, pushing their effective
date back to Jan. 1, 2004, to allow further study.

Mendez said he isn't swayed by that position.

"It doesn't address the fundamental problems with these bills," he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 20, 2003, Thursday



CORRECTION:  A March 19 Metro article stated that a coalition of Hispanic groups
wants Virginia Gov. Mark R. Warner (D) to delay the date when a new driver's
license bill would take effect, but gave the wrong date. The group said that if
the governor does not veto the measure, it wants him to delay the bill's
effective date until July 1, 2004.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              23 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 27, 2003 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

If You Want It, Work for It

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 106 words


Norma Menjivar said that Maryland Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. killed her chances
of going to college because he vetoed a bill that would have qualified illegal
immigrants for in-state tuition ["Immigrant Advocates Say Fight Isn't Over,"
news story, May 22].

What rubbish.

My sister and I graduated from high school in Severna Park. We worked, saved our
money, got scholarships and loans, and graduated from college. My sister has a
master's degree.

Instead of demanding entitlements from taxpayers, why can't Ms. Menjivar get a
job and work her way through college as millions of U.S. citizens have done?

LINDA H. THOM

Coupeville, Wash.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              24 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 29, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 496 words


FORT COLLINS, Colo.  -- The arrests of six Middle Eastern men for not taking
enough college courses to satisfy their visa requirements has prompted Colorado
State University to start a class to educate foreign students about immigration
laws.

A CSU student was among those arrested by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service over the past two weeks for enrolling in fewer than 12 hours of college
credit courses. The other five attend University of Colorado campuses in Denver
and Boulder.

The INS said none of the men were suspected of any other violation.

An immigration lawyer will lead the workshop for students from Afghanistan,
Algeria, Bahrain, Eritrea, Lebanon, Morocco, North Korea, Oman, Qatar, Somalia,
Tunisia, United Arab Emirates and Yemen, CSU officials said.

SAN BERNARDINO, Calif.  -- Fire spread through the top floor of a small
residential hotel in the early morning darkness, killing four people and
injuring 18 as firefighters pulled dozens more to safety.

When firefighters reached the Sunset Hotel just before 1 a.m., several people
were hanging from the windows of the upper floors, fire officials said.
Firefighters used ladders to reach more than 30 people, including a 2-month-old
infant, but others were trapped inside, and much of the third floor was engulfed
in flames.

"I just started running along, trying to knock on doors, saying 'C'mon people!
Out, out, out!,' " desk clerk Gary Chaney said.

The hotel manager took an elevator to the third floor, possibly to alert the
guests. He and three other adults were found dead.

"When the elevator door opened, he was right in the middle of the fire,"
Battalion Chief Mike Alder said. "He probably took one or two breaths, and that
was it."

* GIBRALTAR, Mich. -- A bar fight over a game of pool erupted into shooting that
left two men dead and three wounded in this small town south of Detroit, police
said. A 26-year-old man was in custody.

* TRUMANN, Ark. -- A woman and her four young children died of smoke inhalation
after their Christmas tree ignited, authorities said. Trumann Fire Chief Gary
Anderson said investigators believe the family died late Thursday.

* UNIONTOWN, Pa. -- A state trooper may have fatally shot a 12-year-old boy in
the back after his partner fell while chasing the youth and the partner's gun
accidentally fired, a lawyer for the boy's family said. Attorney Joel Sansone
refused to identify his sources for the account of the death of Michael Ellerbe,
who was shot while running from state troopers Juan Curry and Samuel Nassan
after a car chase Tuesday.

* SAN FRANCISCO -- An appeals court upheld a lower court's ruling that a federal
law protecting religious freedoms of inmates and others is constitutional. The
9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled Friday against California prison
officials in a lawsuit brought in 1996 by a group of Muslim inmates who claimed
they were penalized for attending Friday afternoon religious services.

-- From News Services

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              25 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 3, 2003 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Court Blocks Dallas Woman's Deportation, Citing Threat of Mutilation

BYLINE: Lee Hockstader, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 625 words

DATELINE: AUSTIN Jan. 2


A federal appeals court has temporarily blocked the deportation of a Dallas
woman who says she and her 3-year-old daughter, who was born in the United
States, would be subjected to genital mutilation if she were forced to return to
her native Nigeria.

Calling female genital mutilation a form of "torture," the U.S. Appeals Court
for the 7th Circuit last Friday granted Philomena Nwaokolo's request for a
review of her case to ensure that her toddler daughter is "not forced into exile
to be tortured."

Genital mutilation, an extremely painful procedure that carries the risk of
infection, hemorrhage and sometimes death, is widely practiced in parts of
Nigeria and other African countries.

By equating it with torture, which is prohibited under international convention,
the court presented federal immigration authorities with what could be a
formidable obstacle in deporting African women.

"It's really a barbaric practice and has now been recognized as such by the 7th
Circuit Court of Appeals," said Morton Sklar, Nwaokolo's attorney and director
of the World Organization Against Torture USA, based in Washington.

Officials for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Dallas would not
talk about the case publicly, referring calls to the Justice Department in
Washington. The Justice Department did not return phone calls seeking comment.

Nwaokolo, 42, a registered nurse at the Children's Medical Center of Dallas,
entered the United States legally 20 years ago. But she fell afoul of
immigration laws two years later by taking a paid job as a nurse's aide, in
violation of her visa restrictions.

Rather than leave the country in 1986, as she had agreed to do, Nwaokolo left
North Dakota, where she was living at the time, and resettled in Dallas with her
husband, a legal resident, and their newborn child. She attended nursing school
in the early 1990s and has worked as a pediatric nurse since 1996. During that
time, she had three more children, including Victoria, 3.

She said she dreaded returning to Nigeria because of the prospect of genital
mutilation as well as the political and economic upheaval.

"Why would you let your daughter go through this?" she said in a telephone
interview. "This is very, very inhumane and detrimental to human life."

Her efforts to explain the risks to an immigration lawyer in 1986 were
fruitless, she said. "He said he didn't know what I was talking about," she
said. "He just wouldn't listen."

Nwaokolo said that under Nigerian tribal customs, she would be regarded as her
husband's property, required to live in his village and forced, with her
daughter, to submit to genital mutilation.

A Christian, Nwaokolo said she would face particularly strong pressure in her
husband's village of Azungwu, which she said is pagan. "We could not escape it,"
she said. "She and I would have to do it -- the women are going to hold me down
and they would force me to do it. It would have to be done on me and Victoria.
There's no age limit."

In 1996, Nwaokolo hired a lawyer and began appealing to the INS for permission
to remain in the country.

Over the next six years, she filed four motions to reopen her case, including
ones arguing that her circumstances had changed as the result of her daughter
Victoria's birth in October 1999. Her motions were denied.

In its ruling last week, the three-judge appeals court panel said the Bureau of
Immigration Appeals apparently had not considered the threat to Victoria.
Although Nwaokolo has another daughter, Rachel, 17, the court said Victoria was
particularly vulnerable because of her age.

"The government could never do to these girls in this country what the INS seems
all too willing to allow to happen to them in Nigeria," the court said.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              26 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 16, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

2nd Chance to Register Given;
New Rules Include Visitors From 5 More Nations

BYLINE: Dan Eggen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 542 words


Thousands of foreign visitors from predominantly Muslim countries will be given
a second chance to register with U.S. immigration authorities because the
turnout for earlier deadlines was dampened by widespread fear and confusion
about the program, officials said yesterday.

At the same time, men from five more Middle Eastern and South Asian countries
will be required to register under the program, according to rules scheduled to
be published in the Federal Register today.

Males older than 16 from Bangladesh, Egypt, Indonesia, Kuwait and Jordan will be
required to register with the Immigration and Naturalization Service between
Feb. 24 and March 28, officials said. Men from 18 other countries, who already
were required to register by last week, will have another chance to enroll
between Jan. 27 and Feb. 7, according to the new rules.

The special registration effort was begun last year as a way to track tens of
thousands of visitors from countries that have been designated by the United
States as sponsors of terrorism or that are believed to harbor many members of
the al Qaeda terrorist network. Authorities said failure to register would
result in immediate deportation.

The first two deadlines in the effort resulted in more than 600 arrests of
immigrants who allegedly were in violation of immigration laws when they tried
to enroll. Hundreds of registrants lined up for hours at INS offices around the
nation, only to be turned away because the system was overloaded. As the
detentions and delays were publicized, advocates said, the program created panic
in Arab immigrant communities.

INS and Justice Department officials said yesterday that the deadline extension
for the first two groups is in part an acknowledgement that many lawful visitors
may have been frightened away from the process. But authorities also said males
older than 16 from the designated countries must register to be in compliance.

"Many people may have misunderstood or been misinformed about the ramifications
if they didn't register the first time," one INS official said. "This is to
ensure that everyone who needs to register will hear about it . . . Between the
publicity and the protests, there really shouldn't be any more excuses."

But immigrant rights and civil liberties advocates yesterday said the extended
deadline does not solve fundamental problems with the program, which they say
focuses unfairly on Muslims.

"It's the very least they can do, and it's not much," said Dalia Hashad, an
attorney with the American Civil Liberties Union. "Its a racist, ineffective and
discriminatory process . . . It's an excuse to round up Arab and South Asian men
and throw them out of the country."

Judy Golub, a spokeswoman for the American Immigration Lawyers Association, said
the INS and Justice have done a terrible job publicizing the registration effort
in immigrant communities. "What people will know about this program is the
chaos, the mass arrests and the lack of consistency in detaining people," she
said.

Registration began in December for male temporary visitors from Iran, Iraq,
Libya, Sudan and Syria, followed last week by men from 12 other heavily Muslim
countries and North Korea. The next deadline is Feb. 21 for Saudis and
Pakistanis.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              27 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 17, 2003 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Ghanaian Woman Convicted of Fabricating Tale

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 401 words


It was a harrowing story that won sympathy from the White House to Hollywood.

The woman calling herself Adelaide Abankwah said she had fled Ghana because she
faced genital mutilation as punishment for having lost her virginity before
being named "queen mother" of her tribe. She begged U.S. officials for asylum
and won her case in 1999 in a celebrated decision.

But now, a New York court has convicted the woman of fabricating the story.

"This defendant's lies duped the media, the courts and public servants and, in
the process, hurt the cause of all the real victims of genital mutilation," said
James B. Comey, the U.S. attorney for the Southern District of New York, in a
statement after the woman was found guilty Wednesday of perjury and passport
fraud.

Immigration officials had been suspicious of the woman claiming to be Abankwah
since she arrived at New York's John F. Kennedy International Airport in 1997
displaying a doctored Ghanian passport. She claimed she would be persecuted if
sent home. She eventually won asylum from a federal appeals court.

Her case drew widespread publicity and support from well-known personalities
ranging from then-first lady Hillary Clinton to actress Julia Roberts. But a
probe by the Immigration and Naturalization Service, and a separate
investigation by The Washington Post, found she was actually a Ghanian hotel
worker named Regina Norman Danson and not a "queen mother."

Witnesses at her recent trial included Nana Kwa Bonko V, a chief in Danson's
village of Biriwa, and Patrick Odubofour Twumasi, a professor who has fought to
end female genital mutilation in Ghana. They both said that the painful practice
is not typical of Danson's region or tribe.

Danson's attorney, Dawn Cardi, said the chief was not from Danson's tribe and
didn't know her situation.

"If there's a law against female genital mutilation [in Ghana] . . . do you
expect the chief to come and admit either his tribe or any other in the region
performs it? It's highly unlikely," she said, adding that she would appeal the
verdict.

Danson faces up to 10 years in prison for passport fraud and up to five years in
prison on each of eight counts of perjury and making false statements.

A year ago, the real Adelaide Abankwah won permanent U.S. residency, after years
of fighting to reclaim her identity. A Montgomery County resident, she lost her
Ghanian passport several years ago.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              28 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 20, 2003 Monday
                                 Final Edition

A Register of Immigrants' Fears;
For Many, Worries Over Deportation Clash With Anti-Terrorism Effort

BYLINE: Nurith C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1414 words


Mohammed's relatives filed somberly into his sister-in-law's cramped living
room, too distracted to pass around the Moroccan sweets they usually enjoy after
family dinners.

They had come to help the 38-year-old limousine driver make a grim choice: obey
a government order requiring men from countries deemed terrorist havens to
register with immigration authorities -- and risk being swiftly deported for
overstaying his tourist visa three years ago -- or defy that command and
potentially doom his pending effort to secure a green card.

Over the next five hours, family members took turns debating the options as
Mohammed's wife wiped away tears. Finally, about 2 a.m., with the sun just hours
from rising on the deadline day for Moroccans, Mohammed announced his
conclusion: "I'm not going to register."

Immigration lawyers estimate that hundreds of immigrants across the nation have
reached the same decision, consigning themselves and their families to an
uncertain fate and substantially undermining a national security program whose
aim is to account for tens of thousands of visitors in the United States from 25
nations, including much of the Middle East and South Asia.

"We're hearing from dozens and dozens of members who say they have clients they
could not persuade to go in," said Crystal Williams of the American Immigration
Lawyers Association. "That makes us think the numbers [of no-shows] could be
quite significant."

Concerned by that possibility, the Immigration and Naturalization Service on
Thursday announced that nationals of 18 countries -- including Morocco -- who
had missed earlier deadlines would get a second chance to be photographed,
fingerprinted and questioned between Jan. 27 and Feb. 7.

Immigration lawyers predict that the deadline extension will have only limited
impact on those who so far have stayed away, as well as on immigrants from seven
countries for whom the deadline has not yet passed.

Many entered the country illegally or overstayed their visas but then applied
for permanent residency under a 2001 amnesty law. Because their applications
have been delayed by massive INS and Department of Labor backlogs, such
immigrants are now in legal limbo -- on the verge of obtaining green cards, yet
still subject to deportation until that day arrives.

Indeed, nearly 1,200 of those in this group who have shown up to register have
been given notices to appear before a judge for a deportation hearing.

Fearful of suffering the same consequence -- and alarmed by news reports that
many of those detained were shackled and jailed for a night or longer --
immigrants with pending residency applications are increasingly choosing to stay
home, lawyers said.

Mohammed said he had even more cause for fear because he is one of hundreds of
immigrants who were swindled in an infamous fraud scheme run by lawyer Samuel G.
Kooritzky.

Working out of offices in Arlington, Takoma Park and Washington, Kooritzky filed
hundreds of fake residency applications under the 2001 amnesty law on behalf of
his unwitting clients -- who often paid thousands of dollars for the service.

Authorities did not announce their discovery of the scam until July, after the
deadline for filing a residency application under the amnesty.

Like other fraud victims, Mohammed hopes the INS will agree to waive the
deadline and allow him to reapply. But the three lawyers he has consulted since
Kooritzky was arrested have told him that could take months of negotiations --
and possibly years of expensive litigation.

Until the matter is settled, Mohammed is leery of going before a judge for a
deportation hearing.

Across the country, lawyers are hearing of similar jitters.

Sohail Mohammed, a Clifton, N.J., lawyer, arranged to meet a Moroccan client at
the INS office in Newark at 10:30 a.m. the day of the original deadline, only to
receive an urgent page at 10:15.

"It was my secretary, telling me that the man had called to say he was just too
scared," Mohammed recalled.

Cynthia Rosenberg, a lawyer in Pikesville, Md., has three clients who refused to
register. Stanton Braverman, in Arlington, has five.

"They have a serious interest in cooperating," Braverman said. "I think the INS
would get close to 98 percent compliance [with the registration program] if it
promised not to automatically put people with pending applications in
deportation proceedings."

Justice Department spokesman Jorge Martinez said the INS does not have that
authority. "It's up to the judge to decide the fate of each person on a
case-by-case basis," he said.

Martinez speculated that an immigrant's willingness to register may earn favor
with a judge. By contrast, he added, an immigrant's failure to register could be
grounds for denying his pending green card application and ultimately deporting
him.

Still, without guarantees as to how judges will rule -- and whether Congress
would some day change the laws altogether -- many lawyers said they have a hard
time advising their clients as to the wisest course.

"It's like a chess game," said Hamel Zyas, a lawyer in Cherry Hill, N.J.

Mohammed, for his part, has begun to reconsider his decision not to register,
now that the government is offering a second chance.

"I can't think of anything else. I can't sleep at night," he said. "I'm living
in constant fear of making the wrong choice."

At stake is the modest but hard-won progress he has made since arriving in Falls
Church virtually penniless 3 1/2 years ago.

Born to a self-made business tycoon, Mohammed said he was raised amid steadily
increasing prosperity as his father's empire grew to encompass eight
multimillion-dollar companies.

At 26, Mohammed was running one of those companies and living with his parents
and wife in a 14-bedroom mansion in Casablanca, he and relatives said.

"Its outer walls were pale green -- like pistachios," Mohammed recalled, smiling
at the memory. "The ceilings were hand-carved in the Moroccan style."

Then disaster struck in the form of an embezzling partner. The ensuing legal
battles -- and, Mohammed said, corrupt government officials -- bankrupted the
family.

In 1999, he moved his wife and two sons -- the younger born in the United States
during an earlier trip -- into a relative's house in Falls Church and began
working 14-hour days as a pizza delivery man, courier and gas station cashier.

The pizza job was the worst, he said: "At the end of the shift, you'd have to
scrub all the pans in the kitchen."

But within six months, the couple had saved enough to begin renting a
one-bedroom apartment. Five months later, they made their first major purchase:
a $ 3,000 wide-screen Sony television.

"We didn't even have a bed yet. We were still sleeping on the carpet," said
Mohammed's wife, who spoke on condition that not even her first name be used.
"But Mohammed insisted. He said, 'After so many years, I want us to have
something nice.' "

Other acquisitions followed as they began to turn the apartment into a miniature
version of the pistachio-green mansion -- with oil paintings on the walls, an
ornately carved wood table in the dining area and a display cabinet of finely
cut crystal vases in the small living room.

A year ago, Mohammed purchased a Lincoln Town Car and started a one-man
limousine business that he said now earns him about $ 50,000 a year. He began
making plans to buy a second and possibly a third car this spring.

Now he wonders whether he shouldn't sell the one he has and return to Morocco on
his own terms. But when confronted with that possibility, his wife buried her
face in her hands.

There is nothing left for them in Morocco, she said. Nearly all their extended
family lives in the United States now. And what would happen to their two sons?

The 3 1/2-year-old looks the picture of the American citizen that he is.
"SpongeBob SquarePants. Ed, Edd N Eddy," he prattles, listing his favorite
cartoon shows in unaccented English.

But it is the 12-year-old she is most worried about: "He's forgotten all his
classical Arabic. They'd stick him in second grade."

And the boy could have trouble fitting in. Although he lacks a U.S. passport,
he, too, has been living an American life -- debating the merits of the latest
"Lord of the Rings" movie and playing classic board games after school with a
Bolivian-born neighbor.

Their current favorite is the global strategy game Risk.

Is he good at it?

The boy shook his head, his smile fading.

"No," he said. "Not really."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              29 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 25, 2003 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Senate Votes to Halt INS Registration Program

BYLINE: Edward Walsh, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 613 words


The massive appropriations bill approved by the Senate late Thursday includes a
little-noticed amendment that would cut off funding for a Justice Department
program that requires male immigrants from two dozen predominantly Muslim
countries to register and be fingerprinted by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

The main purpose of the amendment was to restore funding for a congressionally
mandated program that by 2005 is designed to provide information on the identity
of all visitors to the United States and track when they enter and leave the
country.

But the amendment also included language that bans the use of any of the money
for the National Security Entry-Exit Registration System (NSEERS), a program
targeted at male temporary visitors from countries the government considers to
be terrorist harbors.

Under the NSEERS program, thousands of men older than 16 have been fingerprinted
and questioned by INS agents, causing widespread confusion and apprehension
among Muslims across the country.  Thousands lined up at INS offices to meet a
series of deadlines. More than 1,200 men who were found to be in violation of
immigration laws were detained -- most of them briefly -- and face deportation
hearings.

The confusion and delays prompted the government to give visitors from 18
nations another chance to register. The program applies to male immigrants from
24 predominantly Muslim countries and North Korea.

The House version of the Senate's more than $ 390 billion spending measure would
not cut off funding for the registration program, and it is not clear whether
the Senate ban will survive negotiations with the House on a final version of
the legislation. Mark Corallo, a Justice Department spokesman, said yesterday
that the Bush administration will work to keep NSEERS in place.

"We are committed to the National Security Exit-Entry Registration System, which
has already proven to have been a success in apprehending persons who would have
presented a severe risk to the American people," Corallo said. He said the
system has allowed law enforcement authorities to apprehend 330 "known
criminals" and three "known terrorists."

Since last October, the INS also has been fingerprinting and questioning male
immigrants from countries on the NSEERS list at selected ports of entry to the
United States. The Senate spending ban, which would apply to "any expenses
relating to NSEERS" apparently would cut off funds for that effort and the more
controversial registration program, which began late last year.

The Senate amendment also would require Attorney General John D. Ashcroft to
provide Congress with documents and other information on the creation and
operation of NSEERS, and provide an assessment of the program's effectiveness.
Corallo said the Justice Department "will work with Congress and answer all of
their questions and concerns."

The amendment to restore $ 165 million for the larger tracking system, which had
been cut from the bill by Senate appropriators, was offered on the Senate floor
by Sens. John McCain and Jon Kyl, both Arizona Republicans, and was adopted by
voice vote. In their brief remarks on the floor, neither mentioned the provision
cutting off funding for the NSEERS program. The Bush administration had
requested $ 16.8 million to fund the program for the current fiscal year.

Congressional sources said the NSEERS funding cutoff was included in the
amendment at the request of Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.). James Manley, a
Kennedy spokesman, said the amendment "cuts funding until Congress has the
information it needs to assess whether this is the most effective use of tax
dollars in the war on terrorism."

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              30 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 9, 2003 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. Orders Jordanian Grad Student Deported

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A26

LENGTH: 249 words

DATELINE: DALLAS Feb. 8


A federal judge has ordered the deportation of a Jordanian graduate student who
acknowledged he once considered becoming a suicide bomber if the United States
invades Iraq.

"I was looking at America as my enemy.

If someone would have approached me and asked me to do something against the
country, I was willing to do it," Tahir Ibrihim Aletwei said at his deportation
hearing Friday.

Aletwei, 30, said he has changed his views and confessed to help U.S.
authorities better guard against people like him.

Immigration Judge D. Anthony Rogers ordered Aletwei deported by the end of next
week.

"I abhor the thought processes that you acknowledge," the judge said. "The issue
we have in this nation since 9/11 is we want to act on the side of caution, and
it will be necessary to send you home."

Aletwei, a student at the University of Texas at Arlington, arrived in the
United States in August 2001 as part of a Jordanian-sponsored student exchange
program. He is three months shy of earning a master's degree in software
engineering.

The FBI and INS have refused to say what led them to Aletwei, who was arrested
Jan. 31 and charged with violating provisions of the Immigration and Nationality
Act. Violators are subject to deportation.

Aletwei told the FBI he was involved in terrorism and that his desire to become
a martyr was sown in his home country.

"In my mind, I was doing a noble thing," said Aletwei, who had waived his right
to an attorney and was representing himself in court.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              31 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              March 3, 2003 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Ashcroft Reconsiders Asylum Granted to Abused Guatemalan;
New Regulations Could Affect Gender-Based Persecution

BYLINE: George Lardner Jr., Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 776 words


Attorney General John D. Ashcroft has decided to reconsider the granting of
asylum to a battered Guatemalan woman whose husband has threatened to kill her
if she returns to her homeland, a senior Justice Department official has
confirmed.

Ashcroft is also considering new gender-persecution regulations for
asylum-seekers instead of a proposed set that was left hanging in the final days
of the Clinton administration.

The regulations, proposed by Attorney General Janet Reno in December 2000, grew
out of the case of the Guatemalan woman, Rodi Alvarado, who said she fled to the
United States in 1995 after her husband repeatedly raped her, whipped her with
electrical cords, broke windows and mirrors with her head, and vowed to kill her
if she tried to leave him.

An immigration judge granted her asylum in 1996, finding that the 10 years of
abuse Alvarado suffered and the persistent failure of Guatemalan authorities to
protect her entitled her to relief. The Immigration and Naturalization Service
appealed and the Justice Department's Board of Immigration Appeals reversed that
decision in 1999. The board did not question Alvarado's credibility, but said in
a 10-to-5 ruling that neither the beatings nor her opinions about them qualified
her for asylum.

The law allows asylum only for foreigners who can show they face persecution in
their home countries because of race, religion, nationality, political opinion
or membership in a particular social group. Before leaving office, Reno vacated
the board's decision and proposed regulations that would allow battered women to
be granted asylum as members of a social group if they can show government
complicity in their suffering. President Bush suspended this and all other
pending regulations upon taking office.

The Lawyers Committee for Human Rights and other immigrant and women's groups
say they fear Ashcroft intends to issue new regulations that would severely
restrict women fleeing gender-based persecution, such as honor killings and
sexual slavery as well as domestic violence, from obtaining asylum. In a letter
to Ashcroft on Thursday, 48 House Democrats and one independent urged him to
abandon any such plans.

Ashcroft remains in charge of decisions about immigration law despite the
transfer of the INS from the Justice Department to the new Department of
Homeland Security.

Advocates of more restrictive immigration rules, such as the Federation for
American Immigration Reform (FAIR), warned that expanding the "social group"
definition could become "a fast track for asylum abuse."

"You can't just say, 'I'm in a bad situation and therefore I'm a member of some
new social group,' " FAIR spokesman David Ray said. "If the categories grow so
large as to include millions of people, asylum policy is going to crumble."

Alvarado, now 35 and working as a housekeeper for nuns in the San Francisco
area, could be forced to return to Guatemala. Her attorney, Karen Musalo, said
Friday that three Justice Department sources have told her that Ashcroft intends
to reinstate the immigration appeals board decision.

Justice Department officials declined to comment. A senior official said
Ashcroft has taken the Alvarado case "out of limbo" by deciding to review it
himself. Reno's decision had remanded the case to the Board of Immigration
Appeals (BIA) but with instructions to wait until the rules she proposed had
been acted upon.

As for the regulations, the official said they would have to be approved by
Ashcroft and Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge. "Both departments have
equity in determining what 'asylum' means," the official said. "When it comes to
rulemaking, it will be a shared authority. Neither department will promulgate a
rule without the assent of the other."

Several sources reported that Ashcroft has also notified five BIA members that
they are being dropped from the board in line with a scheduled reduction from 23
to 11 members. The five are all Clinton administration appointees and three were
dissenters in the Alvarado case. A Justice Department spokesman did not return
calls seeking comment.

"This is the court of last resort for many immigrants," immigration law expert
Stephen Yale-Loehr said of the BIA. At House hearings last year, he opposed the
proposed reduction, saying it raised "troubling concerns about how the attorney
general will determine who will stay on the board and who would be dismissed."

The board, Yale-Loehr added, decides 30,000 to 40,000 cases a year and only a
couple of thousand are appealed to the courts. "For the vast majority of
immigrants seeking relief or asylum," he said, "this is their last chance."

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              32 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 12, 2003 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

A Victim Of Law And Order

BYLINE: Courtland Milloy

SECTION: METRO; COURTLAND MILLOY; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 848 words


Junior Francis was walking to his car with two of his six children last month,
about to take them to school, when agents from the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service showed up at his home in Silver Spring and arrested him.

Since Feb. 4, Francis has been held at a detention center in Cambridge, Md.,
awaiting deportation to Jamaica. Score one for the immigration officials who
found out that Francis had been convicted of possessing marijuana in 1984 and
are now about to deport him.

"Why wait this long to come pick him up?" asked Marcia Francis, his wife. "Why
let him establish a life and then rip it all away?"

Francis was 27 when he completed a 21/2-year prison term. He started a
landscaping and cleaning business in Potomac, bought a house in Rockville and
has stayed on the right side of the law ever since.

Among his customers is Robert Eisinger, owner of a commercial real estate
management company in Gaithersburg.

"Junior is a very hard worker, usually putting in 14- to 16-hour days in order
to support his family," said Eisinger, who has known Francis for 10 years. "Why
would anybody go through the effort to destroy this man and his family when they
could be out looking for the bad guys?"

Part of the answer to that question can be found in Rockville's Lake Manor
section, where Francis lived before neighbors began complaining about his family
in 1997.

"Their family is large, and because Mr. Francis' work is seasonal, they often
have relatively less money than their neighbors to spend on property upkeep,"
Rebecca Rose, a social worker with the Montgomery County Department of Health
and Human Services, wrote in a recent letter to immigration officials. "Not only
did [neighbors] complain, but they frequently called police for minor
annoyances."

One of those who responded was Christopher Wilson, a code enforcement specialist
with the Montgomery County police. He recently told immigration officials that
several complaints were filed against the Francises concerning a vehicle.

"I went to the property and investigated the complaints," Wilson wrote. "Each
time, I found no violations nor any basis for a complaint."

But the county police force was not the only law enforcement agency contacted in
1998. Someone called the INS -- whose duties have since been taken over by
agencies of the new Department of Homeland Security -- and the INS discovered
Francis's conviction. That was cause enough for deportation.

Francis spent six months in detention. His wife fell behind on the mortgage
payments and eventually lost the house.

In 1999, an immigration judge threw out a deportation case against Francis after
deciding that he should be allowed to apply for U.S. citizenship. Francis, now
42, had come from Jamaica to live with relatives in the Washington area in 1971.
He was 11 years old when he arrived, and by all accounts, he thought he was a
citizen until he got in trouble with the INS.

His application for naturalization was denied by the INS, however, and
deportation proceedings began anew in 2001. The Francis family was renting a
house in Silver Spring when he was arrested last month.

"The same thing is happening that happened the last time he was picked up by the
INS," Marcia Francis said recently. "We could not afford to live. We had our
lights, gas and heat cut off. We barely had money for food. And after all of
that, we lost the house."

In addition to their six children and two grandchildren, the Francises usually
have other, "adopted" family members living with them, including teenagers who
have quarreled with their parents and who stay long enough for the air to clear.

"When we were homeless, people took us in," Marcia Francis said. "So we do the
same for others. That's just the kind of people we are."

For now, friends are pitching in to help the family buy food and pay legal fees.
One of them is Walter Madden, a former assistant state's attorney for Montgomery
County.

"On numerous occasions, I have observed how Junior conducts himself not only
towards his customers but also towards his family," Madden wrote in a letter to
the INS. "In addition to being impeccably honest, he is most humble and
respectful. Moreover, how much of a debt must he pay before he can safely say
that the past is past and that the future is now?"

Denyse Sabagh, Francis's attorney, says she hopes that that the INS will at
least defer action on the deportation.

"Under immigration law, there is a forgiveness provision which allows them to
say, in effect, 'We know he's here, and we know he's deportable, but because of
compelling humanitarian circumstances, we will give low priority to the case and
not rush to prosecute,' " Sabagh said.

Chris Bentley, a government spokesman, agreed that immigration law does provide
for such administrative discretion, but he added, "The bar is very high." As for
the Francis case, all he could say was, "Deportation proceedings are underway."

So, a good man gets kicked out of the country, and a traumatized family gets
thrown onto the welfare rolls. And they call it justice.

E-mail: milloyc@washpost.com.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              33 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 20, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Registration Program Problems Cited;
Immigrants' Attorneys Kept From Investigative Interviews

BYLINE: George Lardner Jr., Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 745 words


With a Friday deadline looming for thousands of Pakistani and Saudi men to
appear for registration and questioning by immigration officials, critics of the
controversial government program said yesterday they are encountering repeated
instances of lawyers being barred from investigative interviews.

The American Civil Liberties Union protested that top immigration officials in
Washington have not issued a nationwide directive to local offices to cease
interfering with the legal representation of immigrants who must submit to
questioning.

"The failure to provide clear and explicit directions to local immigration
officials is inexcusable given the absolute right to legal counsel," said Lucas
Guttentag, director of the ACLU's Immigrants' Rights Project. He charged that
the "foot-dragging" could be explained only by a reluctance to dig into the
matter before the registration deadlines have passed.

Pakistanis and Saudis are the latest foreign nationals to face a deadline to
register under the government program that requires male visitors from 25
nations, almost all predominantly Muslim, to appear before immigration
authorities. The effort has caused confusion and anxiety among some immigrants,
and thousands of people found to be in violation of immigration laws have been
detained or deported.

Bill Strassberger, a spokesman for the Bureau of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, agreed that registrants have an absolute right to counsel, but said
their lawyers are often not allowed to accompany them "when they're being
booked." During that process, they are fingerprinted, photographed and asked to
provide "whatever other information is necessary."

"There have been problems in some locations," Strassberger said. "We need to
look into it."

But Tampa immigration lawyer Myra Kallo said "what they call booking is much
more than that." She said three clients, two from Tunisia and one from Morocco,
were subjected to routine questioning in her presence in late January and early
February, but then were called into another room. On each occasion, she said,
she was prohibited by the adjudication official from accompanying them.

"Each time, I said, 'My client has a right to counsel,' and each time the
officer said, 'Not here he doesn't,' " Kallo recounted yesterday.

She said her clients later told her they were closely questioned in an apparent
search for intelligence information. "Basically it was, 'Do you go to a mosque?
What mosque?' and so forth," Kallo said. One of her clients, who did attend a
mosque, was asked "whether he knew this person or that person and whether
so-and-so spoke at the mosque."

She added that one of her clients told her a man who identified himself as an
FBI agent entered the room and asked some questions. "Here I am, sitting
outside, absolutely clueless," she said. "I would have told them not to answer.
And it's not just happening to me. It's happened to other [Tampa] attorneys I've
seen going in there."

ACLU officials said they have received similar reports from regional offices in
New York, Texas, Illinois and California. They said they have been told by
officials in Washington to straighten out the situation with local immigration
officials, but the problems keep cropping up.

"The ACLU cannot possibly monitor every interview at every office," said
immigrant rights attorney Robin Goldfaden. "The government has the
responsibility to ensure that its own offices comply with the law."

Strassberger said he was not familiar with the particulars of any case. "We need
to look into them to see if there was a procedural problem, a misunderstanding
on the part of the officer or on the part of the registrant and the registrant's
lawyer," he said.

Critics of the government's special registration program contend that such
problems make many immigrants reluctant to report. James Zogby, the head of the
Arab American Institute in Washington, said he has been told by Pakistani and
Saudi diplomats that an estimated 12,000 to 14,000 Saudis and 22,000 Pakistanis
have yet to register. Diplomats say many Saudis have left the country and many
Pakistanis are trying to get out.

Strassberger said officials have no reliable estimate of their own. "That's part
of the problem of having an undocumented population," he said.

Kallo said her clients were all found to have invalid visas and told to report
for removal hearings, but "all will be able to fix their status because they're
married to U.S. citizens."

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              34 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 3, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Views Differ on System for Tracking Foreign Students

BYLINE: George Lardner Jr., Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 769 words


A top U.S. immigration official predicted yesterday that as many as 1.5 million
foreign students will be signed up by August for a new but beleaguered tracking
system, despite numerous shortcomings that have prompted a rash of complaints.

Johnny N. Williams, acting director of investigations in the Bureau of
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, vowed to meet the "very aggressive
timetable" prescribed by law and to address the problems that stand in the way.

Williams's upbeat assessment stood in sharp contrast to the testimony of three
other witnesses before the House Judiciary subcommittee on immigration. The
three told of suspect certifications of schools, inadequate training of staff in
the field and questionable plans to finance the tracking operation with a
paper-based fee system.

Williams told reporters that 300,000 foreigners attending schools and
universities in this country have already been registered in the computerized
Student and Exchange Visitor Information System (SEVIS) since it was started in
January. He estimated that 1.2 million more remain to be signed up by Congress's
Aug. 1 deadline.

David Ward, president of the American Council on Education, said he did not
understand how that could be done. He said SEVIS is technologically flawed,
saddled with a complicated set of new rules and regulations that are not working
well "at the present time," and unable to provide real-time access to data.

"Some [U.S.] embassies and consulates find that it takes a week or longer for
them to access data entered in SEVIS," Ward said. "This means that students
arrive at an embassy -- sometimes after traveling a great distance -- only to be
told, incorrectly, that their data have not been entered into SEVIS and that
they may not apply for a visa. . . . These delays cause confusion and
frustration for embassies, students and schools."

Using a more conservative estimate of 1 million names yet to be entered in the
system -- at least 250,000 a month -- Ward said: "[W]e do not believe there is
any chance that SEVIS will be able to accommodate this huge surge of
information, and are deeply concerned it will play havoc with students,
colleges, universities and consular and immigration offices alike."

Ward also criticized the government's plans to collect fees intended to pay for
the operation after an initial $ 37 million appropriation from Congress.
Lawmakers demanded that the Internet-based SEVIS system be established after the
discovery that three of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorists had been registered in
the government's dysfunctional, paper-based database for foreign students.

While federal fee regulations have yet to be published, Ward said, his group has
been told that the collection process will be totally separate from the process
by which students are listed in SEVIS and will rely "on traditional mail and
paper receipts." That would dramatically undermine the promise that SEVIS would
be an entirely automated system, he said.

A retired Immigration and Naturalization Service official, Thomas P. Fischer,
called SEVIS "a dumbed-down version" of a promising pilot program he helped
start in 1997, which was designed to keep criminals and known or suspected
terrorists from slipping into the United States. He said the program was
inexplicably put on "minimal life support" by INS officials in October 1999.

Among the pilot program features that SEVIS does not have, Fischer said, is a
built-in coordination with the Treasury Department's Financial Crimes
Enforcement Network, a program under which a student's source of funds could be
checked. Officials, he said, ought to know "who's supporting the student, who
owns the bank."

Williams told reporters that the pilot program was "very large, including some
necessary features and some not." He added that immigration officials stand
ready to add more features to SEVIS if warranted.

The Justice Department's inspector general, Glenn A. Fine, said SEVIS still has
"significant deficiencies" in implementation, including frequent failures by
hired contract investigators to collect documentation for a school's application
to enter the program, failures by immigration officials to make sure the
contractors' on-site inspections of the schools were thorough and, "in some
instances, whether the on-site visits even were conducted."

Fine recommended periodic audits of certified schools to determine whether they
have sufficient controls to prevent fraud and whether they are entering SEVIS
data quickly and accurately. He said SEVIS has great promise but that much still
must be done to make it reliable and effective.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              35 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 14, 2003 Monday
                                 Final Edition

New Agency, Old Problems;
Family Says Bureaucratic Troubles Persist at Immigration Service

BYLINE: George Lardner Jr., Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 1142 words


Jake Johnston never dreamed a quick round of barhopping in Tijuana, Mexico, last
month could end up costing his parents $ 15,000.

A U.S. resident since he was 2 days old, Johnston, 19, went to San Diego with
two college friends on spring break and they strolled across the border to have
a few beers and tequilas.

The two friends made it back, but Johnston didn't. Immigration authorities
jailed Johnston for 15 days after he failed to produce documentation showing his
legal status. When officials agreed to release him April 9, they wouldn't tell
his parents where they could pick him up, held him until nightfall, and then
dropped him off in downtown San Diego two hours after a scheduled flight home to
Oregon.

His father, Robert Johnston, a Canadian citizen who has been a legal permanent
resident since 1967, is still fuming. "This, to me, was just plain
vindictiveness," he said. Born in a Canadian hospital near his childhood home in
Sumas, Wash., Jake Johnston became a legal permanent U.S. resident when his
parents drove him across the border on Sept. 29, 1983. But the former
Immigration and Naturalization Service never gave him the green card that would
prove his status despite inquiries by his family and confirmation by a
high-ranking immigration official years ago that he was entitled to one.

To the Johnstons and their lawyer, that was bad enough, but the new three-headed
immigration service, housed under different acronyms in the fledgling Department
of Homeland Security, is even worse. They complain the breakup of the INS left
no one in overall command in the former agency's district where each of the
three new bureaus has its own interim director.

"I think what's happened is the INS -- a terribly inefficient bureaucracy to
start with -- has now merged with Homeland Security," Robert Johnston said. "So
now you have a terribly inefficient agency on testosterone. They are
power-hungry and they are desperate to catch all these Mexican and Canadian
'terrorists.' "

Homeland Security spokesman Dennis Murphy said there are no district directors
because "that is the law. Congress made it clear that having all functions
overseen by one person didn't work." He also pointed out that the new department
is only six weeks old.

"There are going to be growing pains," he said. "Please give us a little time to
work this out."

Jake Johnston's first run-in was on March 24 at the San Ysidro, Calif., border
crossing with what is now the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection (BCBP). A
freshman with a track scholarship at Chemeketa Community College in Salem, Ore.,
he had a student ID, his Oregon driver's license and a Social Security card --
more than he had needed on previous trips -- but this time it wasn't enough. He
said he had lived all his life in the United States, but when asked where he was
born, he answered, correctly, "Abbotsford, B.C."

Unable to produce a green card or green-card ID number, Johnston was detained.
His mother, Margrethe, also a Canadian citizen and legal permanent resident,
said a border officer called her in Salem asking whether she had any papers. She
didn't. A dispatcher for the Oregon state police, she says she explained how
"Jake was in Canada long enough to be born" and had been in the United States
since he came home from the hospital. But she said the paperwork was never
completed.

David H. Lambert, a former INS assistant district director in Seattle who
reviewed the case in the late 1980s at the behest of the Johnstons, said the
lack of paperwork made no difference in Jake's legal status. Lambert had talked
to border inspector Richard Vreeke, who was on duty when the Johnstons brought
Jake home in 1983 and found they had done all they needed to do to make the baby
a bona fide permanent resident.

In accordance with regulations, Vreeke said the Johnstons showed him their green
cards and Jake's birth certificate. Saying that was all that was necessary,
Lambert recalled telling Vreeke to make a "nunc pro tunc" (now for then) record
of Jake Johnston's lawful entry into the country, but "apparently this was still
not done."

Robert Johnston, a recreational vehicle salesman in Bend, Ore., acknowledges
that he and his former wife should have pressed harder for Jake's credentials,
but adds: "If I buy a candy bar and get a receipt for it, and then I lose the
receipt, that doesn't mean the candy bar isn't mine."

Lambert agrees. "The mix-up in this case was at least in part the fault of INS,"
he said in a detailed and "urgent" April 3 note to Robert J. Okin, the interim
director in Seattle of the Bureau of Customs and Immigration Services (BCIS),
another arm of the new bureaucracy. Okin replied that he had no jurisdiction in
the matter.

A copy was sent to lawyers at the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement
(BICE) in San Diego, which was now in charge of the case, but to no avail.

Margrethe Johnston was baffled by their insistence on treating her son as a
criminal. She says the BCBP officer who called her March 24 first told her that
"it happens all the time, I understand," but on a second call 90 minutes later,
abruptly told her that her son was going to be locked up for deportation to
Canada, without a hearing. She tried to get more details the next day, but was
told, "Jake is over 18 and has his right to privacy."

Jake Johnston was tossed into a common cell at the San Ysidro jail with dozens
of other prisoners and forced to sleep on the floor with lights glaring all day.
From there, he was transferred to Otay Mesa, a privately owned prison near the
Mexican border that is run for immigration authorities.

The Johnstons hired immigration lawyer Dan Larsson on March 28 when they learned
their son was not only to be deported to Canada, but also banned from visiting
the United States for at least five years. Larsson said he headed off
deportation by persuading Canadian officials not to give the go-ahead, but was
turned down when he asked that Jake be released on parole.

On April 3, Larsson said he was stunned to get notice of the charges, which
asserted that Johnston had falsely claimed to be a U.S. citizen. Since that is a
deportable offense, Larsson questioned Johnston and his two friends. All denied
he made any such statement.

Forced to fly to San Diego at premium prices for an April 9 hearing, Robert
Johnston said they were driving to Otay Mesa when BICE lawyer Kerri A. Harlin
called Larsson and offered to let Jake Johnston return to Oregon on his own
recognizance for a hearing there. The offer, which the parents accepted, came as
NBC's "Today" show was preparing to do a story on the case.

"We spent $ 3,000 getting there only to find out that someone on high said, 'Let
him go,' " Robert Johnston said. "By the time the dust settles, with
transportation, legal fees and all that, it'll probably cost us $ 15,000."

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              36 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 30, 2003 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

High Court Upholds Immigrants' Custody;
Decision Requires Jail Pending Deportation

BYLINE: Charles Lane, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 907 words


The Supreme Court yesterday upheld a seven-year-old federal law that says
immigrants, including permanent residents, who have committed certain crimes
must be detained while the federal government decides whether to deport them.

Reversing a recent trend on the court toward expanding immigrant rights, the
ruling confirms Congress's power to limit the rights of even relatively
well-established noncitizens.

The decision puts the nation's estimated 11 million permanent resident
immigrants, or "green card" holders, on notice that if they commit certain
"aggravated" offenses or offenses of "moral turpitude," they will serve their
sentences -- and then be locked up again by immigration authorities if removal
proceedings against them are pending.

The number of people who face that prospect is unknown, though the Justice
Department says that in recent years it has detained more than 75,000 criminal
immigrants -- including not only permanent residents, but also illegal
immigrants and others -- under the 1996 law.

Civil libertarians, immigrant rights groups, the American Bar Association and
prominent former immigration officials had urged the court to rule that the
Constitution requires giving criminals who are permanent resident immigrants a
hearing to determine whether they would jump bail or commit another crime.

But by a 5 to 4 vote, the court ruled that Congress had ample reason to treat
such immigrants as a group when it passed the 1996 law requiring immigration
authorities to jail them. There is enough evidence that many would escape or
endanger the public, and most face relatively short detention, the court noted
in concluding that the law does not violate immigrants' right to due process of
law.

"[T]his court has firmly and repeatedly endorsed the proposition that Congress
may make rules as to aliens that would be unacceptable if applied to citizens,"
Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist wrote, backed by Justices Sandra Day
O'Connor, Anthony M. Kennedy, Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas.

Justice David H. Souter dissented, reading a summary of his opinion from the
bench as a gesture of particularly strong opposition.

"The Court's holding that the Constitution permits the government to lock up a
lawful permanent resident of this country when there is concededly no reason to
do so forgets over a century of precedent acknowledging the rights of permanent
residents, including the basic liberty from physical confinement lying at the
heart of due process," Souter wrote. He was joined by Justices John Paul Stevens
and Ruth Bader Ginsburg. Justice Stephen G. Breyer also dissented, but for
different reasons.

Yesterday's decision reverses rulings by federal appeals courts with
jurisdiction over four regions including such large immigrant population centers
as California, Pennsylvania and New Jersey, so anyone who was released on bail
in those states may face an immediate return to detention.

For the court, too, the case represents something of a shift back in favor of
government authority over immigrants.

In 2001, in the last major immigrant rights cases decided before 19 Middle
Eastern men carried out the terror attacks of Sept.  11, the court ruled 5 to 4
that federal courts can review constitutional claims by certain criminal
immigrants challenging their deportations, and it ruled 5 to 4 that the
government could not detain deportable criminal immigrants indefinitely if their
home countries were unwilling or unable to take them back.

Yesterday's ruling upheld a law that is "exceptionally harsh, given that they
are lawful permanent residents and have already served their sentences," said
Doris Meissner, who served as commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service under President Bill Clinton. Meissner signed a friend of the court
brief supporting Hyung Joon Kim, the South Korea-born California resident who
was fighting detention in the case.

But supporters of the decision said it ratified Congress's justified crackdown
on crime committed by immigrants who melt back into society while the
bureaucracy deals with their cases.

"We've just locked up a lot of convicted criminals who won't be on the streets
committing more crimes," said Richard A. Samp, chief counsel of the Washington
Legal Foundation, which filed a friend of the court brief in support of the
Justice Department's position.

Kim came to the United States with his parents in 1984 at age 6 and got a green
card two years later. He was convicted of first-degree burglary for stealing
from a toolshed in 1996 and "petty theft with priors" in 1997.

He served two years of a three-year sentence for the latter offense, then was
arrested by immigration authorities.

After waiting three months for deportation efforts to get untracked, Kim
petitioned a federal district judge for release. The judge ordered him freed.
The Justice Department appealed the legal issues to the San Francisco-based U.S.
Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit -- but in the meantime agreed to release
Kim on $ 5,000 bond. The 9th Circuit, too, sided with Kim.

Kim, now a junior majoring in business administration at San Jose State
University, faces a return to detention but will continue to fight deportation.

"Korea is more foreign to me than America," Kim, 25, said in an interview. "I
speak Korean, but not to the point where I could get a job. I would have a very
tough time over there."

The case is Demore v. Kim, No. 01-1491.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              37 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 3, 2003 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Area's Immigrant Students Caught in Tuition Limbo

BYLINE: Amy Argetsinger and Nurith C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 890 words


Every semester, Rosa Amo sees more of them, Maryland high school graduates who
have the drive to get a college education but lack the one thing they need to
make it affordable: legal immigration status.

It falls to Amo, a student services coordinator at Prince George's Community
College, to sit them down and explain that regardless of how long the students
have lived in Maryland, they do not qualify for in-state tuition and must pay
rates three times as high.

"Have you ever been told that there is no possibility? That's the look I see,"
she said. "Last semester, there was one young lady who had a 3.86 grade-point
average. She was so distraught she cried."

Now these students are at the heart of a heated debate over whether immigrants
in this country illegally or without full documentation or permanent status
should be eligible to attend public colleges with the benefit of in-state
tuition rates.

Maryland legislators recently passed a bill that would let such immigrants
qualify for in-state tuition if they had spent at least three years at a
Maryland secondary school, although Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. (R) has not yet
decided whether to sign it into law. Across the river, Virginia Gov. Mark R.
Warner (D) this week vetoed new legislation that would have explicitly
prohibited the state's illegal immigrants from paying in-state tuition.

Yet in both states, there are no clear estimates on how many students are in a
position to need such help or whether the recent legislative efforts would have
a significant or visible impact on enrollment at public colleges.

Officials at many four-year institutions in both states say they assume that
immigrants without proper documentation have long received in-state benefits on
their campuses, regardless of the law -- but that they have no way of knowing
who or how many. Though most colleges ask applicants whether they are U.S.
citizens, they generally don't ask for proof.

"We feel reasonably sure we do have some [illegal immigrants] who are attending
college, but to document it or put a number to it, we really can't do that at
all," said Lee Andes, financial aid manager for the State Council of Higher
Education in Virginia.

Even if Ehrlich signs the legislation that would extend in-state benefits to
such immigrants, some in Maryland higher education suspect that many of those
students will continue to conceal their status.

"I think many undocumented aliens live in a twilight world and try not to call
attention to themselves," said David Robb, registrar at the University of
Maryland. "We just don't know."

The Urban Institute estimates that 50,000 to 65,000 undocumented immigrants who
have lived in the United States for five years or longer graduate from high
school each year, making up less than 2 percent of all high school graduates.

Josh Bernstein, senior policy analyst at the National Immigration Law Center,
argued that the number of undocumented students who get in-state tuition by
lying about their immigration status is probably extremely low.

Even if colleges do not verify a student's status upon registration, they often
automatically enter the student into a pool of applicants for financial aid. And
before granting aid, officials do check on a student's status. So an
undocumented student would need to know to pull his name out of the running for
financial aid. "I just don't believe there's that level of sophistication out
there," Bernstein said.

In Virginia, Warner decried the Republican-backed measure to refuse in-state
tuition benefits to undocumented immigrants as an unnecessary tactic "to score a
political victory against 'illegal aliens,' " noting that existing state
regulations already denied them those benefits. Still, some college officials
had feared that the bill would have ultimately forced them to start checking the
citizenship status of all their applicants -- a chore that George Mason
University Dean of Admissions Andrew Flagel called "an unfunded mandate."

"The amount of time and money it would take for getting verified citizenship
documents for all our students is extensive," he said. "It would put us in the
position of doing the INS's work."

Other officials argued that relatively few illegal immigrants would have the
sufficient financial resources or educational background to prompt them to apply
to four-year institutions. They suggested that the greatest impact of any policy
change probably would come at community colleges.

At Montgomery College -- which has taken advantage of some murkiness in state
law about whether undocumented immigrants can claim tuition benefits at
community colleges -- officials say they don't know how many undocumented
students they have. However, they say about 250 students a year leave the
section on their applications about citizenship and immigration status blank --
but pay in-county tuition rates anyway.

Sherman Helberg, the college's dean of admissions, cited a Supreme Court ruling
that public schools must educate all children regardless of their immigration
status.

"We've taken the view that if we couldn't deny these students a public education
when they were children, why all of the sudden would we deny them a public
education when they become adults," he said. To avoid legal challenges, the
college does not seek state subsidies for those students.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              38 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 3, 2003 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrants Caught In Tuition Limbo

BYLINE: Amy Argetsinger and Nurith C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 890 words


Every semester, Rosa Amo sees more of them, Maryland high school graduates who
have the drive to get a college education but lack the one thing they need to
make it affordable: legal immigration status.

It falls to Amo, a student services coordinator at Prince George's Community
College, to sit them down and explain that regardless of how long the students
have lived in Maryland, they do not qualify for in-state tuition and must pay
rates three times as high.

"Have you ever been told that there is no possibility? That's the look I see,"
she said. "Last semester, there was one young lady who had a 3.86 grade-point
average. She was so distraught she cried."

Now these students are at the heart of a heated debate over whether immigrants
in this country illegally or without full documentation or permanent status
should be eligible to attend public colleges with the benefit of in-state
tuition rates.

Maryland legislators recently passed a bill that would let such immigrants
qualify for in-state tuition if they had spent at least three years at a
Maryland secondary school, although Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. (R) has not yet
decided whether to sign it into law. Across the river, Virginia Gov. Mark R.
Warner (D) this week vetoed new legislation that would have explicitly
prohibited the state's illegal immigrants from paying in-state tuition.

Yet in both states, there are no clear estimates on how many students are in a
position to need such help or whether the recent legislative efforts would have
a significant or visible impact on enrollment at public colleges.

Officials at many four-year institutions in both states say they assume that
immigrants without proper documentation have long received in-state benefits on
their campuses, regardless of the law -- but that they have no way of knowing
who or how many. Though most colleges ask applicants whether they are U.S.
citizens, they generally don't ask for proof.

"We feel reasonably sure we do have some [illegal immigrants] who are attending
college, but to document it or put a number to it, we really can't do that at
all," said Lee Andes, financial aid manager for the State Council of Higher
Education in Virginia.

Even if Ehrlich signs the legislation that would extend in-state benefits to
such immigrants, some in Maryland higher education suspect that many of those
students will continue to conceal their status.

"I think many undocumented aliens live in a twilight world and try not to call
attention to themselves," said David Robb, registrar at the University of
Maryland. "We just don't know."

The Urban Institute estimates that 50,000 to 65,000 undocumented immigrants who
have lived in the United States for five years or longer graduate from high
school each year, making up less than 2 percent of all high school graduates.

Josh Bernstein, senior policy analyst at the National Immigration Law Center,
argued that the number of undocumented students who get in-state tuition by
lying about their immigration status is probably extremely low.

Even if colleges do not verify a student's status upon registration, they often
automatically enter the student into a pool of applicants for financial aid. And
before granting aid, officials do check on a student's status. So an
undocumented student would need to know to pull his name out of the running for
financial aid. "I just don't believe there's that level of sophistication out
there," Bernstein said.

In Virginia, Warner decried the Republican-backed measure to refuse in-state
tuition benefits to undocumented immigrants as an unnecessary tactic "to score a
political victory against 'illegal aliens,' " noting that existing state
regulations already denied them those benefits. Still, some college officials
had feared that the bill would have ultimately forced them to start checking the
citizenship status of all their applicants -- a chore that George Mason
University Dean of Admissions Andrew Flagel called "an unfunded mandate."

"The amount of time and money it would take for getting verified citizenship
documents for all our students is extensive," he said. "It would put us in the
position of doing the INS's work."

Other officials argued that relatively few illegal immigrants would have the
sufficient financial resources or educational background to prompt them to apply
to four-year institutions. They suggested that the greatest impact of any policy
change probably would come at community colleges.

At Montgomery College -- which has taken advantage of some murkiness in state
law about whether undocumented immigrants can claim tuition benefits at
community colleges -- officials say they don't know how many undocumented
students they have. However, they say about 250 students a year leave the
section on their applications about citizenship and immigration status blank --
but pay in-county tuition rates anyway.

Sherman Helberg, the college's dean of admissions, cited a Supreme Court ruling
that public schools must educate all children regardless of their immigration
status.

"We've taken the view that if we couldn't deny these students a public education
when they were children, why all of the sudden would we deny them a public
education when they become adults," he said. To avoid legal challenges, the
college does not seek state subsidies for those students.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              39 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 17, 2003 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. May Tighten Visa Application Procedures;
More Face-to-Face Interviews Considered

BYLINE: Dan Eggen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 777 words


The Bush administration is considering a plan that would require face-to-face
interviews with most of the more than 8 million people who seek visas to enter
the United States each year, officials said yesterday.

If implemented, the plan would dramatically increase the workload for U.S.
embassies and consulates that issue visas around the world and could cause
significant delays for tourists and business travelers seeking to visit the
United States, immigration and travel experts said.

The proposal, which has been under consideration in various forms since shortly
after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, has become the focus of a tug-of-war between
the State Department and the Department of Homeland Security, which has been
given some authority over immigration policies, sources familiar with the debate
said. Many diplomats and foreign service officers at the State Department fear
the plan would overwhelm the visa system and would accomplish little in the
effort to catch potential terrorists, officials and experts said.

But many law enforcement officials and advocates of stricter U.S. immigration
policies have criticized the State Department for failing to properly scrutinize
visa applicants. A General Accounting Office study released in October found
that at least 13 of the Sept. 11 hijackers were never interviewed by U.S.
consular officers before they were granted U.S. visas and that none had filled
in his application properly.

U.S. law currently requires all non-immigrant visa applicants to submit to
in-person interviews, but gives consular officials broad leeway in granting
exceptions. In addition, Canadians do not need visas to enter the United States
in most cases and citizens from 27 other countries, mostly in Europe and Asia,
are covered by a special program that waives visas for tourists and business
travelers.

Kelly Shannon, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Bureau of Consular Affairs, said the
proposal is one of several possible national security plans under consideration
by the State Department. The department has implemented several other security
measures since the Sept. 11 attacks, including new application forms and
increased use of in-person interviews, Shannon said.

"What we could do is recommend even more interviews," Shannon said. "That's a
possibility, but that hasn't been determined."

The Wall Street Journal first reported the plan in yesterday's editions, saying
it had been approved. Administration officials stressed that the plan is still
being considered.

State Department officials said they do not keep track of the proportion of visa
applicants required to submit to interviews. But outside immigration experts
estimate that as little as 20 percent of those eligible are required to do so.
Nearly 6 million non-immigrant visas were issued in fiscal 2002 out of more than
8 million total applications, officials said.

Face-to-face interviews would allow consular officials to obtain more
information about the applicant's background and plans that might help thwart
potential acts of terrorism or other crimes, supporters of the effort said.
Officials said such interviews are generally brief, usually less than half an
hour.

Crystal Williams, liaison and information director at the American Immigration
Lawyers Association, said requiring interviews for nearly all visa applicants
"would more or less shut down the visa issuance system, because they don't have
the facilities or resources to do this."

The proposal has also alarmed many business and tourism representatives, who
already are coping with a travel slump caused by fears of terrorism and the SARS
outbreak.

Edward Fluhr, manager of legislative affairs at the Travel Industry Association
of America, estimated that the proposal would require the State Department to at
least double the number of consular officers who administer visa applications in
more than 200 offices worldwide.

"The problem is hiring enough people and making sure they have the space to
conduct interviews with the proper security infrastructure," Fluhr said. "We are
concerned that the impact on travel to the United States could be significant."

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies and an
advocate of tougher immigration policies, said that even after the Sept. 11
attacks, the State Department has been too lax in granting visas to foreign
nationals.

"Even if this particular push doesn't succeed, at some point they're going to
have to increase their vigilance in issuing visas," Krikorian said.

"If they don't, and there's another catastrophic event, Congress won't hesitate
to remove the visa process from them altogether."

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              40 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 17, 2003 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Jordanian Released Pending Hearing;
Judge Frees Woman Who Fears Death if She Is Deported

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 330 words

DATELINE: DENVER May 17


A U.S. immigration judge today ordered the release of a Jordanian woman who says
that if she is deported her family will stone her to death because they believe
she committed adultery, an immigration official said.

Nina Pruneda, spokeswoman for the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
said a judge ordered 21-year-old Alissar Rawashdeh to be released pending a
deportation hearing.

The woman said she had entered into an arranged marriage and lived with her
husband and his family in Ohio, but life became difficult for her. "I was
treated like a servant. All I had to do was cook and clean," she said in an
interview aired on Thursday by KNZZ, a radio station in Grand Junction, Colo.

But she was allowed to take college courses, and friends noticed she had bruises
on her arms. "My friends told me that's not right to be treated like that," she
said in the interview.

She left her husband and had been living with an uncle in California. She was on
her way to Denver to meet a college friend she hoped could help her when she was
arrested in western Colorado on suspicion of stealing her uncle's car. The
charges were dropped, and she was handed over to the immigration agency.

She said her husband has claimed she was cheating on him, and her family in
Jordan feels they must punish her.

"I will get punished. They got to wash the shame from the family name. They dig
a hole in the ground, and I'll be buried halfway, and they'll throw rocks on me
till I die," according to excerpts of the interview with the station's news
director Randy Hampton.

She said she was trying to obtain refugee status so she could remain in the
United States.

Ibrahim Hooper, spokesman for the Council on American-Islamic Relations in
Washington, said he was not aware of the particular case, but said honor
killings are not part of Islamic law.

"It's a cultural practice carried out in many parts of the world, Islamic and
non-Islamic. They are not approved by Islam," he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              41 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 22, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrant Advocates Say Fight Isn't Over;
Tuition Measure A Polarizing Issue

BYLINE: Nurith C. Aizenman and George Lardner Jr., Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 778 words


The way Norma Menjivar sees it, Maryland Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. has just
killed her chances of going to college.

The Montgomery Blair High School senior had originally planned to apply to the
University of Maryland. Then she learned that the temporary immigration status
she was granted when she moved from El Salvador six years ago does not qualify
her for federal financial aid or in-state tuition.

Unable to afford the out-of-state rate -- which is three times as high -- or
full tuition at a private college, Menjivar had been clinging to one last hope:
a bill passed by the General Assembly last month that would allow Maryland high
school graduates to pay in-state rates regardless of their immigration status.

So when Ehrlich announced his veto of the bill yesterday, Menjivar was crushed.

"I feel like all the doors are closing," she said. "All my hard work is going to
be wasted."

In explaining his veto of a bill that engendered passionate debate, Ehrlich (R)
said he was concerned that the measure, by tacitly accepting illegal
immigration, was part of a trend of "slowly chipping away at the central goal of
citizenship." He also said he was worried that the bill might violate a 1996
federal law barring states from providing illegal immigrant residents with low
tuition rates not available to U.S. citizens who do not live in the state.

Increasingly, though, states have been passing laws to circumvent that federal
ban. And two Republicans in Congress have introduced legislation that would
repeal it.

"Ehrlich is really running against the tide of sentiment in support of these
[immigrant] kids," said Kimberly Propeack, an attorney with the immigrant
advocacy group CASA de Maryland.

The state could not provide figures for how many students would be affected by
the bill, another concern Ehrlich cited yesterday. Nationwide, advocates
estimate that 50,000 to 65,000 immigrant students could benefit each year.

The federal bills, first introduced by Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) and Rep.
Chris Cannon (R-Utah) in the last Congress, would also permit qualifying
undocumented immigrant students to apply for green cards as legal permanent
residents.

Cannon reintroduced his bill, the Student Adjustment Act, last month, and it has
36 co-sponsors, 20 Democrats and 16 Republicans. Hatch, aides say, will
reintroduce his Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors Act, but they
could not say whether any changes will be made.

Even with the 1996 ban still in place, eight states -- Texas, California, Utah,
New York, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Illinois and Washington -- have passed laws that
try to get around it by granting in-state tuition rates on the basis of criteria
other than residency.

In Virginia, where state regulations already bar illegal immigrants from
receiving in-state tuition, legislators recently passed a bill to enshrine the
practice in state law. Gov. Mark R. Warner (D) vetoed that bill.

Measures to allow tuition breaks face fierce opposition from critics who worry
that they encourage illegal immigration and take slots at state schools away
from legal residents.

"We want to make sure all immigrants who come here legally have every
opportunity, but it's wrong to reward bad behavior," said Maryland Del. Herbert
H. McMillan (R-Anne Arundel), who urged Ehrlich to veto the Maryland bill. "You
have to work hard but also play by the rules."

Supporters of the bill rejected that argument. Del. Sheila Ellis Hixson
(D-Montgomery), the bill's sponsor, predicted that the governor would face
serious political fallout. "He will have a lot of explaining to do to the
Hispanic community, for a start," she said.

But McMillan said signing such a bill would have graver consequences. "People in
the state oppose this bill. This is the kind of bill that Joe Six-Pack looks at
and says, 'I can't believe this guy voted to give people in the state who are
here illegally the same benefit as my children,' " he said.

Propeack said she and other advocates would push for an override in the next
session. "We're going to make sure that during the summer, every legislator
personally gets to know a student who will be affected by this bill," she said.

Supporters of the Maryland bill have also committed to work with national
immigrant advocates to mobilize support for the congressional bills.

Many of the provisions in the two bills are similar, but Cannon's is broader and
binding. It would require the secretary of homeland security to give qualifying
students legal status and immunity from deportation proceedings while their
applications are pending. Hatch's proposal, at least as it was worded last year,
said this "may" be done.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              42 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 9, 2003 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Foreign Students Navigate Labyrinth of New Laws;
Slip-Ups Overlooked Before 9/11 Now Grounds for Deportation

BYLINE: Caryle Murphy and Nurith C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1532 words


During his 11 years in the United States, Zaid Safdar has graduated from two
American universities, held a plum engineering job at Lucent Technologies and
was elected student body president at Johns Hopkins University's School of
Advanced International Studies in Washington.

But when the Pakistani native registered at a U.S. immigration office in
Arlington in March to comply with a new program for tracking male visitors from
two dozen predominantly Muslim countries, he was arrested, jailed overnight and
placed in deportation proceedings.

Safdar's mistake was that he applied to switch his work visa to a student visa
after quitting his job at Lucent, rather than applying while he was employed, as
required by law. The District resident said he was unaware of this requirement
until he reported to immigration authorities in March. Because of the mistake,
his student visa application that was pending when he registered might be
denied.

"I'm in utter shock," said Safdar, 30. "On one hand, I feel like all my
accomplishments are because of the opportunities that have been given to me by
this country. But now I'm seeing a side of the United States that I've never
seen before."

Safdar is one of 13,354 men placed in deportation proceedings after being
identified in the special registration program conducted from January to April.
Most of these cases will take months to resolve in hearings before immigration
judges if the men contest their deportation rather than leave voluntarily.

But they are likely to swell the number of temporary residents from countries
with majority Muslim populations who have been forced to depart the United
States since the terrorist attacks on New York and the Pentagon on Sept. 11,
2001.

From Oct. 1, 2002, to March 31, U.S. authorities deported 898 citizens from the
two dozen countries under special scrutiny. That is triple the number of people
from those countries deported from Oct. 1, 2000, to March 31, 2001. Among the
898 deported recently were 319 Pakistanis. In the six months after Oct. 1, 2000,
89 Pakistanis were sent home.

Immigration officials were unable to say how many of the 13,354 men facing
deportation are students. But Safdar's predicament underscores the increased
diligence the country's more than 580,000 foreign students must pay to
immigration rules, since the discovery that one of the Sept. 11 suicide
hijackers entered the United States on a student visa but never attended
classes.

The failure to spot this provoked a public backlash against immigration
authorities. Nowadays, even minor violations of immigration rules, forgiven
before the attacks, are reason enough for deportation, according to education
and immigration specialists.

"What we're seeing is a rigorous enforcement of all immigration laws and
regulations, even if in the past they would not have been so rigorously
enforced," said Terry W. Hartle, senior vice president of the American Council
on Education, an organization that represents 1,800 colleges and universities.

"There's no such thing as a technical violation anymore; you're either in status
or you're violating the law," Hartle said.

U.S. immigration officials say that visitors must comply with all immigration
rules, no matter how minor they might seem. "We get criticized every day for not
following through," said Bill Strassberger, spokesman for the Bureau of
Immigration and Customs Enforcement. "We can't have a legitimate immigration
system if we allow people to come and just do what they want. It's not fair to
those who do comply with the rules."

Strassberger said that visitors from the countries undergoing special scrutiny
make up a small portion of those deported -- reflecting the relatively small
size of their communities in the United States. For example, of the 67,000
people deported in the six months after Oct. 1, 2002, nearly three-quarters were
Mexicans.

Hartle called the tightened enforcement "an understandable and legitimate, if
heavy-handed, response to the times we live in." He and other observers said
students from predominantly Muslim countries are of special interest to U.S.
immigration authorities.

"They are definitely the enforcement priority and target," said Jeanne
Butterfield, executive director of the American Immigration Lawyers Association,
which represents about 8,000 immigration lawyers.

Safdar said his mistake was the result of poor advice from a foreign student
adviser at the School of Advanced International Studies. After he was accepted
into the school's two-year master's degree program in spring 2002, he called the
adviser to inquire about the proper procedure for changing his visa.

Safdar said she told him he should quit his job before submitting his student
visa application. He mailed his application Aug. 12 but had to resend it because
he had not included the proper filing fee, he said, adding that the corrected
application was received by immigration Sept. 4.

Strassberger said Safdar should have applied before leaving Lucent on July 31
because a month after someone resigns from a job, his work visa and legal status
expire. Once that happens, he can apply for a change in visa status only from
his home country.

After his student visa application was denied in April, Safdar filed an appeal;
his next deportation hearing is set for July 17. Strassberger said a final
decision on Safdar's application has not been made.

The school adviser denies counseling Safdar to wait until he left Lucent before
sending in his visa application, said Johns Hopkins's general counsel, Estelle
Fishbein. Indeed, Fishbein said, when Safdar dropped off his application for the
adviser to send to immigration authorities, "she right away saw that it was late
and sent it by Federal Express at our expense to cut short the amount by which
it was late."

Regardless of whose account is correct, immigration lawyer Denyse Sabagh -- whom
Safdar consulted recently -- said his application was filed incorrectly "because
of an innocent mistake. . . . We're not talking about a criminal or someone who
committed fraud."

Before Sept. 11, Sabagh said, immigration officials likely would have looked the
other way in such a case and granted Safdar a student visa. "But now, there's
this zero tolerance policy with no room for error," she said. "I also think
there's this higher scrutiny of Arab and Muslim men."

Last week, more than 300 of Safdar's fellow students sent a petition supporting
him to William R. Brody, president of Johns Hopkins, and to Maryland's two U.S.
senators. Fishbein said the university has taken steps to help Safdar, including
reimbursing his bail and sending immigration officials a letter urging leniency
in his case.

Safdar said the events of Sept. 11 prompted him to give up his job as a head of
a small communications research team and go for a career in international
development. "I looked at those attacks and said, 'Wow, the world is really out
of hand . . .' I decided I wanted to use my technical background to make a
positive difference in society."

Another example of how the stricter enforcement has affected foreign students is
the case of Abdullah Tuwalah, 28, a Saudi who is studying computer information
systems at Marymount University in Arlington on a Saudi government scholarship.

Tuwalah has been ordered deported for visa violations, most of which occurred
before Sept. 11, 2001. They include an alleged failure to immediately inform
immigration officials of his transfer from one school to another and not
submitting financial documents in a timely manner, Strassberger said.

Tuwalah said he made every effort to fix the deficiencies in his paperwork once
he became aware of them. Moreover, immigration lawyer Sabagh, who is
representing Tuwalah, contends that immigration officials should take into
account that he was held for almost four months without charges last year while
the FBI scrutinized him for suspected ties to terrorism. She noted that he
cooperated fully with the investigation, passed a lie detector test and was
cleared of any suspicion.

"After spending all these resources to interview him, to clear him, you would
think the government would exercise its discretion in his favor," Sabagh said.

U.S. immigration officials contend that Tuwalah's problems are of his own
making. "The only cause of all these problems is his failure to comply with the
immigration laws of this country," Strassberger said. "He's expected to follow
those like anyone else."

Tuwalah is to appear before an immigration judge Wednesday. "I'm not fighting to
stay here because I have no future back home," he said. "I'm very proud of my
country. I have a great country."

Rather, Tuwalah said, he wants to stay in the United States to finish his
studies. "I've spent two years studying, and they don't have computer
information systems [courses] in Saudi Arabia," he said. "This is my dream, and
I spent a lot of money, both from my family and the embassy."

Besides, Tuwalah added, "I like it here. I like the people. I like the way
people are treated. I never felt I was a stranger in this country until I got
these problems here."

Staff writer Mary Beth Sheridan contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              43 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 10, 2003 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Couple Enslaved Woman;
Ghanaian Forced to Work for No Pay

BYLINE: Ruben Castaneda, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 643 words


A federal jury in Greenbelt yesterday convicted a Takoma Park couple of bringing
a Ghanaian woman into the United States illegally and forcing her to work as a
domestic servant and nanny seven days a week without pay.

After deliberating a little more than a day after a three-week trial, the jury
in U.S. District Court convicted Barbara Coleman-Blackwell, 33, of forced labor,
conspiracy, harboring an illegal alien for financial gain and hiding her
victim's passport and visa. Coleman-Blackwell, an accountant, was acquitted of
three charges stemming from allegations she encouraged the victim, Margaret
Owusuwaah, 44, to come to the United States in violation of federal immigration
laws.

The jury convicted Coleman-Blackwell's husband, Kenneth Blackwell, 37, of
conspiracy and harboring an illegal alien for financial gain.

Blackwell, who does not have a job, was acquitted of encouraging Owusuwaah to
come to the United States in violation of federal immigration laws.

The verdicts are believed to be the first convictions under laws Congress passed
in 2000 to combat trafficking in immigrants for purposes of exploiting them as
workers.

"Today's conviction is a reminder that the Justice Department is committed to
prosecuting human trafficking and related crimes and to ensuring that those who
engage in these crimes are firmly punished," said Ralph F. Boyd Jr., assistant
attorney general for civil rights. "The defendants in this case cruelly
exploited an innocent woman."

U.S. District Judge Alexander Williams Jr. scheduled sentencing for
Coleman-Blackwell and Blackwell for Aug. 21. The charges of which
Coleman-Blackwell was convicted carry maximum penalties of 20 years in prison;
Blackwell's, 10 years.

David Schertler, Blackwell's attorney, said the defense team and both defendants
were "very disappointed with the verdict."

"Frankly, we just do not believe there was sufficient evidence to support the
verdict," he said.

Yesterday's verdicts marked the third time since 2000 that federal prosecutors
have won convictions in the Greenbelt federal court in domestic slavery cases.

A Gaithersburg man who was convicted of keeping a Brazilian woman as a live-in
domestic slave for 20 years was sentenced in August 2000 to 61/2 years in
prison. In March 2002, a Silver Spring couple was sentenced to nine years in
prison for enslaving a Cameroon teenager for three years.

In the Takoma Park case, federal prosecutors said they hope to try a third
codefendant, Coleman-Blackwell's mother, Grace Coleman.

Coleman, a member of Ghana's Parliament, is charged with arranging to bring
Owusuwaah, her cousin from a poor village, to the United States under false
pretenses. Coleman also is charged with forced labor. Federal officials have
filed papers seeking her extradition.

Owusuwaah testified that she was abused from February 2000, when she came to the
United States, until July 2001, when she ran away.

At times fighting tears, Owusuwaah testified that she worked seven days a week,
cooking, cleaning, doing laundry, raking leaves and caring for Coleman-Blackwell
and Blackwell's young daughter, without being paid for her work.

She testified that Coleman-Blackwell arranged for her to baby-sit for the
children of five friends and that Coleman-Blackwell kept almost all the money
the friends paid for Owusuwaah's services.

Coleman-Blackwell testified that she did not abuse Owusuwaah, whom she called
"Auntie." Coleman-Blackwell testified that Owusuwaah was not a servant but a
visiting family member who volunteered to help with chores.

Seth Rosenthal, a trial attorney with the Justice Department's civil rights
division, and Assistant U.S. Attorney Daphene McFerren scoffed at that scenario
in their closing statements. "Because she was a family member, they thought they
could get away with treating her like a servant," Rosenthal said.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              44 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 10, 2003 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Takoma Park Couple Enslaved Woman

BYLINE: Ruben Castaneda, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 644 words


A federal jury in Greenbelt yesterday convicted a Takoma Park couple of bringing
a Ghanaian woman into the United States illegally and forcing her to work as a
domestic servant and nanny seven days a week without pay.

After deliberating a little more than a day after a three-week trial, the jury
in U.S. District Court convicted Barbara Coleman-Blackwell, 33, of forced labor,
conspiracy, harboring an illegal alien for financial gain and hiding her
victim's passport and visa. Coleman-Blackwell, an accountant, was acquitted of
three charges stemming from allegations she encouraged the victim, Margaret
Owusuwaah, 44, to come to the United States in violation of federal immigration
laws.

The jury convicted Coleman-Blackwell's husband, Kenneth Blackwell, 37, of
conspiracy and harboring an illegal alien for financial gain.

Blackwell, who does not have a job, was acquitted of encouraging Owusuwaah to
come to the United States in violation of federal immigration laws.

The verdicts are believed to be the first convictions under laws Congress passed
in 2000 to combat trafficking in immigrants for purposes of exploiting them as
workers.

"Today's conviction is a reminder that the Justice Department is committed to
prosecuting human trafficking and related crimes and to ensuring that those who
engage in these crimes are firmly punished," said Ralph F. Boyd Jr., assistant
attorney general for civil rights. "The defendants in this case cruelly
exploited an innocent woman."

U.S. District Judge Alexander Williams Jr. scheduled sentencing for
Coleman-Blackwell and Blackwell for Aug. 21. The charges of which
Coleman-Blackwell was convicted carry maximum penalties of 20 years in prison;
Blackwell's, 10 years.

David Schertler, Blackwell's attorney, said the defense team and both defendants
were "very disappointed with the verdict."

"Frankly, we just do not believe there was sufficient evidence to support the
verdict," he said.

Yesterday's verdicts marked the third time since 2000 that federal prosecutors
have won convictions in the Greenbelt federal court in domestic slavery cases.

In August 2000, a Gaithersburg man who was convicted of keeping a Brazilian
woman as a live-in domestic slave for 20 years was sentenced to 61/2 years in
prison. In March 2002, a Silver Spring couple was sentenced to nine years in
prison for enslaving a teenager from Cameroon for three years.

In the Takoma Park case, federal prosecutors said they hope to try a third
codefendant, Coleman-Blackwell's mother, Grace Coleman.

Coleman, a member of Ghana's Parliament, is charged with arranging to bring
Owusuwaah, her cousin from a poor village, to the United States under false
pretenses. Coleman also is charged with forced labor. Federal officials have
filed papers seeking her extradition.

Owusuwaah testified that she was abused from February 2000, when she came to the
United States, until July 2001, when she ran away.

At times fighting tears, Owusuwaah testified that she worked seven days a week,
cooking, cleaning, doing laundry, raking leaves and caring for Coleman-Blackwell
and Blackwell's young daughter, without being paid for her work.

She testified that Coleman-Blackwell arranged for her to baby-sit for the
children of five friends and that Coleman-Blackwell kept almost all the money
the friends paid for Owusuwaah's services.

Coleman-Blackwell testified that she did not abuse Owusuwaah, whom she called
"Auntie." Coleman-Blackwell testified that Owusuwaah was not a servant but a
visiting family member who volunteered to help with chores.

Seth Rosenthal, a trial attorney with the Justice Department's civil rights
division, and Assistant U.S. Attorney Daphene McFerren scoffed at that scenario
in their closing statements. "Because she was a family member, they thought they
could get away with treating her like a servant," Rosenthal said.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              45 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 14, 2003 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Handling of Terror Cases to Change;
Immigration Officials May Gain Authority Over Visitor Suspects

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 446 words


Federal immigration officials, and not the FBI, would have greater authority
over the custody of foreign visitors suspected of connections to terrorism, one
of many changes expected to follow a report that criticized the handling of
hundreds of people detained after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.

The Justice Department and immigration officials are also devising better ways
of identifying suspects deemed of special concern, setting deadlines for their
cases to be resolved and developing plans to better deal with similar situations
if they occur again.

Assistant Attorney General Michael Chertoff, head of the Justice Department's
criminal division, told the Senate Judiciary Committee in a recent letter that
the FBI and the Homeland Security Department -- which now handles most
immigration matters -- are working to implement these changes.

"These enhancements would further reduce the potential for impinging on civil
liberties," Chertoff noted in the June 4 letter, which he said reflected his
personal views and not official government policy.

Chertoff was recently confirmed by the Senate to become a judge on the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the 3rd Circuit. He will leave his job on Monday.

The report last week from the Justice Department's inspector general, Glenn A.
Fine, said the FBI took a considerable amount of time to rule out connections to
terrorism for many of the 762 people detained for immigration violations. Some
were kept as long as eight months, but most were deported or released within the
90-day time frame observed by immigration officials.

The report also noted that the conditions of custody in one detention facility
were often unduly harsh. Restrictions included the use of leg shackles, limited
access to telephones and constant lighting in cells.

Chertoff said better resources, training and the reorganization in the FBI
should minimize delays in the future, which he attributed partly to the shock
and confusion that swept the country after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the
World Trade Center and the Pentagon.

He also said the conditions of custody will likely improve.

"The purpose of detention is not punitive, but is designed to serve the
interests of security and discipline within facilities," Chertoff said.

"Clearly, the government should continue to enforce the message to corrections
personnel that any detainees are not being held for punishment and should be
treated with appropriate respect and restraint," he added.

Of the 762 immigration violators detained as part of the Sept. 11 investigation,
505 have been deported and only one, Zacarias Moussaoui, has been charged with a
terrorism-related crime.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              46 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 15, 2003 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Former INS Head Warns of Rights Abuses;
Officials' Fear of Being Blamed for a New Attack Has Bad Side Effect, Ziglar
Says

BYLINE: Mike Allen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 759 words


President Bush's former immigration commissioner warned yesterday that the
administration's increasingly aggressive anti-terror- ism tactics may be
shortchanging citizens' rights, in part because of officials' fear of being
blamed for another major attack.

The former commissioner, James W. Ziglar Sr., said in a speech that the FBI
should be made independent -- stripping the Justice Department of much of its
traditional investigative power -- as one step toward avoiding abuses.

Ziglar, who retired Nov. 30, lost support after a contractor for the Immigration
and Naturalization Service mailed receipts for student-visa approvals for two of
the hijackers after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. Ziglar, a visiting professor
at George Washington University Law School, received repeated applause from a
crowd of 900 at the first national membership conference of the American Civil
Liberties Union, at a Washington hotel.

"The overwhelming means that the government has at its disposal today to invade
and intimidate suggests to me that we must be even more vigilant in deterring
government overreaching," he said. "The insatiable appetite for more power by
those who already have it is always justified by 'necessity.' "

The speech was a rare critique by an administration veteran. Ziglar, 57,
describes himself as "a conservative in the Barry Goldwater mold." Ziglar became
a target of conservatives who contended that he was more oriented to immigration
service than enforcement.

Ziglar said after the speech that Washington has been "in a siege mentality"
since the attacks on the Pentagon and the World Trade Center. "The notion that
somebody would be blamed, if there is another one, gives rise to an awful lot of
conduct, sometimes, that may go over the line," he said. "We need to build in
some checks and balances now that maybe we didn't have and didn't need before."

The Department of Homeland Security absorbed the functions of the INS, which
ceased to exist. Ziglar said the Justice Department and the Department of
Homeland Security are "vying to be the toughest kid on the block in combating
terrorism."

"I'm not sure that competition of that sort is healthy for the long-term
protection of civil liberties," he said, pointing to "the increasingly
aggressive tactics of the Justice Department."

Ziglar noted the statement of Attorney General John D. Ashcroft that the
department's "critical mission" is "the prevention and disruption of terrorist
attacks," whereas it used to be investigation and prosecution.

"I fear that if the mission of the Department of Justice is now primarily to
disrupt and prevent, then the questions that will be asked in the department
will no longer focus on whether an action is safely within the bounds of the
Constitution and laws, but how close they can get to the line, or how much they
can get away with," he said.

Ziglar noted it is "time to restructure the Department of Justice to remove it
from the operational realm," and said he would "narrow the scope of the
department's mission to prosecuting crime and protecting the rights and
liberties of all Americans." The FBI, he said, should become an independent
agency similar to the CIA.

Under his plan, the Justice Department would act as a legal adviser to the new
independent agency and would prosecute cases developed by the FBI. Ziglar said
the administration would be unlikely to initiate such a change, which would
probably have to originate in Congress.

Proposals for reorganizing counterterrorism functions were made after the
attacks, when the FBI was accused of not sharing intelligence with other parts
of the government.  Lawmakers proposed a domestic spy agency, which would strip
the FBI of intelligence-gathering responsibility. FBI Director Robert S. Mueller
III has opposed that.

INS roles were divided among three bureaus of the Department of Homeland
Security on March 1.

"There is a lot of chaos, from what my friends tell me," Ziglar said in the
interview. "Immigration officials in other parts of the world are confused about
who they talk to. I've talked to several of them I became friends with, and
they're concerned because they're not sure who they go to to get an answer. That
is creating some lack of communication with our allies."

Gordon Johndroe, a spokesman for the department, said: "Anytime government
reorganizes, there are going to be new points of contact for our foreign
counterparts. But I am confident that our relationships with foreign immigration
services, and level of cooperation, have never been better."

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              47 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 18, 2003 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Fraud Witnesses Tell of Fake Romance

BYLINE: Carol D. Leonnig, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 960 words


In photos snapped in southeast China, Steve Lu and You Zhen Chen looked like a
couple deeply in love -- hugging as they posed together while sightseeing and at
an engagement luncheon with Chen's relatives.

But in a federal courtroom in Washington this week, Lu said he had met Zhen for
the first time on the day the pictures were taken and had received instructions
for his trip to China at a Dunkin Donuts in Rockville.

Their feigned romance was one of dozens that David and Michael Cheng cooked up
from the kitchens of restaurants they owned in the District, Silver Spring and
Chesapeake Beach, Va., according to federal prosecutors.

Families in China each agreed to pay the Cheng brothers $ 20,000 to $ 60,000 to
help them line up phony fiances in the United States so that their young sons
and daughters could get visas to enter the country, prosecutors have charged.
The soon-to-be-weds never walked down the aisle, but more than two dozen Chinese
twenty-somethings used the visas to slip inside America's borders during the
1990s with the Chengs' help, according to the government's case.

They quietly joined the ranks of an estimated 7 million illegal immigrants
living in the United States. That tide has been largely unstoppable in recent
years, and federal law enforcement agencies say curbing it is one of their top
priorities after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.

If convicted, David Cheng, 37, would face up to 25 years in prison and Michael
Cheng, 35, would face up to five years on charges that they fabricated
transcontinental love affairs and defrauded U.S. immigration officials for
profit. David Cheng is also charged with trying to pay a witness to lie for him.

The Cheng brothers argue through their attorneys that they developed an
expertise in immigration rules and were simply helping friends sort through the
paperwork. The Chengs say they cannot be held criminally responsible for love
that withered or fiances who got cold feet.

In the trial in U.S. District Court, more than 20 witnesses have come forward to
describe their supporting roles in what they described as a scam to smuggle
pretend brides and grooms into the United States. Among those who have taken the
stand are several Chinese-born U.S. citizens, many of them University of
Maryland students, who said they were recruited and paid to stage blossoming
romances with young Chinese women they had never met.

"They said I could easily make some quick cash," said Chun-Ping Cheng, now 29
and a financial analyst in Rockville. "All I had to do was go to China, take
some pictures with a girl, and sign some documents."

The steps for documenting a fake romance were similar, the men testified, with
several of them getting their instructions over coffee at the Dunkin Donuts on
Rockville Pike. Jimmy Sun testified that he worked for David Cheng and told the
young men they could make $ 8,000 each.

First, they had to sign an immigration paper saying they intended to sponsor a
young Chinese woman, bring her to the United States and marry her within 90 days
as the visa rule required, the witnesses testified. They said they were then
given plane tickets to travel from Reagan National Airport to China's Fujian
Province. On the day of their departure, David Cheng drove them to the airport
in his Camry, the witnesses said, and handed each of them two items: an envelope
containing information about the family they would contact in Fujian and a
camera for taking pictures with their "fiancees."

Once in China, another Cheng associate took them to the women's homes and took
pictures of each couple in hugging poses.

Back in the United States a few days later, the men said, they were told to
write love letters to the women, to call them once or twice and to provide the
Chengs with a copy of their phone bill for the calls.

"None of us knew the girls," Chung-Ping Chen said of his travels to Fujian with
two other Washington area men. "We were just told to act happy for the
pictures."

Chief Judge Thomas F. Hogan of U.S. District Court has presided over the trial,
now entering its eighth day of witness testimony. One of the trial's most
dramatic moments came when Chen described in her Mandarin dialect how her
parents summoned her from school to return to their village and told her to "act
like boyfriend and girlfriend" for a photo shoot with Lu. Chen, who was 22 at
the time and is now 27, said her parents had arranged to pay a man named David
in the United States $ 40,000 to fake her engagement so she could get into the
United States.

"That was the dream of my life, to come to America," Chen said through an
interpreter. "This is a free country. I could improve the livelihood of my
family. "

Federal agents began their investigation after David Cheng was arrested in the
District's Chinatown in March 1997 on an unrelated charge and police found
Cheng's Toyota Camry filled with petitions for visas and identification
documents for several people in China. A later search turned up more petition
files in Michael Cheng's home in Lanham, authorities said.

David Cheng's attorney, James W. Rudasill, told the jury that the government
cannot prove the Cheng brothers' money came from Chinese families paying for
such visa help. He said the brothers worked hard and long hours in five
restaurants throughout the 1990s to earn their money.

"They say they've got David's fingerprints on the documents," Rudasill said.
"That's because he still had the soybean oil on his hands when people came to
his kitchen asking for his help with their papers."

Rudasill and Doug Wood, attorney for Michael Cheng, said government witnesses
have agreed to plead to lesser charges for their alleged roles in lying about
the visas and therefore cannot be trusted.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              48 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 28, 2003 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrants Fear Deportation After Registration;
Number of Mideast, Muslim Men Expelled Rises Sharply

BYLINE: Nurith C. Aizenman and Edward Walsh, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1430 words


Andre Aniba acknowledges he hasn't always played by the rules. In 1998, the
former pastry chef came to the United States from Tunisia on a three-month
tourist visa. He has lived here ever since.

But when Congress passed legislation two years later that allowed illegal
immigrants to apply for permanent residency, Aniba quickly sent in the proper
forms.  Early this year, when the government called on visitors from 25 nations
that are considered havens for terrorists to register with immigration
authorities, he dutifully appeared.

To his horror, Aniba, whose application to work as a chef at a Maryland
restaurant was pending, was told he would be deported.

His experience was hardly exceptional. With little public notice outside
immigrant communities, the government is moving to deport the largest number of
visitors from Middle Eastern and other Muslim countries in U.S. history -- more
than 13,000 of the nearly 83,000 men older than 16 who complied with the
registration program by various deadlines between last September and April.

When they showed up, they were found in violation of immigration laws -- even
though, like Aniba, many were already participating in the government-sponsored
program to become legal residents.

"The sheer numbers are mind-boggling," said Sohail Mohammed, an attorney in
Clifton, N.J., who handles many of the cases and says Muslims are being unfairly
singled out in the tightening of immigration procedures after the Sept. 11,
2001, attacks. "We could end up deporting almost as many Muslims in one year as
we have in the last 10. And to me that shows that we're not administering our
immigration laws fairly."

To Aniba, now 27 and living in Rockville, the frustration is more personal.
"It's like [the United States] said to me, 'Yes, come here. Get a green card.'
And then suddenly said, 'Oh, wait! I changed my mind,' after I had gone through
all that hassle and expense and waited more than two years for my application to
go through," said Aniba, who agreed to speak only on condition that his nickname
of Andre be used to avoid jeopardizing his deportation case. " . . . It's unfair
and it's discrimination."

Middle Easterners still make up a very small percentage of the 150,000 to
180,000 foreign nationals deported annually; the overwhelming majority are
Mexican. Yet even if many of the 13,000 men facing deportation proceedings
persuade judges not to expel them, government officials agree that the number of
Middle Eastern and Muslim men forced to leave probably will dwarf totals from
previous years.

Deportations of people from the same Middle Eastern and largely Muslim countries
totaled about 1,300 annually in recent years. They reached about 2,800 in the
year after the Sept. 11 attacks. Among the 25 nations on the list are
Afghanistan, Algeria, Egypt, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Saudi
Arabia, Syria and Tunisia, and one non-Muslim nation, North Korea.

The dramatic rise in deportations is a side effect, not an objective, of the
registration program, said Bill Strassberger, a spokesman for the Department of
Homeland Security.

"The goal was to register individuals from these particular countries. . . . I
don't know that anyone expected that we would have that many visitors who were
here unlawfully," he said. "And any time an immigration officer comes into
contact with someone who is unlawfully present, they do have a responsibility to
place that person in deportation proceedings."

Strassberger described the program as the first step in establishing a new entry
and exit system under which all visitors to the United States eventually will be
required to register. He said visitors from the 25 countries covered in the
initial stages of the program are considered "higher risk" because people from
those countries have been linked to terrorist organizations.

"Since 9/11, the country is at a higher alert," he said. "We have to take extra
precautions, and that would include monitoring the arrival, departures and
travels of individuals from countries that have an active terrorist organization
presence that poses a threat to us."

But Ibrahim Hooper, a spokesman for the Council on American-Islamic Relations,
said the policy "is being used as almost a deportation trap. I think it's
causing a lot of fear and apprehension. It creates a sense of being besieged.
There are heart-wrenching stories of whole communities being decimated."

Muslim and Arab American advocates also charge that those costs have not been
matched by corresponding benefits in the war on terrorism. They note that
government officials have said the registration program, and an associated
program to track visitors as they enter and leave the United States, have netted
only 11 men with possible links to terrorism.

"The next Mohamed Atta is not going to register," said Arlington lawyer Tariq
Syed, referring to the leader of the airplane hijackers who attacked the World
Trade Center. Instead, Syed said, the registration program has snagged people
who were trying to comply with the law.

Aniba agreed. "Why are they doing this to us?" he asked. "When they asked me to
come register, I did. Now I'm being punished."

When they signed up, some visitors were discovered to be in the United States
illegally, and have been deported or ordered to return home. Others appear to
have committed technical infractions of immigration law such as paperwork errors
or missed filing deadlines on their visa applications.

But many had previously applied for permanent residency under the same provision
as Aniba -- a since-expired 2000 law that allowed illegal immigrants who paid a
$ 1,000 fee to seek a green card while living in the United States.

That law had a catch: It did not protect applicants from deportation if they
drew the attention of immigration authorities before their green cards were
approved. Because so many immigrants rushed to apply before the law's April 2001
deadline, their green cards have been delayed by huge backlogs at the Labor
Department, which must approve employer sponsorships, and the Bureau of
Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Now they are in a race against time -- pleading with immigration judges to
postpone a ruling on whether they should be deported until their green cards
come through. The judges, however, face pressure from the immigration system's
chief judge to avoid clogging immigration courts by issuing a final ruling on
each case within eight months of its first hearing.

"That timetable is in direct conflict with the time it takes to get an immigrant
visa petition processed," Falls Church immigration lawyer Antoinette J. Rizzi
said.

Kamal Nawash agreed: "I'm down to the last 90 days with all my clients. There
are not a lot more excuses I can use." Nawash is a Northern Virginia lawyer and
a Republican candidate for the state Senate.

Many of his clients have told him that if they lose their cases, they will go
into hiding rather than allow themselves to be deported.

"They say if they go back now, they'll be even worse off than when they came
here," Nawash said. "Any money they managed to save they had to spend on legal
fees, which came to thousands of dollars."

Aniba, whose lawyer got his next deportation hearing pushed back to late
September, still has a chance of squeaking through.

Less fortunate is Ahmed Nahaf, 25, a former travel agent from Egypt living in
Parsippany, N.J. He overstayed his tourist visa about two years ago and does not
have a pending application for a green card.

His best option was to take a judge's offer to leave the country "voluntarily"
by September, rather than be officially deported. Immigration attorneys say many
clients in similar positions are making that choice because it leaves the
possibility of applying for a waiver of the three- to 10-year ban on reentering
the United States that illegal immigrants face. Illegal immigrants who have been
deported cannot appeal.

Still, that is slight consolation, Nahaf said. Unable to find employment in
Cairo, he came to the United States to support his six younger siblings and his
parents, who are nearing retirement age at home. He has found only odd jobs here
-- the last at a Dunkin' Donuts. But they have paid enough to allow Nahaf to
supplement his father's small salary as a clerk in a government office and to
enable the family to save money for his sisters' weddings.

Now he is struggling to plan his next move. "It gives me bad headaches," he
said. "In Egypt there is no good work, and it's expensive to live. But I have a
responsibility to my family. So what can I do?"

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              49 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 2, 2003 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

'Heart-Wrenching' Lawlessness

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 313 words


How nice to be treated to yet another bleeding-heart sympathy piece for illegal
aliens ["Immigrants Fear Deportation After Registration," front page, July 28].
Most Americans support tighter restrictions on unlawful entry into the United
States, especially after Sept. 11, 2001, but your paper continues to do its best
to convince us that we're all wrong; that these Muslim men from a laundry list
of countries -- including many that are known to support or harbor Islamic
terrorists -- are to be pitied, presumably because they are now responsible,
taxpaying, law-abiding residents.

Why else would the article include such gems as New Jersey attorney Sohail
Mohammed's statement, "We could end up deporting almost as many Muslims in one
year as we have in the last 10. And to me that shows that we're not
administering our immigration laws fairly." Or the complaint by Ibrahim Hooper,
spokesman for the Council on American-Islamic Relations: "There are
heart-wrenching stories of whole communities being decimated." Or the howler by
Arlington lawyer Tariq Syed, who is paraphrased as saying that "the registration
program has snagged people who were trying to comply with the law." What this
shows me is that if our immigration laws had been administered fairly from the
beginning, we wouldn't have whole communities of people who failed to comply
with our immigration laws and shouldn't be here in the first place.

I applaud the decision by the Department of Homeland Security to finally enact
the common-sense measures necessary to ensure the security of the United States,
especially the enforcement of our long-neglected immigration laws, and count
myself among the majority of Americans glad to see these people go. Finally, to
Mohammed, Hooper, Syed and your paper, the question remains unanswered: Just
what part of "illegal" don't you understand?

-- Carl P. Ackerman Jr.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              50 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 6, 2003 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Norton Calls ID Markets Terror Magnet

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 378 words


Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton called yesterday for a congressional hearing on
whether the sale of fake identification cards in Adams Morgan and other parts of
the country could attract terrorists.

"My concern, as a member of the Select Committee on Homeland Security, is that
flagrant and notorious fraudulent document markets will become magnets for
terrorism," Norton (D-D.C.) said in a letter to Rep. Christopher Cox (R-Calif.),
chairman of the committee, and Rep. Jim Turner (Tex.), the panel's ranking
Democrat.

"Production and open vending of [fake] documents in the heart of the nation's
capital is at best an embarrassment, at worst a security danger," she wrote.

U.S. immigration authorities have cracked down recently on the notorious market
along Columbia Road NW, where vendors for years have peddled fake Social
Security cards, U.S. residency permits and other documents. Officials have made
nearly 50 arrests and seized more than 1,000 phony IDs since Operation Card
Shark began in May 2002.

But the trade continues.

On a national level, meanwhile, immigration officials have been so overwhelmed
by new anti-terrorism tasks that they have reduced the number of investigations
into fake document rings, officials from the Bureau of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement said. They said most purchasers of the fake cards were unauthorized
immigrants hoping to use them to get jobs.

Norton emphasized that she didn't think such immigrants were terrorists. But she
said she is worried that the easy availability of phony IDs could be exploited.

"It seems to me you can't have open-air document selling in the capital of the
United States," she said in an interview. "You've got to show you can clean it
up here. . . . That sends a mega-message to these markets, which obviously are
across the United States."

Norton noted in her letter that she had asked the federal government last year
for $ 1 million to help eliminate the fake document trade in the District. The
request was denied.

Vince Sollitto, a spokesman for the Homeland Security Committee, said he had not
yet seen Norton's letter and so had no response to the request for a hearing.
But, he added, "The issue of fraudulent IDs is one of great interest to the
committee, one we'll continue to examine."

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              51 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 29, 2003 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Three Arrested in Alleged Immigration Scheme;
Two Fairfax City Lawyers, Annandale Restaurateur Accused of Falsifying Green
Card Documents

BYLINE: Tom Jackman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 709 words


Two Fairfax City lawyers and an Annandale restaurateur were arrested yesterday
on federal immigration fraud charges for allegedly filing phony documents to get
green cards for illegal immigrants.

The alleged scheme is virtually identical to one that landed an Arlington lawyer
a 10-year prison sentence this year.

Federal agents picked up Steven Y. Lee, 48, and Jordan N. Baker, 36, principals
in the law firm Lee & Baker, outside their homes, then searched their firm's
office at 3251 Old Lee Hwy. for most of yesterday, seizing computers and
records. At a hearing in federal court yesterday afternoon, Assistant U.S.
Attorney John T. Morton said investigators found $ 12,600 cash in Lee's car, and
he was ordered held without bond. Baker was released on a $ 25,000 bond.

Also arrested yesterday was Byung Chul Kim, 32, also known as Billy Kim, who
owns the Todam Koll restaurant at 7331 Little River Tpk. Authorities allege that
he was a willing participant in Lee and Baker's plan to file the phony documents
with the government, then sell the opportunity for a green card to an immigrant
for as much as $ 50,000.

An affidavit for search warrants by FBI Special Agent Amylynn Murray said Lee
and Baker had probably pocketed close to $ 1.2 million from the scheme, much of
it in cash. In addition to searching the law office, Lee's home on Leehigh Drive
in Fairfax County and Kim's restaurant, federal authorities are trying to seize
Kim's 2002 BMW X5, Baker's 1998 Lincoln Continental and Lee's 2000 S430
Mercedes-Benz.

Lee and Baker specialized in immigration law, particularly for Korean
immigrants, Murray's affidavit said. For many immigrants, the best way to obtain
permanent resident status, or a green card, is by having an employer certify
that the immigrant is needed to fill a certain job and that no U.S. citizens are
available. This "labor certification" is handled by state labor agencies, such
as the Virginia Employment Commission, and then by the federal Department of
Labor.

If a labor certification is granted, the immigrant then applies for a green card
with the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services (formerly part of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service).

The fees for the process are minimal, but the time and paperwork can be
confusing to new immigrants, so law firms offer to help. Some firms offer to
provide sponsoring employers, as did the firm of Samuel Kooritzky of Arlington.

Kooritzky, however, didn't actually find employers. Instead, he forged the names
and signatures of local restaurants and businesses on hundreds of labor
certification applications. He then charged thousands of dollars to unaware
immigrants, whose applications were lost when Kooritzky was arrested last
summer. He was convicted of 56 fraud counts and sentenced in March to 10 years
in prison and ordered to pay $ 2.3 million in restitution.

Lee and Baker are accused of a similar scheme, except that federal investigators
believe they actually had willing employers, such as Kim, participating.
Employers would receive a fee from Lee and Baker, usually about $ 5,000, in
exchange for allowing their names to be used on the labor certifications, but
they would never hire the immigrants, court documents said.

Once a labor certification is granted, an applicant or law firm is allowed to
substitute another person to receive the green card. Authorities allege that Lee
and Baker would file phony names and work histories for people in South Korea,
then sell substitutions to local Koreans for fees between $ 10,000 and $ 50,000.

But an FBI agent in Seoul checked out 60 of Lee and Baker's original applicants
and found that 58 were bogus, the affidavit said. The FBI also developed nine
informants, including seven former secretaries at the law firm and at least one
ex-girlfriend of Lee's. All told Murray that Lee and Baker were filling out and
signing false labor certification applications, the affidavit said.

One informant told Murray that Lee charged clients $ 50,000 to substitute their
names into an application: $ 10,000 as an attorney fee, $ 20,000 as a sponsor
fee and $ 20,000 as a premium for avoiding a year-long wait. Only $ 5,000 would
go to a sponsor, and the lawyers would keep the rest, the court papers allege.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              52 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 3, 2003 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Customs Agents to Be Marshals;
Homeland Security to Cross-Train 5,000 for Reserve Duty on Airplanes

BYLINE: Sara Kehaulani Goo, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 523 words


The Department of Homeland Security said yesterday that it will soon begin
training 5,000 customs and immigration law enforcement agents to be reserve
undercover air marshals.

Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge said the agents would serve in a temporary
"surge capacity" when the agency perceives an increased threat to air security
that may not necessarily warrant an elevation in the nation's color-coded
warning system. Air marshals also will be trained as immigration and customs
investigators and rotate from airplane duties.

"We see it as value-added," Ridge said in a speech to the American Enterprise
Institute, a conservative think tank. The 5,000 redeployed agents are part of
his department's law enforcement arm and do not work at border checkpoints.
"It's not going to degrade an existing capability," he said.

The cross-training in the air marshal program is part of the department's larger
effort to reorganize 24,000 law enforcement officers and review pay and
workplace rules. One of the key issues centers on whether to narrow or abolish
the right of employees to union representation.

Another effort to retrain customs, immigration and agriculture inspectors to do
one another's jobs also has begun, Ridge said. Unions representing thousands of
federal employees affected by retraining said they don't know whether employees
will be paid more for taking on new tasks, or how long and of what quality the
new training will be. Union leaders, who plan to discuss the cross-training with
department officials this week, said they are worried that the government may
skimp on training and dilute some employees' expertise.

Air marshals are not unionized.

"If they need more air marshals, this is one way to do it -- just call someone a
marshal," said John Gage, president of the American Federation of Government
Employees, which represents about 18,000 immigration and Border Patrol
employees. "Our people are flexible, but we want to make sure the training and
security are there."

Colleen M. Kelley, president of the National Treasury Employees Union, said the
training could provide more career opportunities for federal employees. But, she
said, many of the 12,000 customs employees the union represents are not
convinced that the announced changes would improve security.

"I'm concerned and have been from the very beginning that employees would have
their skills and expertise diluted," Kelley said.

Ridge notified Congress yesterday that he will move the Federal Air Marshal
Service into the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, from the
Transportation Security Administration. Homeland Security also is moving the
TSA's explosives unit out of TSA to Immigration and Customs.

TSA administrator James M. Loy had opposed moving the air marshals out of his
agency. He said TSA would suffer a "significant adverse affect" without them.

But Homeland Security officials supported the air marshals' effort to leave the
TSA, saying that the marshals suffered from low morale and needed more career
opportunities. Yesterday, Loy said he changed his mind.

Staff writer Steve Barr contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              53 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 13, 2002 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Shredding of Losing Entries in 'Visa Lottery' Halted

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 475 words


The government has stopped destroying unsuccessful immigration applications
containing personal details and photographs while it decides whether U.S.
intelligence and law enforcement agencies could use them in terrorism
investigations.

The State Department will retain entries while federal agencies "evaluate any
possible intelligence value," according to a letter from the State Department to
Rep. George W. Gekas (R-Pa.), head of the House immigration subcommittee.

Secretary of State Colin L. Powell wrote to U.S. intelligence agencies to ask
whether they wanted to review the visa applications, said Edward Dickens, a
spokesman for the Bureau of Consular Affairs. Powell has not yet received a
response.

The Associated Press reported last month that the State Department was shredding
millions of unsuccessful applications -- using high-speed shredders it calls
"Igor One" and "Igor Two" -- under its Diversity Immigrant Visa Lottery, which
awards visas to 50,000 people randomly each year. Citing the AP's report, Gekas
urged the administration to stop the shredding.

"Aliens who are on government watchlists may be attempting to enter the United
States through the diversity visa program, but that this fact would not be
conveyed to the government agencies looking for these aliens," Gekas wrote. "A
review of the applications . . . could put those agencies on notice that an
individual, known to pose a danger to our national security, is seeking to enter
the United States."

Experts said many of the applications come from countries the Bush
administration considers sponsors of terrorists. The shredding occurred despite
Washington's post-Sept. 11 emphasis on sharing such information among law
enforcement and intelligence agencies.

In the most recent lottery, the government received 8.7 million applications. It
awarded visas to citizens of the seven countries the United States considers
state sponsors of terrorism -- Cuba, Iran, Iraq, Libya, North Korea, Syria and
Sudan -- as well as Afghanistan, Algeria, Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Yemen, plus
178 other countries.

Senior counterterrorism and law enforcement officials told the AP they were
unaware of the shredding and believed the information should be preserved for
potential use in terrorism investigations.

In a written response to Gekas, dated Sept. 11, the State Department promised to
comply "so that unsuccessful entries will be shared with law enforcement and
intelligence agencies if they decide they are useful."

Paul V. Kelly, an assistant secretary for legislative affairs, said the
applications -- which include a person's name, photograph, current address and
place of birth, and the same information for all immediate family members --
"contain only minimal information." He also said that visa winners each year are
carefully checked for terrorist backgrounds.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              54 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 18, 2002 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Judge Orders Release or Open Hearing for Detainee

BYLINE: Dan Eggen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 869 words


A federal judge in Detroit ruled yesterday that the Justice Department must
release the co-founder of a controversial Muslim charity within 10 days or grant
him an open hearing. It was the latest in a series of rulings rejecting the Bush
administration's policy of secret immigration proceedings in the war on terror.

U.S. District Judge Nancy G. Edmunds found that the government had failed to
prove that Lebanese national Rabih Haddad, chairman of the now-shuttered Global
Relief Foundation, poses any threat to national security. Edmunds also suggested
that a decision by an immigration judge to detain Haddad since December 2001 may
have been influenced by a "climate of fear" and "unsupported allegations."

The ruling, filed yesterday in the Eastern District of Michigan, is the most
recent courtroom defeat for the Justice Department, which has closed immigration
hearings for "special interest" cases since Sept. 11, arguing that the secrecy
keeps valuable information away from other terrorists. More than 750 immigrants
have been secretly detained since the Sept. 11 attacks on New York and
Washington. Most have already been deported.

Justice Department spokesman Charles Miller declined to comment on the Haddad
decision yesterday, saying only that officials "are reviewing the judge's
ruling."

Justice Department spokeswoman Barbara Comstock said in a statement yesterday
that "opening sensitive immigration hearings could compromise the security of
our nation and our ongoing investigations."

In April, Edmunds ruled in favor of Michigan newspapers that were seeking to
open Haddad's hearings by arguing that blanket closures of immigration
proceedings were unconstitutional. But unlike that case, which focused on the
First Amendment, yesterday's ruling centered on Haddad's claim that his right to
due process was violated by secret proceedings, attorneys said.

"It's not just the rights of the press and public that are at stake here," said
David D. Cole, a Georgetown University law professor who is assisting Haddad
along with the Center for Constitutional Rights and the law firm Arnold &
Porter. "This decision says that immigrants' rights were also violated by the
government's policy, and this could mean that every immigrant has a right to
challenge that policy."

Haddad, 41, of Ann Arbor, Mich., was arrested in December 2001 for overstaying
his visa. At the same time, the Bush administration moved to freeze the assets
of Global Relief, an Illinois charity he co-founded. The government accuses the
charity of helping to finance terrorism.

U.S. officials have alleged in court papers that Haddad himself had ties to
terrorist groups and was seen "in the company of leaders and members of al
Qaeda-related terrorist organizations."

Justice officials and FBI agents have argued that opening cases against Haddad
and other immigrants to public scrutiny would undermine their efforts to thwart
future terrorist attacks, and could provide militants with information that will
aid their cause. They also contend that immigration courts, which operate under
the control of the Justice Department, do not afford defendants the same rights
they would receive in criminal courts.

At the heart of the dispute is a memorandum issued 10 days after the Sept. 11
attacks by chief immigration judge Michael J. Creppy, who ordered that all
hearings involving potential terror suspects should be closed to the public,
including the relatives of detainees.

But in her ruling, Edmunds found that the government had failed to show "that
its interests in fighting terrorism are implicated in Haddad's case," and also
failed to show how releasing information about the case would harm the United
States or its citizens.

"An open detention and removal hearing will assure the public that the
Government itself is honoring the very democratic principles that the terrorists
who committed the atrocities of 9/11 sought to destroy," Edmunds wrote.

Under the ruling, prosecutors must release Haddad from detention or publicly
hold a new detention hearing for him. In an unusual move, Edmunds also ruled
that the hearing must be handled by a different immigration judge than the one
who heard the case before.

Edmunds's previous ruling about public access to immigration hearings was upheld
in August by a three-judge panel in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 6th
Circuit, which said that the press and public have a "constitutional right" to
attend and warned that "democracies die behind closed doors."

That ruling marked the first time since Sept. 11 that a major thrust of the Bush
administration's antiterrorism strategy had been declared unconstitutional at
the appellate level.

Even as Edmunds was handing down her ruling in the Haddad case, Justice lawyers
were submitting arguments to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 3rd Circuit in
Philadelphia in a similar case that originated in New Jersey.

"We are at war, facing a terrorist threat from unidentified foes who operate in
covert ways and unknown places," Comstock said in her statement, which referred
to that case. "This makes it essential that the United States take every legal
step possible to protect the American people from acts of terrorism."

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              55 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 26, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Detainee to Get Open Immigration Hearing;
Justice Department Still Plans Appeal of Ruling for Muslim Activist Held 9
Months

BYLINE: Steve Fainaru, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 495 words


The Justice Department announced last night that it would comply with a federal
court order and grant an open detention hearing to a Muslim activist who has
been in custody for nine months because of suspected links to terrorism.

The decision amounts to a new immigration process for Rabih Haddad, 41, whose
case has been conducted mostly in secret since federal agents arrested him Dec.
14 for overstaying his visa and froze the assets of the Chicago-based charity he
co-founded on grounds it financed terrorism.

Haddad, who was initially denied bail, will receive a new bond hearing before a
different immigration judge next week, the government announced.

Justice Department spokeswoman Barbara Comstock said in a statement that
"substantial portions" of that hearing will be open to the public and the news
media but "the Department may seek to close those portions . . . where sensitive
information will be introduced which could prove valuable to terrorists seeking
to harm America."

The Justice Department still intends to appeal the federal court order because
it represents "an unwarranted intrusion into the administrative immigration
process," Comstock said.

"We're glad that Rabih Haddad will finally receive an open bond hearing," said
Nancy Chang, senior litigation attorney for the Center for Constitutional
Rights, which has represented Haddad. "It's far later than we would have wished,
but we believe that the openness of these proceedings will serve to increase
their fairness."

Haddad, a Lebanese national, has come to personify the battle between civil
liberties advocates and the Bush administration over the handling of hundreds of
detainees, most of Arab and South Asian descent, swept up in the investigation
of the Sept. 11 attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. Hundreds of
detainees have been subjected to secret immigration hearings after Justice
Department officials determined the cases were of "special interest" to the
investigation.

Haddad filed suit, arguing that the closed hearings violated his Fifth Amendment
right to due process. On Sept. 17, U.S. District Judge Nancy G. Edmunds of
Michigan ordered the government to release Haddad or give him a new detention
hearing in public. Open hearings would "assure the public that the government
itself is honoring the very democratic principles that the terrorists who
committed the atrocities of 9/11 sought to destroy," she wrote.

Haddad had argued that the previous immigration judge, Elizabeth A. Hacker, had
been "tainted" because of the secrecy. The new immigration judge, according to
Haddad's attorneys, will be Robert D. Newberry, who, like Hacker, sits in
Detroit.

Detroit media outlets also sued after Haddad's arrest, arguing that the secrecy
in which he was held violated the First Amendment. Edmunds and the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the 6th Circuit agreed. The Justice Department has not yet announced
whether it will continue its appeals in this suit.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              56 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 26, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Airport Shooter Had Been Accused of Terrorist Ties

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 507 words


An Egyptian immigrant who shot and killed two people July 4 at Los Angeles
International Airport had previously told U.S. authorities he had been falsely
accused of being in a militant Egyptian group that the United States now lists
as a terror organization, officials said Wednesday.

An Immigration and Naturalization Service spokesman said a broken asylum system
allowed him to remain in the country.

In a March 30, 1993, interview for asylum, Hesham Mohamed Hadayet told the INS
that Egyptian authorities arrested him and accused him of involvement with
Al-Gamma'a al-Islamiyya, the Islamic Group, said immigration officials who
reviewed notes from the interview.

At the time, the group was waging a violent campaign to topple the secular
Egyptian government and replace it with Islamic rule. The group is now on the
State Department's terrorist organizations list, which did not exist until 1997.

On Wednesday, Hadayet's wife, Hala El-Awadly, and Egyptian police denied that
Hadayet had any links with terrorist organizations.

The INS eventually denied Hadayet asylum, deciding his claims lacked
credibility, but he did not show up for a 1995 removal hearing. He was able to
remain in the United States with a work permit and become a U.S. resident after
his wife won residency in the U.S. visa lottery program.

Hadayet was killed by a security guard in the Los Angeles airport after he
fatally shot two people at Israel's El Al ticket counter. Details of his asylum
application were reported in Wednesday's editions of the New York Times.

INS spokesman Bill Strassberger said that when Hadayet applied for asylum, the
INS's asylum system was in disarray, allowing applicants to stay in this country
on work permits while their cases took years to resolve. "By 1992, the asylum
process was in virtual meltdown, paralysis," he said.

News of Hadayet's comments prompted Attorney General John D. Ashcroft to direct
the INS to conduct "a prompt review of existing asylum files to ascertain
whether other individuals may be present in the United States who have admitted
that they have been accused of terrorist activity."

Hadayet entered the country as a tourist July 31, 1992, and applied for asylum
Dec. 29, 1992. He was allowed to stay legally through Jan. 25, 1993. On his
application, he said he was arrested several times for no reason and forced to
sign papers saying he committed crimes he did not commit, INS officials said.

The asylum system has since been reformed. Now INS officers must decide a case
in 60 days and an immigration judge must decide whether to order the immigrant's
deportation or reverse the asylum decision.

Immigrants seeking asylum now cannot apply for work permits while their cases
are pending, even if they are appealing a decision, Strassberger said.

About 97 percent of asylum applicants now show up for asylum hearings. The INS
no longer mails applicants the decision. Instead, the applicant is informed at a
scheduled interview. An immigrant who misses the interview faces automatic
removal.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              57 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 28, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Lawyer Indicted in Immigration Cases;
Colleague Admits to Arranging Fraudulent Filings for Hundreds of Applicants

BYLINE: Josh White, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 660 words


An Arlington lawyer who allegedly filed 2,700 phony immigration documents as
part of a scam that brought in more than $ 11 million was indicted by a federal
grand jury on 38 counts of conspiracy, fraud, making false statements and money
laundering, according to court papers unsealed yesterday.

The grand jury indicted Samuel G. Kooritzky, 63, of Vienna on Monday, alleging
that he and a business associate repeatedly filed false certification papers
with the U.S. Department of Labor while trying to help hundreds of immigrants
get green cards. The applications claimed that individual restaurants could not
find U.S. workers and were sponsoring immigrants for the positions, while the
restaurants apparently knew nothing of the arrangement.

Along with unsealing the indictment yesterday, prosecutors also made public that
the associate -- Ronald W. Bogardus, 65, of Arlington -- pleaded guilty last
month to one count each of conspiracy, labor certification fraud and money
laundering. Bogardus, who helped find clients for Kooritzky and set up the
paperwork, is cooperating with prosecutors and could face up to 10 years in
prison. His attorney, Matthew Wartel, did not return calls yesterday.

Federal prosecutors in Alexandria say that Kooritzky charged immigrants as much
as $ 30,000 for filing the paperwork, while telling them that the process was
legitimate.

Officials estimate that Kooritzky, the head of the Capital Law Centers in
Arlington, Langley Park and the District, and his associate made between $ 11
million and $ 21 million in 18 months.

The applications, filed between October 2000 and last July, highlight the
problems federal officials face when trying to deal with abuse of immigration
laws.

"We have learned from the attacks of September 11th that identity and
immigration fraud are part of the terrorists' play book," U.S. Attorney Paul J.
McNulty said in a statement yesterday. "This case illustrates the commitment of
this office to protect the integrity of America's identification, document and
immigration procedures."

Reached at his office yesterday, Kooritzky declined to comment. His attorney,
Brian Shaughnessy, said Kooritzky is prepared to challenge the charges.

"I haven't heard what the government has said and I haven't seen the indictment
yet," Shaughnessy said yesterday. "We anticipate that Mr. Kooritzky's position
will be vindicated."

According to the indictment, Bogardus was in large part responsible for
gathering information about businesses and potential clients and then forwarding
the paperwork to Kooritzky for processing. According to the papers filed in U.S.
District Court in Alexandria, Bogardus would go to businesses and talk to
managers about sponsoring immigrants and hiring cooks. Later, the managers'
names and signatures would appear on dozens of fraudulent applications, the
indictment says.

The pair used such restaurants as Applebee's, Chili's, Denny's, Hooters, Outback
Steakhouse, Shoney's and Silver Diner, allegedly without authorization.

At one point, Bogardus went to India and later prepared applications for 34
immigrants, claiming that they were all graduates of cooking schools in New
Delhi and Chennai who were going to work for a Chili's Restaurant in
Springfield, the court papers say.

Kooritzky also allegedly filed 184 requests for labor certifications from a
Silver Diner restaurant in Arlington for short-order cooks. None of the agencies
reviewing the paperwork noticed the sudden demand for foreign workers at one
restaurant.

The indictment also claims that Kooritzky filed multiple applications on behalf
of individual clients, hoping to sell the extra applications to others for cash.

A Labor Department special agent testified in July that agents found about $ 1
million in cash stuffed into a suitcase in Bogardus's Arlington apartment and
that he had three passports and a $ 2.5 million bank account. He is being held
without bail until his sentencing.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              58 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 28, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Lawyer Indicted Over Immigration Cases;
Colleague Admits to Arranging Fraudulent Filings for Hundreds of Applicants

BYLINE: Josh White, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 659 words


An Arlington lawyer who allegedly filed 2,700 phony immigration documents as
part of a scam that brought in more than $ 11 million was indicted by a federal
grand jury on 38 counts of conspiracy, fraud, making false statements and money
laundering, according to court papers unsealed yesterday.

The grand jury indicted Samuel G. Kooritzky, 63, of Vienna on Monday, alleging
that he and a business associate repeatedly filed false certification papers
with the U.S. Department of Labor while trying to help hundreds of immigrants
get green cards. The applications claimed that individual restaurants could not
find U.S. workers and were sponsoring immigrants for the positions, while the
restaurants apparently knew nothing of the arrangement.

Along with unsealing the indictment yesterday, prosecutors also made public that
the associate -- Ronald W. Bogardus, 65, of Arlington -- pleaded guilty last
month to one count each of conspiracy, labor certification fraud and money
laundering. Bogardus, who helped find clients for Kooritzky and set up the
paperwork, is cooperating with prosecutors and could face up to 10 years in
prison. His attorney, Matthew Wartel, did not return calls yesterday.

Federal prosecutors in Alexandria say that Kooritzky charged immigrants as much
as $ 30,000 for filing the paperwork, while telling them that the process was
legitimate. Officials estimate that Kooritzky, the head of the Capital Law
Centers in Arlington, Langley Park and the District, and his associate made
between $ 11 million and $ 21 million in 18 months.

The applications, filed between October 2000 and last July, highlight the
problems federal officials face when trying to deal with abuse of immigration
laws.

"We have learned from the attacks of September 11th that identity and
immigration fraud are part of the terrorists' play book," U.S. Attorney Paul J.
McNulty said in a statement yesterday. "This case illustrates the commitment of
this office to protect the integrity of America's identification, document and
immigration procedures."

Reached at his office yesterday, Kooritzky declined to comment. His attorney,
Brian Shaughnessy, said Kooritzky is prepared to challenge the charges.

"I haven't heard what the government has said and I haven't seen the indictment
yet," Shaughnessy said yesterday. "We anticipate that Mr. Kooritzky's position
will be vindicated."

According to the indictment, Bogardus was in large part responsible for
gathering information about businesses and potential clients and then forwarding
the paperwork to Kooritzky for processing. According to the papers filed in U.S.
District Court in Alexandria, Bogardus would go to businesses and talk to
managers about sponsoring immigrants and hiring cooks. Later, the managers'
names and signatures would appear on dozens of fraudulent applications, the
indictment says.

The pair used such restaurants as Applebee's, Chili's, Denny's, Hooters, Outback
Steakhouse, Shoney's and Silver Diner, allegedly without authorization.

At one point, Bogardus went to India and later prepared applications for 34
immigrants, claiming that they were all graduates of cooking schools in New
Delhi and Chennai who were going to work for a Chili's Restaurant in
Springfield, the court papers say.

Kooritzky also allegedly filed 184 requests for labor certifications from a
Silver Diner restaurant in Arlington for short-order cooks. None of the agencies
reviewing the paperwork noticed the sudden demand for foreign workers at one
restaurant.

The indictment also claims that Kooritzky filed multiple applications on behalf
of individual clients, hoping to sell the extra applications to others for cash.

A Labor Department special agent testified in July that agents found about $ 1
million in cash stuffed into a suitcase in Bogardus's Arlington apartment and
that he had three passports and a $ 2.5 million bank account. He is being held
without bail until his sentencing.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              59 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 9, 2002 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Court Backs Closing of Detainees' Hearings

BYLINE: Steve Fainaru, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 972 words


A federal appeals court yesterday upheld the legality of closed immigration
hearings for hundreds of "special interest" detainees in the Sept. 11
investigation, agreeing with the government that the secrecy is necessary to
protect the nation against terrorism.

In a 2-1 decision, a three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 3rd
Circuit in Philadelphia acknowledged that the case raised profound First
Amendment questions but adopted the government's position that open hearings
could compromise the investigation and provide key information to terrorists
planning future attacks.

"Since the primary national policy must be self-preservation, it seems
elementary that, to the extent open deportation hearings might impair national
security," such hearings should remain closed, Chief Judge Edward R. Becker
wrote in the majority opinion.

The decision means that two federal appellate courts have now issued conflicting
rulings on the secret hearings, an issue the government has said touches upon
"the nation's very ability to defend itself." In August, a three-judge panel of
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 6th Circuit in Cincinnati ruled that the
government had illegally closed immigration hearings for a Lebanese activist
detained as a terrorism suspect.

An open hearing for that detainee, Rabih Haddad of Ann Arbor, Mich., was held
last week after a separate decision by a federal judge who said closed hearings
violated Haddad's due process rights.

Erik S. Jaffe, an appellate attorney in Washington who handles First Amendment
cases, said it appears "inevitable" that the Supreme Court would be asked to
take up the issue, although it was unclear when. In the Cincinnati case, the
government must decide by Oct. 24 whether to appeal to the full appellate court
or to the Supreme Court.

The issue's importance was reflected in the language of the conflicting rulings.
In the Cincinnati ruling, Senior Judge Damon J. Keith inveighed against secrecy:
"Democracies die behind closed doors," he wrote.

Becker, in yesterday's opinion, acknowledged Keith's "eloquent language" and
noted that the war on terrorism has "pervaded the sinews of our national life."
But the court, he wrote, was "unable to conclude that openness plays a positive
role . . . at a time when our nation is faced with threats of such profound and
unknown dimension."

Lee Gelernt, an attorney with the American Civil Liberties Union who argued on
behalf of New Jersey media organizations seeking to open the immigration
hearings, said the ACLU was considering its next move.

"We're disappointed in the decision," he said. "In this country, under our
constitutional system, individuals should not be locked up based on secret
hearings without any individualized showing that secrecy is essential."

The government applauded the ruling. "Today's decision in the Third Circuit is
not just a victory for the Justice Department, but for every American relying on
the government to take every legal step possible to protect our nation from acts
of terror while preserving constitutional liberties," said Assistant Attorney
General Robert D. McCallum Jr., in a statement.

At issue in both cases is the constitutionality of a memo issued 10 days after
the Sept. 11 attacks by Michael J. Creppy, the nation's chief immigration judge.
Acting on the authority of Attorney General John D. Ashcroft, Creppy ordered the
closure of all immigration hearings deemed by the Justice Department to be of
"special interest" in the terrorism probe. The memo specifically excluded the
media and family and friends of the detainee.

The memo is a key part of the Justice Department's anti-terrorism campaign
against foreign nationals, which has been conducted in almost total secrecy.
Hundreds of people, most of them of Arab and South Asian descent, have been
arrested since the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks, in most cases on immigration charges.

In a July 3 letter to Sen. Carl M. Levin (D-Mich.), the Justice Department
disclosed that more than 600 detainees had been designated for closed hearings.
Most have been deported, but the government has not said whether it has since
detained more people. An unknown number of other people remain detained as
material witnesses in the terror probe and hundreds of others have been detained
and have had open immigration hearings.

The Justice Department has argued that open hearings would endanger national
security on several fronts. An affidavit submitted by Dale L. Watson, the FBI's
former chief of counterterrorism and counterintelligence, argued that open
hearings would disclose sources and methods of the government's investigation;
reveal information that could allow terrorists to exploit weaknesses in the
nation's immigration system; alert terrorist organizations to members who have
been detained; and encourage terrorist organizations to destroy evidence.

Yesterday's ruling reversed the decision in May of a federal judge in New Jersey
who concluded that the secrecy policy violated the First Amendment right of the
public and the press to attend the hearings.

Becker and Judge Morton I. Greenberg, who joined him in the majority, wrote that
unlike civil and criminal cases, which enjoy a historic tradition of openness,
immigration hearings are administrative proceedings whose "presumption of
openness [is] quite weak."

One of the determining factors must be the potential harm of an open hearing,
Becker wrote. That was assessed by senior administration officials, including
the attorney general, "responsible for investigating the events of Sept. 11th
and for preventing future attacks," he wrote. "In recognition of [Ashcroft's]
experience (and our lack of experience) in this field," Becker continued, "we
will defer to his judgment."

Staff researcher Lucy Shackelford contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              60 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 24, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrants and the Sniper Probe

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A34

LENGTH: 436 words


In yesterday's briefing on the sniper investigation, Montgomery County Police
Chief Charles A. Moose made a special plea to immigrants who might have
witnessed shootings to come forward. He is right to ask. Many of the shootings
have taken place in areas with substantial immigrant populations, and immigrants
have been among the sniper's victims. We must create an environment where
everyone with information is encouraged to cooperate with authorities.

We fear, however, that a variety of factors have undermined the message Chief
Moose tried to communicate. This year, Attorney General John D. Ashcroft
overturned decades of precedent and encouraged local police to engage in
immigration law enforcement. The latest example of this policy horrified
immigrants, who watched along with the rest of us as two immigrant men,
reportedly undocumented, were apprehended in suburban Richmond, turned over to
the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) and placed in deportation
proceedings. When it became clear they had nothing to do with the sniper, the
media quickly declared a "false alarm" and moved on. But the fact that local
police turned over to the INS two men who just happened to be in the wrong place
at the wrong time was not lost on immigrants.

The undocumented are not the only immigrants who fear entanglements with the
INS. Dramatic changes in Justice Department policy toward all immigrants since
Sept. 11, 2001, have sent a similar chill through the legal immigrant community.
For example, the department recently announced its intention to vigorously
enforce obscure provisions of the law that require immigrants to report address
changes to the INS. The new policy was immediately used against an otherwise
law-abiding legal resident retroactively: He was punished for not having sent in
a form when he moved several years ago, at a time when the INS was openly not
enforcing this law. This sent a message to millions of legal residents that the
INS is looking for excuses to go after them.

Chief Moose and his colleagues desperately need and deserve the cooperation of
all area residents. However, the authorities need to understand that building
confidence requires undoing enormous damage already done to immigrants'
confidence in the police. It will take more than vague assurances to convince
frightened immigrants that an investigation that includes more than a dozen
state and federal law enforcement agencies, and which has already resulted in
deportation proceedings against two men not connected to the case, will be safe.

RAUL YZAGUIRRE

President

National Council of La Raza

Washington

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              61 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 25, 2002 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Muslim Charity Official Denied Bail in Detroit

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 255 words

DATELINE: DETROIT Oct. 24


A judge denied bail today for the co-founder of an Islamic charity that is
suspected of funneling money to al Qaeda, saying the defendant is probably "a
danger to the security of the United States."

Even if Rabih Haddad is not a threat, he might flee the country, immigration
Judge Robert Newberry added.

Haddad's attorney, Ashraf Nubani, said he will appeal.

Haddad, 41, has been jailed since Dec. 14 on a visa violation. The Ann Arbor
resident, a Lebanese citizen, helped create the Global Relief Foundation, which
the U.S. government has accused of providing money to al Qaeda.

Haddad and his organization have denied any involvement in terrorism, and
neither he nor Global Relief has been charged with a terrorism-related crime.

Haddad is seeking political asylum in the United States to avoid deportation for
himself and his family. The judge has said he expects to rule on the asylum
request within a couple of weeks.

During Haddad's two-day bail hearing, his attorneys argued that the government
failed to show that Haddad is a threat to national security or is connected to
al Qaeda.

Immigration and Naturalization Service attorney Marsha Nettles argued that
Haddad might flee, in part because his wife's family owns homes in other
countries.

Also today, the Bush administration urged a federal appeals court to reconsider
its ruling that Haddad's deportation hearings be opened to the public. The
government said that opening the hearings could allow terrorists to gain
information that could threaten U.S. security.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              62 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 28, 2002 Monday
                                 Final Edition

GOP Candidate Takes Bush Immigration Policy To a New Level

BYLINE: Dana Milbank

SECTION: A SECTION; POLITICS DANA MILBANK; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 452 words


Republican Tim Escobar has an uphill climb in his battle to represent
California's 39th Congressional District. The seat was drawn up by the state's
Democratic legislature to be a Democratic seat, and the Democratic nominee,
lawyer Linda Sanchez, is forecast to have an easy victory.

But Escobar has taken a bold, new step in his campaign: He assigned President
Bush a new immigration policy. In a Spanish-language television ad for Escobar,
the announcer declares: "Tim Escobar supports the proposal from President Bush
to grant legal status to 3.5 million immigrants." The screen flashes a message
that reads: "Legalize Immigrants."

This comes as a surprise to the White House, which is open to a temporary worker
program that includes a mechanism to allow some workers to earn legal status --
but nothing of the sort the ad claimed. "The president has said he does not
support a broad amnesty program," White House spokesman Scott McClellan said.

A spokesman for the Escobar campaign said the statement was based on a sentence
from the Los Angeles Times in August referring to "Bush's proposal to grant
legal status to 3.5 million undocumented Mexican immigrants." The proposal, the
Escobar spokesman said, is "still sitting on the table."

This, too, was news to the White House. "It sounds like he's taken it to another
step," a senior Bush aide said.

If there were ever a congressional candidate to rely on personal biography, it
would be Katrina Swett.

The 47-year-old Democrat running for New Hampshire's 2nd District regularly
starts her stump speeches with the story of how her parents escaped the
Holocaust and came to the United States to pursue the American dream.

Then it is on to her political experience. When she was 25, she ran the campaign
of her father, Rep. Tom Lantos (D-Calif.). She did the same for her husband,
former representative Dick Swett (D-N.H.), in 1990. The lawyer who entered Yale
University at 16 also worked for the Senate Judiciary Committee and as a New
Hampshire political talk show host.

And raising seven children has enabled Swett to talk the working mother talk of
homework and car pools.

"These are all primary focuses of hers," said Alex Zaroulis, campaign
spokeswoman. "She relates it back to her parents' experience and the fact that
America received them with open arms and gave them opportunities."

Swett's win could make the first father-daughter pair serving in Congress at the
same time. Although she has raised nearly twice the funds of her opponent, Rep.
Charles Bass (R-N.H.), a recent independent poll shows Bass with a lead of 54
percent to 33 percent, with 13 percent of voters undecided.

Staff writer Christine Haughney contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              63 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 7, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Haitians a Threat, INS Says;
Agency Wants Bond Denied for More Than 200 Immigrants

BYLINE: Andrea Elliott and Larry Lebowitz, Miami Herald

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 748 words

DATELINE: MIAMI Nov. 6


Dealing a blow to more than 200 Haitians detained in South Florida, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service thwarted attempts by an immigration judge
to grant bond today to the migrants, charging that they pose a threat to
national security.

Meanwhile, a federal judge ordered six Haitians held without bond on charges
that they orchestrated last week's smuggling voyage, which ended with more than
200 Haitians jumping into Biscayne Bay and climbing onto the Rickenbacker
Causeway.

Volunteer attorneys helping the migrants decried the 57 scheduled bond hearings
-- which were not announced -- as an "ambush" to expedite the migrants' return
to Haiti. Immigration Judge Scott Alexander set bond for more than 25 Haitians
at between $ 1,500 and $ 4,500. More than 90 more hearings were scheduled for
Thursday.

The attorneys also criticized the INS for appealing the bond determinations,
contending the INS treats Haitians unfavorably compared to other migrants.

"It appears to be justice by ambush," said Randolph McGrorty, executive director
of Catholic Charities Legal Services. "It was done too quickly. If this case
continues, they will be deported and removed back to Haiti very quickly. I don't
think they'll get a fair hearing."

Attorneys argued they had been denied access to the migrants, were given limited
hours to talk to them and had little privacy. The Haitians called to the bond
hearings today were given Creole translation via telephone. Each hearing took
about half an hour.

"It's very disconcerting. You're in front of a judge in a courtroom, there's a
INS trial attorney there and you're communicating with a box," said Cheryl
Little, executive director of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center. The center
has four volunteer attorneys working full-time on the cases.

"Clearly, these cases are being expedited," she said. "There are very few
lawyers able to provide free legal representation to the Haitians."

INS officials told the judge that if the Haitians are released, they will spark
a mass migration from Haiti to South Florida, endangering lives and causing the
U.S. government to deploy too many resources in patrolling the seas.

"We're concerned that very important resources of the Coast Guard and the
Department of Defense would be diverted from their primary mission of protecting
the homeland and fighting the war on terrorism," said Mario Ortiz, an
immigration officer. "It sends the wrong signal of mass migration. The primary
focus of this country should be in fighting terrorism."

During the bond hearings, Haitians told the judge they would be persecuted if
they returned.

"Every time you demonstrate, they want to kill you," said Charles Siliene, whose
wife and six children are being detained. He sat somberly in the courtroom.
"They beat me. It's not easy to return to Haiti because I can die."

The judge set bond at $ 3,500 for the family.

In the smuggling case, defense attorneys attacked what they said were weaknesses
in the government's case against Edner Dorvil, 52, owner of the unnamed vessel
and alleged voyage coordinator; boat operators Jean Phillip Petite-Homme, 45,
Sali Atlanase Jean, 37, and Eli Louis, 29; mechanic Jean Eddy Louis, 19; and
security worker Genel Elmeus Osmin, 37.

They said federal prosecutors would have a hard time proving the defendants were
anything more than migrants fleeing desperate conditions on Hispanola for a shot
at freedom and prosperity.

"There's no evidence that [Petite-Homme] is anything but a migrant in this
case," said Mary T. Barzee, public defender and soon-to-be Miami-Dade judge. "He
helped steer the boat at times. That makes him no more culpable than the guy who
says, 'I'll bring extra food.' "

Osmin's attorney, Harold Keefe, said the government is stretching when he
describes his client as a security worker.

"My client told people where to go when they got on the boat," Keefe said.
"That's it."

Dorvil, the accused boat owner, says he is a tailor back in Haiti. He made the
trip with his wife and two daughters, said attorney Bernard Pastor.

With the exception of Osmin, all the defendants are lifelong Haitian residents.
Osmin spent a few years in exile in Honduras, but returned in 1994 after U.S.
troops restored Jean Bertrand Aristide to power.

Federal prosecutor Michael Wright urged Brown to keep all six defendants
separated at the criminal detention center in downtown Miami, away from the
other passengers awaiting immigration proceedings at Krome.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              64 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 7, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 527 words


MIAMI -- The Immigration and Naturalization Service thwarted attempts by an
immigration judge to grant bond yesterday to the more than 200 Haitians detained
in South Florida, charging that they pose a threat to national security.

INS officials told the judge that if the Haitians are released, they will spark
a mass migration from Haiti to South Florida, endangering lives and causing the
U.S. government to deploy too many resources in patrolling the seas.

"We're concerned that very important resources of the Coast Guard and the
Department of Defense would be diverted from their primary mission of protecting
the homeland and fighting the war on terrorism," said Mario Ortiz, an
immigration officer. "It sends the wrong signal of mass migration. The primary
focus of this country should be in fighting terrorism."

Meanwhile, a federal judge ordered six Haitians held without bond on charges
that they orchestrated last week's smuggling voyage, which ended with more than
200 Haitians jumping into Biscayne Bay and climbing onto the Rickenbacker
Causeway.

Volunteer attorneys helping the migrants decried the 57 scheduled bond hearings
-- which were not announced -- as an "ambush" to expedite the migrants' return
to Haiti. Immigration Judge Scott Alexander set bond for more than 25 Haitians
at between $ 1,500 and $ 4,500. More than 90 more hearings were scheduled for
Thursday.

The attorneys also criticized the INS for appealing the bond determinations,
contending the INS treats Haitians unfavorably compared to other migrants.

* MIAMI -- Judge Ana Maria Pando withdrew an arrest warrant for O.J. Simpson
after his attorney appeared in court on a charge that Simpson sped through a
manatee zone in a power boat. Pando had issued a bench warrant for Simpson after
he and his attorney both missed a court hearing earlier in the day. The hearing
was reset for Nov. 22.

* NEW YORK -- Eight firefighters who were arrested in a protest last year over
ground zero recovery efforts have sued the city and the New York Police
Department. The federal lawsuit filed Tuesday stems from a confrontation on Nov.
2, 2001, between firefighters and police officers assigned to patrol the area
around the World Trade Center site. The firefighters were upset that the number
of firefighters working to recover victims was being reduced.

* MILWAUKEE -- Three teens accused in a mob beating that killed a 36-year-old
man have been ordered to stand trial. Marlin Dixon, 14; his brother Don Dixon,
13; and Artieas Shanks, 13, are expected to be arraigned Monday. A judge has
ruled that there was sufficient testimony to suggest that the boys were active
participants in the beating of Charlie Young Jr. on Sept. 29. Young died two
days later.

* ANCHORAGE -- Workers yesterday began the slow process of restarting the
trans-Alaska oil pipeline, which was shut down after a strong earthquake over
the weekend, officials said. It was expected to take several hours to bring the
huge oil pipeline back to normal flow. The work was being done slowly so that
any problems could be spotted quickly. Tanker loading at Valdez could resume as
early as Thursday.

-- From News Services

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              65 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 21, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Sniper Suspect's Mother Is Ordered Deported

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 532 words

DATELINE: SEATTLE Nov. 20


A federal immigration judge today ordered the deportation of Una James, the
mother of the 17-year-old accused in the string of sniper killings that
terrified the Washington area, officials said.

Judge Anna Ho signed the decision a day after James's attorneys withdrew a
petition for legal residency for James and her son, John Lee Malvo, said U.S.
officials familiar with the case.

It was not clear exactly when James might return to Jamaica. Her lawyers have 30
days to appeal, said a Justice Department spokesman. And FBI officials could
decide they want to keep James in the country as a witness during the trials of
her son and his alleged accomplice, John Allen Muhammad.

Muhammad and Malvo are suspected in 21 shootings around the country, 14 of them
fatal, in the past seven months.

James and her son were picked up by immigration authorities last December in
Bellingham, Wash., and charged with entering the country illegally. They were
detained for about a month before they paid $ 1,500 in bail and were given a
February appointment in immigration court, officials said. Their lawyers
requested three postponements of that hearing, which was finally scheduled for
today.

But on Tuesday, James's attorneys withdrew her petition for residency, which was
based on a claim she had been battered by an American who had briefly been her
husband last year, said officials close to the case, who spoke on condition of
anonymity.

"She just wants to leave" and go back to Jamaica, said one official. A spokesman
for the Justice Department, which oversees the immigration courts, confirmed the
deportation order but declined to give details.

Todd G. Petit, a Fairfax lawyer appointed by a judge as Malvo's guardian said
today that he has been trying to locate James and that it would hamper his
efforts to represent Malvo if she is deported. Petit said he is seeking
information about Malvo's educational background and any mental health problems
the teenager might have.

Petit said he has written to prosecutors for Fairfax County, where Malvo faces
capital murder charges, asking for James's address but has not gotten a
response.

Attorney Michael S. Arif, who heads Malvo's defense team, did not return a call
for comment, nor did James's attorney at the Northwest Immigrant Rights Project
in Seattle.

James's case has been shrouded in secrecy since her son's arrest. She has
declined to speak to the media, and government officials have declined to
discuss her legal proceedings, noting that battered-spouse cases are shielded by
confidentiality.

Immigration court officials have forwarded all calls about her to the Justice
Department. The official there in charge of commenting on the case told The
Washington Post on Tuesday evening that James's attorneys had won a postponement
of her immigration hearing until December. Officials said today that a stay was
granted midday Tuesday, but that later in the day, James's attorneys offered to
have their client leave the country and the hearing took place.

Special visas are available to people sought as witnesses in U.S. legal cases,
so James could return to the United States to testify at a later date, officials
said.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              66 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 3, 2002 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Lawyer, Accused of Fraud, Says He Was Scammed;
Trial Opens for Man Charged With Dealing in Phony Immigration Documents

BYLINE: Tom Jackman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 779 words


Attorneys for Samuel G. Kooritzky, an Arlington immigration lawyer accused by
federal authorities of multimillion-dollar fraud, said yesterday their client
was victimized by a "scam artist" who forged signatures and documents without
Kooritzky's knowledge.

Prosecutors say the alleged scam artist, Ronald W. Bogardus, was actually
Kooritzky's co-conspirator in a scheme to file thousands of phony labor and
immigration documents with the government and to charge immigrants as much as $
20,000 for the chance at a U.S. green card. After Bogardus and Kooritzky were
arrested in July, Bogardus began cooperating with investigators and pleaded
guilty. He is now the government's key witness in Kooritzky's trial, which began
yesterday in U.S. District Court in Alexandria.

The opening statement by the defense was Kooritzky's first public response to
the government's charges that he applied for phony labor certificates and sold
them to unknowing immigrants. Kooritzky, 64, owns the Capital Law Centers, which
handle mostly immigration matters out of offices in Arlington, Takoma Park and
Washington.

His offices offer help to immigrants in obtaining certificates from state labor
departments declaring that an employer needs a certain immigrant worker and
cannot find a U.S. citizen for the job. The labor certificate is presented to
the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which may then issue a permanent
work visa, or green card.

Bogardus, 65, was a fire safety engineer for the State Department when he
offered his services to Kooritzky in the summer of 2000. Prosecutors allege that
Bogardus would find out the names of local restaurant or business managers and
that he and Kooritzky would forge the managers' names on applications for labor
certifications.

Kooritzky's firm submitted applications for labor certifications for 287 cooks
and kitchen workers at one Shoney's restaurant, Assistant U.S. Attorney John
Morton said yesterday in his opening statement. An additional 190 applications
sought help at a Silver Diner. The restaurants never knew they were being used
in the application process, and Kooritzky used the "dummy filings to create a
reservoir of certifications which he sold to the highest bidder," Morton said.

Capital Law Centers advertised in local Hispanic newspapers, "If You Don't Have
a Sponsor, We Can Help You Find One." That is where Bogardus came in.

Prosecutors allege that Bogardus would walk into restaurants, sometimes chat
with the manager and then use the manager's name on multiple labor applications.
He also traveled to India on one such mission and returned with the names and
phony job histories of supposedly qualified cooks, the government said.

"Mr. Bogardus is going to tell you," Morton told the jury, "basically from day
one he started forging these signatures on these applications. Mr. Kooritzky
taught him everything that he knows about the program."

Kooritzky's firm charged immigrants $ 8,000 to $ 20,000 for guiding them through
the labor and immigration processes, with Bogardus receiving direct payments
from clients. Investigators believe Kooritzky and Bogardus made $ 11 million to
$ 21 million during an 18-month period beginning last year. When agents searched
Bogardus's Arlington apartment, they found $ 1 million in cash. Bogardus also
had $ 2.5 million in a bank account. As part of his guilty plea, in which he was
sentenced to eight years in prison, he agreed to forfeit $ 4 million.

Kooritzky's attorney, Harvey J. Volzer, said Kooritzky "had absolutely no
motivation to commit fraud." Before he met Bogardus, Kooritzky already had a
thriving immigration law practice and was devoted to helping immigrants, Volzer
said.

However, Kooritzky could not find employer/sponsors for his clients until
Bogardus offered to do it for him, Volzer said. "This gentleman is a scam
artist," Volzer said of Bogardus, and "always was a scam artist."

Volzer added, "The forgeries were all done solely at Mr. Bogardus's behest." He
said Kooritzky did not operate like a criminal because he kept copious notes in
every client's file, which he said the jury would see.

Volzer also filed a motion to dismiss the case yesterday, claiming that Morton
restricted access to Kooritzky's files once they were seized and has withheld
evidence favorable to Kooritzky. Volzer also alleged that the government was
broadcasting ads on local Korean and Hispanic radio stations seeking witnesses
against Kooritzky and promising green cards for their cooperation.

U.S. District Judge Leonie M. Brinkema, who is presiding over the trial, did not
rule on the motion yesterday. The trial is expected to continue into next week.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              67 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 12, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Lawyer Convicted of Bilking Immigrants;
Fraudulent Filings Netted More Than $10 Million in Two Years, IRS Agent Says

BYLINE: Tom Jackman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 926 words


The head of a renowned immigration law firm was convicted yesterday on all 57
counts of a federal indictment accusing him of a massive fraud scheme in which
illegal immigrants paid thousands of dollars to seek permission to work in the
United States, unaware that their applications were filled with false
information and phony signatures.

Samuel G. Kooritzky, 64, was led from the courtroom in handcuffs after the
verdict, which followed five hours of deliberation and a week-long trial in U.S.
District Court in Alexandria. He faces a probable prison sentence of eight to 10
years on charges of conspiracy, fraud and money laundering and could also
forfeit as much as $ 2.5 million that authorities believe was part of the
proceeds of his scheme.

Kooritzky owns the Capital Law Centers, with offices in Arlington, Takoma Park
and Washington. The firm specialized in applying to state governments for labor
certifications, in which a business claims it cannot find a U.S. citizen for a
particular job. An immigrant then uses the certification to apply for a
permanent resident visa, or "green card."

But Kooritzky's firm submitted thousands of applications for labor
certifications without telling the businesses they were being used. Kooritzky
filed 230 applications on behalf of two Chili's restaurants in Northern
Virginia, 184 applications for one Silver Diner in Arlington, and 173
applications for one Shoney's restaurant in Manassas, ostensibly for cooks and
kitchen workers. None of the restaurants had heard of Kooritzky or authorized
him to apply for labor certifications on their behalf, their officials
testified.

Kooritzky testified that he did not know that his employees and contract workers
were preparing phony documents on behalf of his clients.

Kooritzky's own handwritten internal memos and self-adhesive notes were used
against him at the trial. In one note, Kooritzky wrote to a colleague, "Please
tell me which are real clients and which are 'fake.' " Kooritzky explained that
his office used the word "fake" to describe clients who probably wouldn't last
through the application process, not to indicate a phony application.

Kooritzky also testified that he knew Chili's had "hundreds of cooks" and that
rather than apply through the dozens of different Chili's restaurants, "we
simply designated them all from the one location."

Kooritzky said he believed that the restaurants had authorized the applications
because one of his employees, Ronald W. Bogardus, told him they had. Bogardus's
job at Kooritzky's firm was to find sponsors -- businesses that needed immigrant
workers.

For years, Kooritzky said, immigrants came to his office without a job sponsor
and he had to turn them away. In the fall of 2000, he met Bogardus, a State
Department contract employee, "and it was like a miracle. Exactly the kind of
person I was looking for to do that kind of work," Kooritzky said.

Kooritzky schooled Bogardus in the labor and immigration process, and Bogardus
went in search of sponsors. But Bogardus testified that he soon found it was
easier to simply go to a restaurant, learn the manager's name and then sign the
forms himself. For documentation, he and a woman swiped company logos off the
Internet and placed them atop phony letters, Bogardus said.

Bogardus or other employees would then sign the restaurant managers' names. He
said Kooritzky "told me they could be signed by anybody, and I took him at his
word." Bogardus said he did not tell Kooritzky that he was forging signatures.
But even after businesses began calling Kooritzky and asking why they were
receiving labor certifications for people they had never heard of, Kooritzky did
not ask Bogardus about the situation or tell him to stop, Bogardus said.

Andrew Shea, a Labor Department special agent, said in a court filing that
Kooritzky filed 2,200 phony labor applications last year alone. Immigrants paid
$ 8,000 to $ 20,000 for the effort, even though most never got the green card.
None of the applicants knew they were being submitted for nonexistent jobs. Nick
Pompei, an Internal Revenue Service agent, estimated that Kooritzky's firm
reaped more than $ 10 million from the scheme in the past two years.

Bogardus, 65, and Kooritzky were arrested in July. Bogardus soon pleaded guilty
and was sentenced to eight years in prison. He also forfeited $ 4 million and
agreed to testify in hopes of receiving a sentence reduction. Two other
Kooritzky employees, Inderjeet Kaur and Carolina Trana, also pleaded guilty and
testified, but they have not been sentenced.

Testimony and Kooritzky's internal documents revealed that he paid some
businesses as much as $ 5,000 to sponsor an immigrant.

Kooritzky also argued that filing multiple applications for one person was fine
-- a process he said ensured that the applicant would be approved somewhere but
that prosecutors said enabled him to maximize his profits by "substituting"
other immigrants.

"This is all about buying and selling substitution cases for as much as you can
get, isn't it?" Assistant U.S. Attorney John Morton asked Kooritzky.

"Nothing wrong with that," Kooritzky replied.

Brian Shaughnessy, one of Kooritzky's attorneys, argued that "nobody ever
brought a forgery to Mr. Kooritzky's attention." Shaughnessy said he would
appeal but declined to make further comment.

U.S. Attorney Paul J. McNulty called the case one of the largest labor
certification frauds ever prosecuted and said it was "an important victory in
our effort to restore integrity to our immigration system."

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              68 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 20, 2002 Friday
                                 Final Edition

INS Detaining Some After Registration;
Security Effort Is Called Harassment by Critics

BYLINE: William Booth and Dan Eggen, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 695 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES Dec. 19


Hundreds of Middle Eastern, Iranian and other men and teenagers were arrested
this week after registering with federal immigration officers, and their
supporters today charged that the detentions were not catching terrorists but
harassing immigrants.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service had ordered all male visitors, 16 and
older, on temporary visas from Iran, Iraq, Libya, Sudan or Syria to register and
to be photographed and fingerprinted at local INS offices by Monday.

Those who overstayed their temporary student or tourist visas are being
detained.

Men from another 13 nations, mostly from the Middle East (including Saudi
Arabia) and North Africa, have been ordered to appear and register next month.

The efforts are an attempt to know who is in the country, legally and illegally,
or is applying for residency status, and possibly to ferret out those who might
know of terrorist activities or pose a threat to U.S. interests.

In Southern California, home to the second-largest community of Iranians outside
of Tehran, the arrests angered many. More than 3,000 people demonstrated outside
of INS offices here on Wednesday, some chanting and waving signs that read:
"What Next? Concentration Camps?"

Many of the Iranians detained have relatives who fled Iran after the fall of the
shah and the rise of the Ayatollah Khomeni in 1979. The Iranian community is
established around Westwood and Beverly Hills. Iranians consider themselves
among the wealthiest and most assimilated immigrants in the nation, often
introducing themselves as "Persians" and not Iranians. Many are Jewish or
Christian.

"If you were a terrorist, would you show up to be fingerprinted? Only
law-abiding people are showing up. This is nuts. These people have been here for
ages; these are not criminals," said Babak Sotoodesh, an immigrant from Iran who
is an attorney and president of the Alliance of Iranian Americans, an advocacy
group.

Others applauded the detentions.

"INS has a duty and an obligation to the community at large to apprehend and
deport people who break the law," said Dan Stein, executive director of the
Federation for American Immigration Reform. "How many times have we seen over
the last couple years where people who should have been detained by the INS were
freed and then went on to kill people?"

Lawyers for some of the men say as many as 500 Iranians have been detained,
though INS officials in Washington say the number is far lower.  The men have
been jailed, but most are being freed after posting bail, usually about $ 1,000.

Justice Department spokesman Jorge Martinez in Washington said that about 200
registrants were in custody Wednesday and that the number had dropped to fewer
than 100 by today.

"L.A. is really a unique situation. We haven't seen this in any other part of
the country," Martinez said. "A lot of individuals who were required to register
in Los Angeles waited until the last minute, and a lot of the individuals who
came in had visa overstays or other problems. . . . That's why you saw a lot of
people detained in one day."

INS officials said immigration officers have no choice but to arrest an
immigrant who is out of status. Although concentrated in Los Angeles, arrests
have also been made at INS offices from Houston to Cleveland to Washington,
officials said.

One man detained at the INS's Arlington office on Monday was Soheil Varamini,
18, who came with his family to the United States from Iran when he was 2.  A
freshman at George Mason University, Varamini fears authorities might deport him
to a country where he does not speak the language and is not familiar with the
culture, according to his sister, Nancy Hedayet.

Hedayet, 31, said Varamini is guilty only of a minor paperwork problem and was
treated badly by INS officials.

"They misled people by just saying, 'Come and get your picture taken,' " said
Hedayet, who lives in Rockville. "Then they round people up like animals and
treat them like criminals. . . . Why do they have to terrorize people who only
love this country?"

Eggen reported from Washington. Special correspondent Kimberly Edds contributed
to this report from Los Angeles.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              69 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          December 25, 2002 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Arab, Muslim Groups Sue INS, Ashcroft Over Detentions

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 476 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES Dec. 24


Attorney General John D. Ashcroft and the Immigration and Naturalization Service
were sued today by a coalition of Arab and Muslim groups over the mass
detentions of immigrants from Muslim countries who came forward to register
under new anti-terrorism rules.

The class action lawsuit sought an immediate injunction against further arrests
and alleged that large numbers of men who came forward to register in Southern
California last week had been unlawfully detained.

The lawsuit, filed in federal court in Los Angeles, followed outrage over the
detentions of hundreds of immigrants -- most of them Iranians -- who presented
themselves at immigration offices under the anti-terrorism program and who were
taken away in handcuffs and locked up, sometimes for days, for overstaying their
visas.

The Justice Department did not return calls seeking comment.

Local immigration lawyers estimated last week that 1,000 men and boys were
detained in standing-room-only centers and forced to sleep on concrete floors,
under a system designed to track potential terrorists but that instead locked up
many caught in the lengthy process for obtaining permanent residence.

Official figures from the Department of Justice and the INS put the number of
detentions in California at less than 250. Officials said about 20 were still
detained in the Los Angeles area, five in San Diego and a handful in San
Francisco.

The men were detained under a post-Sept. 11, 2001, program that requires males
older than 16, without a permanent residence, from 20 Arab or Muslim countries
to register with authorities.

Peter Schey, president of the Los Angeles-based Center for Human Rights and
Constitutional Law and the lead attorney for the six, unnamed plaintiffs in the
lawsuit, said mass registration was irrational because "no undocumented
terrorist will come forward."

Schey said the lawsuit was not about resisting registration but about the way it
was being implemented.

"The program is being used as a scam to lure people into INS offices supposedly
to register, when what they really face is arrest, detention and even
deportation despite their pending petitions to legalize their status which the
INS refuses to process," he said.

The registration deadline for the first group, which included Iranians from the
600,000-strong Iranian exile community in the Los Angeles area, fell on Dec. 16.
Deadlines are approaching in January and February for citizens of Afghanistan,
Algeria, Yemen, Pakistan and Saudi Arabia.

"The mass arrests have further eroded confidence in the fairness of the INS and
the immigration system among Arab and Muslim communities," the lawsuit said. It
was filed by the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee, the Alliance of
Iranian Americans, the Council on American-Islamic Relations and the National
Council of Pakistani Americans.

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              70 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 28, 2002 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Judge Blocks Deportation Of Rapper 'Slick Rick'

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C04

LENGTH: 259 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK Dec. 27


A federal judge blocked the deportation of rapper Ricky "Slick Rick" Walters
today, giving him fresh hope of winning his battle to stay in the United States.

Judge Kimba Wood's decision allows Walters, 37, to fight a deportation order
stemming from his conviction for attempted murder in the shooting of a cousin,
the cousin's pregnant girlfriend and a bystander.

The shooting occurred in 1990, a year after Walters's solo debut album, "The
Great Adventures of Slick Rick," went platinum. He pleaded guilty and spent five
years in a New York prison.

In the 1980s, Walters became known for his humorous rhymes on classic tracks
like "Mona Lisa" and "The Show." Earlier this year, he was inducted into the
Hip-Hop Hall of Fame.

In June, he was arrested by immigration agents enforcing a law requiring the
deportation of foreign citizens convicted of violent felonies. He has been
jailed ever since.

Alex Solomiany, Walters's lawyer, said he was happy Wood agreed to block the
deportation, expected to take place Saturday.

Solomiany said the judge found a substantial possibility that Walters could show
he should not be deported. An immigration judge earlier had decided that Walters
should be allowed to stay because he had rehabilitated himself.

Under Wood's order, Walters will remain in the custody of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in Bradenton, Fla. The rapper has lived in the United
States since he was 11, but had been prepared to move to England, his
birthplace.

Prosecutors did not immediately return a call seeking comment.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 02, 2003, Thursday



CORRECTION: In articles Dec. 26 and Dec. 28 about the deportation case against
rapper Ricky "Slick Rick" Walters, the Associated Press reported erroneously
that Walters shot his cousin's pregnant girlfriend in a 1990 dispute.

Walters was convicted of attempted murder in the shooting of his cousin and a
bystander in the incident. The pregnant woman was not shot. Also, she was the
girlfriend of Walters, not of Walters's cousin.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              71 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 3, 2003 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Nine Die in Truck Collision in Iowa

BYLINE: Cori Drost, Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 219 words

DATELINE: MENLO, Iowa Jan. 2


A pickup crammed with suspected illegal immigrants slammed into a
tractor-trailer on Interstate 80 early today, killing all nine people in the
smaller truck.

The pickup crossed the median and hit the tractor-trailer around 2:30 a.m.,
about 30 miles west of Des Moines, the Iowa State Patrol said.

"It was a mess," said Fire Chief Ben Gilman, who was first on the scene.
"Everyone in the truck was dead. They probably died on impact."

All of the victims were Hispanic men and women, said Sgt. Mike Van Berkum of the
state patrol.

"We do have some idea to believe that these folks are not here legally, so it
may take some time to identify them because of that," he said.

Estela Biesemeyer, a supervisory agent with the Immigration and Naturalization
Service in Des Moines, said the number of people in the pickup, their ethnicity
and the fact they were headed east led investigators to suspect a smuggling
operation.

"Smuggling through Iowa has always been here. Interstate 80 is a major route
these people take from the border," she said.

Biesemeyer said pickup trucks and vans are commonly used by smugglers, and the
agency has intercepted small moving trucks carrying as many as 50 people. She
said INS would probably contact the foreign consulates of Mexico or El Salvador
to try to identify the victims.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              72 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 1, 2003 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

WASHINGTON IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 389 words


Senators representing both parties announced they will renew efforts this year
to raise fuel economy standards for sport-utility vehicles to a level well above
what the Bush administration has proposed.

Sens. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) and Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) on Thursday
introduced legislation that would require automakers to achieve 27.5 miles per
gallon for SUVs by 2011. The current requirement is 20.7 miles to the gallon,
and the administration has suggested raising that to 22.2 miles per gallon by
2007.

* The number of immigrants living illegally in the United States jumped by 1
million in under four years, the government reported yesterday. The Immigration
and Naturalization Service reported that about 7 million immigrants, mostly
Mexicans, were living illegally in the United States as of January 2000. That's
an increase over the 5.8 million the INS said lived in the country in October
1996.

* Hospitals throughout Georgia were warned to temporarily halt the use of some
blood from the American Red Cross because it was feared to be contaminated with
unidentified white particles. The Red Cross reported that the particles are not
infectious agents and that no harmful effects in patients have been reported.

* Federal health officials say a compound used as the artist's pigment Prussian
blue could be an important antidote to a "dirty bomb" attack, and they are
calling for drug companies to quickly seek permission to manufacture some. The
Food and Drug Administration action yesterday marks a big step toward radiation
specialists' call for a stockpile of the antidote.

* The Bush administration's plan to open the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to
drilling suffered a major blow when six Republican senators -- John McCain,
(Ariz.); Olympia J. Snowe and Susan Collins (Maine), Lincoln D. Chafee (R.I.),
Peter Fitzgerald (Ill.). and Mike DeWine (Ohio) -- said they opposed inserting
language into a must-pass budget bill that would give oil companies access to
the refuge.

* Congress has agreed to give federal judges the same cost-of-living increase
that virtually every other federal employee received earlier this month. The
Senate agreed to give the judges a 3.1 percent pay raise late Thursday night.
The House had agreed to the increase earlier this month.

-- From News Services and Staff Reports

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              73 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 8, 2003 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

World;
In Brief

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 392 words


THE AMERICAS

MEXICO CITY -- Mexico's new foreign minister, Luis Ernesto Derbez, said in
comments published yesterday that a planned accord with Washington to legalize
the status of millions of undocumented Mexicans in the United States could take
up to 30 years to complete.

Talks between the U.S. and Mexican governments on an immigration deal have
floundered since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, as the United States has sought to
tighten its borders. Mexico's previous foreign minister, Jorge Castaneda,
resigned last month in frustration over the failure to reach an immigration
agreement, aimed at legalizing the estimated 3.5 million illegal Mexican
immigrants in the United States.

Reuters

EUROPE

SCHWEINFURT, Germany -- A U.S. soldier hospitalized in Germany with gunshot
wounds to his left hand and leg has admitted that he shot himself in frustration
over his army career, police said.

The 26-year-old private first class initially told police he was attacked by an
unknown assailant early Monday in a parking lot near his barracks in
Schweinfurt, east of Frankfurt. German authorities put 17 officers on the case
and offered a $ 5,400 reward for clues.

The soldier's name was not released by authorities.

Associated Press

AMSTERDAM -- The Dutch government said it had approved the delivery of Patriot
interceptor missile systems to Turkey after Ankara called on NATO allies to
defend its territory in case of a U.S.-led war on Iraq.

Dutch Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Yvonne van Hees said that Turkey had made a
direct request for the military aid, bypassing NATO, adding that NATO approval
was not necessary.

Turkey fears retaliation from Iraq, possibly in the form of Scud missiles, if
the United States attacks Iraq from Turkish soil.

Reuters

AFRICA

LUANDA, Angola -- The U.N. World Food Program airdropped food to a remote
village in Angola, the first such delivery in the war-scarred country for a
decade.

The agency was forced to fly in food to the hungry people of Luvemba in the
central province of Huambo, because rains had made roads to the area impassable.

Eighteen tons of food, mainly corn, was dropped on pallets from 655 feet up.

Despite their country's oil riches, many Angolans are going hungry after 27
years of war. The war ended last year after veteran rebel leader Jonas Savimbi
was killed in an ambush.

Reuters

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              74 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 27, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

WASHINGTON IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 494 words


President Bush used his harshest language yet in a confirmation fight as he
accused Democrats yesterday of extra-constitutional behavior for blocking Miguel
Estrada from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.

"I will stand by that man's side until he is sworn in as a judge," Bush told a
White House briefing for the Latino Coalition, a public policy group for
Hispanic business owners and professionals.

Bush attacked Senate Democrats for keeping Estrada's nomination from a vote by
staging what is effectively a filibuster.

"Some Democrats in the Senate are flaunting the intention of the United States
Constitution and the tradition of the United States Senate, itself," he said.
"Alexander Hamilton wrote that the purpose of the Senate confirmation was to
prevent the appointment of unfit characters. No one can possibly call Miguel
Estrada 'unfit.' "

Bush's language, and his appeal to ethnicity, reflected the stakes for both
parties in a battle with ramifications for future nominees.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service is ineffective at deporting illegal
immigrants and fails to properly expel foreigners who may include potential
terrorists, a Justice Department report said.

The report by the department's inspector general found that only 13 percent of
all undocumented immigrants who have been ordered out of the country, but not
detained, have left. By contrast, the INS has removed almost 94 percent of
illegal immigrants with "final removal orders" who are in the agency's custody.

The report said that, as of June 2002, about 355,000 undocumented immigrants not
in INS custody, but who had been ordered out of the country, had not left.

In its review, the inspector general examined three subgroups of foreign
nationals and found that the INS was also ineffective at expelling those
belonging to potential high-risk groups. For example, only 6 percent of
undocumented people from countries identified by the United States as "sponsors
of terrorism" who were not under arrest, but had been ordered deported, ever
left.

Afghan President Hamid Karzai appealed yesterday that the rebuilding of his
country be kept a U.S. priority, even if the United States goes to war with
Baghdad. "Don't forget us if Iraq happens," Karzai said.

He told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that it would be "very unwise to
reduce attention to Afghanistan," given the possibility that would-be terrorists
might try to regroup at the Afghan-Pakistani border.

"We are nearly at the end of the forest, not outside of it," Karzai said. He
said that President Bush gave him assurances in a call last month, and that he
expects to be reassured when he meets with Bush today.

He also expressed solidarity with the Iraqi people. "We would wish for them what
we wish for ourselves: to be free, to be liberated, to have access to a better
life," Karzai said.

-- Compiled from reports by

staff writer Mike Allen and

the Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              75 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 6, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

WASHINGTON IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 445 words


A federal judge in Washington yesterday sentenced a 63-year-old woman from El
Salvador to four years in prison for leading a smuggling ring that brought
hundreds of illegal immigrants into the United States.

U.S. District Judge Richard J. Leon sentenced Berta Rosa Parada Campos, who
pleaded guilty last year to charges of conspiracy to commit smuggling of
immigrants and use of a false passport.

She acknowledged running a smuggling network that helped hundreds, perhaps
thousands, of Central Americans sneak into the United States. Campos charged a
fee of at least $ 5,000 per person and earned at least $ 500,000 over five
years, federal agents said.

A federal judge ordered that five Justice Department lawyers be fined for their
court tactics in a long-running Indian trust fund case.

U.S. District Judge Royce C. Lamberth ruled that the lawyers participated in the
filing of a frivolous motion that caused attorneys for the Indian plaintiffs to
waste time and resources. He ruled that the government lawyers must personally
pay the fines, yet to be determined.

The lawyers, who may appeal the ruling, are Assistant Attorney General Robert D.
McCallum, Deputy Assistant Attorney General Stuart E. Schiffer, Sandra P.
Spooner, J. Christopher Kohn and John T. Stemplewicz.

More than 300,000 Indian plaintiffs are seeking billions of dollars in the class
action case, charging that the government has been negligent in managing the
trust account.

Secretary of State Colin L. Powell will not formally cite Saudi Arabia for its
religious intolerance, despite the efforts of human rights organizations and
several influential members of Congress, the State Department announced
yesterday.

Powell named six nations as "countries of particular concern" under the
International Religious Freedom Act, making them liable for diplomatic and
economic sanctions. Saudi Arabia, which Powell has criticized for intolerance
but has never been listed, was not included.

U.S. officials have said that the administration prefers to work behind the
scenes with the Saudis to expand religious freedom. Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.)
and Rep. Tom Lantos (D-Calif.) were among those arguing that the Saudi monarchy
should be formally cited. The six named countries -- Burma, China, Iran, Iraq,
North Korea and Sudan -- were also cited last year.

* The House passed a trade bill that would eliminate duties on certain handmade
rugs from Pakistan, a key ally in the U.S. war on terrorism.

* The House Judiciary Committee approved a bill that would limit medical
malpractice awards.

-- Compiled from reports

by staff writers Neely

Tucker and Peter Slevin, the

Associated Press and Reuters

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              76 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 23, 2003 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Warner Approves Ban on Licenses;
Illegal Immigrants Can't Drive Legally

BYLINE: R.H. Melton, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 855 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND March 22


-- Gov. Mark R. Warner signed legislation today prohibiting illegal immigrants
from obtaining Virginia driver's licenses, a law that he said was an
"appropriate" precaution against terrorists but which Latinos and other
minorities denounced as discriminatory.

While conceding that the law could "subject immigrants to unfair and degrading
treatment," Warner said Virginia should join the ranks of 27 states that have
placed similar citizenship or residency requirements on driver's license
applicants.

"The additional safeguards . . . are appropriate given the ongoing threat of
terrorism," said Warner (D), who pledged to use "all the resources at my
disposal" to ensure fair treatment of immigrants at the state Department of
Motor Vehicles.

However, a statewide coalition of 29 Hispanic and affiliated groups issued a
statement condemning the law, saying it was inspired by "fear and emotion,
rather than reason" and warning that it could result in "human and civil rights
violations against ethnic minorities."

"We strongly disagree with the governor," said Jorge E. Figueredo of
Springfield, co-chairman of the Virginia Coalition of Latino Organizations.
"There is no evidence that the driver's license legislation will make Virginia
safer."

Starting Jan. 1, an applicant must provide evidence of U.S. citizenship or legal
permanent residence or be a conditional resident alien of the United States.
Temporary licenses may be issued to those who have temporary, lawful visas to be
in the country.

The Latino coalition said the new rules could lead to longer lines at the DMV,
where customers endured long waits this winter because of shortened hours amid
budget cuts. Warner pledged an extra $ 600,000 to make the licensing law work,
but the Latino leaders said they doubted that the money would be adequate for
new DMV personnel and training.

The licensing law marks a setback for a burgeoning Latino population and other
minorities who have been assiduously courted in recent years by Virginia
political leaders, who must now confront the realities of a post-Sept. 11 world.
The 2001 attack on the Pentagon is still a raw memory; seven of the 19 hijackers
on Sept. 11 fraudulently obtained state identification cards or driver's
licenses from Virginia.

Maryland lawmakers could be headed in the opposite direction as their
counterparts in Virginia. A proposal backed by Latino advocates is pending in
the Maryland General Assembly that would allow illegal immigrants to obtain
driver's licenses.

Warner, a Spanish speaker from Alexandria who has enjoyed strong ties to Latino
leaders in Northern Virginia and other parts of the state, sought to soften the
blow of the driver's license law by proposing a change in another piece of
legislation -- a bill requiring illegal immigrants to pay out-of-state tuition
rates at Virginia colleges and universities.

Warner's amendment would allow a group of young people, estimated at fewer than
150 statewide, to obtain less expensive in-state tuition after proving they had
graduated from a Virginia high school, been residents for 5 years and were
trying to secure legal immigrant status. The students or their parents would
have to show that they had paid Virginia income taxes for at least three years.

"It is only fair that this narrowly targeted group of students . . . have the
chance to receive in-state tuition," Warner said. He noted that several other
states with large immigrant populations have granted in-state tuition to some
undocumented immigrants.

In Maryland, the Democrat-dominated General Assembly finalized a plan today to
grant in-state tuition to illegal immigrants who grow up in the state.
Republican Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. said he was inclined to veto it.

The Virginia General Assembly will consider Warner's proposed tuition amendment
on April 2, when lawmakers return to Richmond to consider the governor's changes
to bills and any vetoes. Warner has until midnight Monday to act on 1,030 bills
passed during the winter legislative session.

The statewide Latino coalition greeted Warner's proposed change on in-state
tuition enthusiastically.

If the amendment is approved, "this anti-opportunity legislation becomes,
instead, a beacon of hope for immigrant children now attending Virginia public
schools," said Isis Castro (Mount Vernon), the Fairfax County School Board
chairman who has worked closely with the coalition on education issues.

The Virginia measures affecting illegal immigrants -- a pair of House and Senate
bills on driver's licenses and a House bill on tuition -- were included in the
legislative agenda of Republican Attorney General Jerry W. Kilgore, who is
embroiled in a dispute with Warner over affirmative action at Virginia Tech.

Kilgore commended Warner for signing what he called a "common sense" driver's
license law but criticized the governor on the tuition amendment, saying Warner
was trying "to open a loophole for illegal immigrants to receive taxpayer
subsidies."

Warner signed another Kilgore-backed measure, allowing parents to leave unwanted
newborns in safe places, such as hospitals or rescue squad facilities.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              77 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 23, 2003 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Warner Approves License Ban;
Illegal Immigrants Won't Get to Drive Legally in Virginia

BYLINE: R.H. Melton, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C07

LENGTH: 855 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND March 22


-- Gov. Mark R. Warner signed legislation today prohibiting illegal immigrants
from obtaining Virginia driver's licenses, a law that he said was an
"appropriate" precaution against terrorists but which Latinos and other
minorities denounced as discriminatory.

While conceding that the law could "subject immigrants to unfair and degrading
treatment," Warner said Virginia should join the ranks of 27 states that have
placed similar citizenship or residency requirements on driver's license
applicants.

"The additional safeguards . . . are appropriate given the ongoing threat of
terrorism," said Warner (D), who pledged to use "all the resources at my
disposal" to ensure fair treatment of immigrants at the state Department of
Motor Vehicles.

However, a statewide coalition of 29 Hispanic and affiliated groups issued a
statement condemning the law, saying it was inspired by "fear and emotion,
rather than reason" and warning that it could result in "human and civil rights
violations against ethnic minorities."

"We strongly disagree with the governor," said Jorge E. Figueredo of
Springfield, co-chairman of the Virginia Coalition of Latino Organizations.
"There is no evidence that the driver's license legislation will make Virginia
safer."

Starting Jan. 1, an applicant must provide evidence of U.S. citizenship or legal
permanent residence or be a conditional resident alien of the United States.
Temporary licenses may be issued to those who have temporary, lawful visas to be
in the country.

The Latino coalition said the new rules could lead to longer lines at the DMV,
where customers endured long waits this winter because of shortened hours amid
budget cuts. Warner pledged an extra $ 600,000 to make the licensing law work,
but the Latino leaders said they doubted that the money would be adequate for
new DMV personnel and training.

The licensing law marks a setback for a burgeoning Latino population and other
minorities who have been assiduously courted in recent years by Virginia
political leaders, who must now confront the realities of a post-Sept. 11 world.
The 2001 attack on the Pentagon is still a raw memory; seven of the 19 hijackers
on Sept. 11 fraudulently obtained state identification cards or driver's
licenses from Virginia.

Maryland lawmakers could be headed in the opposite direction as their Virginia
counterparts. A proposal backed by Latino advocates is pending in the Maryland
General Assembly that would allow illegal immigrants to obtain driver's
licenses.

Warner, a Spanish speaker from Alexandria who has enjoyed strong ties to Latino
leaders in Northern Virginia and other parts of the state, sought to soften the
blow of the driver's license law by proposing a change in another piece of
legislation -- a bill requiring illegal immigrants to pay out-of-state tuition
rates at Virginia colleges and universities.

Warner's amendment would allow a group of young people, estimated at fewer than
150 statewide, to obtain less expensive in-state tuition after proving they had
graduated from a Virginia high school, been residents for five years and were
trying to secure legal immigrant status. The students or their parents would
have to show that they had paid Virginia income taxes for at least three years.

"It is only fair that this narrowly targeted group of students . . . have the
chance to receive in-state tuition," Warner said. He noted that several other
states with large immigrant populations have granted in-state tuition to some
undocumented immigrants.

In Maryland, the Democrat-dominated General Assembly finalized a plan today to
grant in-state tuition to illegal immigrants who grow up in the state.
Republican Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. said he was inclined to veto it.

The Virginia General Assembly will consider Warner's proposed tuition amendment
on April 2, when lawmakers return to Richmond to consider the governor's changes
to bills and any vetoes. Warner has until midnight Monday to act on 1,030 bills
passed during the winter legislative session.

The statewide Latino coalition greeted Warner's proposed change on in-state
tuition enthusiastically.

If the amendment is approved, "this anti-opportunity legislation becomes,
instead, a beacon of hope for immigrant children now attending Virginia public
schools," said Isis Castro (Mount Vernon), the Fairfax County School Board
chairman who has worked closely with the coalition on education issues.

The Virginia measures affecting illegal immigrants -- a pair of House and Senate
bills on driver's licenses and a House bill on tuition -- were included in the
legislative agenda of Republican Attorney General Jerry W. Kilgore, who is
embroiled in a dispute with Warner over affirmative action at Virginia Tech.

Kilgore commended Warner for signing what he called a "common sense" driver's
license law but criticized the governor on the tuition amendment, saying Warner
was trying "to open a loophole for illegal immigrants to receive taxpayer
subsidies."

Warner signed another Kilgore-backed measure, allowing parents to leave unwanted
newborns in safe places, such as hospitals or rescue squad facilities.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              78 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 25, 2003 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Illegal Immigrants Die in Field Fire

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 182 words

DATELINE: RAYMONDVILLE, Tex. March 24


At least five illegal immigrants hiding in a sugar cane field were killed today
when fire swept through the field, authorities said. One person was injured.

The field was set on fire about 10:30 a.m. as part of the harvesting process,
Willacy County Sheriff Larry Spence said.

Minutes after the blaze began, a man ran out yelling that he was on fire and
that there were five more people in the field, Spence said.

He said three burned bodies were found in the field. A man and woman people were
taken by ambulance to hospitals, where they died. He said a sixth person was
taken by medical helicopter to a burn center in Dallas.

Spence said it is believed the group was sleeping in the field when the fire was
set. He said wind may have caused the fire to burn faster than normal.

Authorities were checking on the identities of the group. The sheriff said one
of the men may have been from Guatemala, but he was unsure about the others. He
said they were undocumented immigrants.

The fields are burned every spring to clear away weeds and undergrowth so the
cane stalks can be harvested.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              79 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 27, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Tyson Cleared of Hiring Charge

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. E02

LENGTH: 1195 words


Tyson Foods and three managers were acquitted by a federal jury in Chattanooga
of hiring illegal immigrants as part of a conspiracy to increase production and
profits. The government's case stemmed from a four-year investigation that had
undercover agents posing as immigrant-smugglers. Among evidence presented to
jurors were hundreds of secretly recorded conversations between the agents and
managers at Tyson poultry plants. Tyson denied there was any conspiracy, saying
that a few plant managers independently violated the company's ban on hiring
undocumented workers.

New-home sales in February plunged 8.1 percent, to their lowest level in more
than two years, as bad weather kept house hunters indoors, and orders for costly
manufactured goods fell by the largest amount in three months, according to the
Commerce Department. The 1.2 percent drop in orders, however, wasn't as deep as
the 1.5 percent decline economists were forecasting.

Two laser-eye-surgery firms agreed to settle federal charges that they made
misleading promises of life without glasses and perfect vision. The Federal
Trade Commission said the Laser Vision Institute and LCA Vision, which did
business as LasikPlus, did not have scientific evidence to support claims that
their Lasik procedures would eliminate the need for glasses and contact lenses.
The firms also made unproven claims that its procedure was less risky than
wearing contacts or glasses, the FTC said. The settlement bars the firms, which
did not admit breaking any law, from making such claims in the future without
proof.

Five drug manufacturers charged AIDS clinics, community health centers and other
providers of health care for the indigent 80 percent more than they should have
under a federal program, the inspector general of the Department of Health and
Human Services said. The companies, which were not identified, charged the
clinics about $ 13.7 million for 11 drugs in the fiscal year ended Sept. 30,
1999, the inspector general said. The health care providers should have paid $
7.6 million, the report found. The companies will be required to credit the
groups.

Andrew S. Fastow, Enron's former chief financial officer, must face lawsuits
seeking more than $ 29 billion over the company's collapse, a federal judge
ruled. U.S. District Judge Melinda Harmon in Houston found that investors and
former Enron employees have made a strong enough showing of securities and
pension fraud allegations for the suit to proceed. Separately, a federal grand
jury indicted two former mid-level Enron executives for allegedly using
accounting tricks to generate $ 111 million in fake earnings from a failed
Internet movie-on-demand service. The 19-count indictment mirrors criminal
charges of securities fraud, wire fraud, conspiracy and lying to the FBI
unsealed March 12 against Kevin A. Howard, 40, and Michael W. Krautz, 34. Both
are free on $ 500,000 bond, and both deny the charges.

AOL Time Warner on Monday will end free online access to some of its
highest-profile magazines as part of a previously announced effort to help its
troubled America Online unit. The restrictions initially apply to People and
Entertainment Weekly, whose Web content will be available only to AOL
subscribers and people who buy the magazine. A dozen other Time Inc.
publications, including Real Simple and In Style, are expected to follow suit by
mid-May. Sports Illustrated and Time are not on the initial list.

Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel, on the second try, had its request for a $ 250
million loan guarantee approved by the federal government. The eighth-largest
U.S. steel producer, which is operating under bankruptcy protection, wants to
invest in a $ 110 million electronic arc furnace that will make its steel
production more cost efficient. Earlier this month the federal Emergency Steel
Loan Guarantee Board rejected the company's original application because the
risk of default was too high. The revised application included additional
contributions from the company's creditors, suppliers, and the states of West
Virginia and Ohio.

McDonald's will include choices such as fruits and vegetables in its children's
Happy Meals, and it plans to pay for public service ads promoting fitness and
health. Children's meal options might also include low-fat yogurt and fruit
juices, chief executive James R. Cantalupo said.

Univision Communications, the biggest U.S. owner of Spanish-language TV
stations, was cleared by antitrust officials to purchase Hispanic Broadcasting
for $ 2.3 billion. The buyout still requires approval by the Federal
Communications Commission. Univision agreed to reduce its stake in another media
company to win the Justice Department's backing.

Adelphia Communications' plan to move its headquarters to Denver from
Coudersport, Pa., is a waste of the firm's resources, said John J. Rigas, who is
charged with defrauding the company he founded. The relocation is being
orchestrated for the convenience of chief executive William T. Schleyer and
Chief Operating Officer Ronald Cooper, who worked at the Denver offices of AT&T
Broadband before joining Adelphia, Rigas and three of his sons said in a
bankruptcy court filing.

Sears, Roebuck plans to sell its 91-year-old consumer finance business because
rising credit card delinquencies have been eroding earnings. Chief executive
Alan J. Lacy said Sears no longer needed the credit unit to support the retail
operations. Most retailers contract out credit card services.

American Airlines, possibly only days away from reaching an agreement on $ 660
million in concessions from its pilots, wants to lay off as many as 1,000 of
them in addition to cuts already included in talks, the Allied Pilots
Association union said. American denied increasing its demands. The pilots union
said it expects to reach an agreement by Monday.

Gannett agreed to buy a group of British newspapers for $ 94 million. The
purchase of the Greater London publishing unit from Dublin-based Independent
News & Media will add 45 newspapers to its holdings, Gannett said. McLean-based
Gannett last year bought the 90,000-circulation Herald in Glasgow, Scotland, and
in 1999 bought Newsquest, which owns 300 newspapers, for $ 1.6 billion.

Lockheed Martin won dismissal of an investor suit which claimed that the company
inflated its share price by issuing misleading statements on its 1998 earnings.
U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer in Los Angeles said the investors failed to
meet the required legal standard of showing that company officials knew
statements were false when they made them. Lockheed "made some forecasts in 1998
which, while aggressive, were nevertheless grounded in some realistic
expectations," Pfaelzer wrote in a 28-page order.

WorldCom posted a profit of $ 155 million in January, compared with a loss of $
580 million in December, as bankruptcy reorganization expenses fell. Sales
slipped 1.8 percent, to $ 2.16 billion. The company, which reports results
monthly to a federal bankruptcy court, did not give year-earlier figures.

Compiled from reports by the Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Dow Jones News
Service and Washington Post staff writers

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              80 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 1, 2003 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrants Face A Tale of 2 States;
Va., Md. Diverge on Rights

BYLINE: David Cho and Nurith C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1226 words


Gov. Mark R. Warner (D) has signed legislation to prohibit illegal immigrants
from obtaining Virginia driver's licenses. The General Assembly also passed
legislation this year to bar people who are in this country illegally from
qualifying for subsidized in-state tuition at public colleges.

Maryland legislators, meanwhile, have been headed in the other direction.
They've sent Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. (R) a bill that would allow undocumented
immigrants to get the relative bargain of in-state tuition rates, a measure
Ehrlich threatens to veto. And House members voted last week to study the
possibility of making driver's licenses available to those who are here
illegally.

The debate over rights and privileges for illegal immigrants is the latest
example of how the political stewards in Annapolis and Richmond often find
themselves on conflicting sides of public policy.

"I don't think there's any issue in recent times that more colorfully depicts
the difference between the two states than the way they've reacted here," said
University of Maryland political science professor James G. Gimpel.

The disparity is mirrored in other state capitals, political analysts say, and
illustrates how concern over terrorism is helping redefine how the nation's
estimated 8.5 million undocumented immigrants are treated. Virginia tightened
its driver's license law after being stung by word that several of the Sept. 11,
2001, terrorists took advantage of lax state rules to obtain licenses.

Not since 1994, when California voters approved cutting off state benefits to
illegal immigrants -- a move later struck down by a federal court -- has their
treatment been so sharply debated, observers say.

One reason for the inconsistency among states, says Virginia Attorney General
Jerry W. Kilgore (R), is a lack of direction from the federal government.
Kilgore pushed for both the license and tuition restrictions.

On one hand, Kilgore and immigration analysts point out, federal immigration
officers warn that illegal immigrants are subject to deportation; on the other,
U.S. courts have ruled that they have some privileges, such as the right to a
public education.

"The federal government needs to clarify its entire immigration law and
determine whether they are going to enforce it," Kilgore said.

He and other Virginia leaders said they felt they had little choice but to
change the licensing law after the 2001 terror attacks. Seven of the 19
hijackers got Virginia identification cards or driver's licenses fraudulently,
it was later learned. The state moved quickly to close the loopholes in its
licensing procedures, then codified the changes in the just-completed General
Assembly session.

"Our inclination from the very beginning was looking for a way to deal with
terrorism," Kilgore said. "And that never again would . . . terrorists have
Virginia licenses."

Said Robert D. Holsworth, director of the Center for Public Policy at Virginia
Commonwealth University: "Certainly, the attorney general and other [proponents]
wanted to make a very strong statement. . . . And there's no doubt they wanted
to get credit in responding to a homeland security issue."

Spokesmen for immigrant groups, though, said the restrictions -- similar to
those in more than two dozen other states -- will do little to prevent
terrorism. They noted that most of the Sept. 11 hijackers were in the United
States legally. They also complain that such laws could cause problems even for
legal residents. Jorge Figueredo, co-chairman of the Virginia Coalition of
Latino Organizations, said his group recorded 336 cases of legal immigrants
denied licenses in the last six months of 2002.

"There is frustration about the way things are going," he said. "One thing that
is very worrisome is that many of these bills were passed more on emotion rather
than reason."

With the crackdown, there is talk among some in Northern Virginia's immigrant
community of migrating across the Potomac River to a state that seems more
hospitable, said Diego Mendez, who headed the Tenants and Workers Support
Committee's lobbying efforts against the Virginia legislation.

"Until now, it had never occurred to me to leave Virginia," said Maria del
Carmen Cabrera, a legal Salvadoran immigrant living in Alexandria, speaking
through an interpreter. "But now I'm very concerned."

The 2001 terrorist attacks prompted some Maryland political leaders to view
undocumented immigrants with concern as well, but political analysts say that
was tempered by a countervailing trend: mobilization of the state's Latino
community.

In 2000, immigrant groups formed a statewide organization, the Maryland Latino
Coalition for Justice, to translate their growing numbers into political power.
The effort came more than two years before their counterparts in Virginia did
the same.

This year's Maryland General Assembly claims the first Hispanics ever elected to
the House of Delegates: Democrats Victor R. Ramirez of Prince George's County
and Ana Sol Gutierrez of Montgomery County. Virginia has yet to elect a Latino
state legislator, and only two Hispanics have been elected to local offices.

The Maryland coalition's efforts reflect a "night-and-day difference from
Virginia, which has some very strong conservative streaks and has not seen the
dramatic impact of immigrant populations becoming extremely active and
influential around election time," said Keith Haller, a political analyst in
Montgomery. "That's the fulcrum by which these legislative issues are dealt
with."

Encouraged by the two House victories and the efforts other candidates have made
to woo Latino voters, Maryland Hispanic advocates crafted an ambitious agenda
for this year's legislative session, centered on overturning bans on in-state
tuition and driver's licenses for illegal immigrants.

The in-state tuition measure passed both chambers but faces a threatened
gubernatorial veto.

The coalition packed the House judiciary panel's hearings on the license bill,
which, as initially worded, would have prohibited the consideration of
immigration status in issuing a license and would have expanded what foreign
documents an applicant could use for identification. Several Latino proponents
testified that the measure would, among other things, ease the hardship on
immigrants currently unable to drive themselves to jobs, hospitals and schools.

But a dozen survivors and relatives of victims of the Pentagon and World Trade
Center attacks argued that the bill would make the nation more vulnerable to
terrorism by allowing would-be attackers to more easily obtain a form of
identification that is widely accepted for everything from boarding a plane to
opening a bank account.

Del. Herbert H. McMillan (R-Anne Arundel) worried afterward that passing such a
measure when Virginia was moving in the opposite direction "makes our state
attractive to illegal immigrants. . . . If you were an illegal immigrant,
wouldn't you want to live in a place where you could get a driver's license and
in-state tuition?"

Concerned about the bill's chances, Gutierrez and other sponsors pulled back.
"Clearly . . . while we're in a period of war is not a time when we would have
been successful," Gutierrez said. Instead, they opted for a task force to study
the idea further.

The full House concurred. The measure is now before the Senate.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              81 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 22, 2003 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Latinos Push Warner To Veto Tuition Bill;
In-State Rates for Immigrants Urged

BYLINE: R.H. Melton, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B07

LENGTH: 686 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND April 21


Latino leaders urged Gov. Mark R. Warner today to veto legislation barring
illegal immigrants from receiving in-state tuition rates at Virginia colleges.
Administration officials and Warner's fellow Democrats said he favors vetoing
the bill before a May 2 deadline for such action.

At a state Capitol news conference, Hispanic leaders, most from Northern
Virginia's growing Latino community, said a Republican proposal denying cheaper
in-state rates to people in the United States illegally would be unfair to a
population that pays taxes, serves in the U.S. armed forces and performs other
civic duties of legal residents.

"We want to continue the American dream," said Jorge E. Figueredo, co-chairman
of the Springfield-based Virginia Coalition of Latino Organizations. "If you are
paying taxes, then you deserve to receive the in-state tuition status."

The chief sponsor of the tuition legislation, Del. Thelma D. Drake (R-Norfolk),
said no special tuition benefit should be extended to undocumented students. She
added that she fully expects Warner to veto her bill, HB 2339.

"The fact is these are people, no matter how sad the circumstances, who are not
here legally," Drake said. "Why would you create a benefit for them?"

The GOP's election-year proposal passed by wide margins in the Republican-led
General Assembly, but Warner sent it back this spring with an amendment that
would have created an exception for about 150 students who could show they lived
in the state for five years, graduated from a Virginia high school and intended
to become citizens. Their parents also would be required to show they paid state
taxes for at least three years.

The legislature rejected Warner's amendment, sending the full measure back to
the governor, who can sign it into law, allow it to go on the books without his
signature or veto it outright.

Since taking office last year, Warner has used his veto sparingly; his veto this
year of a Republican proposal to abolish the estate tax was the second time he
exercised the power on a major issue. That veto was upheld narrowly on April 2.

Warner was vacationing today and unavailable for comment, but his press
secretary, Ellen Qualls, reiterated his objections to the measure.

"The governor obviously had grave concerns about the anti-immigrant motivations
that may have been behind this legislation," said Qualls, who attended the news
conference of Latino leaders.

As Warner has noted, states with large immigrant populations, such as California
and Texas, as well as Maryland, have moved in the opposite direction of Virginia
to expand in-state tuition availability to undocumented immigrants. Maryland
Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. (R) has not announced his plans for the tuition bill
passed by the Democrat-dominated assembly in Annapolis.

Publicly, Warner has disparaged the Drake bill and has been more critical in
private conversations with fellow Democrats and other leaders, saying voter
sentiment will be on his side should he veto the measure. In those discussions,
Warner has noted that several Virginia military servicemen who have been killed
or wounded in the war in Iraq have been illegal immigrants.

The Latino leaders' news conference coincided with a legislative hearing into
the challenges that Virginia's immigrant influx poses to the state's educational
system.

Robert G. Templin Jr., president of Northern Virginia Community College, told
lawmakers that Drake's bill would have a "chilling effect" on the students and
families working their way through the region's K-12 system of public schools.

About 40,000 students in Fairfax County speak English as their second language;
about 100 of the 9,000 foreign nationals at NVCC are undocumented and pay
out-of-state tuition, as required by state regulation, Templin said.

The Fairfax County Chamber of Commerce has urged Warner to veto the bill, citing
NVCC's "vital" role in job training for local companies.

The legislation, "in its current form, would be a miserable workforce policy for
communities as diverse as Fairfax County," Chamber President William D. Lecos
said in a letter to Warner.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              82 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 1, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Warner Vetoes Tuition Curbs;
Bill Sought to Bar In-State Rates for Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: R.H. Melton, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 924 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND April 30


Gov. Mark R. Warner (D) vetoed legislation today that would have barred
undocumented immigrants from receiving in-state tuition rates at Virginia
colleges, saying the Republican-backed measure was intended only to "score a
political victory against 'illegal aliens.' "

"I will not attach my signature to legislation which has no substantive effect
and is designed solely to score political points and divide people," Warner said
in an unusually blunt veto message to the Republican-led General Assembly.

State and national Latino leaders -- including many in the Washington suburbs,
which are home to Virginia's most politically active Hispanic community --
welcomed the demise of a bill that would have required state-supported colleges
and universities to charge out-of-state tuition rates to immigrants who lack
federal documentation.

Disappointed Republicans said they had made an important policy point in
approving the measure by wide margins in the legislative session this year. They
said Warner's veto did not alter existing state policy that denies in-state
rates to illegal immigrants, a point that Warner conceded.

However, Del. Thelma D. Drake (R-Norfolk), who sponsored HB 2339 at the behest
of Attorney General Jerry W. Kilgore (R), said Warner's veto "sends the wrong
message. It says to people it's okay to break our laws and still get benefits."

Arlington County Board member Walter Tejada (D), the state's highest-ranking
Hispanic official and an opponent of the bill, said, "In the climate we're
living in, everyone in the immigrant community will notice this."

"It's a huge decision," said Brent A. Wilkes, national executive director of the
D.C.-based League of United Latin American Citizens, the nation's oldest and
largest Hispanic organization. "Warner stood up for something that might not be
politically popular."

Warner's veto ended for now a debate that raged through the legislature's winter
session and beyond, as the Democratic governor tried unsuccessfully to persuade
the assembly to carve out an exception for about 100 immigrant college students
who were trying to obtain U.S. citizenship after years of residency.

Lawmakers this month rebuffed his effort to amend the bill, sending it back to
him for final action. They are not scheduled to meet again until January, so the
veto stands for now.

When Warner signaled his intention to exercise his veto power, which he had used
sparingly, the issue blossomed into an intense -- if largely symbolic -- spat
between Democrats and Republicans.

While both sides were eager to shore up their respective bases of political
support in advance of the Nov. 4 elections for all 140 General Assembly seats,
they squared off in an arena where other racial and ethnic issues were suddenly
at the forefront.

Winning a Warner veto was an important test of Virginia's loosely organized
political network of Latinos, who, according to the 2000 Census, number about
329,000, or nearly 5 percent of the state's population.

Meanwhile, there was also a bitter quarrel between Kilgore and Warner over the
attorney general's effort to overturn the affirmative action policy of Virginia
Tech. The university's board voted to invalidate its affirmative action plan,
sparking campus protests, but later reversed itself.

Kilgore, who is unopposed for the GOP gubernatorial nomination in 2005, said in
a statement that he was disappointed by Warner's veto.

"Legal immigration has made this country what it is," Kilgore said. "I continue
to believe that it is not too much to ask that people obey the laws of our
society before they take advantage of what our society has to offer."

Warner abandoned most of the gubernatorial niceties that usually accompany
official veto messages, but he did side with Kilgore and other proponents of the
bill by noting that, under current policy, in-state tuition rates were already
unavailable to students who are illegal immigrants. In Maryland, the General
Assembly has passed legislation that would extend in-state tuition benefits to
illegal immigrants attending state colleges and universities. Gov. Robert L.
Ehrlich J. (R) has not announced what action he will take on that bill.

In Virginia, several Latino leaders privately expressed chagrin over Warner's
acknowledgment of the bill's impact, saying they would have preferred his
official endorsement of taking a case-by-case approach to granting the less
expensive in-state rates to immigrants.

"Every immigrant, documented or undocumented, who applies for in-state status
should be evaluated individually as the rules require," the leaders of the
Springfield-based Virginia Coalition of Latino Organizations said in a
statement.

Wilkes said Warner's veto could be a boost to his group and others asking
Congress to repeal federal rules that discourage states from providing in-state
tuition to students who are in the United States illegally.

"There is no justification, in Virginia or at the federal level, to punish a
child for what their parents have done," said Wilkes, who lives in Fairfax
County. "If we don't get this, it doesn't bode well for anything else."

William D. Lecos, president of the Fairfax County Chamber of Commerce, which
urged a Warner veto, said the bill would have hurt workforce training in diverse
communities such as Northern Virginia, where businesses rely heavily on
immigrant graduates of the local community college and other public schools.

One "unintended consequence" would have been "stifled career opportunities for
the region's residents," Lecos said.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              83 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 4, 2003 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

WEEK IN REVIEW;
April 27-May 3

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C04

LENGTH: 541 words


Gov. Mark R. Warner (D) vetoed legislation that would have barred illegal
immigrants from receiving in-state tuition rates at Virginia colleges, saying
the Republican-backed measure was intended only to "score a political victory
against 'illegal aliens.' "

State and national Latino leaders cheered Warner's rejection of the measure,
which would have required state-supported colleges and universities to charge
out-of-state tuition rates to immigrants who lacked federal documentation.

Prince William County Commonwealth's Attorney Paul B. Ebert (D) has appointed a
special prosecutor to investigate whether a poll commissioned last month by
Democratic Sheriff E. Lee Stoffregen III, who is running for reelection,
violated state law.

Ebert said two people who were contacted during the survey complained to his
office that pollsters did not inform them that Stoffregen was behind the survey,
as required by law. Democrat John Collier, who is challenging Stoffregen in a
June 10 primary, also called for an investigation.

The penalty for violating the election law is a $ 2,500 fine.

President Bush nominated Claude A. Allen, a prominent Virginia conservative, to
the Richmond-based U.S. Court of Appeals for the 4th Circuit.

Allen is the No. 2 official at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
and was Virginia's secretary of health and human resources when James S. Gilmore
III (R) was governor. Allen, 42, is an advocate of home schooling and abstinence
education.

An appellate court ruled that the Virginia Military Institute's 50-year
tradition of prayer before dinner is unconstitutional, saying that the "coercive
atmosphere" surrounding the observance violates the First Amendment rights of
cadets.

The 28-page decision by the Richmond-based U.S. Court of Appeals for the 4th
Circuit upholds a ruling by U.S. District Judge Norman K. Moon in Lynchburg, who
in January called the ceremony a "state-sponsored religious exercise" in
violation of the First Amendment separation of church and state. The American
Civil Liberties Union filed the suit against the state-financed school last May
on behalf of two cadets.

* A Roman Catholic woman from the District who founded a national organization
to serve needy children has been accepted by the Vatican as a candidate for
sainthood. Mary Virginia Merrick, who built the Bethesda-based Christ Child
Society, a 116-year-old organization of 7,000 volunteers, is the first person
nominated by the Archdiocese of Washington to become a saint. Merrick died in
1955 at age 89. For most of her life she had a painful spinal disease that left
her unable to walk or hold up her head.

* Residents of Prince George's County, one of the least wealthy counties in the
Washington region, are among the most generous in the nation when it comes to
giving to charities and religious organizations, according to a study published
in the Chronicle of Philanthropy. Prince George's residents gave an average of
16.7 percent of their discretionary income to such groups, the fifth-highest
level among the largest counties in the United States. The average charitable
donation claimed by Prince George's residents on itemized federal tax returns
was $ 3,443, from discretionary income averaging $ 20,615.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              84 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 9, 2003 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Tuition Issue Makes for Unusual Alliances;
Ehrlich Hears From Both Sides on In-State Rates for Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: Nurith C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 884 words


An unusual set of coalitions has emerged to lobby Maryland Gov. Robert L.
Ehrlich Jr. (R) on one of the more controversial measures passed by the General
Assembly this past session: a bill to allow illegal immigrants to pay in-state
tuition rates at Maryland colleges.

Conservative Republicans and groups favoring curbs on immigration have been
joined by some African American lawmakers and the state NAACP. They argue that
the measure would unwisely reward illegal immigration and come at the expense of
Maryland's underprivileged citizens, who would face increased competition for
slots at state colleges and universities.

"I've seen so many individuals come to this country and get in line ahead of
me," said Del. Emmett C. Burns Jr., an African American Democrat representing
Baltimore County. "It won't be long before the Iraqis come in and get in the
line ahead of me. I'm just tired of that."

On the other side, Republicans from increasingly diverse Montgomery County have
joined Democratic lawmakers, immigrant advocates and other African American
groups to urge Ehrlich to sign the bill. They argue that students brought into
the state illegally as children should not be penalized for their parents'
decisions and that the state will benefit by ensuring that these students can
get an affordable education.

Moderate GOP leaders see an added advantage to support for the bill: bringing
Maryland's emerging Latino population into the party.

"I don't think that Republicans are anti-immigration," said Alma Preciado, a
vice chair of the state's recently formed Hispanic Republican Caucus. But if
Ehrlich does not sign the bill, "people will assume that's why. . . . It would
send a very bad signal to Hispanics."

Kenneth H. Masters, Ehrlich's chief legislative officer and the man at the
receiving end of much of the lobbying, said he finds it all a little surprising.
"We've seen the kind of array of responses that one would expect, but not
necessarily from the places one would expect to get them."

Stephen N. Abrams, chairman of the Montgomery County GOP and a proponent of the
bill, agreed. "This is a wild issue because it creates all sorts of strange
bedfellows."

Passed without veto-proof majorities in both the House of Delegates and the
state Senate, the legislation came as Virginia lawmakers moved in the opposite
direction, approving a measure that would have explicitly prohibited the state's
illegal immigrants from receiving in-state tuition rates. Gov. Mark R. Warner
(D) vetoed the bill last week.

The Maryland measure would let students qualify for the cheaper tuition rates
regardless of their immigration status if they met several requirements. For
instance, they would have to spend at least three years at a Maryland secondary
school, graduate or obtain a high school equivalency diploma in the state, and
sign an affidavit promising to apply for legal permanent residency as soon as
they are able.

Ehrlich, who has until May 27 to act on the bill, has said he is not inclined to
support it. Republican sources say he intends to veto it. Masters, however, said
no decision has been made. "There are pros and cons that are being weighed," he
said. "I think it's premature to make predictions about the fate of this bill."

Among the arguments is one advanced by Del. Herbert H. McMillan (R-Anne
Arundel), who has warned the governor that many Marylanders will be outraged if
he signs the bill. "I've got more phone calls against this legislation than any
other issue with the exception of slots this year," he said.

That case was bolstered April 19 when the Maryland State Conference of Branches
of the NAACP passed a resolution urging the governor to delay signing the bill
until he could determine that it would not adversely affect educational
opportunities for minority and low-income citizens.

Officers of the state NAACP did not return phone calls requesting comment.
However, several members of local NAACP branches and other African American
activists said they disagreed with the resolution.

"I think the impact [on African Americans] will be very limited," said Isiah
Leggett, chairman of Maryland's Democratic Party and an African American. "But
even if it weren't, we cannot advance the interests of African American citizens
by denying opportunities to others."

Henry Hailstock, president of the Montgomery County branch of the NAACP, said he
would encourage the statewide group to pass a new resolution supporting the
tuition bill at its next meeting, on May 17.

As controversy over the bill continues, a measure that could improve illegal
immigrants' chances of obtaining a Maryland driver's license is also drawing
fire.

Recently, a group representing relatives of victims of the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks joined with the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a
national organization favoring limits on immigration, to sponsor a radio ad
warning Maryland voters that the bill would let future terrorists obtain an
essential form of identification "without a background check, no criminal check,
no immigration check."

However, bill proponents said the ad is grossly misleading because the measure
calls only for a task force to study the possibility of removing Maryland's
requirement that license applicants prove they are in the country lawfully.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              85 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 9, 2003 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Tuition Issue Creates New Alliances;
Ehrlich Hears From Both Sides on Rates for Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: Nurith C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 886 words


An unusual set of coalitions has emerged to lobby Maryland Gov. Robert L.
Ehrlich Jr. (R) on one of the more controversial measures passed by the General
Assembly this past session: a bill to allow illegal immigrants to pay in-state
tuition rates at Maryland colleges.

Conservative Republicans and groups favoring curbs on immigration have been
joined by some African American lawmakers and the state NAACP. They argue that
the measure would unwisely reward illegal immigration and come at the expense of
Maryland's underprivileged citizens, who would face increased competition for
slots at state colleges and universities.

"I've seen so many individuals come to this country and get in line ahead of
me," said Del. Emmett C. Burns Jr., an African American Democrat representing
Baltimore County. "It won't be long before the Iraqis come in and get in the
line ahead of me. I'm just tired of that."

On the other side, Republicans from increasingly diverse Montgomery County have
joined Democratic lawmakers, immigrant advocates and other African American
groups to urge Ehrlich to sign the bill. They argue that students brought into
the state illegally as children should not be penalized for their parents'
decisions and that the state will benefit by ensuring that these students can
get an affordable education.

Moderate GOP leaders see an added advantage to support for the bill: bringing
Maryland's emerging Latino population into the party.

"I don't think that Republicans are anti-immigration," said Alma Preciado, a
vice chair of the state's recently formed Hispanic Republican Caucus. But if
Ehrlich does not sign the bill, "people will assume that's why. . . . It would
send a very bad signal to Hispanics."

Kenneth H. Masters, Ehrlich's chief legislative officer and the man at the
receiving end of much of the lobbying, said he finds it all a little surprising.

"We've seen the kind of array of responses that one would expect, but not
necessarily from the places one would expect to get them," he said.

Stephen N. Abrams, chairman of the Montgomery County GOP and a proponent of the
bill, agreed. "This is a wild issue because it creates all sorts of strange
bedfellows."

Passed without veto-proof majorities in both the House of Delegates and the
state Senate, the legislation came as Virginia lawmakers moved in the opposite
direction, approving a measure that would have explicitly prohibited the state's
illegal immigrants from receiving in-state tuition rates. Gov. Mark R. Warner
(D) vetoed the bill last week.

The Maryland measure would let students qualify for the cheaper tuition rates
regardless of their immigration status if they met several requirements. For
instance, they would have to spend at least three years at a Maryland secondary
school, graduate or obtain a high school equivalency diploma in the state, and
sign an affidavit promising to apply for legal permanent residency as soon as
they are able.

Ehrlich, who has until May 27 to act on the bill, has said he is not inclined to
support it. Republican sources say he intends to veto it. Masters, however, said
no decision has been made. "There are pros and cons that are being weighed," he
said. "I think it's premature to make predictions about the fate of this bill."

Among the arguments is one advanced by Del. Herbert H. McMillan (R-Anne
Arundel), who has warned the governor that many Marylanders will be outraged if
he signs the bill. "I've got more phone calls against this legislation than any
other issue with the exception of slots this year," he said.

That case was bolstered April 19 when the Maryland State Conference of Branches
of the NAACP passed a resolution urging the governor to delay signing the bill
until he could determine that it would not adversely affect educational
opportunities for minority and low-income citizens.

Officers of the state NAACP did not return phone calls requesting comment.
However, several members of local NAACP branches and other African American
activists said they disagreed with the resolution.

"I think the impact [on African Americans] will be very limited," said Isiah
Leggett, chairman of Maryland's Democratic Party and an African American. "But
even if it weren't, we cannot advance the interests of African American citizens
by denying opportunities to others."

Henry Hailstock, president of the Montgomery County branch of the NAACP, said he
would encourage the statewide group to pass a new resolution supporting the
tuition bill at its next meeting, on May 17.

As controversy over the bill continues, a measure that could improve illegal
immigrants' chances of obtaining a Maryland driver's license is also drawing
fire.

Recently, a group representing relatives of victims of the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks joined with the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a
national organization favoring limits on immigration, to sponsor a radio ad
warning Maryland voters that the bill would let future terrorists obtain an
essential form of identification "without a background check, no criminal check,
no immigration check."

However, bill proponents said the ad is grossly misleading because the measure
calls only for a task force to study the possibility of removing Maryland's
requirement that license applicants prove they are in the country lawfully.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              86 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 15, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

18 Migrants Found Dead In Trailer at Tex. Truck Stop;
Victims Are Believed to Be Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: Lee Hockstader and Karin Brulliard, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1139 words

DATELINE: VICTORIA, Tex. May 14


On a desolate stretch of south Texas highway, sheriff's deputies responding to a
routine disturbance call discovered a tableau of horror early this morning: the
bodies of 17 people, most of them believed to be illegal immigrants, sprawled in
and around a trailer at a roadside truck stop.

An 18th person recovered from the trailer died later in the day, making it the
most lethal incident involving suspected illegal immigrants in at least 16
years. This afternoon, federal authorities arrested a man suspected to have been
the driver of the tractor-trailer rig, which he had apparently abandoned about
175 miles north of the Mexican border along U.S. Highway 77.

Authorities said the dead -- among at least 62 people packed into the trailer of
an 18-wheeler -- had apparently suffocated in the nearly airless, heat-baked
container despite the efforts of some who tried to claw two holes through the
foam insulation to admit fresh air.

Most of the trailer's human cargo was male. The youngest of the dead was a boy,
perhaps 5 years old. Among the survivors was a girl who celebrated her 15th
birthday today in an emergency shelter set up by local authorities. Sheriff's
deputies brought her cake and cookies.

At least 44 survivors were picked up by local authorities, a few requiring
hospitalization for dehydration and heat exhaustion and others found in twos and
threes at roadsides throughout the day after initially trying to flee.

Local officials could not say how many hours, or days, the victims spent in the
trailer before it was discovered about 2:30 a.m., nor where their trip
originated, nor what they endured.

But police in the southern Texas town of Kingsville, about 100 miles south of
the truck stop where the immigrants' journey ended, got a glimpse of their
agony. It came when an emergency dispatcher received a 911 call from a man
speaking Spanish and broken English at 11:42 p.m. Tuesday.

"He was saying, 'We're asphyxiating. Help me, help me. We're asphyxiating,' "
said Sam Granato, chief of the Kingsville Police. "In Spanish, he said, 'We're
in a trailer. We're illegals.' He goes on to say that there's 10 down, meaning
that there's 10 people passed out, suffocating."

The call ended before a Spanish-speaking dispatcher could translate, Granato
said. But it was only later, when the tape of the call was interpreted, that the
message was clear.

Some time later, Granato said, a motorist called police to report he had seen
what appeared to have been the same 18-wheeler -- with a hand protruding through
a hole in the rear door as it drove north on Highway 77. "Apparently they
managed to make some holes to try and wave bandanas to try and get attention
from passersby," Granato said. "One was waving a bandana in front of a tail
light."

Following a disturbance call, local law enforcement officials converged before
dawn today on the Speedy truck stop just south of this town of Victoria, where
the refrigerator trailer was discovered with its doors open. The trailer, parked
in a lot behind the gas station, was white and unmarked except for its New York
plates.

The officials found four bodies lying on the pavement near the truck and 13 more
inside, one of whose bare feet were sticking out of the back. They said it was
not clear how the doors had been opened, or by whom.

"This is not about numbers, it's not about jurisdiction," said Dexter Eaves, the
Victoria County district attorney, who promised aggressive prosecution of the
smugglers responsible for the incident. "We're discussing how to get every ounce
of justice for these people that's coming their way -- whether that's from the
federal or state government it matters not to us."

U.S. officials said the punishment under federal law could include the death
penalty. "This case involves the greatest loss of life in recent history in what
appears to be an alien smuggling case," said Asa Hutchinson, undersecretary for
border and transportation security in the Department of Homeland Security, at a
news conference in Washington. He called the case a "tragedy."

By late this afternoon, a half dozen of the immigrants remained hospitalized,
most of them young and middle-aged men. And the dead remained in the trailer
through much of the day as investigators gathered evidence.

"You can just imagine being one of 60 in a tractor-trailer with little to no
ventilation," said Jerrel Robinowich, a spokesman for Detar Navarro hospital in
Victoria. "They'd been out of the truck, in an ambulance before they got here,
and they still showed up with a 105-degree body temperature. They were all very
close to critical heat exhaustion."

The National Weather Service said it was 74 degrees with 93 percent humidity at
2 a.m., when the trailer was discovered. The high Tuesday was 91, one degree shy
of a record for the date.

This evening, law enforcement officers were still searching for immigrants who
were believed to be on foot in the area. Some officials said there may have been
more than 100 people in the trailer, meaning three dozen or more may have been
on the loose. After interviewing survivors, officials said that all appeared to
be from Mexico, Guatemala or Honduras. Mexican consular officials from Houston
were on the scene to help identify the dead.

The survivors, who were being cared for by the Red Cross and government agencies
at a shelter, were described by officials as drained and disoriented. The
authorities said they were giving conflicting accounts of their ordeal, making
it difficult to piece together exactly what had happened.

"They are now at our local community center, receiving medical attention, water
and food," Victoria County Sheriff Michael Ratcliff said.

The suspected driver of the rig, who was identified as Tyrone Williams, of
Schenectady, N.Y., was arrested later in the day near Houston. His wife was
reported to have said that he told her his rig had been hijacked.

The highways leading north from Mexico toward Houston and other Texas cities are
frequent conduits for immigrants and drugs smuggled from south of the border.
Small truckloads of illegal immigrants, usually tired but otherwise in good
health, are apprehended so frequently that it barely counts as news in the area.

Today's case represents one of the deadliest of its kind, but it is not an
isolated event. Last October, workers at a grain elevator in Iowa discovered 11
decomposed bodies of Mexican immigrants in a rail car. And in 1987, federal
border agents found 18 Mexicans dead, with one survivor among them, in a boxcar
in Sierra Blanca, Tex. The survivor told authorities that their smuggler had
locked them in the boxcar in El Paso.

"This is an incredible tragedy," said Eaves, the district attorney. "There's a
lot of people who would like to come to America and I can't blame them for
that."

Brulliard reported from Austin.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              87 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 16, 2003 Friday
                                 Final Edition

'They Were Yelling, Crying And Screaming';
Details of Immigrants' Ordeal Emerge

BYLINE: Lee Hockstader and Mary Jordan, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 1123 words

DATELINE: VICTORIA, Tex. May 15


The deadly leg of their journey began just when the illegal immigrants thought
the dangerous part was over.

Scores of them, searching for jobs and relatives in the United States, had
already managed to cross the border illegally. Some had rejoiced in navigating
the 3,000-mile trip by bus and on foot from Honduras and El Salvador. Others
were relieved they had evaded U.S. border agents, leaving behind their
impoverished Mexican towns. Some had come alone, others in small groups, but now
they were all huddled together in a safe house in Harlingen, Tex., just north of
Brownsville, finally in the United States.

That was when smugglers loaded them into the trailer of a white 18-wheeler, one
that looked like hundreds of others on Texas roads that haul everything from
VCRs to watermelons. It was late Tuesday night, and the driver was bringing them
300 miles through the Texas heat to Houston, from which they would fan out to
restaurant jobs, packing plants and waiting relatives all over the country. For
this they had each paid smugglers $ 1,000 to $ 2,000.

But with 70 of them crammed in the dark, sealed, airless trailer, oxygen ran out
fast, and soon they began to gasp and wilt. "They were yelling, crying and
screaming," said Eduardo Ibarrola, the Mexican consul general in Houston, who
interviewed at least 32 of the survivors today and on Wednesday.

Increasingly desperate, some managed to punch holes from the inside through the
taillights, and frantically began sticking out their hands and scraps of
clothing to attract the attention of passing motorists. At least one who had a
cell phone called 911 and begged for help from the local police, but his frantic
pleas in Spanish were scarcely understood -- and went untranslated for four
hours, until it was too late.

Finally, after four hours on the road, the driver pulled into a truck stop south
of the town of Victoria and opened the container door around 2 a.m. Apparently,
what he saw made him flee, according to a criminal complaint filed against him
today -- the dead and dying, collapsed and drained on the trailer floor. The
driver, apparently accompanied by a woman, unlinked the cab and drove off,
leaving the immigrants to fend for themselves.

"I have seen a lot of horrible things, but this is truly tragic," said Ibarrola,
who said a 5-year-old boy and a man believed to be his father were among the 18
who perished. So were three men in their twenties and thirties from the central
Mexican state of Guanajuato, according to officials in Texas who were still
trying to identify the victims today. Several youths from Honduras and a
14-year-old from El Salvador are among those in the hospital.

The agonizing deaths on a Texas highway this week were the latest of the nearly
2,000 deaths of illegal immigrants crossing the border since 1997, according to
the Mexican Foreign Ministry. The tragedy has added urgency to Mexico's
long-standing plea that the U.S. Congress approve a new migration pact that
would allow more Mexicans to work legally in the United States.

"We have to do something. These tragedies keep happening -- people are dying in
the desert, in the river, in railroad cars and, now, at a truck stop," Ibarrola
said. He said those with whom he spoke included three teenage girls from Central
America who were to meet up with relatives, and several who were headed to
service jobs in restaurants, including one as far away as North Carolina. "We
need to have a better way to provide workers that the U.S. economy needs."

As U.S. and Mexican officials promised to cooperate to bring the smugglers to
justice, the suspected driver of the rig, Tyrone Williams of Schenectady, N.Y.,
was charged with trafficking in illegal immigrants. According to the indictment,
filed in U.S. District Court in Houston, Williams, 32, was arrested at Twelve
Oaks Medical Center, a Houston area hospital, where he arrived around 5:15 a.m.
Wednesday, about three hours after leaving his human cargo 130 miles to the
south. At first Williams told a nurse at the hospital, who thought he seemed
"extremely anxious and nervous," that he believed the trailer was empty.

But in an interview with federal immigration agents later on Wednesday, Williams
said he had made the arrangements for transporting the undocumented immigrants
with two Hispanic men, whom he knew only as Joe and Abel, according to the
criminal complaint.

Williams said the men told him there would be 16 immigrants in the trailer, and
that he would be paid $ 2,500 to take them to Robstown, Tex., about 120 miles
north of the border, according to the complaint. Once en route, though, he said
the men called him on his cell phone and offered an additional $ 2,500 to
continue all the way to Houston.

It was near Victoria that he noticed, in his rearview mirror, a taillight
dangling from his trailer -- apparently one that was punched out by those
inside. When he pulled over at the truck stop, he heard banging and screaming
through the trailer's rear door; and when he opened it, the desperate immigrants
came spilling out, he reportedly said.

According to the complaint, Williams said he heard a woman in the trailer
screaming, "El nio!" -- the boy! -- over and over.

The driver reportedly told agents that he bought 20 bottles of water for the
immigrants before becoming frightened, unhooking his trailer and leaving the
scene.

About 50 survivors of the incident remained in Victoria today, a half-dozen of
them in hospitals and the rest in a community center where they were being
interviewed by law enforcement investigators and consular officials from Mexico,
El Salvador and Honduras. Authorities said a few survivors who managed to slip
away after sheriff's deputies arrived early Wednesday were still unaccounted
for.

The survivors included 32 Mexicans, 14 Hondurans and four Salvadorans. The dead
comprised at least 13 Mexicans as well as at least one Honduran and one
Salvadoran.

Federal officials said they plan to transfer the survivors to Houston as soon as
appropriate accommodations could be found.

Ibarrola said today that he was working with U.S. prosecutors and the survivors
to try to identify the smugglers. But he said some of the survivors, who plan to
return to Mexico, might be reluctant to identify the smugglers, fearing
reprisals against their families back home.

Mexican President Vicente Fox, in a statement, condemned the illegal trafficking
of people and expressed the hope that those responsible would be severely
punished.

"They're workers, and they come here to get a better life," Ibarrola said. "And
they suffered this nightmare."

Jordan reported from Mexico City. Special correspondent Karin Brulliard
contributed to this report from Austin.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              88 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 25, 2003 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Siding Against the Law-Abiding

BYLINE: Melanie Scarborough

SECTION: EDITORIAL; HOW I SEE IT MELANIE SCARBOROUGH; Pg. B08

LENGTH: 734 words


Virginia Gov. Mark R. Warner (D) recently vetoed legislation that would have
prohibited in-state discounts on college tuition for people who are in this
country illegally. Noting that state regulations deny the benefit already
(although some colleges ignore the regulation), Warner pronounced the measure a
ploy "to score a political victory against 'illegal aliens.' " At the same time,
Warner rejected the suggestion of Del. Phillip Hamilton (R-Newport News) to
extend in-state tuition rates to dependents of military personnel stationed in
Virginia who have legal residency elsewhere.

Hmm. Advocates for illegal immigrants generally vote Democratic; members of the
military tend to vote Republican. Exactly who is more intent on scoring a
political victory?

Illegal immigration is an intractable problem because it can be neither
discussed nor addressed. To mention its detriments invites accusations of
xenophobia and racism.

Certainly, everyone sympathizes with the huddled masses yearning to breathe
free. But pretending it is immaterial whether immigrants are here legally or
illegally is to pretend that the invited guest is no different from the
trespasser. Is Warner unable to discern the difference, or does he find it more
politic to turn a blind eye?

Although illegal immigrants typically are hard workers, they still place a
burden on taxpayers. As part of the underground economy, they often avoid
payroll taxes. Moreover, much of what they earn isn't recycled locally but is
instead sent back to their native countries. The San Francisco Chronicle
reported that illegal immigrants in the United States send $ 23 billion to other
countries each year.

Meanwhile, Virginia spends more than $ 4 million annually paying their medical
bills and more than $ 60 million educating their children. According to the
Federation for American Immigration Reform, incarcerating criminal noncitizens
in the commonwealth's prisons cost taxpayers between $ 8 million and $ 10
million last year.

The price of coming to the United States can be even higher for the illegal
immigrants themselves. Human smugglers charge stiff fees and subject their
clients to extreme danger; many illegal immigrants have suffocated while being
transported hidden inside boxcars and trucks. The Red Cross estimates that every
other day a Central American trying to jump aboard a train bound for the United
States loses a limb. A University of Houston study of migrants detained by
immigration officials in Texas found that one in six females reported being
raped while trying to reach this country.

Even if illegal immigrants could get to this country safely and become
self-supporting, how does it benefit Virginia to provide them with a college
education?

It is against the law to hire them, so we are educating the unemployable.
Illegal immigrants cannot vote, so they don't contribute to an informed
electorate. The principal argument for allowing illegal immigrants to remain in
this country is that the economy depends on their services: They will do menial
work that Americans won't do. If so, why do they need a college education to
change sheets, tend parking garages, drive taxis or wash cars?

Offering subsidies that yield no reciprocal benefits reflects civic generosity,
but government policy should have more substantial bases than "it's nice to
share."

Imagine how Lubomir Chocholak must feel. Earlier this year, a federal court in
Norfolk sentenced him to 27 months in prison for hiring illegal immigrants.
Because he turned a blind eye to immigration status, Chocholak was sent to the
jug. Some of Virginia's college administrators do the same thing but boast of
their benefaction.

Honorable people may disagree about this nation's immigration laws -- e.g., is
it prudent to allow visitors from countries that sponsor terrorism? How many of
the world's 6 billion people can the United States accommodate? But to
implicitly support illegal immigration is to side against the law-abiding, and
that is an unseemly position for a Virginia governor to take.

If Warner opposes existing immigration laws, he can work to change them.
Regardless, he is obligated to ensure that Virginia complies with federal
statutes. But there is little chance he will press for compliance, because that
means protecting taxpayers' interests.

And that is not how Democrats score political victories.

scarboroughsfare@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              89 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 4, 2003 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

U.S., Mexico Team Up to Curb Immigrant Deaths Along Border

BYLINE: Kimberly Edds, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A25

LENGTH: 445 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES June 3


Fearing another deadly summer along the U.S.-Mexican border, federal officials
and the Mexican government today announced a joint campaign to dispatch more
agents and employ more surveillance technology to the desert regions where many
migrants have perished in attempted crossings in recent years.

Despite treacherous terrain, and summer temperatures that often exceed 100
degrees, hundreds of illegal migrants try to make it through the Sonoran Desert
each year. Nearly 100 people died trying to cross the region last year.

"It's the 'corridor of death,' " U.S. Customs and Border Protection spokesman
Henry Rolon said. "If they come through that area, there is a high probability
that they are going to die if they don't have any assistance."

Named Operation Desert Safeguard, the joint effort will add 150 Border Patrol
agents to an area that stretches along the southern Arizona border, west of
Nogales. Agents will cover the region in specially retrofitted Hummer vehicles
designed for search-and-rescue efforts, and on horseback. Two additional
surveillance aircraft have also been assigned to look for migrants in the border
region.

Twenty search-and-rescue beacons also are being placed across the desert,
allowing migrants in distress to press a button that will summon Border Patrol
agents. And some agents will be sent to camp out in remote locations in an
attempt to dissuade migrant smugglers from entering the region.

"The loss of life along our border and in the West Desert Corridor is deplorable
and unacceptable," Robert C. Bonner, commissioner of the Bureau of Customs and
Border Protection, said in a statement today. The joint effort "will
dramatically reduce the number of people attempting to illegally enter the
United States through the Sonoran Desert area, and by doing so, we will be able
to dramatically reduce the number of people who die attempting to cross that
desert."

Public service announcements will warn people in Mexico of the risks of illegal
border crossings, as well as the dangers of trusting smugglers.

The Spanish-language ads will also air in the United States to discourage
families from encouraging illegal crossings.

The campaign follows one of the deadliest cases of immigrant smuggling in recent
U.S. history.

Nineteen illegal immigrants died last month after being trapped inside an
airtight tractor-trailer when the driver abandoned the vehicle at a Victoria,
Tex., truck stop.

More than 70 smuggled workers had been packed into the truck without ventilation
in near-record heat. The toll climbed again today, when the bodies of three
suspected illegal immigrants were found inside a rail car outside of Houston.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              90 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 19, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Report Faults Handling Of Immigrant Children

BYLINE: John Mintz, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 570 words


Illegal immigrant children who are detained after entering the United States
without parents often are imprisoned with young convicts, denied access to
lawyers and at times strip-searched or placed in solitary confinement for minor
infractions, according to a new report by an advocacy organization.

The 83-page report released yesterday by Amnesty International USA is the first
comprehensive examination of a long-standing problem that has drawn public
attention only in recent years: unaccompanied minors who leave their homelands
only to be held in U.S. juvenile detention centers or shelters pending
resolution of their cases.

"I would describe the situation as Dickensian," said William F. Schulz,
executive director of Amnesty International USA. "It's truly incredible that in
the 21st century in the United States we would allow children who themselves
have been victims of crimes to be treated this way."

Schulz and other human rights activists expressed hope that conditions for these
often traumatized youngsters will improve now that responsibility for their care
has shifted from the former Immigration and Naturalization Service to the
Department of Health and Human Services.

The shift was mandated by the law that folded the INS into the new Department of
Homeland Security on March 1. HHS officials said they are trying to transfer the
youths from the hodgepodge of juvenile detention shelters in which they have
been held to less punitive settings, such as foster homes and the homes of
relatives in this country.

Homeland Security spokesman Bill Strassberger said that "we take every
allegation of mistreatment seriously," and that the former INS had dozens of
stringent standards governing how juvenile detainees were to be treated.

The number of unaccompanied minors detained has more than doubled in four years,
from 2,375 in 1997 to 5,385 in 2001. At any time, about 550 youngsters are held
in detention facilities.

They enter the country with widely varying life stories. Some come to find work
or are fleeing war or political persecution. Others are running away from
abusive families or attempting to join relatives.

Amnesty International USA highlighted a number of individual stories. One boy
described being handcuffed and chained to other children when taken to the
dentist; another said he was strip-searched about 25 times in five weeks in a
secure facility, sometimes for infractions as minor as losing a pen. Children in
one facility in Pennsylvania said staff members kicked them or threw them to the
floor for asking, "Can I use the bathroom?" instead of "May I."

One African girl, Fega, 7, cried whenever she heard her native language, Yoruba,
and spent much of her time in a fetal position. She asked women she encountered
at the Florida shelter where she lived, called Boystown, if they were her
mother.

The report also found "a pattern of failure to diagnose the mental health of
children properly, as well as inadequate access to counseling."

HHS is inspecting all the facilities housing the children to ensure they are
adequate, said Wade F. Horn, the department's assistant secretary for children
and families. Horn added that the agency is reviewing "whether our budget is
adequate to the task."

Schulz said the effort is "considerably underfunded." He said it has yet to be
determined whether transferring the program to HHS will solve the problems
highlighted in the report.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              91 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 13, 2003 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Tapping The Latino Market;
Store Owners Serving Growing Population

BYLINE: Ernesto Londono, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: SOUTHERN MARYLAND EXTRA; Pg. T01

LENGTH: 853 words


This week's new movie: "Al Infierno con la Migra." Rough translation: The INS
can go to hell. And that's putting it nicely.

In the film, a Mexican immigrant arrives in the United States and stumbles into
a drug-trafficking nun, a handful of crooked lawyers and the devil himself --
all while pursuing his green card.

Forget the plot, though. What's significant here is the location of the movie
rental store that carries the film and more than 500 other titles in Spanish:
It's in Waldorf.

Last year, seeing an untapped niche market in Southern Maryland, Edwin Santiago
and his daughter, Dennisse, 21, opened Disco Centro Santiago, a variety store
that caters to the area's mushrooming Hispanic population.

"When I moved here in 1990, it was rare to hear Spanish around this area," said
Edwin Santiago, 41. "Now, you see Hispanics everywhere. Every restaurant along
301, you go to the kitchen, and there's sure to be a Hispanic there."

Many of the Hispanics in Charles County are men who left their native countries
in search of work. Some entered the United States through the Mexican border and
are here illegally. Many work two or three jobs and send the bulk of their
earnings to their families back home.

"These are extremely hardworking people," said Santiago, who emigrated from
Puerto Rico in 1986 to join the D.C. police department. "They work that hard so
they can send money to their kids."

That's one of the services available from Santiago's store, at 11764 Central
Ave. Each week, his customers send about $ 6,000 to their families through a
courier service that costs $ 10 for transfers of up to $ 500. Prepaid phone
cards and prepaid cellular phone plans also are quite popular.

Then there are Bimbo pastries imported from Mexico, vintage bachata CDs (a
traditional Dominican music), framed religious images with beaming neon lights,
air fresheners in the shape of a sombrero and the quintessential Cuban guayabe
(short-sleeved, loose-fitting embroidered shirts with four pockets).

Oh, and let's not forget the sodas bottled in Mexico.

"Mexican Cokes have more caramel," Santiago said. "They're still using the old
recipe."

Although, historically, big cities have lured immigrants in search of a brighter
future, that is changing. Experts say that as the job market for low-skilled
workers becomes saturated in large metropolitan centers, thousands of newly
arrived Latin American immigrants are choosing to settle in smaller cities such
as Waldorf, where the unemployment rate is low and the cost of living is more
affordable.

The population of Hispanics in Charles County is still small, but it is growing
rapidly. In 1990, there were 1,691 Hispanics in the county; the 2000 Census
counted 2,722 -- a 61 percent increase.

Statewide, since the 2000 Census was conducted, newly arrived Hispanics have
moved to Maryland at a staggering rate. According to U.S. Census Bureau data
analyzed by the Center for Immigration Studies (CIS), from January 2000 to March
2002, the population of newly arrived Mexicans, El Salvadorans and Guatemalans
increased from about 68,000 to 131,000.

"That's really striking," said Steve Camarota, director of research at the
center, a nonprofit think tank based in Washington. "This data shows us that the
growth of immigration from Latin America to Maryland is unabated and enormous."

In all likelihood, Camarota said, the rate at which Hispanics move to Southern
Maryland will continue to increase.

The sense of community and the consolidation of social networks make the area
"more attractive for the next batch," Camarota said. "Maryland just feels more
like home to them," he added.

For almost three years, St. Peter's Catholic Church in Waldorf has been offering
services in Spanish each Sunday. El Mercado, a mom-and-pop grocery store at 3101
Leonardtown Rd., owned by a Salvadoran couple, sells food products imported from
Latin America. And Hispanic enrollment in the county's adult education English
as a second language program increased 30 percent from 2001 to 2002.

La Tolteca, a Mexican restaurant in Waldorf, is yet another meeting point for
Latinos in the area. When the Magaa family moved to Charles County from northern
California, opening a Mexican restaurant seemed like a risky venture.

"We had heard that there was no Hispanic population here," said Veronica Magaa,
27, who runs La Tolteca, at 2708 Crain Highway, with her brother Marcos. "But
it's been very successful -- totally not what I expected."

The language barrier and transportation are two of the biggest challenges the
area's Hispanic immigrants face. Since their immigration status prevents many of
them from obtaining driver's licenses, some must rely on bicycles.

"When it snows or rains hard, they have to wear ponchos or trash bags," Magaa
said.

Driving isn't the only problem. Many immigrants who are here illegally are
hesitant to report when they have been victims of a crime, Magaa and Santiago
said.

"One guy got jumped at the mall last week," Santiago said, relating a story he
heard from customers, "and he didn't call the cops because he thought he might
get deported."

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              92 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 18, 2003 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Illegal Immigrants Buy Into Homeowning Dream

BYLINE: Nurith C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1245 words


Gerardo Cabrera fell in love with the house immediately. There was the bay
window in the living room, the fireplace in the den, and -- most enchanting to a
man raised amid the concrete of Mexico City -- the woods in the back yard.

And so the auto mechanic and his wife, a secretary, decided to pay $ 200,000 for
their own piece of suburban Gaithersburg, a classic tale of immigrants achieving
the American dream.

Except for one detail: At the time, they were in the United States illegally.

Undaunted, Cabrera went to three lenders until he found one who was willing to
accept identification in place of a Social Security card. "I believe in thinking
positively," said Cabrera, 38, who became a permanent legal resident about a
year after buying the house in July 1999. "It doesn't matter how many times
you're told no, because you only need one person to say yes."

Real estate agents and mortgage brokers say a substantial number of illegal
immigrants across the Washington region appear to be finding similar ways to buy
their first homes -- their purchases just one more example of the extent to
which the nation's estimated 9 million undocumented immigrants have become
integrated in American society even as they remain outside the legal system.

"They are undocumented, but they are also working, paying taxes and planting
roots," said Michael A. Stegman, a professor at the University of North Carolina
who studies housing and immigration. Though statistics are not available to
pinpoint the numbers, it stands to reason, he said, that "undocumented
immigrants are potentially a very significant portion of the homeownership
market."

That is not to say buying a home is a simple proposition for people without
valid immigration papers. For one thing, while no law prohibits them from buying
property, many are deterred by the same unfamiliarity or distrust of the banking
system that often stymies legal immigrants. Raised in countries where banks may
be seen as unstable, such immigrants often operate in a cash economy -- getting
their wages in hard currency, storing their savings in boxes and jars at home,
and paying for their purchases upfront rather than with credit cards.

When the time comes to apply for a loan, they have a hard time documenting their
incomes and proving their creditworthiness. This is one reason that less than 50
percent of all immigrants own homes, compared with nearly 70 percent of
native-born citizens, according to a study by the Fannie Mae Foundation.

In addition, illegal immigrants are barred from obtaining loans that are
federally insured or eligible for repurchase by government-established
corporations such as Fannie Mae. These loans usually offer the lowest down
payments and interest rates.

Instead, home buyers without visas must apply for loans that the lender
generally carries on its own books rather than reselling -- and these loans are
not easy to find at favorable rates.

Cabrera, who was admitted to the country on a tourist visa and stayed on to work
months after it expired, was having no luck until a friend recommended that he
contact Alma Preciado, a mortgage broker with Metropolitan Financial Services in
Silver Spring. Preciado found Cabrera a lender that would accept an "individual
taxpayer identification number."

Issued by the Internal Revenue Service since the mid-1990s, these numbers are
intended for people who are not eligible for a Social Security number but need
to report income for tax purposes. They are easy to obtain, and many illegal
immigrants who do not want to compound their violation of immigration law by
failing to pay taxes use their individual ID numbers to file tax returns each
year.

Preciado said five or six customers per month -- about 10 percent of her mainly
Latino clientele -- qualify using an taxpayer ID number rather than a Social
Security number.

Although Cabrera's loan was legal, Preciado declined to identify the lender.
However, she said it was one of two institutions she works with that accept the
taxpayer ID numbers without also requiring proof of legal immigration status. In
exchange, they do not necessarily require a larger down payment, Preciado said,
but they may charge up to two points higher than the prevailing interest rate.

Cabrera didn't have to pay that much. He said he put down 15 percent of the sale
price of his home -- about $ 30,000 that he had earned by selling his apartment
in Mexico City -- and got a rate of 7 percent, roughly the average rate at the
time.

However, other area mortgage brokers said they were not aware of lenders that
could offer such attractive loans to borrowers without Social Security numbers.
Instead, they require such clients to put down 20 percent to 30 percent of a
home's sale price, often an insurmountable obstacle for people who tend to work
low-wage jobs, said Patricia Castellanos, a mortgage broker with Weststar
Mortgage in Woodbridge.

"When I tell them, they get so sad because they have saved enough money for
maybe even 10 percent," Castellanos said, "but 20 percent is just too high."

Yet, she said, there are those who manage to scrape together the difference. "I
had a customer who came to me a year ago, and I told him he didn't have enough,"
she recalled. "So he and his wife took three or four jobs each and saved
everything they could. Last month, they bought a house."

Another option is to ask a family member or friend who does have legal status to
apply for the loan. The illegal immigrant then gives the stand-in money each
month to pay the mortgage.

Luis Chiliquinga , an Ecuadorean construction worker who was in Maryland on an
expired tourist visa in January 2001, resisted that idea at first.

"I'm here working because this country needs us immigrants to do these jobs, but
I can't put my own name on the loan? It just seemed unfair," said Chiliquinga,
who has since obtained a green card.

But unable to afford more than a 5 percent down payment on the $ 150,000 town
house he wanted to buy in Germantown, he decided his only choice was to ask his
daughter, who had become a U.S. citizen through marriage, to apply on his
behalf.

Real estate agents and mortgage brokers say it is hard to tell how many of their
clients reach the same conclusion, because most don't tell. Still, the agents
suspect a fair number of their clients are acting as proxy buyers for
undocumented relatives.

"Sometimes it's really obvious because they all come into my office together:
the brother and his wife and his kid, and I'll think, 'Hmm, that's a little
strange,' " Castellanos said with a laugh.

Hugo Cruz, an agent with F. Richards Realty in Springfield, estimated that one
of 10 sales he handles involves a stand-in.

Whatever the numbers, some advocates for stricter enforcement of immigration
laws see an ominous sign in home buying by illegal immigrants.

"If they're willing to buy a house, to dump their life savings into this kind of
purchase, that suggests they don't think they have anything to fear from
immigration authorities. And they're right," said Steven A. Camarota of the
Center for Immigration Studies in Washington.

Kimberly Propeack, a lawyer with the immigrant rights group Casa de Maryland,
sees a different message.

"I think it reveals that undocumented immigrants have an extraordinary
commitment to their local communities," she said, "and we're just waiting for
immigration law to catch up to that reality."

Staff researcher Margaret Smith contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              93 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 24, 2003 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Mexico Links Immigrants' Deaths in U.S.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 253 words

DATELINE: BROWNSVILLE, Tex. Aug. 23


The deaths of 19 illegal immigrants locked inside a sweltering tractor-trailer
near Victoria in May are related to the deaths of 11 immigrants found last year
inside a rail car in Iowa, according to the Mexican attorney general's office.

Authorities say a Harlingen safehouse was reportedly used by Heriberto
Flores-Rebollar to hide immigrants before they were loaded into latched rail
cars to be smuggled past the border checkpoint at Sarita.

That same house was allegedly used by Flores-Rebollar's common-law wife, Karla
Patricia Chavez, a Honduran woman awaiting trial in the United States. She has
been accused of heading the botched smuggling operation in which immigrants
locked inside a tractor-trailer died of dehydration, hyperthermia and
suffocation.

"We don't have any doubt that both cases are related," Mexican attorney
general's office spokeswoman Elizabeth Juarez told the Brownsville Herald for
its Sunday edition. Juarez cited a report titled "Arrests of Human Trafficking:
Victoria Case."

According to the report, Flores-Rebollar was arrested a year ago in Harlingen in
the deaths of the 11 immigrants.

Mexican officials have issued 37 arrest warrants in the trailer case and have
arrested 12, who will face trial in Mexico. U.S. officials are considering
charging them.

U.S. officials have charged four men with conspiring to transport illegal
immigrants for financial gain where death resulted for their alleged roles in
the Iowa railcar case. They could be sentenced to death if convicted.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              94 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 10, 2002 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

A Driver's License Debate in Calif.;
Controversial Legislation Would Let Undocumented Workers Apply for Permits

BYLINE: William Booth, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 885 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Ramon Hernandez waited patiently for his bus and contemplated the question. "A
driver's license," said the janitor from Mexico, "makes everything better."

Naturally, he would covet one, even though he does not own a car or drive. But
Hernandez shrugs. Like millions of his countrymen, he is in the country
illegally.

For the past several years, advocates have been waging a campaign in state
legislatures to allow undocumented immigrants to obtain a driver's license --
the ubiquitous piece of plastic infinitely useful for life's transactions and
proof of legitimate residency. But any progress they were making ended on Sept.
11.

Now the California Legislature has sent to Gov. Gray Davis (D) a hotly debated
measure that would make it easier for as many 1 million undocumented immigrants
to get a state driver's license.

Proponents say that making a driver's license available to undocumented
immigrants simply acknowledges reality -- that there are millions of such people
living and working in America -- while making the roads safer by ensuring more
drivers are properly licensed, tested and insured.

"It's good public policy," said state assembly member Gil Cedillo, a Democrat
from Los Angeles who sponsored the legislation. "When you're involved in an auto
accident, nobody is going to ask for your immigration status. They want to see
your driver's license and insurance."

The governor, however, is under pressure not to sign the bill. Initially, Davis
threatened a veto, but Cedillo and state Senator Richard Polanco (D) added
provisions to require that undocumented immigrants who seek licenses undergo
criminal background checks and fingerprinting.

Also, the pending law requires applicants to have lived in the United States for
15 months of the past three years, and they must show that they have sent
paperwork to the Immigration and Naturalization Service applying for legal
residency.

The measure still faces opposition from critics who say it rewards people who
entered the United States illegally or have overstayed their visas.

"They broke the law to come here, and so they are not entitled to drive," said
Dan Stein, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
which advocates tougher controls against illegal entry and work in the United
States.

"A license just allows them to stay longer," Stein said, "whether or not they
sent some piece of paper into the INS." Stein also warned: "This represents a
massive security breach."

Issuing a driver's license is a matter left to the states, though many require
applicants to have a Social Security number, which means they are either
citizens or possess work papers. There is, however, a thriving industry churning
out bogus Social Security cards and numbers.

Congress has taken an interest after it was discovered that at least four of the
19 hijackers on Sept. 11 held Virginia driver's licenses, which eased their
travel around the United States. There are proposals to set federal standards
for the kinds of documents and background checks required for a license.

The California measure is indeed moving against a tide of tighter restrictions.

Following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, 21 states enacted new regulations to
make it harder to get licenses, and legislation has been introduced in another
22 states, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures.

The laws are designed to allow states to more thoroughly check the backgrounds
of applicants, and to make it harder to counterfeit licenses.

Michele Waslin, a senior immigration policy analyst at National Council of La
Raza in Washington, a Hispanic advocacy group, said that when she travels around
the country, the desire for a driver's license "is one of the biggest issues in
the Latino immigrant community. This is really very important to people."

But, Waslin said, "We've seen a lot of trouble since Sept. 11. We've had some
very hard-fought battles."

Just as discussion of offering "amnesty" to undocumented workers came to an
abrupt halt, despite high-level support from Mexican President Vicente Fox and
his friend President Bush, the ground has shifted too on the license debate.

Waslin said 61 bills were introduced in state legislatures in the last year that
dealt with immigrants and licenses, and 46 of those attempted to restrict
privileges. Only seven measures passed, she said, though many states tightened
their laws by executive order or agency regulations.

Virginia has tightened its procedures and no longer accepts sworn affidavits
from individuals as proof of residency. In addition, a new Virginia law requires
its motor vehicle department to develop procedures to check noncitizen
applicants for driver's licenses with federal law enforcement agencies.

Other states have enacted or considered laws to that would tie immigrants'
driver's license expiration dates to their INS documents, meaning that when a
visa or an extension to remain in the country ends, so would the license.

Cedillo of the California Assembly says he understands the need for heightened
security, but he feels the more restrictive laws are disproportionately
targeting the ordinary immigrant, undocumented or not. "Getting a driver's
license is to ensure safe highways," he said. "Immigration is a whole different
topic."

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              95 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 26, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrants' License Access Topic of Debates

BYLINE: David Cho, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: PRINCE WILLIAM EXTRA; Pg. T01

LENGTH: 990 words


Should illegal immigrants be banned from getting driver's licenses?

That's the question the Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles recently posed
during public hearings at the Fairfax Government Center and three other
locations around the state.

Virginia lawmakers have asked DMV officials to study the issue and report back
to them by the beginning of next year, when the legislative session begins in
Richmond. The agency's findings could go a long way toward determining whether
legislation is needed that would tie getting a license to having legal immigrant
status.

So far, the DMV has not taken a position, said spokeswoman Pam Goheen. But she
said the agency has learned that the stakes are high on both sides.

Immigration advocacy groups contend that prohibiting undocumented immigrants
from obtaining licenses would devastate millions of families who are already in
the country, making it hard for them to get work or even cash a check. Many
would drive to jobs anyway and would not be able to buy auto insurance, the
advocates say.

But proponents of a ban, including several state lawmakers, say protecting the
United States from terrorist attack justifies whatever hardship those families
would endure. Seven of the 19 hijackers in the Sept. 11 attacks had obtained
Virginia ID cards or licenses illegally, they point out.

Since the attacks, Virginia has closed several loopholes in its licensing
regulations. The state no longer accepts notarized identity and residency
affidavits, nor will it accept passports with expired visas, which had been
popular methods of obtaining a license before Sept. 11. The DMV also rejects
I-94 forms, immigration documents that attest to one's legal resident status, as
proof of identity.

Del. James K. "Jay" O'Brien Jr. (R-Fairfax), who spoke at the public hearing in
Fairfax last Friday, said he wants even stronger regulations. He said he would
push legislation that would require a person to have a legal presence in the
state before he or she could receive a license.

More than just permission to drive, a driver's license has in practice become
"the passport of life in America" because it is accepted as proof of identity by
airports, restaurants, banks and other businesses and government agencies,
O'Brien said.

"Practically speaking, a driver's license presumes that the holder is allowed to
be here," he said. "If Virginia wants to fight terrorism, it includes tightening
our procedures for documenting who can gain access to such a document because it
is so widely accepted."

But state Sen. Leslie L. Byrne (D-Fairfax), who also spoke at the hearing,
pointed out that O'Brien's proposal would not have stopped the Sept. 11 attacks
on the Pentagon and World Trade Center. The seven terrorists who illegally
obtained Virginia driver's licenses and ID cards by forging fake Virginia
addresses were in the country as legal immigrants, she said.

She added that if O'Brien had his way, the state's DMV clerks would have to work
closely with agents of the federal Immigration and Naturalization Service, which
she said would be a disastrous marriage between two extremely bureaucratic
agencies.

"What you are seeing is a knee-jerk reaction from DMV because of what came out
of September 11," she said. "The whole country was criticizing them after
September 11 and now they are trying to punish people for not being U.S.
citizens."

Immigrant groups say that lately, DMV officials are turning away legal
immigrants seeking to obtain a license.

Josephine Momoh, 23, said in July she fled a war in Liberia that claimed her
father's life. She was granted refugee status by the INS and found a home
through a charitable organization in Arlington.

But when she went to the DMV to get a license, she said, the clerk asked her
repeatedly for her passport. She pointed out that she was a refugee and that the
Liberian government would not have issued her one. She also showed her
immigration documents, proving her story.

But Momoh said the clerk turned her away, insisting that she obtain a second
picture ID.

"I don't know what they were talking about, getting a second ID, they kept
asking and asking. I don't know what they expected me to do," said Momoh.

To support such immigrants, a broad-based team of prominent immigrant advocacy
and lobbying groups recently formed the Virginia Coalition for Fair Access to
Licenses. During the DMV hearing in Fairfax, the coalition held a press
conference to shed light on what it called "prejudicial" and unfair treatment of
immigrants.

"It's taking multiple trips right now and even when immigrants have the required
documents, they are being turned away," said Tim Freilich, managing attorney
with the Virginia Justice Center for Farm and Immigrant Workers and a lead
organizer of the coalition. "The reality is that our country depends on
hard-working, tax-paying immigrants, both documented and undocumented, to fill
the least desirable low-wage job imaginable. . . . But this is crippling them."

Freilich said he has taken calls from immigrants who have had difficulty
enrolling their children in school and obtaining marriage licenses because they
could not get a basic form of ID from the DMV.

Maria Lopez, 36, of Falls Church, an undocumented immigrant from El Salvador
whose case is pending before the INS, said she has visited the DMV twice with a
Social Security number, bank account, work authorization card and a picture ID,
but each time was turned away by clerks who said she needed a valid passport as
well. Lopez, who is hoping to gain legal status here as a refugee, said she was
never granted a passport when she fled war in her country nearly a decade ago.

"September 11 events were very tragic, and I know the laws would naturally get
stricter after something like that," she said in Spanish through a translator.
"But the government knows very well that we are here, so why are they making it
so hard for us?"

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              96 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 26, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Sharp Differences Aired on Immigrant Access to Licenses

BYLINE: David Cho, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FAIRFAX EXTRA; Pg. T03

LENGTH: 988 words


Should illegal immigrants be banned from getting driver's licenses?

That's the question the Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles recently posed
during public hearings at the Fairfax Government Center and three other
locations across the state.

Virginia lawmakers have asked DMV officials to study the issue and report back
to them by the beginning of next year, when the legislative session begins in
Richmond. The agency's findings could go a long way toward determining whether
legislation is needed that would tie getting a license to having legal immigrant
status.

So far, the DMV has not taken a position, said spokeswoman Pam Goheen. But she
said the agency has learned that the stakes are high on both sides.

Immigration advocacy groups contend that prohibiting illegal immigrants from
obtaining licenses would devastate millions of families who are already in the
country, making it hard for them to get work or even cash a check. Many would
drive to jobs anyway and would not be able to buy auto insurance, the advocates
say.

But proponents of a ban, including several state lawmakers, say protecting the
United States from terrorist attack justifies whatever hardship those families
would endure. Seven of the 19 hijackers in the Sept. 11 attacks had obtained
Virginia ID cards or licenses illegally, they point out.

Since the attacks, Virginia has closed several loopholes in its licensing
regulations. The state no longer accepts notarized identity and residency
affidavits, nor will it accept passports with expired visas, which had been
popular methods of obtaining a license before Sept. 11. The DMV also rejects
I-94 forms, immigration documents that attest to one's legal resident status, as
proof of identity.

Del. James K. "Jay" O'Brien Jr. (R-Fairfax), who spoke at the public hearing in
Fairfax last Friday, said he wants even stronger regulations. He said he would
push legislation that would require a person to have a legal presence in the
state before he or she could receive a license.

More than just permission to drive, a driver's license has in practice become
"the passport of life in America" because it is accepted as proof of identity by
airports, restaurants, banks and other businesses and government agencies,
O'Brien said.

"Practically speaking, a driver's license presumes that the holder is allowed to
be here," he said. "If Virginia wants to fight terrorism, it includes tightening
our procedures for documenting who can gain access to such a document because it
is so widely accepted."

But state Sen. Leslie L. Byrne (D-Fairfax), who also spoke at the hearing,
pointed out that O'Brien's proposal would not have stopped the Sept. 11 attacks
on the Pentagon and World Trade Center. The seven terrorists who illegally
obtained Virginia driver's licenses and ID cards by forging fake Virginia
addresses were in the country as legal immigrants, she said.

She added that if O'Brien had his way, the state's DMV clerks would have to work
closely with agents of the federal Immigration and Naturalization Service, which
she said would be a disastrous marriage between two extremely bureaucratic
agencies.

"What you are seeing is a knee-jerk reaction from DMV because of what came out
of September 11," she said. "The whole country was criticizing them after
September 11, and now they are trying to punish people for not being U.S.
citizens."

Immigrant groups say that lately, DMV officials are turning away legal
immigrants seeking to obtain a license.

Josephine Momoh, 23, said in July she fled a war in Liberia that claimed her
father's life. She was granted refugee status by the INS and found a home
through a charitable organization in Arlington.

But when she went to the DMV to get a license, she said, the clerk asked her
repeatedly for her passport. She pointed out that she was a refugee and that the
Liberian government would not have issued her one. She also showed her
immigration documents, proving her story.

But Momoh said the clerk turned her away, insisting that she obtain a second
picture ID.

"I don't know what they were talking about, getting a second ID, they kept
asking and asking. I don't know what they expected me to do," Momoh said.

To support such immigrants, a broad-based team of prominent immigrant advocacy
and lobbying groups recently formed the Virginia Coalition for Fair Access to
Licenses. During the DMV hearing in Fairfax, the coalition held a news
conference to discuss what it called "prejudicial" and unfair treatment of
immigrants.

"It's taking multiple trips right now, and even when immigrants have the
required documents, they are being turned away," said Tim Freilich, managing
attorney with the Virginia Justice Center for Farm and Immigrant Workers and a
lead organizer of the coalition. "The reality is that our country depends on
hard-working, tax-paying immigrants, both documented and undocumented, to fill
the least desirable low-wage job imaginable. . . . But this is crippling them."

Freilich said he has taken calls from immigrants who have had difficulty
enrolling their children in school and obtaining marriage licenses because they
could not get a basic form of ID from the DMV.

Maria Lopez, 36, of Falls Church, an undocumented immigrant from El Salvador
whose case is pending before the INS, said she has visited the DMV twice with a
Social Security number, bank account, work authorization card and a picture ID,
but each time was turned away by clerks who said she needed a valid passport as
well. Lopez, who is hoping to gain legal status here as a refugee, said she was
never granted a passport when she fled war in her country nearly a decade ago.

"September 11 events were very tragic, and I know the laws would naturally get
stricter after something like that," she said in Spanish through a translator.
"But the government knows very well that we are here, so why are they making it
so hard for us?"

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              97 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 3, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Why Offer Anything To Illegal ...

SECTION: FAIRFAX EXTRA; Pg. T05

LENGTH: 1467 words


I'm baffled at the dispute over whether illegal aliens should be banned from
getting driver's licenses ["Sharp Differences Aired on Immigrant Access to
Licenses," Fairfax Extra, Sept. 26]. If they are illegal, they should be banned
from getting anything, including driver's licenses, food stamps and access to
schools. Illegal aliens should be deported, period.

Legal immigrants, on the other hand, should have access to all aspects of our
society. Saying that illegal immigrants would drive anyway is a ridiculous
argument: Why make robbery a crime? People will just steal anyway!

There are plenty of legal immigrants and natural-born citizens who need help.
Let's focus on their needs and stop trying to be the world's nanny.

Gerald Mann

Alexandria

An unfortunate incident occurred during the Westfield High School back-to-school
night Sept. 17. Hundreds of parents returned to their cars to find fleers on
their windshields. They consisted of Westfield's athletic events calendar with
candidate Timothy D. Hugo's name stamped on them, giving the distinct impression
that Westfield endorses this candidate for state delegate in the 40th District.

Many parents expressed dismay to the school concerning these fliers. As
president of the Westfield High School PTSA, I want to make it perfectly clear
that the high school and the PTSA are not in the business of endorsing
candidates.

At no time did Mr. Hugo or members of his campaign seek the permission of the
school to distribute these fliers, as required by Fairfax County Public School
regulation 2612.1, page 3, which states:

"Distribution of literature, announcements, posters, bulletins, and
communications by individuals not directly connected with the school, including
students not currently enrolled in school, shall not be permitted without the
express approval of the principal or his or her designee."

It is disheartening at best to see these shady practices begin again at the
expense of the school. I urge the community to look carefully at the ethics and
practices of all candidates seeking office and help put an end to the abuse of
our schools.

Birgit M. Retson

Westfield High School

[Hugo, a Republican, announced his candidacy Sept. 16 for the seat held by Del.
James K. "Jay" O'Brien Jr. (R-Fairfax), a candidate for state Senate. If O'Brien
wins on Nov. 5, the state would hold a special election to replace him. Hugo
said state law permits distribution of campaign material outside of schools.]

In his recent diatribe against the transportation referendum, James T. Parmelee
["Referendum's Key Question: Who Needs It?," Fairfax Extra, Sept. 19) once again
distorts the facts to suit his anti-tax agenda.

He begins by unfairly blaming local politicians for raising Northern Virginia
real estate taxes. Wrong. Virginia's Constitution requires, in fairness and
equity, that all real estate be taxed at the fair market value as determined by
periodic assessments. Property values have grown and tax bills, driven the
Constitution, have increased as well.

Parmelee asserts that Gov. Mark R. Warner (D) is continuing to impose the
infamous car tax on Virginians even though it should have expired. Wrong.
Elimination of the car tax was halted by a provision of the rollback law, signed
by then-Gov. James S. Gilmore III, which says if state revenues decline, the
rollback will be halted. Actually, Gilmore should have halted the rollback long
before Warner was elected.

Parmelee's calculations on the financial impact of the sales tax are wrong. His
overly simplistic figures ignore the fact that sales tax receipts come not only
from families but also from businesses in Northern Virginia as well as
individuals and businesses outside the region. In fact, the state Department of
Taxation estimates that 38 percent of the referendum revenue would come from
local businesses and taxpayers outside the region.

Again in finger-pointing mode, Parmelee states that state spending increased 44
percent during the last four years but that state officials refused to spend
money on transportation improvements. He conveniently neglects to point out that
the biggest single spending increase was to pay for car tax repeal, which he and
Gov. Gilmore started.

Finally, Parmelee makes the preposterous claim that the General Assembly might
be pressured into sending more money to Northern Virginia if the referendum were
defeated. Wrong again.

Pressured by whom? The cities and counties in northern Virginia have only about
25 percent of the vote in the Senate and 26 percent in the House. The region
does not have a majority in either body. Furthermore, it is absurd for Parmelee
to claim that the Warner administration is supporting the referendum to "avoid
restoring tax dollars to Northern Virginia."

Parmelee and his anti-referendum cohorts do not offer a solution to our traffic
congestion. They apparently favor the status quo -- growing congestion, more
wasted time and fuel and continuing frustration and road rage.

The transportation referendum, on the other hand, offers Northern Virginians the
once-in-a-lifetime chance to address our traffic congestion problems, reduce
gridlock and auto emissions and improve our quality of life

Joe Gartlan

Mason Neck

[The author is a former member of the Virginia Senate].

The argument by John G. Milliken, chairman of Citizens for Better
Transportation, ["Referendum's Key Question: Who Needs It?," Fairfax Extra,
Sept. 19] that the proposed sales tax increase will finance all the projects
listed on the ballot and in the pro-tax literature is incredibly dishonest and
cynically designed to fool gullible voters into supporting it.

The $ 5 billion this tax is supposed to raise over 20 years would not even come
close to building all the proposed projects, and yet the voters are being conned
into believing that if they vote for this tax increase, the project or two that
they're most interested in will be built.

This is simply not the case.

The fact is that the proposed Northern Virginia Transportation Authority has no
legal obligation whatsoever to build any particular project listed, and in
reality the dollar amounts listed on the ballot are but a small fraction of what
the proposed projects would actually cost to build.

The Dulles Corridor light rail system alone, for example, would cost at least $
3 billion and -- as we know from bitter experience -- after VDOT gets involved,
the cost of all these projects will skyrocket. The members of the authority
alone would decide which of these projects get built.

Fairfax County clearly doesn't need the sales tax increase to fund the $ 90
million in projects. With an annual budget of $ 2.4 billion, Fairfax County can
already afford some or all of these projects.

Our elected representatives simply have to learn how to prioritize what they
already have instead of reaching deeper into our pockets.

This tax increase is designed for the benefit of big business, bureaucrats and
bogus Republicans. It is anti-taxpayer and anti-consumer and must be defeated.

David Lampo

Alexandria

The new Northern Virginia Transportation Authority is off to a poor start, one
that was easily predictable by any casual observer of our region's recent
transportation debates.

The authority, which for the most part consists of a representative from each
local government, decided that each jurisdiction should be able to veto any
regional transportation project in its back yard.

Arlington gets to stop Fairfax County commuters from ever having an expanded
Interstate 66 inside the Capital Beltway, and Fairfax County, if it so chooses,
gets to similarly frustrate Loudoun County commuters by vetoing any expansion of
Route 7.

So much for visions for a coherent regional transportation plan. They might as
well rename the authority the Northern Virginia NIMBY (Not in My Backyard)
Transportation Authority.

I think a great deal of this parochialism could have been avoided if the
membership on the authority had been made up of a board of citizens appointed by
the governor and perhaps approved by the legislature.

During the hearings last year on the proposed sales tax increase referendum, I
urged that the legislature consider the establishment of a five- to nine-member
body appointed by the governor. I also urged them to avoid setting up an
authority with a governing structure similar to the current regional
Transportation Coordinating Committee with membership representing each
jurisdiction.

But the legislature in its wisdom decided instead to go with the devil they knew
and to optimize the opportunity for continued Nimbyism in the region. It now
appears that they have succeeded all too well.

Jack Herrity

Fairfax

[The author is a candidate for Fairfax board chairman in next year's election].

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              98 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 10, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Seeking Security for Illegal Immigrants;
Activists Push Bush, Congress To Give Workers Legal Status

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 614 words


Activists yesterday presented what they said were 1 million postcards from
across the country calling on President Bush and Congress to provide legal
status to immigrants who are in the country illegally.

The postcards, stuffed in brown boxes, were featured at a buoyant rally in
Freedom Plaza addressed by labor and religious leaders and House Minority Leader
Richard A. Gephardt (D-Mo). The event was aimed at making immigration an issue
in the November elections.

Gephardt said he would introduce legislation today to create a program allowing
illegal immigrants to earn legal status. However, he acknowledged, "It will have
a hard time even being considered in Congress," which is due to adjourn shortly.

Gephardt appeared eager to use the immigration issue in the elections, telling
the rally, "We need a Democratic majority" in the House of Representatives to
pass such legislation. He also said Republicans should be pressed to take a
stand on the legislation. "Let us put them to the acid test" on immigration, he
said.

Republicans and Democrats have been seeking to woo the growing Hispanic vote, in
part by appealing to immigrants. Before the Sept. 11 attacks, Bush had been
pursuing a historic accord with Mexico that could have provided legal status to
millions of immigrants. Those talks have stalled, with the government now
focusing on tighter control of the borders.

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which
wants less immigration, predicted that the issue would not regain momentum soon.

"In the wake of 9/11, there aren't going to be enough Republicans who will put
their name on the record supporting illegal-alien amnesty," he said.

Yesterday's rally drew major groups that had been pressing for measures to
benefit unauthorized immigrants, whose numbers have swelled to an estimated 8
million. They argued that a legalization program would reward immigrants who
work hard and pay taxes, and prevent exploitation by unscrupulous employers.

John Sweeney, president of the AFL-CIO, told the rally that "there are 40
million people living in union households in our country and we are united on
this issue." Bishop Thomas Wenski of Miami, chairman of the migration committee
of the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, also expressed support.

The rally, however, drew far fewer than the 4,000 participants envisioned by
organizers. Hundreds of people from the Washington suburbs and such cities as
Miami and New York gathered in the plaza, waving flags from El Salvador, Mexico,
Bolivia and other countries, as well as signs reading "Fix Our Immigration Laws
Now."

Many, but not all, were unauthorized immigrants.

One participant was a Costa Rican man who lives in Frederick and identified
himself as Juan. He said he had bounced from job to job since the Sept. 11
attacks because employers were scrutinizing immigrants' documents more
carefully.

"What I want is more tranquillity at work. I want to pay taxes like anyone
else," said the 29-year-old, who left his job harvesting coffee five years ago
and entered the United States on a tourist visa, which has expired.

Virginia Flores, 39, a cleaning woman from Alexandria, was one of the many
Central Americans in the area who had immigrated illegally but later acquired
"temporary protected status," which allows her to work here. The Honduran longs
to have the rights of a permanent resident.

"We can't go back to our country. We have kids there we can't see," she said,
referring to the 11- and 20-year-old daughters she left behind eight years ago.

Organizers of the rally planned to deliver the postcards, gathered by
pro-immigrant groups, to legislators.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              99 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 2, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Illogical About Immigration

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A23

LENGTH: 418 words


I must respond to your editorial "Immigration Logic" [Oct. 25]. First, there is
no logic to legalizing those who violate our laws. Illegal immigrants are
criminals. Second, Mexican President Vicente Fox cannot run his own country; he
surely has no business trying to run the United States.

Mexico's greatest import is U.S. jobs. Its greatest export is illegal immigrants
to the United States. Mexico makes no effort to curb illegal immigration. We in
West Texas are all too familiar with the problem. But the resulting wage
degradation is being felt all over the United States.

This is an invasion no different from one of any other means. The policies
advocated by your editorial virtually turn our country over to Mexico.

I am thankful that at least you recognize the futility of "blanket amnesty,"
which only validates illegal actions.

How about supporting the incredible efforts of our law enforcement agencies,
especially those tasked with securing our borders? Border Patrol and Customs
Service agents deserve our support.

-- E.H. Weldon

*

Time for your paper to return to some fact-finding. Both the California Division
of Labor and the General Accounting Office have confirmed there are currently
two farm workers for every agricultural job in California. This glut of workers
has depressed agricultural wages over the past 20 years, in inflation-adjusted
terms, by 20 percent. The illegal immigrant labor segment contributes less than
4 percent of our total national output. The real demand for illegal immigrant
labor comes from employers who pay minimum or below-legal wages, while burdening
the rest of society with obscene social costs.

There are 8.7 million illegal immigrants in the United States, of whom 3.8
million are in my home state of California. These millions are costing
California taxpayers nearly $ 6 billion annually for just the basic categories
of K-12 education for a half-million illegal schoolchildren, prenatal and
maternity delivery costs for nearly 100,000 illegal mothers, plus monthly
disbursements from the Temporary Assistance to Needy Families program to these
same illegal mothers once their babies become U.S. citizens and, finally, the
costs to house 25,000-plus illegal alien felons in California prisons.

Our high-tech economic engine is fueled by increased productivity and
technological innovation, not by poorly educated, low-skilled and ill-paid
workers, who for the most part are hard pressed to make it in a leading-edge
economy.

-- Michael Scott

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              100 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 9, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Profits Over Patriotism

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A23

LENGTH: 157 words


May I remind readers Michael Scott and E.H. Weldon [Free for All, Nov. 2] that
the engine that drives illegal immigration is corporate greed, in the form of
employers who knowingly hire undocumented aliens, as in the recent allegations
against Tyson Foods. Although reforms to the immigration laws of 1986 and 1996
increased the penalties against employers who hire undocumented aliens, this was
not enough to deter this odious practice; obviously, a nice profit is more
important than doing the right, patriotic thing.

It is in this light that Mexican President Vicente Fox's idea of regulating the
flow of immigration between Mexico and the United States is a sound one. It
would benefit both countries enormously. I partly agree with Scott's assertion
that ours has become a high-tech, technology-driven economy, but I've yet to see
a machine or robot that cleans bathrooms in hotels or picks up refuse from
office buildings.

-- Robert Mello

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              101 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          November 20, 2002 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Warner Plans a Panel On Immigrant Education;
Group to Study College Ban on Illegals, Latinos Are Told

BYLINE: David Cho, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 776 words


Virginia Gov. Mark R. Warner told the state's Hispanic leaders yesterday that he
will form a task force to study whether state colleges should bar illegal
immigrants and report those already enrolled to federal authorities, as the
state attorney general recently directed.

But Warner's remarks, made at the state's first-ever summit of Latino activists,
disappointed many of the 400 who attended the Alexandria conference.

"I can guarantee you that in the minds of the Latino community, the issue of
whether their children can go to college is more important than" almost anything
else, said Nelson Rios, director of the Virginia Alliance of Latinos Organized
for Representation. "This cannot wait for a task force."

However, the Democratic governor won over many in the audience at the Nannie J.
Lee Center by opening his remarks with four minutes of fluent Spanish. For those
who couldn't understand what he was saying, he quipped, "If you don't know
Spanish, learn it."

Organizers, while not pleased that Warner did not take a stand on the college
matter, nonetheless called the chance to speak directly to the governor and
network with other Virginia Latino leaders a political breakthrough for the
fast-growing immigrant community. The 2000 Census found that Latinos number
about 330,000 in Virginia -- only about 5 percent of the total population, but a
106 percent increase from 10 years ago.

"The fact that the governor is calling Latinos to be at the table is a
tremendous step forward," said J. Walter Tejada, the summit's coordinator. "We
all recognize that this is a new era. We are encouraging people to run for
office and create a large pool of talent that can run anywhere around the state,
regardless of what party."

The idea of the conference was suggested by Warner himself when he met with
Latino leaders from Northern Virginia as he was launching his gubernatorial
campaign, Rios said.

Others said the summit resulted from concerns among Hispanic leaders during the
2002 General Assembly session. At one point, lawmakers considered a measure that
would have made legal presence in the United States a requirement for a driver's
license. The issue mobilized Hispanic groups, which converged on Richmond to
lobby against the proposal and its potential to disrupt the lives of thousands
of undocumented immigrants who rely on their cars to get to work.

Ultimately, those efforts partly paid off. The legislature commissioned a task
force at the Department of Motor Vehicles to study the issue. The DMV's report
is due early next month.

The lobbying campaign also convinced Hispanic leaders that they must present a
unified front to Richmond, said Jorge Figueredo, executive director of the
Hispanic Committee of Virginia.

"The networking that is happening today is the real success, and just to tell
the governor and his Cabinet that we are here and that we are not going
anywhere," he said.

Warner said finding solutions to the higher education and driver's license
issues is far from simple. The government must balance the impact on immigrants
against the need for greater security, he said, adding that he would await task
force findings on both matters before deciding his own position.

"It's going to take a great deal of thought," he said.

Emily Castro, a volunteer in the Fairfax Hispanic community, said she had hoped
the governor would take a stronger position. "I like the governor because he's
here today. He's listening to us, but I'm disappointed by what he said," she
said.

Hispanic leaders argue that preventing illegal immigrants from having a driver's
license puts an undue burden on them. Some will drive anyway, even without
insurance or proper training, and thus make it worse for everyone on the road.

By barring their children from public colleges, which offer far lower tuition
for Virginia residents, the state would be punishing the best and brightest of
those immigrants and reduce their chances to better their lives, the leaders
said.

But Tim Murtaugh, a spokesman for Attorney General Jerry W. Kilgore (R), said
concerns about security, especially in the post-Sept. 11, 2001, era, outweigh
the benefits of college to illegal immigrants.

Murtaugh welcomed the governor's initiative to study the issue. But he said the
attorney general's memo "represents advice that we give to the college and
universities as legal counsel to them, that they shouldn't enroll illegal
immigrants and that they sure shouldn't give them in-state tuition."

"I don't think it's asking too much to ask people to become legal citizens of
this country before they enroll in taxpayer-supported institutions," he added.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              102 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 28, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

NVCC Allowing Illegal Immigrants to Enroll;
College Defends Policy After State Attorney General Urges Admissions Ban

BYLINE: Peter Whoriskey, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FAIRFAX EXTRA; Pg. T03

LENGTH: 668 words


Northern Virginia Community College has continued to enroll illegal immigrants
in classes despite a strong recommendation from the state attorney general's
office that undocumented applicants be rejected and that such students be
reported to immigration authorities.

College administrators noted that at least some of those students arrived in the
United States as children and did not willfully break the immigration rules.

"We're not trying to open our doors to terrorists or people who were trying to
sneak across our borders," said Max L. Bassett, vice president of academic and
student services at NVCC. "We are trying to serve residents who have been here
for many years."

Bassett said, however, that administrators are continuing to review the policy
and that the college is bowing to one key recommendation in the September memo
from Attorney General Jerry W. Kilgore's office: Students who are in this
country illegally must now pay out-of-state tuition.

Already 66 undocumented students who either were previously enrolled or recently
enrolled in classes at the college and were paying in-state tuition have been
informed that they must pay the higher rate, which is roughly four times the
subsidized rate for state residents. Full-time in-state tuition is $ 678 a
semester; full-time out-of-state tuition is $ 2,429.

NVCC is the largest community college in the state and has campuses in
Alexandria, Annandale, Loudoun County, Manassas and Woodbridge. Of the roughly
38,000 students enrolled this semester, about 60 are undocumented, Bassett said.

A spokesman for Kilgore (R) said they were "disappointed" by the approach taken
at NVCC.

"This is about the difference between those who observe the law and those who
will break it," said spokesman Tim Murtaugh. "I don't think it's too much to ask
that you observe the rules of our society before you take advantage of what this
society has to offer."

Higher education administrators across the state have been reconsidering their
enrollment policies in the wake of the Sept. 5 memo from the attorney general's
office to state colleges and universities.

"As our national response to the attacks of September 11 [2001] continues, it
has become increasingly clear that the Immigration and Naturalization Service
and the higher education community must pay closer attention to the presence of
foreign students and exchange visitors on their campuses," the memo said.

It recommended that school officials deny admission and in-state tuition status
to undocumented students and that admissions personnel report "factual
information indicating that a student is unlawfully present in the United
States."

The memo from the attorney general's office reopens an issue that was reviewed
in depth by college administrators more than 10 years ago.

In 1989, according to Bassett, the college denied admission to undocumented
students. But then a valedictorian from a Northern Virginia high school, a
longtime resident who was undocumented, applied. She was denied admission and a
debate ensued.

After consulting with the attorney general's office then, the college soon after
abandoned its prohibition on undocumented students. The undocumented high school
valedictorian was admitted.

"We were advised that it was more defensible from a legal perspective to admit
this person rather than deny this person," Bassett said. He noted that times
have changed.

NVCC's enrollment policy is viewed by some as an extension of that of Fairfax
County public schools and other schools, which do not distinguish between
documented and undocumented students.

County school officials don't even ask about students' immigration status when
they are enrolled.

"Due to a U.S. Supreme Court decision, we can't deny an education to students
because of their immigration status," Fairfax County schools spokesman Paul
Regnier said. And "a state attorney general opinion in 1999 said that we are not
allowed to ask for the immigration status of students enrolling."

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              103 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 1, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Illegal Immigrants Still Being Enrolled at NVCC;
Attorney General Urges Admissions Ban

BYLINE: Peter Whoriskey, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOUDOUN EXTRA; Pg. T14

LENGTH: 666 words


Northern Virginia Community College has continued to enroll illegal immigrants
in classes despite a strong recommendation from the state attorney general's
office that undocumented applicants be rejected and that such students be
reported to immigration authorities.

College administrators noted that at least some of those students arrived in the
United States as children and did not willfully break the immigration rules.

"We're not trying to open our doors to terrorists or people who were trying to
sneak across our borders," said Max L. Bassett, vice president of academic and
student services at NVCC. "We are trying to serve residents who have been here
for many years."

Bassett said, however, that administrators are continuing to review the policy
and that the college is bowing to one key recommendation in the September memo
from Attorney General Jerry W. Kilgore's office: Students who are in this
country illegally must now pay out-of-state tuition.

Already 66 undocumented students who either were previously enrolled or recently
enrolled in classes at the college and were paying in-state tuition have been
informed that they must pay the higher rate, which is roughly four times the
subsidized rate for state residents. Full-time in-state tuition is $ 678 a
semester; full-time out-of-state tuition is $ 2,429.

NVCC is the largest community college in the state and has campuses in Loudoun,
Alexandria, Annandale, Manassas and Woodbridge. Of the roughly 38,000 students
enrolled this semester, about 60 are undocumented, Bassett said.

A spokesman for Kilgore (R) said they were "disappointed" by the approach taken
at NVCC.

"This is about the difference between those who observe the law and those who
will break it," said spokesman Tim Murtaugh. "I don't think it's too much to ask
that you observe the rules of our society before you take advantage of what this
society has to offer."

Higher education administrators across the state have been reconsidering their
enrollment policies in the wake of the Sept. 5 memo from the attorney general's
office to state colleges and universities.

"As our national response to the attacks of September 11 [2001] continues, it
has become increasingly clear that the Immigration and Naturalization Service
and the higher education community must pay closer attention to the presence of
foreign students and exchange visitors on their campuses," the memo said.

It recommended that school officials deny admission and in-state tuition status
to undocumented students and that admissions personnel report "factual
information indicating that a student is unlawfully present in the United
States."

The memo from the attorney general's office reopens an issue that was reviewed
in depth by college administrators more than 10 years ago.

In 1989, according to Bassett, the college denied admission to undocumented
students. But then a valedictorian from a Northern Virginia high school, a
longtime resident who was undocumented, applied. She was denied admission and a
debate ensued.

After consulting with the attorney general's office then, the college soon after
abandoned its prohibition on undocumented students. The undocumented high school
valedictorian was admitted.

"We were advised that it was more defensible from a legal perspective to admit
this person rather than deny this person," Bassett said. He noted that times
have changed.

NVCC's enrollment policy is viewed by some as an extension of that of Fairfax
County public schools and other schools, which do not distinguish between
documented and undocumented students.

County school officials don't even ask about students' immigration status when
they are enrolled.

"Due to a U.S. Supreme Court decision, we can't deny an education to students
because of their immigration status," Fairfax County schools spokesman Paul
Regnier said. And "a state attorney general opinion in 1999 said that we are not
allowed to ask for the immigration status of students enrolling."

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              104 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 5, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

NVCC Allowing Illegal Immigrants to Enroll;
College Defends Policy After State Attorney General Urges Admissions Ban

BYLINE: Peter Whoriskey, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: ALEXANDRIA - ARLINGTON EXTRA; Pg. T23

LENGTH: 668 words


Northern Virginia Community College has continued to enroll illegal immigrants
in classes despite a strong recommendation from the state attorney general's
office that undocumented applicants be rejected and that such students be
reported to immigration authorities.

College administrators noted that at least some of those students arrived in the
United States as children and did not willfully break the immigration rules.

"We're not trying to open our doors to terrorists or people who were trying to
sneak across our borders," said Max L. Bassett, vice president of academic and
student services at NVCC. "We are trying to serve residents who have been here
for many years."

Bassett said, however, that administrators are continuing to review the policy
and that the college is bowing to one key recommendation in the September memo
from Attorney General Jerry W. Kilgore's office: Students who are in this
country illegally must now pay out-of-state tuition.

Already 66 undocumented students who either were previously enrolled or recently
enrolled in classes at the college and were paying in-state tuition have been
informed that they must pay the higher rate, which is roughly four times the
subsidized rate for state residents. Full-time in-state tuition is $ 678 a
semester; full-time out-of-state tuition is $ 2,429.

NVCC is the largest community college in the state and has campuses in
Alexandria, Annandale, Loudoun County, Manassas and Woodbridge. Of the roughly
38,000 students enrolled this semester, about 60 are undocumented, Bassett said.

A spokesman for Kilgore (R) said they were "disappointed" by the approach taken
at NVCC.

"This is about the difference between those who observe the law and those who
will break it," said spokesman Tim Murtaugh. "I don't think it's too much to ask
that you observe the rules of our society before you take advantage of what this
society has to offer."

Higher education administrators across the state have been reconsidering their
enrollment policies in the wake of the Sept. 5 memo from the attorney general's
office to state colleges and universities.

"As our national response to the attacks of September 11 [2001] continues, it
has become increasingly clear that the Immigration and Naturalization Service
and the higher education community must pay closer attention to the presence of
foreign students and exchange visitors on their campuses," the memo said.

It recommended that school officials deny admission and in-state tuition status
to undocumented students and that admissions personnel report "factual
information indicating that a student is unlawfully present in the United
States."

The memo from the attorney general's office reopens an issue that was reviewed
in depth by college administrators more than 10 years ago.

In 1989, according to Bassett, the college denied admission to undocumented
students. But then a valedictorian from a Northern Virginia high school, a
longtime resident who was undocumented, applied. She was denied admission and a
debate ensued.

After consulting with the attorney general's office then, the college soon after
abandoned its prohibition on undocumented students. The undocumented high school
valedictorian was admitted.

"We were advised that it was more defensible from a legal perspective to admit
this person rather than deny this person," Bassett said. He noted that times
have changed.

NVCC's enrollment policy is viewed by some as an extension of that of Fairfax
County public schools and other schools, which do not distinguish between
documented and undocumented students.

County school officials don't even ask about students' immigration status when
they are enrolled.

"Due to a U.S. Supreme Court decision, we can't deny an education to students
because of their immigration status," Fairfax County schools spokesman Paul
Regnier said. And "a state attorney general opinion in 1999 said that we are not
allowed to ask for the immigration status of students enrolling."

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              105 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 22, 2003 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Registration Amnesty for Pakistanis Sought;
Foreign Minister Says U.S. Program Has Fueled Major Political Crisis Back Home

BYLINE: Colum Lynch, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 436 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK Jan. 21


Pakistani Foreign Minister Khursid Mahmood Kasuri said today that he would
appeal to the Bush administration next week to exempt Pakistani residents of the
United States from a program to register thousands of foreign males from more
than 20 Muslim countries suspected of harboring terrorists.

The move reflects the growing frustration at home and abroad with a new Justice
Department initiative to photograph and fingerprint male citizens of 25
countries, including Iraq, Iran, Syria, Sudan, Libya, Pakistan and Saudi Arabia.
The registration program, which requires males from these countries without
permanent immigration status and older than 16 to register with the Immigration
and Naturalization Service, is part of an effort to better screen foreign
visitors to determine if they are linked to terrorist activities.

Kasuri said he would raise the issue along with other matters when he meets
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, national security adviser Condoleezza Rice
and members of Congress next week. Kasuri and his advisers said Pakistan would
also ask Washington to resume arms sales to Pakistan, lift a travel advisory
warning U.S. citizens not to visit Pakistan and increase market access in the
United States for Pakistani textiles.

Kasuri said the registration program has fueled a major political crisis back
home, where it has been used to criticize the government's support for the
U.S.-led war on terrorism. Pakistan, a key ally in that struggle but also home
to al Qaeda members, did not deserve to have its citizens subjected to the new
procedures, he said.

"Pakistanis have been a respectful and peaceful community in the United States,"
Kasuri said in an interview today in New York, where he attended a Security
Council meeting Monday on terrorism. "They support their families not only here,
but also back home in Pakistan. These people are just not the stuff that
terrorists are made of."

Kasuri said that although he sympathized with U.S. efforts to prevent terrorist
attacks, he said the program should be applied with "consideration and
flexibility" to Pakistanis. "If they have been here for 10 or 15 years and are
peaceful citizens and they've got no criminal record, then we would ask the
American administration to grant some sort of amnesty."

Pakistani authorities say the program could have an impact on about half of the
approximately 500,000 Pakistanis who live in the United States, including about
200,000 in and around New York City. There are also large Pakistani communities
in Los Angeles, Chicago and Houston. Pakistanis are required to register with
the INS by Feb. 21.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              106 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 2, 2002 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Sept. 11 Detainee Testifies at Public Hearing

BYLINE: a Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 709 words


A Muslim activist held for nine months because of suspected links to terrorism
testified at an open immigration hearing in Detroit yesterday, the first
substantive public session involving a case deemed of "special interest" to the
investigation into the Sept. 11 attacks.

The hearing occurred only after a federal judge ordered the Justice Department
last month to give the activist, Rabih Haddad, a new bond hearing or release
him. The hearing, which was continued until later this month, remained open
until the end of the day, when the government introduced an FBI declaration that
has been described as the main evidence against Haddad.

Civil liberties advocates described the public hearing as a victory in their
efforts to protect the rights of immigrants detained after Sept. 11, 2001. But
even as Haddad was appearing in open court, Attorney General John D. Ashcroft
was issuing a blunt defense of the government's anti-terrorism tactics
yesterday, exhorting the nation's U.S. attorneys to "use every weapon in the
criminal justice arsenal" to prevent terrorism.

"Our critics seem to think that business as usual -- doing what we have done
before, and nothing more -- would keep America safe from terrorists," Ashcroft
said during a speech in New York. "History instructs us that caution and
complacency are not defenses of freedom; caution and complacency are a
capitulation before freedom's enemies -- the terrorists."

Ashcroft did not mention Haddad. But he said the government "cannot risk
damaging the security of the United States by publicizing the names of those
detained in our investigation."

The juxtaposition of Ashcroft's speech with Haddad's hard-won public hearing
seemed to crystallize the battle between the Bush administration and civil
liberties advocates over the treatment of hundreds of Sept. 11 detainees. The
government argues that expanded law enforcement measures, including secret
immigration hearings, are essential to counter terrorism; critics argue that the
measures erode constitutionally protected freedoms.

Also yesterday, a federal magistrate in Seattle ordered that an American Muslim
who allegedly sought to establish a terrorist training camp in Oregon be held
without bail. The judge, John Weinberg, said the government had produced
convincing evidence that James Ujaama, who was arrested July 22 in Denver, was
linked to terrorism.

Haddad, 41, is the co-founder of the Global Relief Foundation, an Illinois-based
charity. On Dec. 14, Haddad was arrested at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich., and
Global Relief's assets were frozen after the government alleged that the charity
helped finance terrorism. Haddad and others connected to Global Relief have
denied the allegations.

Yesterday's hearing appeared to offer little new evidence against Haddad, but it
was a milestone nonetheless. Since the attacks, hundreds of "special interest"
immigration hearings have been closed. On Sept. 17, U.S. District Judge Nancy G.
Edmunds in Michigan issued an order granting Haddad a public bond hearing after
determining that the policy had violated his right to due process. The Justice
Department announced that it would appeal the ruling as "an unwarranted
intrusion" but would comply while the appeal was being considered. On July 9, a
scheduling conference on Haddad's case was opened to the public because of a
separate court order, but the hearing dealt with little of the case's merits.

Haddad vowed that if released he would "go home to Ann Arbor with my wife and
children and try to put back the shattered pieces of our lives," according to
the Associated Press. Haddad's wife, Salma al-Rushaid, citing his humanitarian
work, testified that her husband was not "a threat to American society" but "an
asset." His brother, Bassem Sami Haddad, of Nebraska, where Haddad attended
college, assured the judge that his brother wouldn't flee.

The government called no witnesses. But at the end of the day, immigration judge
Robert Newberry closed the courtroom to the public and the media to discuss an
FBI declaration the government describes as sensitive. Haddad's attorney, Ashraf
Nubani, said he is under a protective order not to discuss the declaration but
said it does not contain incriminating evidence.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              107 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 26, 2002 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

WASHINGTON IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 555 words


Progress the Department of Veterans Affairs has made in slashing a huge backlog
of benefit requests could be threatened if Congress fails to approve a federal
budget by February, VA Secretary Anthony J. Principi said.

Principi said he increased the agency's compensation and pension work force over
the past year by 1,200 people and they helped cut the backlog of claims from
600,000 in March.

He had planned to hire 150 additional employees, including some registered
nurses whose medical training would help them navigate the complex disability
claim system.

"If we don't get a budget by January, February, I'm going to start cutting back"
on new hires, Principi said in a recent interview.

When the 2002 fiscal year concluded in September, VA had reduced the backlog on
claims of all types to 470,205. Disability claims fell from a March high of
422,935 to 348,702.

Michael Garcia, a former federal prosecutor who specialized in terrorism cases,
will serve as acting commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service
beginning Saturday, the Justice Department announced yesterday.

Garcia was chosen by President Bush to take over for INS Commissioner James W.
Ziglar, whose term ends Saturday. Ziglar had announced he would leave the
troubled agency and the government this fall.

Attorney General John D. Ashcroft said Garcia "will lead tough enforcement of
our immigration laws to protect Americans from terrorism and secure our
homeland."

The INS came under heightened scrutiny after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, which
exposed gaps in the nation's border enforcement.

Garcia will help transfer most of the agency's duties to the new Homeland
Security Department. The law abolishes the INS and creates two bureaus within
the new agency, one for border security and one for citizenship and benefits.

Garcia has been the assistant secretary for export enforcement at the Commerce
Department since August 2001.

Enforcement of a federal law meant to track the movement of dangerous pathogens
among U.S. laboratories is fraught with problems, posing an "urgent and
potentially serious public health threat," congressional auditors said in a
letter.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, charged with enforcing the law,
said it is already working to fix the problems.

The General Accounting Office investigation was prompted by last fall's anthrax
attacks, when it became clear no one knew how many U.S. labs had the microbe
sent through the mail. That made it harder to pinpoint the source of the anthrax
and the person who mailed it.

A military program that encourages soldiers with special skills to reenlist has
more than tripled in cost and gone far over budget, congressional auditors said.

The cost of the Selective Reenlistment Bonus program has soared over five years
-- to $ 789 million this year from $ 235 million in 1997 -- in part because the
services aren't sticking to their own guidelines, the General Accounting Office
said.

The Defense Department said the increases followed years in which the Pentagon
was intentionally cutting jobs and reducing spending on bonuses. The increases
reflected the difficulty of retaining skilled workers in the strong economy of
the late 1990s. The department also rejected GAO's claim that it is not
adequately overseeing the program.

-- From News Services

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              108 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 28, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Lebanese Man Appeals Deportation Order

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 314 words

DATELINE: DETROIT Dec. 27


The detained co-founder of an Islamic charity has appealed an order sending him
and his family back to Lebanon, postponing their deportation for at least a
couple of months, his lawyer says.

Ashraf Nubani, attorney for Rabih Haddad, said Thursday he has filed a notice of
appeal with the Board of Immigration Appeals, part of the Justice Department.

Nubani said he hopes to argue Haddad's case before the board in the next couple
of months. A Justice Department spokesman confirmed the appeal but had no
further comment.

Haddad, a resident of Ann Arbor, Mich., who is also a Lebanese citizen, was
arrested Dec. 14, 2001, the same day the suburban Chicago offices of the Global
Relief Foundation were raided. Haddad is co-founder of the charity, which
federal authorities accuse of funneling money to al Qaeda.

In November, an immigration judge denied political asylum to Haddad, his wife
and three of their children and ordered them removed from the United States. All
are accused of overstaying their visas; only Haddad is jailed.

Nubani said he talks to his client by phone about three times a week at the
Monroe County Jail.

"It's been a year and there have been no charges," Nubani said. "He understands
this is about civil rights."

Haddad's case has attracted international attention and he and his supporters
have made legal challenges over secret court hearings.

Haddad's early hearings were closed to the public, sparking lawsuits from the
American Civil Liberties Union, several newspapers and Rep. John Conyers Jr.
(D-Mich.), who say the proceedings must be open.

Neither Haddad nor Global Relief has been charged with a terror-related crime;
both have denied any links. Haddad has said the group is strictly a humanitarian
organization.

The government says Global Relief has received substantial funding from a
suspected financier of al Qaeda's worldwide efforts.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              109 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 20, 2003 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Bahamas Struggles With Illegal Migrants;
U.S. Fears Another Exodus From Haiti

BYLINE: Stevenson Jacobs, Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 734 words

DATELINE: NASSAU, Bahamas


The flow of Haitians sneaking into the Bahamas is turning into a flood that is
straining social services and bringing calls for mass deportations.

The development also worries U.S. officials, who fear it might be a forerunner
of a new surge of Haitians trying to get into the United States to escape their
nation's dismal economy and political instability.

Bahamian authorities estimate that 60,000 Haitians are living illegally among
the 360,000 citizens of this island chain, which lies between Haiti and Florida.
The military, which has increased patrols at sea, said 4,220 Haitians were
caught last year -- the highest number in a decade and nearly 50 percent more
than were stopped in 2001.

Over the years, some Bahamians welcomed the Haitians as a source of cheap labor,
but there is a growing chorus demanding that the government crack down and send
the migrants back home.

"They use our hospitals, our social system, they clog up our schools and take
away from Bahamians," said Theodore Roberts, a 31-year-old technician. "They
just keep coming and don't give back anything."

Officials say one-third of public school students are children of Haitian
migrants and seven of 10 maternity patients are Haitian.

Fearing an exodus like that in the 1990s, when Haitians were fleeing a murderous
military dictatorship, the United States is helping the Bahamas with increased
aid and U.S. Coast Guard patrols.

"When Haitian immigration picks up in the Bahamas, it picks up in the United
States, too," said a U.S. Embassy spokesman, Brian Bachman.

Bahamian officials say Washington needs to provide more help.

"Migration is everybody's business," said Immigration Minister Vincent Peet. "We
don't think the world should allow the Bahamas to deal with this by itself."

Most Haitian migrants leave from their country's barren north, paying smugglers
$ 500 to $ 5,000 for passage to the Bahamas. The journeys are usually made in
rickety homemade boats that sometimes capsize. It's not known how many have died
trying to escape.

In November, the bodies of four men believed to be Haitian migrants were found
floating in Nassau harbor, near the dock where cruise-ship tourists shop in
duty-free stores. Some migrants are abandoned on one of the Bahamas' more than
700 uninhabited islands, where they stay with no water or food until someone
finds them, dead or alive.

Those who make it undetected to a populated island endure poverty not that
different from what they knew in Haiti. They squeeze into ramshackle villages
without running water or electricity on the outskirts of Nassau or another city.

In one shantytown, residents said they are in constant fear of police raids. The
poorly dressed Creole speakers are easy to spot in this relatively wealthy
English-speaking country.

"If the police catch us, they'll rob us," said Raymond Marcellin, 28, flashing a
large gash in his palm, an injury he said he got from a fall while running from
the police.

The Haitians live in hope of earning enough to pay for a trip to the United
States. They take jobs not wanted by educated Bahamians, such as gardening,
cleaning hotels and homes, and laboring in construction.

The Bahamas repatriated more than 3,000 Haitian migrants last year, at a cost of
more than $ 1 million. But despite the growing public complaints, the government
has no plans to deport large numbers.

"It's a failed policy because it has not stemmed the tide," Foreign Affairs
Minister Fred Mitchell said of deportations.

He said officials are exploring new ways to tackle the problem, such as granting
guest worker visas and forging closer ties with the Haitian government.

Many people concede that Haitian migrants will keep arriving as long as Haiti's
problems persist.

"There is a lot of misery," said Louis Joseph, Haiti's ambassador to the
Bahamas. "When people are suffering, they'll leave any way they can."

In a Nassau detention center, Pierre Joseph sits in a pink tank top and orange
swim trunks, waiting for word on when he'll be sent home.

During a five-day, 100-mile journey, he and seven other men endured a storm that
nearly tore apart their homemade sloop. When a Bahamian Defense Force boat
stopped them near shore, all were limp from dehydration, heat exhaustion and
seasickness.

"I wasn't afraid to die because I knew I had to leave," said Joseph, a
27-year-old potato farmer. "There's no hope in Haiti."

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              110 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 30, 2003 Friday
                                 Final Edition

College Tuition for Aliens

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 238 words


Melanie Scarborough's analysis of Democratic Virginia Gov. Mark R. Warner's veto
of legislation that would block in-state tuition for undocumented aliens [Close
to Home, May 25] missed the target. Mr.

Warner's veto was not partisan but consistent with the pending bipartisan
federal Student Adjustment Act sponsored by Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) and
Rep. Chris Cannon (R-Utah). This act encourages states to grant in-state tuition
to undocumented student aliens and to permit such persons to apply for permanent
residency [news, May 22].

Ms. Scarborough cited concerns about nonpayment of payroll taxes by illegal
workers but did not note that many such workers pay these taxes anyway using
borrowed Social Security numbers, with no hope of ever collecting benefits. She
further said that it is "against the law to hire them [undocumented aliens]" but
omitted the fact that it is not against the law for undocumented aliens to work
as independent contractors or to start U.S. businesses and hire U.S. citizens.

Finally, Ms. Scarborough questioned why it is in Virginia's interest to send
undocumented immigrants to college. The answer is obvious -- after spending tens
of millions of dollars to educate all aliens from K-12 as required by the
Supreme Court decision in Plyler v. Doe (1982), it only makes sense for Virginia
to finish the job with a college education for those who can gain acceptance.

MIKE STOLLENWERK

Alexandria

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              111 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          November 20, 2002 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Warner Meets With Latino Leaders;
Governor Plans Study on Whether Colleges Should Bar Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: David Cho, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 776 words


Virginia Gov. Mark R. Warner told the state's Hispanic leaders yesterday that he
will form a task force to study whether state colleges should bar illegal
immigrants and report those already enrolled to federal authorities, as the
state attorney general recently directed.

But Warner's remarks, made at the state's first-ever summit of Latino activists,
disappointed many of the 400 who attended the Alexandria conference.

"I can guarantee you that in the minds of the Latino community, the issue of
whether their children can go to college is more important than" almost anything
else, said Nelson Rios, director of the Virginia Alliance of Latinos Organized
for Representation. "This cannot wait for a task force."

However, the Democratic governor won over many in the audience at the Nannie J.
Lee Center by opening his remarks with four minutes of fluent Spanish. For those
who couldn't understand what he was saying, he quipped, "If you don't know
Spanish, learn it."

Organizers, while not pleased that Warner did not take a stand on the college
matter, nonetheless called the chance to speak directly to the governor and
network with other Virginia Latino leaders a political breakthrough for the
fast-growing immigrant community.

The 2000 Census found that Latinos number about 330,000 in Virginia -- only
about 5 percent of the total population, but a 106 percent increase from 10
years ago.

"The fact that the governor is calling Latinos to be at the table is a
tremendous step forward," said J. Walter Tejada, the summit's coordinator. "We
all recognize that this is a new era. We are encouraging people to run for
office and create a large pool of talent that can run anywhere around the state,
regardless of what party."

The idea of the conference was suggested by Warner himself when he met with
Latino leaders from Northern Virginia as he was launching his gubernatorial
campaign, Rios said.

Others said the summit resulted from concerns among Hispanic leaders during the
2002 General Assembly session. At one point, lawmakers considered a measure that
would have made legal presence in the United States a requirement for a driver's
license. The issue mobilized Hispanic groups, which converged on Richmond to
lobby against the proposal and its potential to disrupt the lives of thousands
of undocumented immigrants who rely on their cars to get to work.

Ultimately, those efforts partly paid off. The legislature commissioned a task
force at the Department of Motor Vehicles to study the issue. The DMV's report
is due early next month.

The lobbying campaign also convinced Hispanic leaders that they must present a
unified front to Richmond, said Jorge Figueredo, executive director of the
Hispanic Committee of Virginia.

"The networking that is happening today is the real success, and just to tell
the governor and his Cabinet that we are here and that we are not going
anywhere," he said.

Warner said finding solutions to the higher education and driver's license
issues is far from simple. The government must balance the impact on immigrants
against the need for greater security, he said, adding that he would await task
force findings on both matters before deciding his own position.

"It's going to take a great deal of thought," he said.

Emily Castro, a volunteer in the Fairfax Hispanic community, said she had hoped
the governor would take a stronger position. "I like the governor because he's
here today. He's listening to us, but I'm disappointed by what he said," she
said.

Hispanic leaders argue that preventing illegal immigrants from having a driver's
license puts an undue burden on them. Some will drive anyway, even without
insurance or proper training, and thus make it worse for everyone on the road.

By barring their children from public colleges, which offer far lower tuition
for Virginia residents, the state would be punishing the best and brightest of
those immigrants and reduce their chances to better their lives, the leaders
said.

But Tim Murtaugh, a spokesman for Attorney General Jerry W. Kilgore (R), said
concerns about security, especially in the post-Sept. 11, 2001, era, outweigh
the benefits of college to illegal immigrants.

Murtaugh welcomed the governor's initiative to study the issue. But he said the
attorney general's memo "represents advice that we give to the college and
universities as legal counsel to them, that they shouldn't enroll illegal
immigrants and that they sure shouldn't give them in-state tuition."

"I don't think it's asking too much to ask people to become legal citizens of
this country before they enroll in taxpayer-supported institutions," he added.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              112 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 11, 2002 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Navigating the Details of Landing an Overseas Job

BYLINE: Advice for Twentysomethings, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; CAREER TRACK ADVICE FOR TWENTYSOMETHINGS; Pg. E04

LENGTH: 994 words


One three-week vacation in France, and now you're itching to convert all your
dollars to euros?

The State Department says at least 2 million American citizens work abroad, so
if you make the leap, you certainly will not be alone. As more companies do
business globally, you may find that the experience boosts your rsum, not to
mention how it enriches your life.

But an international move is much more complicated than one to Manhattan, so
before you start scouting for Czech-English dictionaries at used-book stores,
make sure you understand the challenges you face.

There are two basic strategies you can take. Let your job skills and tolerance
for risk be your guide in deciding which to take.

The easiest way to get out of your stateside cubicle is through a multinational
company with a large American presence, or a nongovernmental organization. Find
out if your employer sends workers abroad. If not, start looking for an employer
that does. If you're starting cold with a private company, it may take years to
finagle an overseas assignment. With a nongovernmental organization, it will
move faster: it will be happy to find someone willing to run its Vladivostok
branch.

Even if you have to wait awhile, the advantages of that approach are numerous.

Elizabeth Sozanski of Berwyn, Pa., said her employer, the pharmaceutical company
AstraZeneca PLC, provided "tremendous support" when she was sent to work at the
company's London headquarters for two years. Having the company handle the
details enabled her to get right into her public relations job quickly and
smoothly, she said. Her employer took care of all the necessary work permits,
paid her moving expenses and secured housing for her and her family. The company
even found schools for her children. Most companies will provide some language
training, if necessary.

The best thing about moving with your current employer is the contacts. When you
arrive, you will have a ready-made network, especially if you have been working
at the company for a while. That will be an invaluable asset, personally and
professionally.

If you are determined to do it alone, you may run into problems.

The first obstacle may be the law. Many countries strictly limit the number of
foreign workers, and it's virtually impossible to get a work permit on your own.
Any company that wanted to hire you would generally have to prove that local
workers couldn't fill the job, and it would have to apply for clearances on your
behalf. It's expensive and time-consuming for employers, so unless you've got a
highly desirable combination of skills, they're not going to bother. Carefully
research the rules in the country to which you plan to move.

Often the only work available to foreigners is low-paying at best, downright
dangerous at worst. Do you want to live in the south of France badly enough to
pick grapes for $ 35 a day?

Some employers might be willing to hire you illegally, especially for the least
desirable work. Don't do it. If you are caught, you could be deported.

Once you get there, you will not have much of a social or professional network,
unless you already have some ties to the country. Going solo, you will be
responsible for finding housing and paying all of your moving expenses and you
will have to learn the language on your own.

You can get around some of the restrictions if you can claim ties to the country
you want to move to. Jennifer Navabi, 32, an IT consultant who lives in
Annapolis, was easily able to find work in France because her husband was born
in a European Union country. She and her husband lived in Paris for a year after
he was recruited by a global company while studying at the University of
Maryland.

"Given his 'dual citizenship,' we were able to obtain residency and work permits
that allowed us to live as citizens of France, rather than as U.S. expatriates,"
Navabi said.

How easy was it for her?

"I found my job, literally, on Monster.com.," she said. "In May 2000, when my
husband and I decided to move to Europe, I posted my rsum on Monster.com, noting
that I was eligible to work in the European Union. The HR director from [a
French software company] called me within half an hour. We moved to Paris in
June 2000, and I began work in Paris in August 2000."

Another thing to keep in mind is that your American rsum will probably not be
sufficient for an international job search. Most foreign companies require a
curriculum vitae instead of the one-page, bulleted summary preferred by most
American employers. A CV is much more detailed and includes many details that
ordinarily you would not include in your resume, such as hobbies and marital
status. Monster.com has a good guide to converting your resume into a CV at
http://international.monster.com/workabroad/findingajob/resumesletters/resumeint
ocv.

Some common challenges arise no matter what route you take.

For example, if you have U.S. debts, the currency exchange rate could be a
serious problem. You'll need to keep that in mind when evaluating salary offers.
Famin Ahmed, who was looking for jobs in Australia, realized it would be
difficult to make payments on a student loan in U.S. dollars while being paid in
Australian funds. The exchange rate for the two currencies is about $ 2
Australian to a U.S. dollar.

"It would have been a challenge to pay my monthly installment AND rent if I were
paid in Australian dollars," Ahmed said in an e-mail.

You'll also need to adjust culturally. The rules of business etiquette vary in
each country, so even if you are the Miss Manners of your Dulles office, you'd
do well to investigate the protocol for the country you'd like to work in before
you begin interviewing.

No matter which strategy you choose, expect plenty of surprises once the plane
touches down.

E-mail Mary Ellen Slayter at slayterme@washpost.com. Join her for "Career Track
Live," an hour-long chat on issues affecting young workers, at 11 a.m. on Nov.
25 at www.washingtonpost.com.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              113 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 15, 2002 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Bodies of 11 Possible Immigrants Found in Iowa Rail Car

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 201 words

DATELINE: DENISON, Iowa Oct. 14


-- As many as 11 bodies, possibly immigrants being smuggled into the country,
were found in a Union Pacific rail car, authorities said tonight.

All the victims were from Mexico, said Jerry Heinauer, district director of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service for Nebraska and Iowa.

Heinauer said he was told by the Mexican consul that the car left Matamoros,
Mexico, in June. It was parked in Oklahoma before heading to Denison, about 60
miles northwest of Omaha.

Jose Luis Cuevas, Mexican consul for the Dakotas, Iowa and Nebraska, said
railroad officials had given him the impression that the bodies had been in the
rail car at least four months.

Cuevas and Heinauer said they didn't know if the victims were men, women or
children.

"We have notified our government and they will advise if they have people whose
whereabouts are not known and that might have been heading this way," Cuevas
said.

Heinauer said authorities do not know whether the victims were being smuggled
into the country but that the case fit the pattern of smuggling operations.

Union Pacific spokesman John Bromley in Omaha said the bodies were found in a
covered grain hopper car at the FSC Archer Daniels Midland elevator.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              114 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 15, 2002 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Six Haitians Plead Not Guilty to Smuggling Immigrants in Miami

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 135 words

DATELINE: MIAMI Nov. 14


-- Six men pleaded not guilty today to charges that they smuggled more than 200
Haitians to the United States in a trip that ended with television cameras
catching the immigrants jumping ship, wading ashore and begging motorists for
rides.

Prosecutors say the Haitians intended to make a profit by charging their
countrymen for the trip on the 50-foot freighter.

If convicted, they face mandatory sentences of five years in federal prison.

With the exception of the six charged, the other immigrants apprehended after
they made it ashore remain in detention, where they await asylum hearings.

Under U.S. policy put into place in December, all illegal Haitian immigrants are
held pending deportation to deter what immigration officials fear would be a
mass exodus from the hemisphere's most destitute nation.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              115 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 3, 2003 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

In Denial on Detention

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 579 words


"The Inspector General report is fully consistent with what courts have ruled
over and over -- that our actions are fully within the law and necessary to
protect the American people. . . . We make no apologies for finding every legal
way possible to protect the American public from further terrorist attacks."

-- Justice Department spokeswoman

Barbara Comstock

So responded Attorney General John D. Ashcroft's Justice Department to a report
released yesterday by the department's inspector general, Glenn A. Fine. The
subject was the treatment of people arrested and held on immigration violations
after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. You might think, from Ms.
Comstock's declaration, that Mr. Fine had delivered a vindication. Which raises
the question of whether she has read the same report we saw yesterday -- that
is, the one that paints a disturbing picture of departmental decisions
needlessly burdening the lives and liberty of many people wholly unconnected to
terrorism and the one that describes "a pattern of abuse" at a federal detention
facility. The report ought to be the subject of soul-searching by the
department, not triumphalism.

For one thing, Mr. Fine's report confirms what press accounts have suggested
since shortly after the attacks: that many of the 762 immigration detainees were
simply people unfortunate enough to have a problem with their immigration status
whom investigators happened to stumble upon. "Some appear to have been arrested
more by virtue of chance encounters or tenuous connections to [an investigative]
lead rather than by any genuine indications of a possible connection with . . .
terrorist activity," the report says. In New York in the weeks after the
attacks, the FBI did not adequately distinguish between real threats and
run-of-the-mill immigration cases brought to light by the investigation, the
report finds. Just about everyone was deemed "of interest."

And the designation had big consequences: The department had a policy of
opposing bail for all such people. It took far too long to give detainees notice
of the charges against them. And "of interest" detainees could not be released
or deported until the FBI had cleared them -- a process that dragged on for long
periods of time. Moreover, those detainees sent to the Metropolitan Detention
Center in Brooklyn were treated in an exceptionally harsh manner: They were
locked down 23 hours a day with lights on constantly in their cells; they were
given limited access to counsel and families; and they were shackled when moved.
While allegations of physical and verbal abuse of detainees at the facility were
not adequate to press charges, Mr. Fine writes than he is continuing to
investigate for possible administrative action.

The report acknowledges the extraordinary pressures the department faced in the
weeks after the attacks -- and the fact that the detainees had all broken
immigration laws. But as Mr. Fine said in a statement, "while the chaotic
situation and the uncertainties surrounding the detainees' connections to
terrorism explain some of the problems we found in our review, they do not
explain them all." Ms. Comstock, in an interview, said the department had
addressed some of Mr. Fine's recommendations and was in the process of
implementing or studying the others. It is incumbent upon the Justice Department
to take the criticisms seriously, not just to insist that it did not break laws
and that anything legal is acceptable.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              116 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 19, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Sounds of Joy Echo Within Jail's Walls

BYLINE: Hamil R. Harris, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: SOUTHERN MARYLAND EXTRA; Pg. T01

LENGTH: 279 words


Christmas songs and gospel music rang through the St. Mary's County Detention
Center on Saturday during a not-so-traditional Southern Maryland holiday concert
held behind bars.

The performances -- one for male inmates and another for women -- was a first of
sorts at the county jail, where groups have serenaded inmates with carols at
Christmas for years. But until now, the singers had always had to remain outside
the jail, with inmates listening from narrow windows in their cells.

The gospel choir from St. Peter Claver Catholic Church in St. Inigoes changed
that Saturday afternoon in Leonardtown. The program came about at the urging of
the Rev. Damian Shadwell, parish priest at St. Peter Claver, and the detention
center's activities director.

Accompanied by guitars, keyboards and tambourines, the choir performed two shows
in the detention center's gymnasium. The first was for about 60 male inmates,
among them many detainees being held for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service; the second was for 14 female prisoners.

The choir's music, which included about twice as many gospel tunes as holiday
songs, had inmates and sheriff's officers alike clapping and toe-tapping. St.
Mary's County Sheriff David D. Zylak (D) and many of his deputies attended the
concert.

"We just wanted to let [inmates] know that society has not forgotten about
them," Zylak said.

The program began with the Lord's Prayer. Then, Shadwell, who teaches a Bible
study class at the jail, read the story from the Book of Acts of how the apostle
Paul and Silas sang hymns while they were imprisoned.

"There is no hardship so great that we can't sing hymns to God," Shadwell said.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              117 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 26, 2003 Monday
                                 Final Edition

7 Days of Desperation Along Mexican Border;
Migrants' Dreams Die in Brutal Crossing

BYLINE: Kevin Sullivan and Mary Jordan, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 2310 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY May 25


Olegario Pozos rode in a bus along a southern Mexican highway on Sunday, May 11,
traveling with three of his cousins, two other men and the smuggler they knew
only as Coyote. He was guiding them from the jobless grind of Oaxaca, their poor
southern state, to the U.S. border.

"We'd rather work in Mexico," said Pozos, 28, as he related the details of his
journey. "But there's no work here, so we have to try to cross."

Coyote, as human smugglers are called in Mexico, was charging $ 900 each to lead
them through a sparsely populated area of western Arizona. They were farmers who
didn't know anything about their destination, Phoenix, except that they had
friends there, who would get them jobs and pay for the trip.

Six days later, as Pozos and the others confronted life and death in the Arizona
desert, they looked down at Coyote, lying unconscious in the sand. With
temperatures over 105 degrees, Pozos said, there was only one thing to do --
walk on and leave the man for dead.

The smuggler would have done the same to them, they reasoned, and it was the
only way to save their own lives.

Their journey spanned the same week that 19 migrants were found dead, packed in
a tractor-trailer at a truck stop south of Victoria, Tex. That tragedy made
headlines worldwide because so many died in one place. But in the past five
years, more than 2,000 others have died with scant attention, because they often
died alone. They drowned in the Rio Grande, died of exposure in the baking
Arizona deserts or froze to death in the mountains. They risked everything to
earn dollars working in the lowest-paying jobs in the United States.

In the week of the trailer deaths, at least 11 other people died trying to cross
the border, bringing the total to at least 30. Some lasted days without food or
water, others succumbed to the blinding heat within hours. Some were betrayed by
ruthless smugglers, others were helped by the heroism of strangers. More than 30
others were rescued by the U.S. Border Patrol, many of them suffering from
severe exposure, some of them probably hours from death.

Among the dead were a pair of brothers from Naucalpan, near Mexico City, who
drowned in the Rio Grande near Brownsville, Tex. They were trying to make it to
New Jersey to paint houses. A young mother from Colombia died of heat exhaustion
in the Arizona desert trying to join her sister, who takes care of elderly
people in New York City. A newlywed from the Mexican state of Guanajuato died in
a mountain canyon in Arizona before he and his bride could make it to a farm job
in Delaware. Another was found floating in the Rio Grande, two were found dead
on the roadside in the Tohono O'odham Indian Reservation in Arizona and others
succumbed to the heat in remote corners of Texas and Arizona.

Their stories -- drawn from dozens of interviews with survivors, families of the
dead and U.S. and Mexican officials -- are the border's footnotes. They are the
unspectacular cases, rarely collected or spotlighted. But a close look at those
seven days in May reveals the desperation of migrant traffic on the border,
where death has become numbingly routine.

At 3 a.m. on Wednesday, May 14, around the same time the bodies were being
pulled out of the trailer truck in Victoria, Olegario Pozos and his three
cousins crossed the border into the Arizona desert.

After a two-day bus ride, they had arrived Monday in Sonoyta, a little town in
far-western Sonora state, just south of the border from Lukeville, Ariz. It is a
remote crossroads that serves as the gateway to Organ Pipe Cactus National
Monument.

The smuggler had told them to wait, and they'd cross in a couple of days. He
said it would be no problem -- two nights and one day walking, and they'd be
home free in Phoenix. Pozos and his cousins had no clue that Phoenix was about
120 miles away, and no hint of the danger ahead of them.

"We had heard that people die trying to cross the desert," Pozos said in an
interview a week later. "But Coyote told us that was a different desert."

On Wednesday, in the middle of the night, Coyote said it was time to go. They
walked across the border into the open desert. They carried several plastic jugs
of water, a few cans of tuna and some tortilla chips. Almost immediately they
realized that the chips made them even more thirsty, so they dumped them.

They walked all day and all night. Wednesday spilled into Thursday, and then it
was Friday and they were still walking. The only shade was their own shadows on
the desert floor, which was broiling at about 120 degrees, even hotter than the
air, like an asphalt parking lot on a hot summer day.

They stayed together, walking, walking, dizzy from the heat.

On Friday they ran out of water. They were not thinking straight. They walked at
different speeds and began getting separated in the scrublands. The night
offered a little cool respite, but by Saturday they were in serious trouble.
They were dehydrated and exhausted and had no idea where they were.

"We couldn't believe that we were still alive," Pozos said.

Pozos realized they had lost track of two of his three cousins. He and the
others decided to go for help.

That's when Coyote fell to the ground, unconscious and face down in the burning
sand. "We didn't do anything to help him," Pozos said. "Imagine it: We had just
left two of our family members in the desert to go get help. What were we going
to do? Carry him? It was impossible."

So they left Coyote there. Pozos assumed he was dead. They never did learn his
real name.

They kept walking. A day later, on Sunday, they reached a rest area on
Interstate 8 at Sentinel, halfway between Yuma and Phoenix. It was nearly 60
miles across the desert from where they crossed the border. Someone in the rest
area called the police and a Border Patrol helicopter found the other two
cousins in the desert, along with four people from a different group. All
survived. They didn't find Coyote's body.

Two of the men who arrived with Pozos at the rest area paid a driver to give
them a ride before the Border Patrol arrived. They had nearly died and they were
so close to Phoenix that they wouldn't give up. Pozos thinks they made it.

Pozos and the others were sent back to Mexico. In a telephone interview from a
Mexican immigration service office, Pozos said he and his cousins were still
hanging around the border. They hadn't decided what to do next.

"I can't rule out trying again," Pozos said. "But I'm never going to do it here
again. Trying to cross that desert is crazy."

On Tuesday morning, May 13, Gustavo Salazar Romero, 32, called his mother, Irene
Romero Torres, from the border city of Matamoros on the Gulf of Mexico coast.
"We have arrived, and everybody is okay," he said. "Please call Lucy and tell
her that I'm fine."

The day before, Gustavo left Naucalpan, a city of cinderblock shacks northwest
of Mexico City, where paint on a house is a sign of affluence. He and his wife,
Lucia, were raising two children there, but there was no work. He and his
brother Enrique, 29, had already spent three years in New Jersey painting
houses. Now they were going back, this time taking along another brother, Jorge,
18, and a family friend, Jorge Mondragon Cruz.

They all made the 14-hour bus ride to Matamoros with their coyote, a guy from
the neighborhood known as El Nariz -- The Nose. Gustavo told Lucy he'd be back
by Christmas, and he would bring enough money for them to quit renting and buy a
house. "Don't worry," he told her. "Take care of the kids and take care of my
mother. There's nothing to be afraid of." He kissed her and got on the bus.

An hour after Gustavo called his mother to say he'd arrived, a U.S. Border
Patrol officer saw Mondragon, the family friend, running toward him frantically
along the banks of the Rio Grande.

Two people are drowning, he said, please hurry.

The agent arrived and saw Gustavo flailing in the river, entangled in the sinewy
hydrilla plants that grow in the warm water. He was caught in fast currents
below the surface. Enrique already had been pulled under and was gone.

Jorge, the younger brother, stood on the bank on the Mexican side, watching
helplessly. None of the brothers knew how to swim. The coyote ran away. The
Border Patrol agent threw a rope. But Gustavo had disappeared beneath the murky
water.

"The coyote never said anything about having to swim. He said we could walk
across," Jorge recalled a week later, sitting in his mother's tiny house in
Naucalpan. His eyes were blood red. He wore a black ribbon pinned to the arm of
his black shirt.

They live in a shack at the bottom of a deep ravine, guarded by a Rottweiler,
next to a canal where the water is littered with sewage and old sneakers. The
kitchen roof is made of thick cardboard, and the springs of old mattresses serve
as a fence.

It had been a one-room tin shack that flooded every time it rained -- until
Gustavo and Enrique found work in New Jersey and sent their mother money every
month -- sometimes $ 2,000 or more -- some of which she used to build a solid
concrete living room. Now candles burned on the new concrete floor next to two
crosses made of red and white roses -- one cross for each of the drowned
brothers.

"I would ask all these young people to think again before they go," their mother
said, crying. "And their mothers must convince them not to go, because many
times they don't come back."

Jorge listened to it all. Would he still consider going to the United States,
even after watching his brothers die? "I would," he said.

The morning that the brothers drowned, Amparo Gonzalez Cienfuentes, 36, waved
goodbye and boarded a plane in Cali, Colombia. It was her first flight abroad.
She was bound for Mexico City, but her final destination was really the United
States.

Amparo was an accountant at a bus terminal in Cali, Colombia's third-largest
city. One of 10 brothers and sisters, she never finished high school. Economic
hard times in Latin America made it tough to save enough to move out of her
lower-middle-class neighborhood.

So she decided to try her luck in New York City. Her sister, Francia, 24, went
illegally three years ago and now lives comfortably as a health aide for senior
citizens. "It's a country with luck," Francia said in a telephone interview. "It
is a dream to be in the United States."

At the airport, Amparo's 18-year-old daughter, who was pregnant and due to give
birth in two weeks, couldn't stop weeping. Amparo soothed her and her
13-year-old son, telling them she was trying to make things better for all of
them. With her brother's video camera rolling, Amparo said: "Don't cry. Don't
cry. I will be back.' "

Wednesday morning, Amparo called her sister Francia from Mexico and told her she
was fine. Then she set out on foot with a large group of migrants heading across
the border into the Arizona desert, just west of Douglas.

After only a few hours in the blinding heat, Amparo, tall and thin, fell to the
ground. In the Darwinian world of the border, the group left her and kept
walking -- except for one Mexican man, Jorge Loza, who scooped her up in his
arms. Giving up his own American dream, he carried her for several hours until
they reached Highway 80, near Douglas. An off-duty Border Patrol agent on his
way home saw a man holding the limp body of a woman in his arms on the roadside.
He called an ambulance, but by about 5 p.m., Amparo was pronounced dead of
exposure at a Douglas hospital -- after only seven hours in the desert.

Loza described Amparo's last hours to authorities, then was sent back to Mexico.
Francia said she wished she could find him to thank him because "he showed
humanity and nobility."

Noe Alvarez Lopez, 22, was married in February in the small Mexican town of
Moroleon, in Guanajuato state, and wanted to follow in his father's footsteps.
Twenty years ago Ramon Alvarez went to the United States to make a better life
for his wife and family, who stayed at home. He quickly found work picking
mushrooms in Delaware, which pays better than the $ 60 a week workers can earn
in textile jobs in Moroleon.

Eventually, Ramon became a U.S. citizen and moved up the ladder at work; he now
drives a truck. Although the father is in the United States legally, the family
believed it would take years for Noe and his new bride, Maria Miriam, to win
legal passage to the United States.

So on Tuesday, May 13, they set off on a daylong bus ride to the Arizona border,
where they met up with a smuggler and dozens of others waiting to cross. On
Wednesday, they set off into the Huachuca Mountains west of Naco, Ariz.

Maria Miriam later told Noe's mother, Leticia Alvarez, that the hiking was
harsh. They struggled up and down steep mountain ridges for hours. It was cool
and there was water in the canyon springs and lakes, but the climbing was
grueling in mountains that reach over 7,000 feet. Noe became visibly weaker. He
was short of breath, his ankles hurt, he was turning yellow.

The smugglers were clear: "Out here, he who walks makes it, he who doesn't stays
behind."

Noe could no longer move. Everyone else kept walking. Maria Miriam thought he
just needed rest, but then she felt his body growing cold, and his color faded
from yellow to purple.

"Hold me," he said weakly. "I am going to die."

Maria Miriam held him for a moment. Then she looked into his mouth and saw it
filling with blood. She screamed and told him she was going for help. She
climbed down out of the mountains until she came to a Texaco station in Sierra
Vista. Someone there called for help, and the Border Patrol took her into the
mountains in a helicopter.

They found Noe's body where Maria Miriam had left him, in Ramsey Canyon, a
famous hummingbird preserve. His funeral was held a week later in the church
where they were married.

Researchers Gabriela Martinez and Melissa Mann contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              118 of 266 DOCUMENTS


                               Washingtonpost.com

                        July 31, 2003 Thursday 05:41 PM

Changing the Americas Through Immigration

SOURCE: washingtonpost.com

BYLINE: special to washingtonpost.com

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 763 words


The first person I ever heard declare that Latinos were going to destroy this
country was not a U.S.-born worker who had lost his job to a recent immigrant,
nor a homeowner shaken by the foreign invasion of his neighborhood, nor even a
Texan or Californian convinced that Mexicans were planning to take back their
territory. It was my mother.

Ines Fonseca Martinez had traveled to the United States for the first time in
the 1950s, invited by her well-off aunt and uncle. She was then a young student
of philosophy and letters, and the short visit was her first chance to behold
first-hand a country she admired as the birthplace of some of her favorite poets
-- Walt Whitman, Ezra Pound, T.S. Eliot.

Thirty years later, she visited again and couldn't believe her eyes. By that
time, the people on the flight from Bogota to New York were different. It was
almost as if she was riding a bus in rural Colombia, absent only the clucking
chickens and sacks of grain.

These were not exactly the people to best represent her country, her culture,
her generation. They would change the face of the United States with a face she
hardly knew, or knew only enough to recognize perhaps among street vendors in
Manhattan, but certainly not among the throngs at the Met or in the Guggenheim.
This inspiring land would never be the same, she feared.

Since the mid-1960s, the United States has been changing from a country where
most of the immigrants were European to one where most of the immigrants are
Latin Americans. And like the Europeans before them, many have come fleeing war,
hunger and internal strife to find security and opportunity.

What shocked and saddened my mother has been a cause of celebration for me
through the years of living in this egalitarian society. Yes, the best-educated
and wealthiest of the world have come here, but it is the tired, the poor and
the huddled masses that have made this country what it is.

I can understand why my mother did not see that. All her life, she has lived in
a country -- and a region -- with an entrenched system of inequality and class.
But what could be the excuse for those who have lived here and yet appear unable
or unwilling to accept a change that has been taking place in this country for
years?

If the flood of messages I received recently in response to a column about
immigration reform and its benefits for homeland security is an indication, some
in this country have decided to fight back with a passion.

States like California will soon "disintegrate," to cite one writer's sentiment,
and will become "a corruption and poverty-ridden third world." If illegal
immigration is halted, money now spent to serve these "criminals," as another
put it, could be "better used to construct or maintain our highways."

These writers, some of them Latinos, are entitled to long for their good ol'
days of earlier immigration, and to mourn the passing of a certain way of life
-- even at the risk of sounding, dare I say, somewhat un-American. Like my
mother, they seem unable to grasp the bigger picture. For as long as there is
desperation in the countries to the south and demand for cheap and unskilled
labor here, Latin American immigrants will keep coming, legally or illegally.

And while some have chosen to ignore this reality, others take into account this
country's aging population, projections for future labor shortages and the
post-9/11 need to have a better handle on who is here. The latter seem willing,
as some members of the U.S. Congress showed by recently introducing new
comprehensive immigration reform legislation, to extend a more benevolent hand
to immigrants and offer a better chance to assimilate and contribute to this
nation.

It was in the 1950s, precisely when my mother first came to the States, that the
bracero program, the first temporary workers agreement, was in full gear. Dubbed
"legalized slavery" by one U.S. official, it ended in disgrace a decade later.
What my mother witnessed during her mid-1980s visit was the next mounting wave
of Latin American immigrants coming under no special program and often
illegally.

Today, Latinos have become the largest minority in this country. Their labor not
only benefits this economy, but also their economies back home. Hopefully what
my mother could see next, without even coming here, would be the equalizing
power of this country, rippling through Latin America and washing away some of
the old class structures around her.

Marcela Sanchez's e-mail address is mailto:desdewash@washpost.com
desdewash@washpost.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2003 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 1, 2003 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Voice of America;
At Ellis Island, the recorded memories of immigrants put the accent on history.

BYLINE: Ellen Perlman, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C02

LENGTH: 1023 words


As the boat draws near, the building looms larger and increasingly formidable.
Even on a gray fall day on a boat filled with cocoa-sipping day-trippers from
New Jersey, it's a daunting old pile. What must it have looked like to my
grandmother, who approached this same immigration station on Ellis Island in
1921 on a ship filled with desperate immigrants? She was 16-year-old Ida Feldman
and home had been Siedlec, Poland, where Bolshevik soldiers periodically
ransacked their home, where a younger sister had starved to death. After a
miserable three-week journey from Danzig -- complete with a contagious disease
that swept through steerage and a 10-day forced quarantine -- here finally was
the gateway to the America she had dreamed of for so long.

But only if her family passed muster. All had heard stories of families turned
away, of those who committed suicide rather than return to a life of poverty or
oppression.

"We saw the Statue of Liberty and we were screaming and hollering, 'America,
America,' " my grandmother says in her Yiddish-tinged accent. She died in 1986,
but I can still hear her voice. So can you. She's one of the recorded narrators
of the Ellis Island experience that modern visitors can hear as they tour the
restored immigration halls. For her, and for millions of other arriving
Americans, those nervous steps up these brick paths were the first steps of a
new life.

I had heard the family stories. Now I was on my approach to Ellis Island,
watching the French Renaissance building loom large. I felt a shiver, not only
because I was imagining my grandmother's experience but also because I was
afraid of what I'd find inside. I had been to the island once before in the late
'70s, when it was decrepit and hosted few visitors. Out of the dirt and grime
and peeling paint were authentic echoes of the past as my family walked through
with a park ranger. I was loath to step into what I imagined would be a
gussied-up, Disneyfied version of history after a major renovation and reopening
in 1990.

I shouldn't have worried. Black-and-white photos, voice recordings of immigrants
and exhibits of their belongings, from suitcases to feather beds to drinking
glasses, shed light on a fascinating piece of this country's past: the story of
the peak immigration years from 1892 to 1924, when more than 12 million people
came through this port of entry.

Today visitors take a ferry from New York or New Jersey. I left from Liberty
State Park in Jersey City, where parking is plentiful and lines are usually
short. The 27-acre island actually falls within New Jersey's border, so says a
1998 Supreme Court ruling.

In the old days, the boats docked and families checked their baggage while they
were being processed. They didn't have much to check. "I had a pair of
stockings, that's all, and one dress my grandmother made me," my grandmother
says on tape, on a telephone near a stack of suitcases and trunks from the early
20th century. "What we had? You shouldn't know what we had."

I rented an audio tour and, with Tom Brokaw's voice in my ear, walked up a set
of stairs to the registry room. It's a beautiful, high-ceilinged space with
windows facing New York City on one side and Lady Liberty on the other. I
imagined immigrants looking longingly at both.

As new arrivals ascended the stairs, medical officers on the second floor looked
over the rail, watching for signs of ill health. The inspectors then chalked the
poor souls' clothing. A "C" for conjunctivitis, "L" for lameness, "S" for
senility, a whole alphabet soup of condemnation.

I felt rage rising at the indignity of it. This grandmother, whom I loved so
much, the one who cooked chicken soup and baked cookies in her comfortable East
Village apartment in New York, was, here at Ellis Island, a name on a list, an
alien inspected like a suspicious package, a nobody who had to prove herself to
these officials. To add further insult, first- and second-class passengers on
her ship were dropped off directly in Manhattan. Only steerage passengers went
through the Ellis Island ordeal.

I heard charming stories, too. People who had come from small villages were
thrown in with others from so many different places. They saw skin colors and
features they'd never seen before. One woman speaking on the audio tour
describes her wonder at seeing a woman in stylish pointy-toed shoes. "What kind
of place is this? Some people have pointy feet."

During the hours they spent at Ellis Island, my grandmother's family was given
some food, much of it unfamiliar. "They gave us a banana. I never saw a banana
in my whole life," she says. "I tried to eat the banana with the skin and
everybody looked at me like [I was] crazy."

Today, the registry room's wooden floors shine and light streams in from the
windows. Back then, the room was packed with people shuffling along in lines,
waiting to get to the inspection desks, where officials asked questions and
compared their answers with the ship's paperwork to see if they were eligible to
enter. The inspectors asked my grandmother's reticent little brother, whose
belly was distended from hunger, what was wrong with him. Finally he blurted, "I
got a big belly," and they passed him. "They wanted to know if he knows how to
talk, that's all," says my grandmother.

They made it through. Waiting at the other end was her father, who'd left Poland
to find work when she was just 8 years old. When World War I broke out, he
couldn't make it back as planned. Now, having sent them money for passage, here
he was, ready to take his family to his Bronx house -- in a taxi, no less. Not
only had my grandmother never seen a taxi, she had never seen a car.

I, too, left New Jersey by car. I had bought it with some of the money my
once-poor grandmother left each of her seven grandchildren when she died. She
would have given her life for this country where she had such opportunity, she
says on the tape. The other night, I talked to my grandmother's kid sister on
the phone, my 96-year-old great-aunt Frieda. Her voice sounds like
Grandmother's. And you know what she said? "God bless America."

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              120 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 3, 2003 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Fake-ID Arrest Led to FBI Hunt

BYLINE: John Mintz, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 928 words


An accused immigrant smuggler who is jailed in Canada has told authorities that
he was offered large sums of cash to help five foreign nationals illegally enter
the United States from Pakistan, a revelation that set off this week's manhunt
for five men the FBI fears may be planning terrorist attacks, U.S. officials
said.

Michael John Hamdani, who was arrested three months ago in suburban Toronto,
allegedly with $ 600,000 in fake traveler's checks and a sophisticated passport
counterfeiting lab, is the original source of the information that five men and
perhaps others had arranged to travel from Pakistan to England, then to Canada
and, finally, the United States, U.S. officials said yesterday.

FBI officials believe that all five are carrying fake passports bearing
photographs of individuals who resemble them. A Pakistani jeweler came forward
Wednesday to say the bureau has on its Web site a photo of him as the passport
picture of one of the five men being sought, Mustafa Khan Owasi. The jeweler,
who is being questioned by FBI agents, said he believes someone stole his photo
for use in a passport scam.

U.S. authorities say that they still do not know where the five men are, and are
concerned that the men may be planning a terrorist strike in this country. U.S.
officials acknowledge being frustrated by what they do not know about the case.

"We can't even say with certainty that they are in the United States," said FBI
spokesman Joe Valiquette in New York.

Gordon Johndroe, spokesman for the Office of Homeland Security, asked: "Where
are they, and what was their purpose in traveling?"

U.S. investigators and their counterparts in Canada, England, Pakistan and other
countries are bringing in known immigrant smugglers for questioning to try to
learn more about the five individuals, who apparently have roots in Pakistan.

On Sunday, the FBI released the five photos, along with the men's names and
birth dates. In addition to Owasi, they were identified as Abid Noraiz Ali,
Iftikhar Khozmai Ali, Adil Pervez and Akbar Jamal. Their birth dates are
purportedly between 1969 and 1983.

Investigators expressed doubt that any of the names or ages are valid, and they
are skeptical that any of the passport photos depict the person carrying it.

U.S. officials believe that if the five are in this country, they were
physically smuggled in -- by truck, car, ferry, train or other means -- and did
not present themselves to any U.S. immigration officer, because there is no
record of anyone by those names entering the United States recently.

The source of the names and photos was Hamdani, who is facing charges of fraud
and possession of instruments of forgery in Canada after his arrest in Canada.
U.S. and Canadian investigators have questioned him extensively, using polygraph
machines.

Hamdani, who U.S. officials say has had past dealings with suspected terrorists,
has told investigators he was contacted months ago by people offering at least $
20,000 to $ 30,000 for each man he was able to transport from Pakistan into the
United States, officials said.

Hamdani has been involved in immigrant smuggling controversies for years. In
1995, using the name Michael Javed, he was arrested in Canada with a Pakistani
woman he was attempting to help gain entry into Canada and then the United
States. Both he and the woman were carrying false New Jersey driver's licenses
and phony U.S. passports. The disposition of that case could not be learned
yesterday.

In 1998, a staff member at a bank in Brunei turned in Hamdani for allegedly
using fraudulent traveler's checks. News articles at the time said Pakistani
authorities sentenced him to 10 years in prison.

Last October, police in the municipality of Peel, near Toronto, received
complaints from local merchants about a ring of con artists cashing phony $ 100
traveler's checks, said Det. Sgt. Manny Rodrigues of the Peel police. Detectives
traced the activity to the home of Hamdani, which they raided.

There they found $ 600,000 in counterfeit Thomas Cook and American Express
traveler's checks, fake Pakistani driver's licenses, piles of passport photos
and a wide array of fabricated immigration papers from various countries, he
said. Also seized in the raid were fake consul general documents from India.

After they arrested him, Canadian police realized Hamdani also was wanted on a
federal warrant from 1996, issued by the FBI in New York in another alleged
counterfeiting case.

Canadian and U.S. authorities have followed up on hundreds of alleged sightings
of the five men, but it appears none has panned out. "To date, there has been no
confirmation by a law enforcement authority indicating any of the five entered
the U.S. via Canada, or were even in Canada," said Staff Sgt. Paul Marsh of the
Royal Canadian Mounted Police.

The FBI also is interviewing Mohammed Asghar, 30, a jeweler in Lahore, Pakistan,
who said the FBI placed a photo of him on its Web site but identified him as
Owasi, 33, one of the five men being sought.  Asghar said he had tried to use a
fake passport on a trip to England some time ago, but security officers in the
United Arab Emirates discovered his ruse. He speculated that the document
forgers he had hired stole his photo for use by others.

President Bush, vacationing at his ranch in Crawford, Tex., said he thought
Asghar's account was "curious," given that he admitted using false papers. "We
need to follow up on forged passports and people trying to come into our country
illegally," Bush said.

Staff writer Susan Schmidt contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              121 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 5, 2003 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Who Will Come First -- the People Or the Politicians?

BYLINE: Melanie Scarborough

SECTION: EDITORIAL; HOW I SEE IT BY MELANIE SCARBOROUGH </COLUMN1>; Pg. B08

LENGTH: 742 words


The Virginia General Assembly convenes this week for its yearly legislative
session, and before the daffodils bloom and the bourbon runs out, lawmakers will
broach thousands of initiatives. Many will be political puffery -- i.e., "House
Resolution No. 666 honors Agnes Flapsaddle for making the finest tomato relish
in Caroline County." But a few will have the potential to make substantial
improvements or cause significant harm.

Again this year, lawmakers will have to decide what is more important: their
political survival or the safety of others. Last year the lawmakers caved in to
advocates for illegal immigrants and rejected legislation to make legal
residency in Virginia a requirement for obtaining a driver's license. They
should rectify that mistake.

A driver's license is the principal tool for entree into American society. It
enables a person not just to drive a car but to board an airplane, open a bank
account, rent an apartment, get a credit card and do many other things -- all
without incurring suspicion, because the holder is presumed to be a citizen. If
all states outlawed driver's licenses for undocumented foreigners, terrorists
would face a major obstacle. U.S. Rep. Eric Cantor, a Republican representing
Virginia's 7th District, introduced such a bill in the House last year, but
Congress did not act on it.

Granted, most immigrants -- even those here illegally -- are sympathetic
figures. Who can begrudge industrious people the chance to work for a better
life? But sentimentality should not supplant law. Lawmakers ought to follow
Virginia Attorney General Jerry Kilgore's advice and require public universities
to deny admission to illegal immigrants and report those already enrolled. For
school administrators to balk at Kilgore's recommendation -- knowing that the
Sept. 11, 2001, attacks were perpetrated by terrorists exploiting lax oversight
of foreign students -- is unconscionable. Moreover, why should Virginia
taxpayers subsidize those who are violating federal law?

While enacting genuine reforms to improve safety, lawmakers should reject
symbolic measures designed chiefly to raise revenue --

such as Gov. Mark Warner's proposals to make enforcement of Virginia's seat-belt
law a priority and to jack up traffic fines on the state's busiest highways.

Does anyone really believe it would promote public safety to divert police from
the crackheads barreling along I-95 to the lady eschewing her seat belt to avoid
wrinkling her blouse on the way to a job interview?

Making it more lucrative for cops to write tickets on busy interstates -- the
safest of Virginia's roads -- also might draw them away from patrolling
secondary roadways, where motorists are in much greater danger. During the
Thanksgiving holiday, for example, Virginia had eight fatal car crashes -- only
three of which occurred on interstate highways.

Republican legislators should press forward with their plans to repeal
Virginia's estate tax. For government to stake a claim on assets that have
already been taxed crosses the line into confiscation.

The argument made by Democrats, such as state Sen. Charles Colgan (Prince
William), that the state "can't afford" not to demand a share of estates
presumes that the state has first claim on all assets. A vote on the estate tax
would reveal which Virginia lawmakers share that view.

Additionally, the legislature should reject Warner's proposal to move more
patients from state mental institutions into community treatment programs. The
deinstitutionalization movement is one of this nation's greatest failings. In
theory, many psychiatric patients can function outside institutions if they get
regular doses of psychotropic drugs. But the assumption that mentally
incompetent people will cooperate with treatment has proven unrealistic and has
been a major cause of homelessness. It may be less expensive to have mental
patients on the streets than in hospitals, but the cost to them is
insupportable.

The governor's strength is applying effective business principles to state
government, and here the legislature should follow his lead.

Warner's plan to require evaluations of all new initiatives before their funding
is renewed is a good one, as is his suggestion that any new board or commission
be subject to a sunset provision. Both of these measures represent what ought to
be the General Assembly's overriding consideration in the perennial contest.

Let the games begin.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              122 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 5, 2003 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Area Pakistanis Wary Of Registration Law;
Meeting at Embassy Airs Concerns That INS Will Arrest Men Who Comply

BYLINE: Arthur Santana, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C03

LENGTH: 805 words


Members of the area's Pakistani community, faced with a requirement that they
register with the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service by next month,
gathered with the Pakistani ambassador to air their concerns and hear his
advice.

The questions came from a couple of dozen people among the 250 gathered in the
Pakistani Embassy's chancery in Northwest Washington about a law that all male
Pakistani nationals 16 and older report for fingerprinting and photographing.
The requirement, first applied to nationals of Muslim countries that the United
States considered high risks for exporting terrorism, has been extended to a
much broader group of Arab or Muslim countries, including Pakistan.

At the meeting, concerns ranged from a sense of hurt pride that they would be
required to register to fear that registration might result in arrest -- a
complaint that led to a recent lawsuit by a group of Iranian men in Los Angeles.

Pakistani Ambassador Ashraf Jehangir Qazi fielded questions and comments and
said he shared the concerns about the law, which requires registration from Jan.
13 to Feb. 21, under threat of deportation. "There is a perception that the
Pakistani people are being profiled," Qazi said.

While he urged attendees, most of them men, to comply with the Department of
Justice order, he said he found it disconcerting that the law applies only to
Arab or Muslim countries. Qazi also said the requirement is an affront to the
law-abiding and productive members of the U.S. Pakistani community, as well as
to the friendly relationship that Pakistan has had with the United States.

"Pakistan should not be included on this list," Qazi said.

In August, the Justice Department announced the registration requirement to
track all foreigners and their reasons for being here. By Oct. 1, that plan was
in place for five countries that the State Department had designated as sponsors
of terrorism.

In November, a rule was published in the Federal Register to require males 16
and older from any one of 13 additional countries to register with the INS.
Pakistan and Saudi Arabia were added Dec. 18, according to the Justice
Department. Spokesmen have said the system should be fully implemented by 2005.

"This law is against the spirit of America," said one attendee yesterday, Nisar
Chaudhry, president of the Pakistani American Congress in Washington.

Qazi and others at the meeting said they were concerned by actions that prompted
a class-action suit against Attorney General John D. Ashcroft and the INS. The
suit, filed in federal court in Los Angeles, followed the mass detention of
hundreds of immigrants -- most of them Iranians -- who came forward to register
under the anti-terrorism program and were handcuffed and locked up, sometimes
for days, for overstaying their visas.

Qazi said yesterday that he feared that the mass arrest has sent a shock wave
through the Pakistani community, leaving many men afraid to register with the
INS. "We don't want people to stay away from the [INS] centers and, therefore,
lose their [visa] status," Qazi said, "but we hope they will not be subjected to
the kind of justice that was meted out on the West Coast."

Faiz Rehman of the National Council of Pakistani Americans was at yesterday's
meeting. He said the registration requirement sends a chilling message. "I feel
we are being racially and religiously profiled."

Others spoke passionately about the issue, saying that Pakistan's military
ruler, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, should intervene. They also questioned U.S.
relations with Pakistan.

But Qazi repeated that "the vast majority of people in Pakistan consider the
U.S. a friend." He added, "America is a friend, but friends can sometimes
disagree."

Several immigration lawyers who were invited to the meeting said Pakistani
nationals should go to the INS prepared with all their government-issued
identification. Proof of residence, employment or school attendance also is
required.

Said lawyer Denyse Sabagh: "It's supposed to be a registration. It's not
supposed to be a witch hunt." Nevertheless, she said, "don't go without a
lawyer, especially if you're out of status" -- in violation of any part of
immigration rules.

She also urged Pakistanis not to wait to register.

An INS representative who was at the meeting said she was not allowed to answer
questions from the news media.

Jorge Martinez, a Justice Department spokesman, defended the new law by phone
yesterday.

"We feel very strongly about the great relationship that the U.S. has with
Musharraf and our combined efforts to fight the war on terrorists," Martinez
said. "But the law, which was mandated by Congress, is solely based on national
security concerns and intelligence information about terrorist threats. In no
way whatsoever is this program based on race or religion."

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              123 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 10, 2003 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Registration Stirs Panic, Worry;
Some Muslim Foreign Nationals Risk Arrest to Meet INS Deadline

BYLINE: Dan Eggen and Nurith C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1341 words


Thousands of nervous immigrants from predominantly Muslim countries, many
risking arrest and deportation, have been flooding into U.S. immigration offices
in advance of today's deadline to register for a controversial program that has
already resulted in more than 500 detentions nationwide.

The "special registration" effort -- designed to register, fingerprint and
question thousands of male foreign nationals from countries identified as
terrorist harbors -- has caused widespread confusion and panic in Muslim
immigrant communities across the United States, according to attorneys and
advocacy groups.

Lines at Immigration and Naturalization Service offices have grown so long this
week that registrants at some locations have arrived before 5 a.m. to avoid
being turned away, according to many observers. INS officials have been forced
to divert hundreds of employees to handle the increased workload.

Once inside, the men -- all 16 and older -- have been fingerprinted,
photographed and questioned about their activities and associations in
interviews that have lasted as long as two hours. If their visas are expired or
if they have otherwise violated U.S. immigration law, they may be detained and
deported, officials said.

In recent weeks, lawyers across the Washington area have been inundated with
calls from panicked immigrants. "We've had literally 300 to 400 people calling
our offices with inquiries, and dozens of them are in a position where they
could be handcuffed and detained," said Ashraf Nubani, an attorney in
Springfield.

Sohail Mohammed, a Clifton, N.J., immigration attorney, said, "People are very
confused and very afraid." Mohammed met in Washington yesterday with Sen. Jon S.
Corzine (D-N.J.) and other lawmakers. "There is not enough information out
there," Mohammed said. "This is a nightmare for a lot of people."

Registration began last month for temporary male visitors from Iran, Iraq,
Libya, Sudan and Syria. Men from 12 other heavily Muslim countries and North
Korea must register by today, and will be followed by an estimated 14,000 Saudis
and Pakistanis, who must appear at INS offices by Feb. 21.

The INS and the Justice Department say the registration program is an attempt to
get a handle on tens of thousands of visa holders and other visitors from
countries that have sponsored terrorism or are havens for members of al Qaeda
and other terrorist groups. A companion registration effort began in September
for new arrivals at U.S. ports of entry.

So far, authorities said, more than 15,000 foreign nationals from the first two
sets of countries have registered -- far more than the INS estimate of 10,000
who would qualify.

"That is pretty good evidence of the need for this program," said Justice
Department spokesman Jorge Martinez. "We need to have a better understanding of
who exits and enters our country, and these are people from countries that have
been identified as possible national security concerns for the United States."

But since a clumsy start last month -- when at least 200 Iranian visitors were
arrested in Los Angeles alone -- the program has turned into a mounting public
relations problem for the Bush administration. And it is only the latest
government immigration initiative since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks to
generate controversy. The FBI previously interviewed thousands of Middle Eastern
nationals, and various law enforcement agencies collectively detained more than
1,200 immigrants after the terrorist strikes.

A growing number of Arab American, civil liberties and religious groups have
sharply criticized the way the current effort has been administered, arguing
that the INS has done a poor job of notifying those who must register, and then
has arrested some for minor paperwork violations. Immigration attorneys contend
that most of those arrested have legitimate pending applications for residency
that have been delayed by chronic INS backlogs.

The problems are exacerbated by the INS's longstanding reputation for
bureaucratic bungling, and by dramatic differences in the way registrants are
treated by the various INS offices, many critics said.

The Los Angeles-based Muslim Public Affairs Council and other groups have
organized monitoring efforts for today at large INS offices in Southern
California, Texas, Michigan and elsewhere.

Protests are also planned in some areas, including Baltimore, and several
Democratic lawmakers have called on President Bush to halt the program until
problems can be resolved.

Some prominent national security experts who otherwise support the Bush
administration's anti-terrorism campaign said the effort may do more harm than
good.

"The pure accumulation of just massive amounts of data is not necessarily
helpful, especially for an agency like the INS that already has problems keeping
track of things," said Juliette Kayyem, a terrorism expert at Harvard
University. "Basically, what this has become is an immigration sweep. The idea
that this has anything to do with security, or is something the government can
do to stop terrorism, is absurd."

But Martinez said that of the approximately 500 people detained during the
registration, nearly 50 are still in custody because they were wanted on
outstanding criminal complaints or for other reasons. The name and fingerprint
of each registrant are compared with information in FBI terrorism watch lists
and criminal databases, Martinez said.

Today's registration deadline applies to men from Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain,
Eritrea, Lebanon, Morocco, North Korea, Oman, Qatar, Somalia, Tunisia, United
Arab Emirates and Yemen. In the Washington region, there are nearly 114,000
people from North Africa, the Middle East, Iran, and several South Asian and
Southeast Asian countries with Muslim majorities -- the fourth largest such
concentration in the nation.

At the INS office in Arlington, foreign nationals began arriving at 4:30 a.m.
yesterday. Three hours later, the queue had wrapped around all four sides the
building, lawyers said. As the morning gave way to late afternoon, many were
still waiting to be interviewed.

"I think we'll be here for at least another two hours," said attorney James
Roberts, speaking by cell phone as he sat with four Somali clients at about 4
p.m.

Some of those waiting for their turn were repeat visitors. Four of attorney
Emanuel Mpras's clients had arrived at 6:30 the morning before, only to be told
that there were already too many immigrants in line for the INS to register,
Mpras said.

The men, all Moroccan, were directed to an alternate site, an INS office at
Dulles International Airport, Mpras said. But when he and his clients arrived
there, an INS official told Mpras that he would not be able to accompany them to
their interviews.

"I said, 'No way, my clients have a right to legal representation,' " said
Mpras, adding that the problem was eventually resolved.

One man, a Moroccan living in Arlington who asked that his name be withheld,
said in an interview that he had put off registering for nearly two weeks.

"Every day I'd say, 'I'll go today,' and every day I was too scared," said the
34-year-old man, who arrived on a tourist visa with his wife four years ago and
has two U.S.-born daughters.

He said a local restaurant that wants to hire him as a chef sponsored him for a
green card two years ago. But because that application for permanent residency
is pending, and because his tourist visa has long expired, the man knew that he
risked deportation if he registered.

After arriving for his interview Tuesday morning, the man said he was
handcuffed, placed in leg irons and taken to the Stafford County Jail. He was
released Wednesday night and faces a hearing on his future.

"I couldn't believe it was happening," the man said. "It was like being in a
terrible dream. . . . My youngest daughter was born only a month and a half ago,
and my wife doesn't speak good English. If something happened . . . who was
going to help them?"

Staff researcher Madonna Lebling contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              124 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 10, 2003 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Ex-Clerk Accused of DMV Fraud;
Woman Allegedly Helped Illegal Immigrants Get D.C. License

BYLINE: Allan Lengel, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 426 words


A former clerk at the D.C. Department of Motor Vehicles was charged yesterday
with taking part in a scheme to sell hundreds of fraudulent driver's licenses to
immigrants mostly from the Middle East, south Asia and Russia.

The charges, contained in a federal grand jury indictment in New York, accuse
the clerk, Gwendolynn Dean, 48, of Washington, along with Rafet Ozoglu, 41, of
Brooklyn and Mustafa Ozsusamlar, 58, of Manhattan, with conspiring to sell
fraudulent driver's licenses to immigrants for about $ 1,500 a piece.

The indictment accuses the three of a scheme involving more than 900 such
licenses, a number considerably higher than investigators initially thought.

In October, the three were charged with selling about 100 fraudulent licenses.

Dean, who is free on bond, was charged with two counts of identification fraud.
She resigned her post Nov. 1. after seven years of service, DMV spokeswoman
Regina Williams said yesterday.

Dean could not be reached for comment, and Ozoglu and Ozsusamlar are in custody.

Although many of those who received licenses were not in compliance with
immigration law, there was no report that any had links to terrorism.

"This indictment is part of this office's continuing efforts to vigorously
prosecute false identification document rings and corrupt public officials that
allow the rings to flourish," U.S. Attorney James B. Comey, of the Southern
District of New York, said in a statement. "Such crimes are potential threats to
our national security, as well as common precursors to other criminal activity."

The 13-page indictment charges that from January 2000 to June 2002, Ozsusamlar
and Ozoglu drove groups of immigrants to the DMV office and helped them fill out
applications with false D.C. addresses.

The immigrants were then directed to Dean's window, where she processed the
fraudulent applications, the indictment charged.

They were then driven back to New York, where, the indictment said, about 75 of
them later exchanged their fraudulent District licenses for New York driver's
licenses.

Under a reciprocity program, New York routinely issues driver's licenses to New
York residents who have driver's licenses from other states or the District.

The indictment also charges that Ozsusamlar used a fraudulent D.C. driver's
license bearing the name "Missta Oscane" to rent a van to transport customers to
Washington.

Ozoglu and Ozsusamlar, who both migrated from Turkey, face federal charges
including bribery of a public official, transporting illegal aliens and document
fraud.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              125 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 10, 2003 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Ex-Clerk Accused of Fraud In Scheme for D.C. Licenses

BYLINE: Allan Lengel, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 425 words


A former clerk at the D.C. Department of Motor Vehicles was charged yesterday
with taking part in a scheme to sell hundreds of fraudulent driver's licenses to
immigrants mostly from the Middle East, south Asia and Russia.

The charges, contained in a federal grand jury indictment in New York, accuse
the clerk, Gwendolynn Dean, 48, of Washington, along with Rafet Ozoglu, 41, of
Brooklyn and Mustafa Ozsusamlar, 58, of Manhattan, with conspiring to sell
fraudulent driver's licenses to immigrants for about $ 1,500 a piece. The
indictment accuses the three of a scheme involving more than 900 such licenses,
a number considerably higher than investigators initially thought.

In October, the three were charged with selling about 100 fraudulent licenses.

Dean, who is free on bond, was charged with two counts of identification fraud.
She resigned her post Nov. 1. after seven years of service, DMV spokeswoman
Regina Williams said yesterday. Dean could not be reached for comment, and
Ozoglu and Ozsusamlar are in custody.

Although many of those who received licenses were not in compliance with
immigration law, there was no report that any had links to terrorism.

"This indictment is part of this office's continuing efforts to vigorously
prosecute false identification document rings and corrupt public officials that
allow the rings to flourish," U.S. Attorney James B. Comey, of the Southern
District of New York, said in a statement. "Such crimes are potential threats to
our national security, as well as common precursors to other criminal activity."

The 13-page indictment charges that from January 2000 to June 2002, Ozsusamlar
and Ozoglu drove groups of immigrants to the DMV office and helped them fill out
applications with false D.C. addresses.

The immigrants were then directed to Dean's window, where she processed the
fraudulent applications, the indictment charged. They were then driven back to
New York, where, the indictment said, about 75 of them later exchanged their
fraudulent District licenses for New York driver's licenses. Under a reciprocity
program, New York routinely issues driver's licenses to New York residents who
have driver's licenses from other states or the District.

The indictment also charges that Ozsusamlar used a fraudulent D.C. driver's
license bearing the name "Missta Oscane" to rent a van to transport customers to
Washington.

Ozoglu and Ozsusamlar, who both migrated from Turkey, face federal charges
including bribery of a public official, transporting illegal aliens and document
fraud.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              126 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 10, 2003 Friday
                                 Final Edition

A Trap for Middle Eastern Visitors

BYLINE: Sadiq Reza

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 857 words


Look hard enough at a person and you're sure to find something he has done
wrong. Focus on any group and you'll find wrongdoing among its members. We saw
this last month with the arrests of hundreds of Middle Eastern visitors for
routine immigration violations when they showed up to comply with a new
regulation requiring them to register with the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

Last month's arrests realized the worst fears of all who oppose the government's
focusing of its antiterrorism efforts on citizens and immigrants of Middle
Eastern origin or Muslim faith. But the arrests also undermined the law
enforcement goal that spawned them. The purpose of the registration requirement
is to get more information about Middle Eastern visitors -- and from these
visitors -- for the domestic fight against terrorism. But what man who has not
yet registered and who might know something about terrorist activity will come
forward and share that information now, when he knows he will be promptly
arrested and deported if he has overstayed his visa or committed some other
minor infraction?

That the government is scrutinizing Middle Eastern visitors more carefully after
the events of Sept. 11, 2001, is understandable. But there is an easy way to
maximize the gains from many of the administration's post-9/11 efforts against
terrorism -- the INS registration program, the Justice Department's efforts to
interview thousands of Middle Easterners and other initiatives -- while
minimizing the costs to these people and the damage to America's commitment to
racial and religious equality. The government should promise registrants and
interviewees that it will not use information it gains on them through their
registration or interview to prosecute them for routine immigration violations
and criminal charges not related to terrorism -- and it should keep that
promise.

Ignoring evidence of wrongdoing to serve other interests is an everyday part of
law enforcement. Police officers overlook jaywalkers and speeders (and more
serious offenders) so they can pursue more dangerous criminals. Prosecutors
decline to prosecute certain charges so they can devote their attention to other
charges and offenders. Criminals get immunity from prosecution for their
testimony. City-dwellers turn in illegal handguns for money with no questions
asked. Amnesties are declared -- for illegal aliens, delinquent taxpayers and
others -- to encourage wrongdoers to legalize their status.

The use of discretion, in other words, permeates the criminal and immigration
processes, and its exercise is crucial to serving law enforcement priorities and
broader public policies.

New Jersey exercised this kind of discretion to address its own long-standing
problem of racial profiling. For years its state troopers had routinely
requested and obtained drivers' consent to search their cars after stopping them
for speeding, in hopes of finding evidence of crime (typically drugs). After
officials acknowledged that black and Latino drivers were disproportionately
subjected to both those "consent searches" and the initial stops for speeding,
the state agreed to forbid those searches unless a trooper had reason to suspect
a driver of criminal activity. Last year the state's Supreme Court made that
limitation a requirement of the state constitution -- even though consent
searches are lawful under the U.S. Constitution.

Arresting visitors for immigration violations is also lawful. Already, however,
as a result of post-9/11 investigations, residents and visitors of Middle
Eastern origin and Muslim faith disproportionately occupy jail cells and INS
deportation schedules on criminal and immigration charges unrelated to
terrorism. Last month's arrests only worsen this imbalance and deter cooperation
with the government -- to say nothing of the fear and the sense of injustice
they breed. To minimize these harms and encourage all who might have information
about terrorism to come forward with it, the government should promise not to
use information it learns about visitors or residents through their registration
or interview to prosecute them for routine immigration violations and criminal
charges unrelated to terrorism. It should also publicize this guarantee -- and
honor it. (The next registration deadline is today.)

A promise of "use immunity," which is standard in the criminal process, would
fit the bill, forbidding the use of information acquired through an individual's
registration or interview against him (unless it relates to terrorism) but
allowing his prosecution on the basis of information acquired otherwise. This
would permit the government to pursue the criminals and deport the deportable
among the registrants and interviewees just as it could without the registration
or interview. It would encourage all to come forward with terrorism-related
information. And it would minimize one of the worst consequences of any kind of
racial profiling: the disproportionate prosecution of members of one group for
wrongdoing that all commit equally.

The writer teaches courses in criminal law and procedure at New York Law School.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              127 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 11, 2003 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

A Day to Wait, and Pray;
At the Immigration Service, Arab Men Face Their Uncertain Futures

BYLINE: Richard Leiby, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 1406 words


Clutching their passports and other precious documentation, dozens of Arab men
sit in silence on the fifth floor of the Immigration and Naturalization Service
office in Arlington. In a collective gut-clench of anxiety, they await
announcements from a bureaucrat wielding a sheaf of papers.

What will it be: Shackles, a night in jail, possible deportation? Or -- Allah
willing -- an uneventful interrogation and a quick release without bond?

Glasses perched on his forehead, an official in a GS-14-appropriate suit and tie
enters and brusquely calls out names. Muhammad . . . Yusef . . . You're going to
the first floor. Salman . . . Shadiq . . . You're going to the fourth floor.

"The fourth floor -- that's definitely not good news," whispers Denise Ann
Maniscalco. She is an attorney guiding her nervous client, a Yemeni passport
holder named Abdo, through the government's new "special registration" program
for immigrants who come from predominantly Muslim nations.

They will be interviewed, fingerprinted, photographed and, in most cases,
released. But on the fourth floor the deportation and detention office awaits.
For immigrants classified in INS-speak as "out of status" -- who have visa or
work-permit violations -- there lies the abyss. Many fear it's the end to their
hopes of staying in America.

Abdo, looking confident in a Ralph Lauren Chaps jacket, is a 41-year-old airport
shuttle driver from Virginia. He isn't expecting trouble: He obeys the law, pays
his taxes and has filed the necessary paperwork for an upcoming hearing on his
expired visa. He's planning to depart for a California vacation this week with
his wife and child. He surveys the unsettled faces of the men in the room.

"It looks like a communist country, a dictatorship," he says, recalling how he
fled Ethiopia as a teenager, after a Marxist regime took over in 1974. "That's
why we came here, for freedom."

Will Abdo give his full name? His lawyer reminds him: "It's not like you're
hiding -- you're here, doing what you're supposed to do. In the United States we
have freedom of the press and speech."

Abdo shakes his head. "For you, yes. But not for me."

Immigration attorneys and other civil rights advocates describe what's happening
in Arlington and elsewhere around the country as a shameful episode in American
history, akin to the Japanese internment camps of World War II. They call it
discrimination against Arabs -- a post-9/11 exercise in ethnic, religious and
racial profiling.

Government officials naturally prefer to use an acronym: NSEERS. It stands for
National Security Entry-Exit Registration System, a program mandated by
Congress. It will make post-9/11 America safer by keeping track of foreign
visitors, while "protecting the rights of individuals coming here," says
Attorney General John Ashcroft.

The goal is to stop terrorists from burrowing in and establishing sleeper cells.
Males age 16 and older from 20 countries, including Iran, Sudan, Syria, Algeria,
Morocco, Tunisia, Pakistan and Saudi Arabia, are required to register with the
INS. As yesterday's registration deadline for 13 nationalities loomed, lawyers
fumed over paperwork delays and watched as some clients were put in chains and
jailed. Most are allowed to post bond, but those with criminal records or who
are potential national security threats are imprisoned.

Several men, interviewed earlier this week as they awaited processing, could not
help but perceive a certain irony: They're the ones playing by the rules. They
want nothing more than to be legal. Why should they be treated like criminals?

"The real terrorists aren't the ones sitting here at the INS," says Dean, a
young car salesman in Northern Virginia. Like all the men interviewed, he didn't
want his full name published, fearing retaliation by the government. With his
sparse goatee, white shirt and tie, and flashy bracelet, he looks like any other
guy hustling for a commission on a Ford SUV -- more American than Moroccan.

"It's a stupid law. If they want to do it that way, it's fine. But it's stupid.
I just wasted all day, my only day off."

A friendly but exhausted INS examiner asked Dean a few boilerplate questions --
When did you come to this country? When did you file for permanent residence? --
and he went on his way. "I was lucky, I was legal," Dean says.

But to others, the decision-making appears arbitrary. And intrusive. Some
complain of long interrogations, including queries about their religious beliefs
and mosque attendance.

"This has absolutely nothing to do with a person's race, religion or ethnicity,"
says Justice Department spokesman Jorge Martinez. "The INS has the duty, when
encountered with an alien out of status, to temporarily detain that individual.
They are not arrested, but detained, until a national security check can be
conducted."

Al Qaeda terrorists, he says, are sometimes instructed to hide in plain sight:
to comply with all regulations, to assimilate fully so as to avoid suspicion.
It's only logical, he says, to screen foreign nationals who hail from countries
"where al Qaeda is active."

Abdel, 47, is a Moroccan who never had a problem finding work here as a chef. "I
have no crimes, no nothing. I pay the bills, I work hard," he says.

Awaiting interrogation, he proffers a worn brown envelope containing pay stubs,
his car registration, Social Security number, a form he filled out for his labor
permit -- any scrap to validate that he is a contributing member of society, in
good standing, in good status.

"We live here 14 years. My kids speak English, no Arabic at all. My son is
number one in his class."

One knee bounces as his foot drums the stained tan carpet in another INS holding
room. A banner next to him proclaims, "A Century of Service to a Nation of
Immigrants."

If he's deported, Abdel says, "My kids, they will lose their lives. We will live
in the streets. It's better if I die."

His attorney, Ashraf W. Nubani, nods sympathetically. "They are shocked," he
says of Abdel and other clients. "They have lived here long enough to see the
United States as a free society, and they cannot believe this is happening."

A Palestinian American, Nubani offers words of comfort in Arabic and English:
No, they can't immediately deport you. I'm working for you. Maybe a night in
jail, but don't worry. Your family will be okay. Allah willing. Inshallah.

Some contract workers, chatting in Spanish, wheel filing cabinets into the
fifth-floor waiting room. The Arab immigrants stare ahead, some stone-faced,
some looking envious. Those guys don't have these registration problems; they're
working.

The men dolly in desks, a plant, an American flag. This is the room where
naturalization ceremonies are normally held. This is where immigrants like them
make the official transition to citizenship.

A poster bearing the Stars and Stripes and a portrait of Lady Liberty adorns its
entrance. "Out of Many . . . One," it says. "United We Stand."

The suited bureaucrat arrives again, calls some names, assigns some floor fates
-- "It's not my call, it's Investigations' call" -- and offers assurances that
they're working as fast as possible. Officious, yes, but polite.

He tells the rest of the 30 or so immigrants to grab lunch. Some head to the
deli in the lobby for cheeseburgers. In the deli, a Korean-born man sporting a
U.S. Army uniform talks proudly of how he will become a citizen later that day
on the fifth floor.

Others head to the restroom. They wash their hands, arms and faces. They must
prepare for noon prayers. Nubani, the attorney, is among them.

Back in the waiting room, he moves some chairs aside to make space for himself
and three other men. The Hispanic workmen continue to wheel in office furniture
as the faithful Muslims touch their foreheads to the carpet, praying away from
Fairfax Boulevard, northeast toward Mecca -- and Washington.

In the hallway, someone in the furniture crew wonders why they are praying in
the middle of a room like that. It's freedom of religion, a worker says, some
are devout, some aren't.

As the week ends, Abdo the shuttle driver will make it to his vacation in
California. But Abdel the chef will go to the fourth floor and to jail. He is
detained overnight. On Friday evening he is released on $ 1,500 bond, to rejoin
his family and await a hearing.

Some day, he hopes, he'll make it back to the fifth floor -- to be sworn in as
an American.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              128 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 11, 2003 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

'Racism, Injustice, Humiliation'

BYLINE: Hanna Rosin

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 876 words


For weeks, Kamal Nawash's clients were asking him: Should I do it or not? The
Immigration and Naturalization Service has been requiring men who are not
green-card holders and who came from countries regarded as potential sources of
terrorists to come in and be registered, fingerprinted and photographed.

But they'd heard rumors, of the kind that can easily scare a newcomer. In
Southern California, hundreds of immigrants gamely showed up, only to be
arrested and detained. There was talk of sleeping on concrete, and no food and
water.

Well, all 10 of his clients came into the Arlington INS office yesterday and all
10 got arrested. They were not people suspected of having any connections to
terrorism. They hadn't committed a crime. In this case they were not even the
classic case of immigrants who overstayed their visas. All of them had
applications pending for a work permit and, ultimately, a green card. But
because of Labor Department and INS backlogs, their papers hadn't been processed
yet. So they, like dozens of other immigrants who showed up at the Arlington
office, left it in shackles.

Nawash's clients were typical of those arrested in Virginia. They all had
applied for work permits on a sort of amnesty issued in 2001. It was one of
those times when lawmakers, as well as President Clinton, urged immigrants to
come out of the closet even if they had worked here illegally. All they had to
do was wait, patiently, while the INS processed their applications. And now here
they are, two years later, legal papers pending, and they're in jail.

What, really, is the point of that? There may be some vague connection between
keeping an accurate record of Middle Eastern men in this country and the war on
terrorism. But this operation isn't about that. This instead has become one of
those moments when we all have to be honest about the absurdity of American
immigration policy.

Sometimes, usually in economic boom times, we allow winks and ambiguities, and
then suddenly we don't anymore. And no matter how much lawmakers complain about
the INS, they never reform it or boost its funding. Which must mean that at some
level, we want it this way.

What happened in Virginia this week, or in Chicago or in any of the INS offices
around the country, was not Los Angeles (where at least 200 Iranian visitors
were arrested last month). Dozens of people got arrested at each office, not
hundreds. But if the numbers are smaller, the theory is still off. Dawn Lurie
brought in a client this week who had registered under the 2001 amnesty. He had
a receipt from the INS and was a week away from getting his work permit. Still,
he was arrested because INS agents said he must have been working illegally all
this time.

Ahmad Gallba sat in the Arlington waiting room yesterday, too nervous to speak
much or do more than bite his nails. He'd just seen a group go by in shackles
and disappear behind a door. "I don't know about those guys," he said, hoping
they were somehow shady characters, drug dealers maybe, stowaways, at least not
like him with a work permit pending and a competent lawyer. One hour later he
was their brother, handcuffed in a cell, calling his lawyer in tears.

The attorneys there were all rage and justice. They compared this fingerprinting
to yellow stars, Japanese internment. "Racism, injustice, humiliation," said two
protesters who had come to the waiting room to hand out bottles of water and
apples.

For the clients this was a somewhat more introspective moment, when all the
problems of an immigrant's split identity are suddenly in stark relief. Mohammed
Basha was one of the more fortunate. He had a valid student visa and was now a
senior at George Mason University. He had nothing to fear but a nine-hour wait.

Still, this was the culmination of a life-changing event for him that began with
Sept. 11, 2001. Then, he'd been a student at Purdue University, studying
business, partying at his frat. But after Sept. 11, the joking wasn't so funny
-- "camel jockey" and all that. By now Basha can pass for American: James
Patterson paperback, Lennon glasses, loves to pray but in the American way --
"for two minutes get some peace, relax, talk to Allah" -- and he smokes. But
when the semester's over he's going right back to Yemen. "Fingerprinting? I'm
thinking, I gotta go home. Who needs this?"

Basha is blase because he can be: He's college-educated; he'll have a good life
in Virginia or Yemen. The most poignant cases are those in the gray zone, like
Gallba's. Those who have applied for that amnesty and then showed up to
register, even after L.A., really want to be here, and be here legally. The
American dream to them is no cynical notion.

Kawal Mourad is such a person. He came to Virginia three years ago. Now he works
the night shift at a print shop. He has a car, an apartment, a leather bomber
jacket too thin for this frigid air. Mourad was detained last week for a few
days and then was bailed out by his lawyer, but he's not complaining. "Three
years. After three years, would you give it up?"

Even after he heard his friend Gallba was crying, he kept it up.

"It's my goal. It's my target," he said, as much to convince himself as anyone
else.

The writer is a member of the editorial page staff.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              129 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 17, 2003 Friday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. Detains Nearly 1,200 During Registry

BYLINE: From News Services and Staff Reports

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 246 words


U.S. officials said yesterday that they had detained nearly 1,200 men during a
special registration program for foreign visitors from 20 mostly Middle Eastern
nations, nearly twice as many as they had previously acknowledged.

The 1,169 men detained, almost all for immigration violations, were among
thousands of foreign nationals who heeded deadlines in December and January to
register with the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Some were held for just a few hours, released and ordered to appear for
deportation hearings. Others were held overnight, and about 170 are still in
custody, a senior Justice Department official said.

The statistics were released as the government added five countries --
Bangladesh, Egypt, Indonesia, Jordan and Kuwait -- to the list of 20 whose male
citizens, 16 and older, must register and be fingerprinted.

Because widespread fear and confusion about the program dampened turnout before
separate registration deadlines last month and last week, the government also is
giving thousands of men from 18 other nations another chance to register. Those
men, from nations that include Iran, Iraq, Libya, Sudan, Syria, Afghanistan,
Algeria, Morocco and Yemen, will be allowed to enroll between Jan. 27 and Feb.
7.

The government says the registrations are a way to track tens of thousands of
visitors from countries that the United States has designated sponsors of
terrorism or that are believed to harbor large numbers of members of al Qaeda.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              130 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 17, 2003 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Forgotten Detainees

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 491 words


THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT started off the year with what it portrayed as a
relatively clean slate in its terrorism investigation: Spokesmen announced last
month that only six of the people detained in the Sept. 11 dragnet remain in
U.S. custody. But that number is wildly misleading and takes advantage of a very
narrow and technical definition of who counts as a detainee. In truth there are
hundreds and perhaps thousands of immigrants, mostly Arabs and other Muslims,
who would not be in detention but for Sept. 11, and who are now wending their
way through a capricious and choked-up immigration system. Because they are not
classified as "special interest" immigration cases, they receive no particular
attention and aren't counted in the government's terrorism figures.

One such forgotten detainee is Ansar Mahmood, a Pakistani immigrant we wrote
about on this page nearly 10 months ago. Mr. Mahmood is not counted in the
Justice Department numbers, though by any reasonable definition he is a Sept. 11
detainee. He was picked up on suspicion of tainting the New York water supply
and then almost immediately cleared by the FBI, which ultimately believed his
story -- that he had only been photographing the scenic mountains near
Rochester. He had a green card and a good job. But because police inquiries
uncovered that he had helped some illegal Pakistani friends find jobs, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) put him in jail pending
deportation, where he has been all this time.

Mr. Mahmood decided to fight his deportation. He had the help of a lawyer and a
group of citizens in Rochester who have adopted him as their cause, including
his old boss, the local who had pointed him to that scenic spot and the
officials at the water treatment plant who turned him in in the first place.
Most of the Sept. 11 detainees don't have that kind of support, don't even have
an attorney. Most of them give up and take the plane ticket home. But the
hundreds of detainees immigration lawyers estimate are still in the system are
likely to be cases somewhat like Mr. Mahmood's, cases compelling enough to
appeal. Now their time is running out, as Attorney General John D. Ashcroft
recently ordered the INS to clear out its backlog by March.

Maybe it's no big deal: one immigrant, or 100 immigrants, who ran into bad luck.
All may have violated an INS regulation. But a message is sent by keeping Mr.
Mahmood in jail, and by continuing more than a year later to scrutinize growing
lists of Muslim immigrants -- Pakistanis, Egyptians, Kuwaitis, students. If the
INS looks hard enough, it can find a technical violation by many if not most
immigrants, particularly through the ever-shifting prism of the immigration
bureaucracy. When those rules are enforced with exceptional zeal for a selected
group, the message becomes: Terrorist or not, even legal or not, we're better
off without you. And that's not true of people such as Mr. Mahmood.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              131 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 22, 2003 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Refugee, Asylum Programs to Stop;
Surcharge Funding Them Eliminated

BYLINE: George Lardner Jr., Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 721 words


The government's asylum and refugee resettlement programs, which draw about
120,000 applicants a year, will be halted on Friday because of a last-minute
change in the homeland security law that will leave them without funding.

Some officials at the Immigration and Naturalization Service and immigration
advocates said they were unaware of the problem until this past week. According
to an aide to Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), it could have a much wider
impact at the start, resulting in the temporary suspension of work on
applications for other immigration benefits, from naturalization to work
permits, permanent resident status, green cards and more.

"Probably tens of thousands of applications would be held up," said Esther
Olavarria, Kennedy's chief immigration counsel.

INS officials said they think they can overcome that difficulty quickly, but
they were less certain about the prospects for the refugee and asylum programs.

Under current law, applicants for other immigration benefits pay a fee that
covers the cost of processing their applications. They also pay a surcharge that
funds the handling of the applications of refugees overseas and of asylum
seekers who are already in the United States, all of whom claim to be the
victims of persecution in their countries.

"We're talking about tens of millions of dollars," an INS official, who asked
not to be named, said last night of the surcharge. He said he could not be more
precise at that moment.

Immigration advocates have long been lobbying for the elimination of the
surcharge and for the government to pick up the tab. They thought they had
succeeded last year when both House and Senate versions of the homeland security
bill contained provisions directing the INS to end the surcharge, which averaged
about $ 50 an applicant, and authorizing the appropriation of "such sums as may
be necessary" to pick up the slack.

But in the final hours of cutting and pasting that preceded the bill's passage
in November, the language authorizing the appropriation was scuttled while the
section ending the surcharge was retained. Some immigration experts outside the
government suggested yesterday that the change might have been inadvertent.
Congressional aides, both Democratic and Republican, as well as INS officials
said resistance from "appropriators" led to the deletion. It was less clear if
the retention of the language eliminating the surcharge -- and thus all funding
for the two programs -- was also deliberate.

"This action was passed by the Congress as part of the Homeland Security Act of
2002," INS spokesman Bill Strassberger said. "We recognize that this presents
problems, but we will be working closely with Congress to resolve this issue as
quickly as possible."

Aides to Kennedy and to Rep. F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. (R-Wis.), chairman of
the House Judiciary Committee, said the lawmakers are committed to making sure
that the refugee and asylum programs are adequately funded. Olavarria has been
working to add an amendment to the omnibus appropriations bill now on the Senate
floor, perhaps by striking the provision eliminating the surcharge or by
delaying its effective date.

Friday, however, is the day the new law goes into effect, and Justice Department
lawyers have told the INS that it must adopt a new fee schedule, effective
immediately.

INS officials confirmed last night that they will be required to reduce
application fees by an average of $ 50, or by 25 percent. For example, they
said, a green card application fee of $ 255 will be lowered to about $ 186, and
a work permit application fee will be reduced from $ 120 to $ 88.

Olavarria said she had been told that any applications with checks for the
higher amounts would have to be rejected. "INS gets thousands of applications
like this on a given day," she said, "so processing of them will grind to a
halt."

However, INS officials said they are planning to set up a system of providing
refunds rather then rejecting the applications. "We are aware of that problem,
and there are no plans to reject the application if they overpay the fee," one
said. "We are not planning to stop the processing of asylum or refugee
applications, either. We will just have to find funds from some other source."
He acknowledged that a source could not be found by Friday.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              132 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 23, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Registering Immigrants Is Not So Special

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 202 words


Critics of the Immigration and Naturalization Service's recent "special
registration" policy requiring immigrants -- mainly from Muslim nations -- to
register [front page, Jan. 10] don't seem to take into account that such
practices are common across the globe.

For example, Pakistanis in the Washington area recently met with their
ambassador to express concern about registration and lengthy background checks.

But Americans who traveled to Pakistan for extended periods in the late 1990s
probably had to undergo lengthy background checks and mandatory registration
with police. They also had to apply for a visa and take an AIDS test. I have
been to a number of other countries that share these practices, including
Afghanistan, India, Jordan, El Salvador and Costa Rica.

Apart from the wait and the bureaucracy that accompanied these precautions, I
never really minded that my hosts kept tabs on my whereabouts. Procedures such
as fingerprinting, registration and interviews for foreigners in our own country
seem like prudent steps to improve our security. We must remember, however, that
these travelers are guests in our country and should be afforded the utmost
dignity and respect.

CRAIG DAVIS

Washington

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              133 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 25, 2003 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 526 words


Catholic bishops from the United States and Mexico urged Presidents Bush and
Vicente Fox yesterday to renew talks on immigration that stalled after the Sept.
11, 2001, attacks, and to enact reforms that "respect the human dignity" of
immigrants.

The pastoral letter, considered a policy statement of the church, also is
addressed to the 65 million U.S. Catholics and 90 million Mexican Catholics. It
calls on members to respond better to migrants' needs through such efforts as
training priests and church leaders to accompany migrants on their travels.

"The current immigration system between our two nations is broken and must be
reformed. The consequences of this flawed system -- exploitation, abuse and even
death of migrant persons -- are morally unacceptable," said the Rev. Thomas
Wenski, chairman of the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops' migration
committee.

Wenski said the bishops in both countries hoped the letter would serve as the
spark for the Bush and Fox administrations to start talks again on stemming
illegal immigration through a temporary worker program.

* SAN FRANCISCO -- Heeding a plea from environmentalists, a federal judge barred
scientists from using sonar to track migrating gray whales along the California
coast. A scientist from Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution in Massachusetts
had planned to test the sonar to see if it could detect whales on their voyage.
But environmentalists said the noise could cause stress to the whales.

* CHICAGO -- The Chicago Housing Authority is being sued by several public
interest organizations who allege the agency is violating fair housing laws by
pushing displaced CHA residents into mostly black and crime-ridden areas. The
organizations allege in the lawsuit that 86 percent of the residents who were
forced out of CHA high-rises, which are being razed, were moved to neighborhoods
that are 96 percent black.

* LOUISVILLE -- A state scholarship program decided to give money to a college
student who is majoring in religious studies, reversing a stance against
financial aid for such programs. The decision followed a federal lawsuit filed
in December by the American Center for Law and Justice on behalf of Michael
Woods Nash, a Cumberland College junior. The center, founded by television
evangelist Pat Robertson, agreed to drop the suit after the revision.

* DENVER -- Two small airplanes -- a twin-engine Piper Cheyenne II and a
single-engine Cessna 172 Skyhawk -- collided over a residential neighborhood in
northwest Denver, killing four people on the aircraft and scattering debris into
yards and homes, authorities said. Seven people on the ground suffered minor
injuries, a hospital spokeswoman said.

* BOSTON -- A judge agreed to release former New England Mafia boss Francis
"Cadillac Frank" Salemme from prison more than two years early, citing his
cooperation in the case against a former FBI agent -- John J. Connolly Jr. --
convicted of helping mobsters. Salemme will remain behind bars for two more
months while officials arrange for him to go into the federal witness protection
program. He had been sentenced to 111/2 years in prison.

-- From News Services

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              134 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 27, 2003 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Missing Iraqis Sought;
FBI Hunts for Thousands Here Illegally

BYLINE: Dan Eggen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1276 words


The FBI has launched a concerted search for several thousand illegal Iraqi
immigrants who have gone missing while visiting the United States and are among
those being sought for voluntary interviews in advance of a possible war with
Iraq, officials said.

Although the majority of Iraqi immigrants are viewed as being opposed to Iraqi
President Saddam Hussein and sympathetic to the United States, federal
authorities are concerned that others who have disappeared from the government's
view are more likely to be agents of the Iraqi regime or to be allied with
terrorist groups, officials said.

For example, several U.S. officials said, Hussein's government is known to have
recruited Iraqi students studying in the United States to gather information and
intelligence on U.S. technology.

"One of our top priorities is to find those who are here illegally who could be
a threat," said a senior U.S. counterterrorism official. "We don't really know
how big the problem is or how big the threat might be, but the possibility is
real."

The search for the missing Iraqis, estimated by immigration officials to number
3,000 or more, has become one of the primary objectives of a broader, FBI-run
program aimed at locating and interviewing as many as 50,000 Iraqi nationals who
have entered the United States as visitors or refugees within the last decade or
so.

The interview program was begun about two months ago after complaints from some
top lawmakers, who openly questioned the FBI's ability to guard against
espionage and terror attacks in the event of an Iraqi conflict.

The initiative is separate from the Justice Department's controversial "special
registration" program, which requires male visitors from 25 mostly Muslim
countries, including Iraq, to be fingerprinted and questioned by the Immigration
and Naturalization Service.

By contrast, authorities said, the interviews with the FBI are voluntary, aimed
primarily at gaining intelligence about any Iraqis on U.S. soil who may have
ties to Hussein's regime or terrorist groups.

U.S. law enforcement officials said the program has three main goals: to develop
friendly intelligence sources within the Iraqi American community; to reassure
immigrants that the FBI and other federal agencies will guard against any
ethnically motivated attacks in the event of a war; and to locate immigrants
whose whereabouts are unknown.

The efforts have not altered the FBI's view that Hussein loyalists in the United
States are limited primarily to diplomatic circles, and that most are already
under U.S. surveillance, sources said.

But law enforcement officials said they were surprised to learn, through INS
records, of the number of Iraqi visitors who had been ordered deported for
overstaying their visas or other violations, but never appeared for removal
proceedings.

"Quite frankly, we don't know what their status is," a law enforcement official
said. "They could have gone back home, they could have gone to another country,
or they could still be here. . . . There is a strong belief that we need to find
out one way or the other."

Authorities concede that locating foreign nationals who have evaded deportation
is notoriously difficult.

"There's not much of a paper trail in a lot of these cases," an FBI official
said. "If all you have is a five-year-old address, and it's a transient
neighborhood where nobody knew him, there's not a whole lot you can do."

Iraqi nationals are hardly the only people who have failed to heed deportation
orders, a group known in government parlance as "absconders." After the Sept.
11, 2001, terror attacks, the Justice Department launched a controversial
program aimed at locating and removing an estimated 300,000 absconders of
numerous nationalities. The program has succeeded in removing only about 1,100
people, officials said.

The Iraqi interview project is overseen by top FBI officials in Washington, and
is being carried out by 56 Joint Terrorism Task Forces across the country, which
include representatives from federal, state and local agencies. INS officers
accompany FBI agents during many of the visits, officials said.

Task force representatives have been flown to FBI headquarters in Washington in
recent weeks for training and briefings about the initiative, officials said.
The biggest efforts are focused in metropolitan areas with sizable Iraqi
immigrant populations, including Washington, Detroit, Los Angeles, New York and
northern New Jersey.

Authorities were unable to say how many interviews have been conducted. In the
Washington area, the FBI's local field office recently completed a separate but
similar effort aimed at talking with Arab Americans and Arab immigrants,
officials said.

"You get some reluctance from some people, but you have to start somewhere,"
said Michael E. Rolince, head of counterterrorism in the FBI's Washington field
office. "Even if they are distrustful of us, it's important to get out there and
open up the lines of communication. . . . They need to know that we need their
help, and that we are there to help them."

The FBI engaged in a similar campaign to track and interview Iraqis before the
Persian Gulf War in the early 1990s, but the current effort is far more
ambitious and better organized, FBI officials say.

Robert Blitzer, a former FBI counterterrorism official who participated in the
earlier effort, said such initiatives are useful because they allow the FBI to
better identify potential threats while assuring Iraqis in the country that the
U.S. government is concerned about them. "You don't expect to necessarily find a
smoking gun," Blitzer said, "but you do expect to have a better handle on the
climate within the community."

INS statistics show that, in relation to other countries, the number of annual
visitors to the United States from Iraq is small. About 3,000 temporary visas
were issued to Iraqi nationals in each of the last two years, records show. By
comparison, there were nearly 33 million foreign visitors annually, according to
federal statistics.

Those numbers do not include Iraqis seeking asylum or refugee status. About
2,500 Iraqi refugee applications were approved last year, INS records show.

Major Arab American and Muslim groups say they have not received large numbers
of complaints about the FBI Iraqi initiative, in part because it has just begun
and because many Iraqi nationals support U.S. efforts to depose Hussein.

But Mohammed Alomari, an Iraq native who serves as a spokesman for a
Michigan-based Arab American group, said many Iraqi visitors are also afraid to
complain for fear of endangering their immigration status or attracting the
attention of federal authorities.

"There's a lot of apprehension and anxiety in the community about these visits,"
said Alomari, media director for Focus on American and Arab Interests and
Relations of Southfield, Mich. "Most people are too scared to come out and
complain about it. . . . But they'll tell you in private that they are very
intimidated."

Alomari and others said that interviewees have commonly been asked about their
views of the Hussein regime; how they feel about the prospect of war; and
whether they know anyone who might be capable of committing acts of terrorism on
Hussein's behalf. The FBI agents and INS officers usually visit the immigrants
in their homes, Alomari said.

"It sounds almost like they're taking opinion polls as a barometer of whether
people support the war," Alomari said. "It's hard to understand what the
motivation for this program is. . . . If they're trying to strengthen relations
with the Iraqi community and the opposition, I don't think this is the way to do
that."

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              135 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 29, 2003 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

The Immigrant Dragnet

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 136 words


The flow of refugees from the United States to Canada ["Pakistanis Flee to
Canada and Uncertainty: Families Uprooted by INS Deadline," front page, Jan. 18]
is a national embarrassment.

Only a few years ago the United States criticized Serbia for driving families
from the Serbian province of Kosovo across a snowy border into Albania under
color of immigration law.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service's "registration program" for selected
groups of U.S. aliens is a perfect opportunity to offer conditional temporary
residency status to immigrant families that are rooted here in exchange for
their assistance to U.S. intelligence services.

Given the paucity of terrorist-related arrests inside the United States since
Sept. 11, 2001, we obviously need all the help we can get.

MIKE STOLLENWERK

Alexandria

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              136 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 30, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Brookings Scholar Is Detained by INS;
Registration Rule Snags Pakistani Editor

BYLINE: George Lardner Jr., Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 945 words


Ejaz Haider is an editor with Pakistan's most respected English-language
newsweekly and a visiting research scholar at the Brookings Institution, one of
Washington's most prominent think tanks.

A good friend of his country's foreign minister, Khurshid Mahmud Kasuri, he
attended a conference Monday at Brookings Kasuri held as part of a campaign
against relentless enforcement of U.S. immigration rules.

On Tuesday, however, Haider became one of the latest people detained in the
government's registration program for temporary foreign visitors when two armed
INS agents accosted him on the street and took him into custody.

"We were stunned. I never thought I'd see this in my own country: people grabbed
on the street and taken away," said Stephen P. Cohen, head of the Brookings
South Asia program for which Haider worked.  "If he hadn't come into the
building to show the agents some notes, it's not clear we would have known where
he was."

According to the Justice Department, Haider had missed a deadline to check in
with the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Haider, however, said officials
at the State Department and INS had both told him he could ignore the
requirement to check back within 40 days of registering upon arrival at Dulles
International Airport.

"They probably had been keeping me under surveillance for some time," Haider
said.

"They asked me if my name was Ejaz Haider, I said 'yes,' they showed me their
IDs, and just asked me why I hadn't gone in for some interview."

Kasuri said he brought up the case at a meeting with Attorney General John D.
Ashcroft yesterday.

"Everybody was embarrassed," Kasuri said. "I told him that it is this sort of
thing that is going to happen [if enforcement is not more restrained].  If that
is the sort of person that can be nabbed, then no one is safe."

Often derided as the among government's most dysfunctional agencies, the INS was
widely criticized last March when it sent out student visa approvals to two of
the dead Sept. 11, 2001, terrorists six months after they had slammed hijacked
airliners into the World Trade Center.

Part of the reason for Kasuri's visit was to voice his government's alarm over a
separate part of the program, which requires male visitors to the United States
from 25 nations, most of them predominantly Muslim, to register with the INS.

After meeting with Vice President Cheney, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and
others, Kasuri said yesterday that he felt confident that there would be no mass
deportation of Pakistani nationals.

In Haider's case, the episode may have stemmed from confusion about rules for
registering male visitors, said Justice Department spokesman Jorge Martinez.
More than 1,200 men have been detained in recent months when they appeared at
INS offices.

Some of the guidelines for another part of the registration program, which takes
place at U.S. airports, are classified. But Martinez said that Haider would not
have been required to register simply because he arrived from Pakistan. Other
factors, such as al Qaeda activity in that nation, may have come into play.

He said officials could not simply notify Haider to come in and comply with the
deadline, because his willful violation of that rule would have been a criminal
violation. Although Haider's account suggested a nonwillful violation at worst,
Martinez said, "we don't know if everyone is telling the truth."

He said immigration officials are looking into Haider's case to determine if
disciplinary action is needed.

Haider, news editor of the Friday Times, a weekly in Lahore, said he was told to
leave his wallet behind and was taken to the INS detention center in Alexandria.

At the detention center, Haider said he was taken to a room with a few chairs in
it and left there. Later he was photographed and fingerprinted twice, in ink and
electronically. He said he was told that bond had been set at $ 5,000 and that
"I would have to spend the night in the county jail."

"Fortunately, we were able to contact people . . . and get him released without
bail," Cohen said. "It was too late to get . . . bail. Apparently, they got a
call from headquarters.

"For me," he added, "the personal irony of all this is that I have four times
over the last 25 years made calls to the Pakistani government to release a
Pakistani journalist from one of their prisons. I never thought I would be
making a plea to our own government to release a Pakistani journalist from one
of our jails."

Haider said he was registered and fingerprinted at Dulles on his arrival Oct. 22
and was told he had to report to an INS office "between the 30th and 40th day of
my arrival." He said it was his understanding that Pakistan had been put on the
so-called entry-exit registration list last Oct. 1, but then he heard in
mid-November that it had been taken off the list.

He telephoned the INS help line and the State Department, talked to officials at
Brookings, and thought no more of it until Tuesday.

When he was released Tuesday night, he said he was told to make his own
arrangements to return to Washington, but had left his wallet, as instructed, at
Brookings.

Fortunately, he said, he had a Metro Farecard in one of his pockets. The INS
agents dropped him off at the King Street Station.

"The [Pakistani] embassy told me I was very lucky," he said. "They said . . .
they had left young men almost in the middle of nowhere."

Haider, who has visited the United States six times, said he cannot wait to
leave and, if such policies continue, will never come back.

"This is not the United States I used to come to," he said.

Staff writer Pamela Constable contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              137 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 30, 2003 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Ivey, Johnson Support Bill Sought by Latinos

BYLINE: Ruben Castaneda, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: PRINCE GEORGE'S EXTRA; Pg. T03

LENGTH: 843 words


Prince George's State's Attorney Glenn F. Ivey won enthusiastic applause from
more than 100 members of the Latino community in Langley Park when he pledged
Saturday to support legislation that would allow immigrants to obtain Maryland
driver's licenses regardless of their immigration status.

Ivey, who took office this month, drew another round of applause when he said he
would prosecute unscrupulous employers who pick up day laborers for
construction, maintenance and other jobs, then refuse to pay them for their
work.

Ivey appeared at the Langley Park Community Center at a public forum sponsored
by the Maryland Latino Coalition for Justice and Ivey's office.

County Executive Jack B. Johnson, the former state's attorney, who at times has
had strained relations with the Latino community, also appeared at the forum. He
elicited applause when he announced that he supports the concept of legislation
that would allow undocumented immigrants to obtain drivers' licenses.

The bill, sponsored by Del. Joseph F. Vallario Jr. (D-Prince George's), is to be
introduced next week.  Ivey said he would testify on behalf of the legislation
in Annapolis.

"This meeting illustrated the enthusiasm of Prince George's leaders and the
county's Latino community to create equitable and proactive solutions to the
problems plaguing us. Both Jack Johnson and Glenn Ivey have demonstrated
tremendous leadership by supporting driver's licenses for all Maryland
residents," said Gustavo Torres, a board member of the Maryland Latino Coalition
for Justice and former executive director of Casa de Maryland, a Silver
Spring-based organization that advocates for immigrants.

In introductory remarks that lasted less than a minute, Ivey (through a
translator) told the crowd -- which consisted primarily of Latino day laborers
and blue-collar workers from the Langley Park and Hyattsville neighborhoods --
that he wanted to work with them to combat crime and to hear their concerns.

"I want to hear from you," Ivey said, before handing out dozens of business
cards and state's attorney's literature in Spanish and English. Deputy State's
Attorney Robert L. Dean, who accompanied Ivey, added (through the translator),
"Our doors are open, our ears are open, our hearts are open."

For about an hour, more than a dozen men and women took turns speaking at a
microphone. Most of them spoke of the need for the driver's license legislation.

One woman said that because she does not have a driver's license, she sometimes
has to pay as much as $ 30 to get a ride to her job. (The woman did not identify
herself or say what kind of work she does).

Under current Maryland law, undocumented immigrants and even some legal
immigrants are not allowed to obtain a driver's license.

Proponents of Vallario's bill said allowing immigrants to obtain driver's
licenses would enhance public safety. People who are licensed would have to pass
driver's exams, would be more likely to carry car insurance and would be less
likely to flee from an accident, proponents have said.

In addition, allowing all immigrants to obtain driver's licenses would make it
easier for law enforcement to keep track of immigrants if the need arises,
according to proponents of the bill.

"This is win-win [legislation] that solves the barriers facing the immigrant
community and improves public safety for all Marylanders," Torres said.

Ivey said he agreed that allowing immigrants to obtain driver's licenses would
be a useful tool for law enforcement.

Ivey's meeting with the Latino community is part of what Ivey has said will be
an effort to reach out to immigrant communities in Prince George's, where some
residents are reluctant to come forward even when they are victims of crime
because of fears of authorities and worries about their immigration status.

When Johnson was state's attorney, his handling of a case involving the death of
Gilberto Hernandez, a Salvadoran immigrant, strained relations between some
members of the Latino community and the state's attorney's office.

In September 1998, Hernandez, 40, was killed when he was attacked by a group of
black teenagers in Laurel. Hernandez had been knocked to the ground and suffered
a fractured skull.

Laurel police arrested seven teenagers and charged them with killing Hernandez
as part of a botched robbery. Johnson obtained grand jury indictments against
three of the teenagers and dropped charges against the other four.

Johnson rejected the findings of the Laurel Police Department's investigation
that the attack began as a robbery and initially refused to interview two of
Hernandez's brothers, who witnessed parts of the attack. Under Maryland law,
someone who participates in a robbery that results in a death could be convicted
of first-degree felony murder.

Ultimately, two of the three teenagers were convicted of lesser charges: One was
convicted of involuntary manslaughter and two counts of second-degree assault,
another of three counts of second-degree assault. The third teenager was
acquitted of all charges.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 06, 2003, Thursday



CORRECTION:  Gustavo Torres is executive director of Casa de Maryland. His
affiliation with the organization was incorrect in last week's Prince George's
Extra.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              138 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 1, 2003 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Pakistani Exodus To Canada Brings Waits, Crowding

BYLINE: Michael Powell, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 443 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK Jan. 31


The number of Pakistanis waiting at the border with Canada continues to pile up,
as Canadian immigration centers started this week to require appointments and
upstate U.S.  shelters began to fill to capacity.

The Pakistanis, many of whom have lived for years in the United States without
legal residency papers, have been taking buses and taxis from New York to the
Canadian border for weeks now to seek asylum. Pakistani men living as visitors
in the United States face a Feb. 21 deadline to register with the Immigration
and Naturalization Service. Those without legal papers face the virtual
certainty of deportation.

Until this week, many Canadian immigration offices allowed the Pakistanis, many
with families in tow, to wait in the office while their applications were
processed. Now Canadian officials have started to require asylum seekers to make
appointments and cross back to the U.S.  side of the border while they wait,
sometimes for a week.

"We can handle just so many," said Rene Mercier, a senior spokesman for the
Canadian Citizenship and Immigration service. "The flow is too great."

The would-be refugees are straining the resources of towns and cities in the
rural reaches of Upstate New York and Vermont.

"The Canadians are returning everyone who shows up," said Dennis Cregan of the
Salvation Army in Plattsburgh, N.Y. "I've got 13 people, including three
families, sleeping on the floor of our chapel. Now they've told us another 40
are coming down [from the Canadian border] tonight."

In the past day, the Lacolle Immigration Center in Quebec, Canada, has had to
turn back 72 Pakistanis. Most of these families had to catch taxis to
Plattsburgh, 20 miles to the south. The city has few shelter beds, so the
Pakistanis were then taken across Lake Champlain to Burlington, Vt.

At another busy border crossing in Buffalo, Vive Inc., a refugee organization,
has now posted a notice on its Web site to warn Pakistanis coming north that its
shelter now is so crowded that potential refugees must seek their own lodging.

The INS now requires male visitors from 25 nations, most of them predominantly
Muslim, to register with the government.

Pakistani men run an added risk. As they have tried to pass back into the United
States to wait, the U.S. Customs station has detained a number of them. "They
held nine yesterday," Cregan said.

He added that some families are now split up, with women and children awaiting
the appointment while the men are detained. In recent interviews, many of the
Pakistanis at the border acknowledged that they either lacked legal residency
papers, or spoke of various missed deadlines and visa problems.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              139 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 2, 2003 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrants From India Brokenhearted;
Astronaut Was a Role Model

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C07

LENGTH: 761 words


The pride of India Palace was laid out on steaming platters in the Germantown
restaurant: butter chicken, lentil-and-rice-batter pancakes, mixed vegetables.
But the $ 9.95 Saturday buffet wasn't drawing its usual crowd.

"We are supposed to get a lot of Indian customers here, but they canceled
because they were watching TV," owner Rajiv Panakal said. One entire party of 15
called off lunch. "They said they don't feel like eating," he said.

The explosion of the space shuttle Columbia and the loss of its seven-member
crew threw the nation into mourning yesterday, but it carried a particular
sadness for many immigrants from India. One of their own had died: astronaut
Kalpana Chawla, 41, an aeronautical engineer and a woman who personified the
immigrant dream.

"She's a role model, especially for young Indian women," said Archana Patel, 40,
a pediatrician from Annandale. Chawla, who immigrated to the United States from
India in the 1980s and became an astronaut in 1994, showed that "anyone can be
anything," Patel said. "Even an immigrant can be part of the most elite space
program in the world."

Chawla, who was making her second shuttle voyage, went into space at a special
moment for Indian Americans. Nearly 40 years after a change in U.S. immigration
law allowed more Asian arrivals, the community is assuming a higher profile, its
leaders say. From 1990 to 2000, the number of Indian immigrants in the
Washington area and in the nation doubled, drawn by the high-tech boom and
family ties.

"The Indian American community has a feeling of coming of age in the U.S.," said
Maryland House Majority Leader Kumar P. Barve (D-Montgomery), whose grandparents
emigrated from Bombay. Chawla, he said, "was one of the leaders."

Chawla, who was born in Karnal, about 80 miles north of New Dehli, appears to
have spent little time in Washington. After completing undergraduate work in
India, she received a master's degree from the University of Texas at Arlington
and a doctorate from the University of Colorado at Boulder.

But among Indians here, a largely suburban community of over 78,000, hers was a
household name. Immigrant publications such as India Abroad had told the story
of her climb from promising youth in India to American graduate student to a
leader in her field.

Many Indian professionals, who now occupy top jobs in the region's hospitals,
biotech firms and high-tech companies, could identify with that trajectory.

"The community here feels as one with people like that, who come here, and
through sheer hard work, contribute to their own success and the success of the
country," said Adil Zainulbhai, 49, a director of the D.C. office of the
McKinsey & Co. consulting firm.

But Chawla was also admired by Indians who have not cracked the professional
ranks, people working in gas stations, motels and shops. "It is really proud for
us that an Indian lady" went into space, said restaurant owner Panakal.

Many Indian immigrants said they were calling friends and acquaintances
yesterday, sharing the news and trying to plan memorials. A service is scheduled
from 3 to 5 p.m. today at Sri Siva Vishnu Temple in Lanham to remember the
astronauts.

Bala Chandran, producer of "Image in Asian," a Saturday morning cable TV program
about South Asian culture, was already assembling a segment for next week about
Chawla. He could not report on the shuttle explosion on yesterday's show because
the program had been taped. "I felt so bad that show was going on and this
tragedy was happening elsewhere," he said. "I didn't like my own program today."

Chandran said the death of Chawla was a fresh blow to an Indian community that
has suffered discrimination and immigration difficulties since the Sept. 11,
2001, terrorist attacks, noting that Indians have been mistaken for Middle
Eastern nationals.

"It's becoming like a gloomy situation for many well-meaning immigrants," he
said.

Lakshman Nandwani has served the Indian community for 23 years from his India
Sari Palace shop in Langley Park. This is the time of year many Indians visit
their homeland because of the milder weather there, he said. Normally, he said,
customers are caught up in happy preparations for the trip home, buying new
clothes and gifts for relatives. But not yesterday.

"They are in a very somber mood. People [who] have to leave tomorrow, they are
buying today, but it's not in a happy mood, the way they always do shopping," he
said.

"Everybody, when they walk into the store, they say, 'Did you hear?' . . .This
kind of news is really heartbreaking."

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              140 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 2, 2003 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrants From India Brokenhearted;
Astronaut Was a Role Model

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C07

LENGTH: 761 words


The pride of India Palace was laid out on steaming platters in the Germantown
restaurant: butter chicken, lentil-and-rice-batter pancakes, mixed vegetables.
But the $ 9.95 Saturday buffet wasn't drawing its usual crowd.

"We are supposed to get a lot of Indian customers here, but they canceled
because they were watching TV," owner Rajiv Panakal said. One entire party of 15
called off lunch. "They said they don't feel like eating," he said.

The explosion of the space shuttle Columbia and the loss of its seven-member
crew threw the nation into mourning yesterday, but it carried a particular
sadness for many immigrants from India. One of their own had died: astronaut
Kalpana Chawla, 41, an aeronautical engineer and a woman who personified the
immigrant dream.

"She's a role model, especially for young Indian women," said Archana Patel, 40,
a pediatrician from Annandale. Chawla, who immigrated to the United States from
India in the 1980s and became an astronaut in 1994, showed that "anyone can be
anything," Patel said. "Even an immigrant can be part of the most elite space
program in the world."

Chawla, who was making her second shuttle voyage, went into space at a special
moment for Indian Americans. Nearly 40 years after a change in U.S. immigration
law allowed more Asian arrivals, the community is assuming a higher profile, its
leaders say. From 1990 to 2000, the number of Indian immigrants in the
Washington area and in the nation doubled, drawn by the high-tech boom and
family ties.

"The Indian American community has a feeling of coming of age in the U.S.," said
Maryland House Majority Leader Kumar P. Barve (D-Montgomery), whose grandparents
emigrated from Bombay. Chawla, he said, "was one of the leaders."

Chawla, who was born in Karnal, about 80 miles north of New Dehli, appears to
have spent little time in Washington. After completing undergraduate work in
India, she received a master's degree from the University of Texas at Arlington
and a doctorate from the University of Colorado at Boulder.

But among Indians here, a largely suburban community of over 78,000, hers was a
household name. Immigrant publications such as India Abroad had told the story
of her climb from promising youth in India to American graduate student to a
leader in her field.

Many Indian professionals, who now occupy top jobs in the region's hospitals,
biotech firms and high-tech companies, could identify with that trajectory.

"The community here feels as one with people like that, who come here, and
through sheer hard work, contribute to their own success and the success of the
country," said Adil Zainulbhai, 49, a director of the D.C. office of the
McKinsey & Co. consulting firm.

But Chawla was also admired by Indians who have not cracked the professional
ranks, people working in gas stations, motels and shops. "It is really proud for
us that an Indian lady" went into space, said restaurant owner Panakal.

Many Indian immigrants said they were calling friends and acquaintances
yesterday, sharing the news and trying to plan memorials. A service is scheduled
from 3 to 5 p.m. today at Sri Siva Vishnu Temple in Lanham to remember the
astronauts.

Bala Chandran, producer of "Image in Asian," a Saturday morning cable TV program
about South Asian culture, was already assembling a segment for next week about
Chawla. He could not report on the shuttle explosion on yesterday's show because
the program had been taped. "I felt so bad that show was going on and this
tragedy was happening elsewhere," he said. "I didn't like my own program today."

Chandran said the death of Chawla was a fresh blow to an Indian community that
has suffered discrimination and immigration difficulties since the Sept. 11,
2001, terrorist attacks, noting that Indians have been mistaken for Middle
Eastern nationals.

"It's becoming like a gloomy situation for many well-meaning immigrants," he
said.

Lakshman Nandwani has served the Indian community for 23 years from his India
Sari Palace shop in Langley Park. This is the time of year many Indians visit
their homeland because of the milder weather there, he said. Normally, he said,
customers are caught up in happy preparations for the trip home, buying new
clothes and gifts for relatives. But not yesterday.

"They are in a very somber mood. People [who] have to leave tomorrow, they are
buying today, but it's not in a happy mood, the way they always do shopping," he
said.

"Everybody, when they walk into the store, they say, 'Did you hear?' . . .This
kind of news is really heartbreaking."

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              141 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 2, 2003 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Stranger in a Strange Land

SECTION: MAGAZINE; Pg. W07

LENGTH: 322 words


Bassel Masri stares into the windowless waiting room of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in Arlington. Except for a tall African, the 15 or so men
inside are all Arab. One slumps against the wall, snoozing on a pillow. Masri
walks past the room and down a barren corridor toward a door marked: "DO NOT
ENTER."

This is Masri's third day at the INS. He's a 24-year-old Fulbright scholar from
Lebanon who has been in the United States since August studying geographic
information systems at Ball State University. Between semesters, he is visiting
an American-born cousin in Virginia and trying to comply with a government edict
to register with the INS. Thousands of foreign students, tourists and
businessmen must be photographed, fingerprinted and interviewed. Almost all are
from the Middle East.

Masri is anxious to comply because failure to do so could mean deportation. But
the INS hasn't made it easy. His first two visits were marked by hours of
waiting, misinformation and frustration.

Finally, Masri grabbed the ear of an empathetic INS officer with the name tag V.
McDonald. McDonald apologized and told Masri he'd have to return for a third
day, but promised he would be seen. Skip the waiting room, McDonald instructed,
and proceed down the corridor to the door at the end.

So here Masri stands. Except the door is locked. He knocks gently. No response.

There is slurping from a water fountain behind him. Masri turns and spots
another INS official. "I need to speak with McDonald," Masri says.

"Go to the waiting room," she says coldly.

"But McDonald told me to see him directly," Masri pleads.

The official opens the locked door with a key code. "I'll see what I can do,"
she says with her back to Masri.

A minute later she pokes her head out. "Okay, Officer McDonald will see you
now." At last an interview. Compliance with the law.

Masri scrambles through the door, still marked "DO NOT ENTER."

-- Tyler Currie

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              142 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 6, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Many Jamaicans Find Transition Easy in D.C.;
Immigrant Community Grows to No. 2

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: D.C. EXTRA; Pg. T08

LENGTH: 1014 words


He is the go-to man for a Jamaican food fix, his beef patties and spice buns
drawing immigrants from miles around. But even Selvyn Wright, the owner of
Brown's Caribbean Bakery on Georgia Avenue NW, was stunned by the news:
Jamaicans are the No. 2 foreign-born group in the District.

"I thought it was mostly Mexicans!" declared Wright, 44, folding his hands over
his long white apron while taking a break from preparing carrot juice.

According to new figures from the 2000 Census, Salvadorans are by far the
largest foreign-born group in the District, making up about 22 percent of the
immigrant population, or 15,886 people. Together, people from Latin America
comprise half the city's 73,561 foreign-born.

But the No. 2 country of origin for immigrants is Jamaica, with 3,225, according
to the census. The community, however, is often overlooked.

"We assimilate. We integrate. We don't have a language barrier. We don't have
the same type of cultural barriers" as some other immigrants, said Claire
Nelson, president of the Institute of Caribbean Studies, a small
Washington-based nonprofit.

Jamaicans have been moving to the Washington area for decades. A major draw has
been Howard University, which has longstanding ties with the island and several
Jamaicans on its staff.

Many graduates of Howard and other universities have remained in the Washington
area, working as doctors, lawyers, accountants and such. Other Jamaicans have
come to work at international organizations or universities.

"They hold a lot of very good positions, high professional positions, in the
city," said Jennifer Asher, president of the Jamaican Nationals Association, a
local group.

Prominent Jamaicans in Washington include John Richards, an associate general
counsel at Fannie Mae; Cedric Lynch, principal of McGogney Elementary School in
Southeast; and Michael Richardson, the senior physician in the D.C. Health
Department. The most famous local son is Secretary of State Colin L. Powell,
whose parents were Jamaican immigrants.

Jamaicans aren't just professionals. They work as limousine drivers, plumbers,
nannies and hotel staff. Some moved here to be with family; others migrated from
the large Jamaican community in New York.

"This is the land of opportunity," said Lloyd Francis, 53, a Jamaican-born hotel
doorman from Columbia Heights who stopped by Brown's one recent afternoon to
pick up some buns, Jamaican cheese and a slice of sweet-potato pudding as thick
as fudge.

As a community, Jamaicans have generally had a low profile. Most Jamaicans have
African origins and blend in with Washington's large black population.

Demographers say Caribbean blacks often move to mostly African American
neighborhoods, either in the District or the Maryland suburbs. In the District,
many live in Northwest, or parts of Northeast along the Prince George's County
line.

Jamaicans have few of the social-service agencies that serve as community
gathering-points for other immigrants. Most don't need immigration assistance
because they arrive with student or work visas, or are sponsored for residency
by family members, according to Jamaican diplomats and community organizers.
They already speak English.

The community received some unwelcome publicity in the 1980s during a burst of
violence involving Jamaican gangs. But that problem has disappeared. While some
feared a backlash against immigrants after the arrest of Jamaican Lee Boyd
Malvo, 17, in the sniper killings, that has not occurred.

These days, Jamaicans are drawn together by cultural events such as the annual
Caribbean Festival on Georgia Avenue. Many get together at Jamaican restaurants
or nightclubs playing calypso and reggae.

Maureen Murphy-Smith, 50, an executive assistant, often meets Jamaican friends
at Zanzibar, a club on the Southeast waterfront popular with Caribbean
immigrants. On a recent Friday night, a velvety R&B song played as men in smart
suits and women in furs arrived at the club. Some were immigrants from the
Caribbean or Africa; others were African Americans.

"A lot of times you don't know till you start talking" that a person is
Jamaican, said Murphy-Smith, sipping chardonnay with an engineer, an accountant
and a scientist originally from her homeland. "We are out there; we are doing
well; we're professionals."

While Jamaicans assimilate easily, though, they deeply value their own culture,
Murphy-Smith said. "When we find out you're Jamaican, we're kissin' and huggin'
and pullin' your hair," she said, laughing.

At Brown's Bakery, a row of business cards is taped to the wall, aimed at
catching the eyes of customers who line up for such specialties as "hardo"
bread, Jamaican fruit cake and peanut punch. The cards offer a glimpse of the
city's Jamaicans: a lawyer and a Citibank financial analyst, a hair stylist, a
Weichert real estate agent and the owner of Wait No More Plumbing.

Those varying occupations have one thing in common: "These jobs are better
money" than similar work in Jamaica, said Wright, the bakery owner.

Many Jamaicans send money back to their homeland, where 17 percent of the
population lives in poverty and there is 15 percent unemployment, according to
the World Bank.

While there are larger Jamaican communities in New York and Miami, Jamaicans in
the Washington area probably remit more money per capita than Jamaican enclaves
elsewhere, said Jamaican Embassy spokesman O'Neil Hamilton

"The highest concentration of very large income-earners . . . [is] for the most
part in Washington," he said.

If Jamaican immigrants have a low profile, their culture doesn't. Jamaican music
and food have grown in popularity, bringing the city's African Americans and
Caribbean immigrants together, Jamaicans said.

"Washington was very different 20 years ago," Nelson said. The relationship now
is much closer, because the whole hip-hop, reggae and dance hall music culture
has created a mixture at the bottom.

"There was always the professional mixing at the top," she said. "But it's not
the same as when ordinary people buy jerk chicken or patties."

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              143 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 8, 2003 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Follow the Rules and Stop Whining

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 184 words


Ejaz Haider, the Pakistani news editor and Brookings Institution scholar who was
detained in the government's registration program for temporary foreign
visitors, could have avoided his detention by simply reporting for his second
registration interview as specifically requested of him three months earlier
["Wrong Message to the Muslim World," op-ed, Feb. 5].

As a Fulbright scholar living abroad once upon a peaceful time, I carefully
honored my host country's sometimes labyrinthine immigration requirements.

Unfortunately, Haider suffered the consequences of flouting a simple wartime
request.

-- Annemarie Brown

*

It is becoming quite tiresome to hear Ejaz Haider whine about his inconvenience
with the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Pardon us, but we may be a
little more vigilant now after the murder of more than 3,000 on our soil by
Muslim extremists.

Instead of bemoaning our immigration policies, Haider should educate his fellow
Muslims about why he enjoys coming to the United States. Many Americans have
sacrificed everything to create the country he loves to visit.

-- Brad Brooks

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              144 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 15, 2003 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Congress Funds INS Registration System But Demands Details

BYLINE: George Lardner Jr., Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 609 words


Congress has agreed to fund a controversial administration program under which
male visitors from Muslim countries are registered and fingerprinted, but is
demanding a detailed explanation of the program's origins, its efficacy and the
reasons for a large number of resulting detentions.

The registration program has stirred fears of deportation among visiting foreign
nationals across the country and sharp criticism from Democrats in Congress, who
say it has led to a wave of apparently unjustified arrests and incarcerations,
especially in California.

Justice Department officials have defended the program, saying it has already
proven successful in apprehending people who would have posed a risk to the
public. Justice Department spokesman Mark Corallo said more than 400 "known
criminals" and seven "known terrorists" have been taken into custody as a result
of the new system.

The administration had asked for $ 362 million to cover the costs of the special
registration system for the fiscal year that began last Oct. 1. The program is
administered by the Immigration and Naturalization Service and will soon be
transferred, with INS, to the new Homeland Security Department. The INS says it
is needed to track the 35 million non-immigrants who come to the United States
each year as well as "some non-immigrants already in the U.S."

Called the National Security Entry-Exit Registration System (NSEERS), the system
imposed several requirements, including periodic in-person interviews at INS
offices and check-ins with INS officers at specially designated exit points upon
leaving the country.

The most controversial aspect of NSEERS is its application to males older than
16 from 25 countries, most of them predominantly Muslim, who were already in the
United States last Sept. 30. The requirement caused widespread fear and
confusion among foreign nationals, and hundreds suspected of immigration
violations were at least temporarily detained.

Pakistan's foreign minister warned on a visit here two weeks ago that the
requirement would bolster the cause of radical extremists there if it results in
widespread deportations.

On Friday, the Justice Department announced it had extended the deadline for
visa-holders from seven countries, including Pakistan and Saudi Arabia, to
register.

The Senate last month refused to appropriate any money for the NSEERS and called
instead for development of an automated system to track visitors at ports of
entry. The administration called the denial of funds unacceptable.

House-Senate conferees handling the omnibus appropriations bill approved late
Thursday agreed to provide the entire $ 362 million, on the condition that the
Department of Homeland Security develop a plan to replace the INS's "current
paper-based system and stovepiped databases."

At the same time, the conferees required delivery by March 1 of a large number
of documents on the program to the Senate and House Appropriations committees.
Among them are documents that assess the program's effectiveness "as a tool to
enhance national security" and explain why some people with pending applications
for green cards were detained.

Senate Democrats cited one report about a businessman from Iran who was arrested
and jailed even though he has had a permanent resident application pending with
the INS for five years.

Corallo said he was not familiar with the businessman's case, but that "most of
the people with pending applications were held just for national security checks
and released fairly quickly." Although exceptions can be made, he said, "we do
not have the luxury any more of letting people go free while we do the check."

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              145 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 17, 2003 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Banks Go After Money-Transfer Market

BYLINE: Anitha Reddy, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. E01

LENGTH: 1324 words


From both sides of Mount Pleasant Street, where faces and accents reveal
childhoods spent in El Salvador, Ethiopia and Vietnam, a daily battle is being
waged for immigrants' pocketbooks.

Western Union's yellow awning is squished between a pupuseria (a restaurant that
sells El Salvador's signature dish) and the Dos Gringos cafe. The wire-transfer
outlet's sign has a Spanish subtitle: Dinero en Minutos. Its walls are plastered
with posters advertising legal services and international phone card rates.

Across the street is a Bank of America branch where three of the four tellers
speak Spanish and the cheery credit-card ads on the wall show more brown faces
than white ones.

The two businesses are local adversaries in a national fight for business of
immigrants from Latin America and the Caribbean. Last year, that growing group
sent more than $ 30 billion to their home countries, according to preliminary
estimates by the Inter-American Development Bank, headquartered in Washington.

Wire-transfer companies such as Western Union Financial Services Inc. and
Travelers Express/Moneygram dominate the remittance business, which brings in $
3 billion to $ 3.5 billion a year in transfer and currency conversion fees. But
the business is changing. Banks, which transmit only a tiny fraction of that
torrent of cash, want more of the money-sending market. They see it as a gateway
to a group whose interactions with financial institutions are often fleeting or
nonexistent.

Only half of Latino immigrants in the United States have bank accounts,
according to the Inter-American Development Bank. Some are afraid to open an
account because of their immigration status; others are turned off by recurring
fees or minimum monthly balances.

By forging an initial relationship through remittance services, banks hope to
persuade those elusive customers to open basic checking accounts and apply for
credit cards, car loans, and mortgage loans.

"Baby steps," said Brahim Rawi, the manager of Bank of America's Mount Pleasant
branch.

Major commercial banks in the United States are developing ties with Latin
American banks, especially banks in Mexico. The U.S. banks are trying to lure
customers from wire-transfer services with new, and often cheaper, remittance
services.

"Western Union is really outrageous," said Tania Gomez, 27, an accountant who
emigrated from Peru eight years ago. She said she paid $ 11 to send $ 100 to her
aunts and uncles in Lima in January. In February, she managed to send $ 120, but
had to pay a $ 22 fee. She understood that the company's fees were somehow
related to the amount of money sent, but not in enough detail to minimize the
monthly expense.

She said she hoped that Rawi would tell her about a cheaper way to help her
relatives, perhaps through the bank -- after she got advice about how to apply
for a home equity loan.

From November 2001 to November 2002, when several mainstream banks began going
after the immigrant Latino market, the average cost to send $ 200 to Latin
America declined 9 percent, said Manuel Orozco, who studied remittances
extensively as project director for Central America at the Inter-American
Dialogue, a policy research group.

Ten to 15 percent of the money sent home by Latino immigrants is eaten up by
transfer and foreign exchange fees.

Part of the reason banks can undercut wire-transfer prices is that they offer
remittance services that often are linked to a checking account, and can
disburse funds through automated teller machines. Once a customer enrolls in the
program, an order to send money can be executed over the phone or the Internet.

The trick is to get more immigrants to establish real banking relationships in
exchange for cheaper remittances.

Bank of America in May launched a pilot program called SafeSend, which allows a
recipient to pick up money from one of 20,000 ATMs in Mexico using an access
card, which can be tied to the sender's credit card or checking account. The
accounts do not have to be with Bank of America.

As with most money-transfer services, there is a flat fee for each transfer.
SafeSend users are charged $ 10 for each transfer up to $ 1,000. Citigroup's
Citibank subsidiary has a similar service with the same fee called C2it, that
uses branches of Banamex, a Mexican bank that Citigroup bought last year.

Orlandi Valuta, a subsidiary of Western Union that caters to Latin American
immigrants, charges $ 14.99 for transfers up to $ 300.

The banks' offer what could be only a 1 percent transfer fee, but the average
amount sent is typically between $ 200 and $ 300 and often smaller. Even taking
into account average transaction sizes, bank fees for remittance services
usually end up being lower than those charged by wire-transfer firms.

That puts pricing pressure on the wire-transfer services. In Spain, where banks
offer Latin American immigrants more sophisticated remittance products than
those here, Western Union has been forced to reduce its fees by 50 percent in
recent months to remain competitive, said Donald Terry, manager of the
Multilateral Investment Fund at the Inter-American Development Bank.

"They'll have to come up with new products," said David Robertson, publisher of
the Nilson Report, a newsletter on the payment industry. He said the most likely
candidate is a card service that competes directly with systems such as
SafeSend. "But they do have the benefit of inertia," Robertson said. "They have
been the provider to this community for decades. It isn't as if their customers
are going to walk out the door en masse."

Western Union still has a major advantage in the number of agent outlets, both
here and in Latin America, said Ruairi O'Neill, an analyst at PNC Advisors.

While the commercial banks focus on the Mexican market, transfers to Mexico are
only 2 percent of the total profit of Western Union's parent company, First Data
Corp., O'Neill said.

Fifty-seven percent of El Salvadorans, Washington's largest immigrant group,
send money home, compared with 45 percent of Mexicans.

San Francisco-based Well Fargo has offered Intercuenta Express, a service for
Mexican immigrants that requires both the sender and recipient to have bank
accounts, since 1997. Jane Hennessy, a senior vice president in Wells Fargo's
international group, said that she spends at least one day a week talking about
expanding the bank's remittance services beyond Mexico.

"El Salvador and Guatemala are probably the two that fit best with our market
although we're looking into certain Asian countries as well," Hennessy said. The
bank, which was the first to allow immigrants to use the Mexican government's
"matricula consular" card as identification when opening a bank account, now
accepts a similar card issued by the Guatemalan government.

FleetBoston is also developing a money transfer service based on an ATM network,
but it won't be available this year, spokesman James Schepker said.

What Western Union, its subsidiary Orlandi Valuta, and Moneygram do not have,
and may never have, is a way to fight the banks' latest weapon -- a growing army
of bilingual tellers, loan officers and bank managers who spend as much time
cultivating basic American financial literacy as they do cashing checks or
closing loans.

Banks are also teaming up with local organizations to provide workshops on basic
financial skills, such as reading credit card statements or filling out loan
applications. In Washington, Wells Fargo, Citigroup, and Bank of America sponsor
seminars at the Latino Economic Development Corp., said Erick Gutierrez, the
group's director of housing.

But bank branches in neighborhoods like Mount Pleasant, pulsing with diversity,
are taking the lead.

Rawi has neat packets of basil seeds stacked in the corner of his desk -- a
marketing ploy for that afternoon's homebuyer workshop. "Los semillas del
conocimiento," the envelope reads. "Seeds of knowledge."

"If they grow, we grow," he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              146 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 23, 2003 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Mexican Immigrants Boost Ailing Economy at Home

BYLINE: Sandra Marquez, Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 501 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Rodolfo Hernandez Villasenor, an East Los Angeles iron caster, walked into a
bank recently and unfolded a neat stack of bills worth $ 150 to send home to his
mother and five siblings in the Mexican state of Michoacan.

Hernandez took the money out of his monthly $ 2,000 salary to help his family
pay for tamales, hot chocolate and other fixings for Christmas and New Year's
Eve.

"They will use it to pay for a little dinner to get the whole family together,"
said Hernandez, 53, who immigrated to the United States 26 years ago.

It was one of millions of such transactions conducted each year in the United
States.

Money transfers from Mexican immigrants in the United States to relatives back
home reached a record $ 10 billion in 2002, according to the Pew Hispanic
Center, a research organization in Washington. The amount was up $ 800 million
from the previous year.

The transfers, or remittances as they are officially known, are Mexico's
second-largest source of income, behind oil exports.

Workers say their cross-border transfers increased because the Mexican economy
is in even worse shape than the U.S. economy, leaving many Mexican families
desperate for income. The average wire transfer sent by Hispanic immigrants is
between $ 200 and $ 300.

Jose Aguiniga, 43, a tire company salesman from Los Angeles, said that for the
holidays he sent his mother $ 250 and his five sisters a total of $ 125. "No
matter what you send, the economy in Mexico will still be bad," he said.

Remittances to all of Latin America from the United States doubled during the
second half of the 1990s.

The amount sent to Mexico, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua --
nations that receive almost half their money from remittances -- is expected to
total $ 14.2 billion in 2002, according to the Pew report.

Economists say the transfers do not hurt the U.S. economy.

"It's a mistake to think of it as a drain without thinking that they are also
going to be using that money in Mexico to be buying goods and services that are
coming from the U.S." said Cecilia Conrad, a professor of economics at Pomona
College.

Among the forces driving the increase in remittances are a 60 percent rise in
the U.S. Hispanic population during the 1990s and the declining cost of wire
transfers, caused in part by increased competition among banks and services such
as Western Union. The average fee is about 10 percent of the amount sent.

Tighter immigration controls after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks also
have made it harder for many Mexican laborers living illegally in the United
States to go back across the border to deliver money or presents in person.

Lorenzo Escalona, 29, a fish market vendor from Huntington Park, Calif., sent $
300 to his parents and nine siblings in Mexico City. He is still waiting for his
green card and did not want to risk going home for the holidays.

"I'd rather take the money home in person," he said. But "I have to wait for my
immigration status to be resolved."

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              147 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          February 26, 2003 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 508 words


LITTLE ROCK -- A fast-moving winter storm churned across the South yesterday,
dumping 13 inches of snow in Arkansas and leaving at least nine people dead in
Texas as a glaze of ice wreaked havoc on highways.

More nasty weather was on the way for the region, meteorologists warned.

Authorities said at least six people died in weather-related traffic accidents,
and that three immigrants died of hypothermia in south Texas.

Ice in north and central Texas sent cars spinning and grounded planes. A series
of collisions snarled traffic on Interstate 20 near Dallas; several 18-wheelers
jackknifed, police said.

In south Texas, where temperatures struggled to reach the mid-30s, three
undocumented immigrants were found dead after fellow immigrants sought help from
border patrol agents.

Wrecks and slippery pavement closed roads in parts of Oklahoma, Arkansas,
Tennessee, Mississippi and Alabama; schools were closed in parts of six states.

The National Weather Service said another round of light snow, freezing rain and
ice will pass through Oklahoma and Arkansas today, then move through the Ohio
Valley into the mid-Atlantic states.

* RALEIGH -- Duke University doctors acknowledged that the late Jesica
Santillan, 17, suffered brain damage after her first, botched heart-lung
transplant. A hospital ethics committee and neurological experts deemed the
brain damage potentially reversible and the risk of a second transplant
worthwhile.

* PHILADELPHIA -- The wife of a man who allegedly opened fire on children after
his daughter was hit with a snowball was also charged in the drive-by shooting
that left a 10-year-old girl in critical condition. Cynthia Powell, 36, was
charged with attempted murder, aggravated assault and related charges in the
attack on Ebony Smith, who was shot in the head as she and other children stood
on a corner near her home. Authorities said Powell was driving the car as her
husband, Joseph Best, 32, leaned out the window and opened fire. Best has been
charged with attempted murder.

* NEW YORK -- An interim memorial to the six dead and thousands injured in the
World Trade Center bombing 10 years ago today will include a piece of granite
from the original tribute, state officials said. The first memorial was
destroyed during the Sept. 11, 2001, attack.

* CHICAGO -- With little fanfare and less opposition, Mayor Richard M. Daley (D)
coasted to his fifth term in office, extending a reign during which he has
quietly become as powerful as his blustery, more famous father. With 89 percent
of the precincts reporting, Daley had 79 percent of the votes. His nearest
competitor, Paul Jakes, had 14 percent.

* NEW YORK -- Crime in the subway is at its lowest level since 1969, in step
with an overall drop in crime in the most populous U.S. city, according to
police statistics. Fewer than nine felonies a day are committed on the New York
subway, one of the most extensive and complex transit systems in the world,
police said. On an average weekday, it carries 4.6 million people.

-- From News Services

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              148 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              March 2, 2003 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Questions and Answers With . . .

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C04

LENGTH: 601 words


Hundreds of Latino residents rallied at the State House on Monday to voice
support for a legislative agenda that includes access to driver's licenses and
in-state college tuition for all immigrants. The demonstration, the largest by
Latinos in state history, was organized by the Maryland Latino Coalition for
Justice. Coalition President Ricardo A. Flores answered questions from staff
writer Nurith C. Aizenman about the group's history and goals.

Q When and why was the Maryland Latino Coalition for Justice formed?

A The MLCFJ began in 1999, when two Maryland legal service groups, Public
Justice Center and CASA of Maryland, published a report on the legal needs of
Latinos in Maryland. The report galvanized a vast array of community, legal and
social service providers to band together to pursue legislative initiatives.
Last year, we successfully lobbied for a state law that requires Maryland state
agencies to provide interpreters.

Why is your agenda this year focused on driver's licenses and in-state college
tuition?

The current list of documents the Motor Vehicle Administration requires to prove
identity are mostly ones that only people born here would have, effectively
excluding many immigrants, both documented and undocumented. Our bill would
expand the list to include documents from other countries that are officially
recognized by the U.S. Department of State. Regarding the in-state initiative,
students without permanent residency are currently forced to pay out-of-state
tuition at Maryland colleges and universities, which is two to three times
higher. We want in-state tuition to be based on whether a student has graduated
from a Maryland high school, not whether they are a permanent resident.

Why is this legislation needed?

Immigrants want a license for the same reason anyone else does: to work; to buy
groceries, et cetera. Public transportation often takes too long or doesn't run
where people need to go. With respect to in-state tuition, we're talking about
students who have lived here with their families for five to 15 years. These
kids want to become nurses, computer technicians, teachers -- professionals that
are needed in Maryland. And current immigration law would likely provide them
with the visas they need to work here legally.

What is your response to some of the arguments that have prompted lawmakers in
other states to reject these proposals: that granting people who are here
illegally such privileges amounts to tacitly condoning their presence and
encourages even more illegal immigration? Or that issuing a license to illegal
immigrants undermines national security because this document is used for many
activities beyond driving, including boarding planes and opening bank accounts?

Both our initiatives are about creating fairness for people already here.
Current laws allow someone from another state to move to Maryland and get
in-state tuition while immigrants who have been here 10 years can't. We're
talking about persons who are otherwise able to drive responsibly, or otherwise
willing to educate and better themselves. It is indisputable that immigrants
have built and invested in this great state. A recent study found that Maryland
ranks sixth in the nation for highest share of labor force growth due to
immigrants in the last decade, and we pay significant sales and income taxes. We
think national security is increased, not decreased, by acknowledging that a
license is just a license. The MVA is simply not equipped or trained to
determine whether persons are here legally, much less whether someone intends to
do us harm.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              149 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 6, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Activist Lobbies Hill for New Rights Program

BYLINE: Judy Sarasohn

SECTION: A SECTION; SPECIAL INTERESTS JUDY SARASOHN; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 790 words


Concerned about civil liberties crackdowns and immigration registrations and
detentions during the nation's war on terrorism, Amnesty International has
launched a human rights program in the United States and hired a veteran civil
rights activist to lead the program and lobby Congress.

Benjamin Jealous, former executive director of the National Newspaper Publishers
Association, a coalition of African American newspapers, is the new director of
the U.S. Domestic Human Rights Program.

With the "Patriot Act in full swing" and the government instituting a "special
registration" of non-U.S. citizens, Amnesty International decided that "before
we could play offense, we needed to quickly get into the defensive mode,"
Jealous said. He has been lobbying lawmakers "to help moderates and progressive
members" to fight the crackdown on immigrants and racial profiling of Arab
Americans. The U.S. Patriot Act expanded the government's authority to monitor
and detain people as part of the war on terrorism.

"We're playing catch-up on the Hill," said Jealous, a former reporter and editor
of Mississippi's Jackson Advocate and program director of the National Coalition
to Abolish the Death Penalty. He said he will also try to forge closer ties
between human rights and civil rights groups, as well as others.

Jealous's program will also focus on Amnesty International's work on police
brutality, juvenile justice and other civil liberties issues in the United
States.

After helping the Republicans retake the Senate and then assisting Sen. Bill
Frist's transition as majority leader, Ginny Wolfe is going to the business side
of the communications biz.

Wolfe, counselor to the majority leader, will be leaving next month to join
Manning, Selvage & Lee, a PR agency that specializes in public affairs issues.
She'll be senior vice president for public affairs, working closely with former
Gore press secretary Lawrence Haas, who is senior vice president and director of
public affairs at Manning.

Before Frist (R-Tenn.) became majority leader after the Trent Lott debacle,
Wolfe worked for him at the National Republican Senatorial Committee, where she
was communications director. She said she intended only to help with Frist's
transition and some planning.

"Now is the time to go off in the business sector. This is the path I was going
on," Wolfe said.

Stuart W. Bowen Jr., deputy assistant to President Bush and deputy staff
secretary at the White House, is leaving to join Patton Boggs's public policy
and litigation practices as a partner March 31.

He has worked for Bush the president and Bush the governor of Texas. He started
out in Washington as deputy counsel to the Bush-Cheney transition team.

Alcalde & Fay has hooked a former Republican senator, Larry Pressler (S.D.), and
two congressional staffers for its lobby shop.

Pressler, who previously ran his own shop, the Pressler Group, will focus on
telecommunications, transportation and international issues, having served as
chairman of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee.

Other new hires at the lobby shop are two Suzannes: Suzanne Eisold, longtime
chief of staff for Rep. Joe Skeen (R-N.M.), now retired, and Suzanne Palmer, who
was an aide to Rep. Patsy T. Mink (D-Hawaii), now deceased.

Holland & Knight, a law firm that has set up a PR operation for clients -- okay,
a "Strategic Communications Group" -- has lured Tom Alexander from his public
relations perch at Cassidy & Associates.

This is a reunion of sorts: Alexander's former Hill boss, then-Rep. Tillie K.
Fowler (R-Fla.), is a partner at the law firm.

"Communications is a vital component to any successful public policy campaign,"
said Beth Viola, head of the Strategic Communications Group and earlier an
environmental adviser in the Clinton White House.

Also in PR, Burson-Marsteller has brought Mary Crawford, former director of
public affairs for Commerce Secretary Donald L. Evans, for its D.C. media
practice. Crawford also worked for the National Republican Congressional
Committee and was press secretary for the Republican National Committee.

Joining Burson to head its Austin office is Russ Keene of Kissinger-McLarty
Associates.

Lisalyn R. Jacobs, a women's studies professor at George Washington University
and a consultant to such groups as the American Civil Liberties Union and the
National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty, has joined the NOW Legal
Defense and Education Fund, heading the group's Washington policy office.

A veteran of House and Senate staffs, Frank M. Cushing, has joined Cornerstone
Government Affairs. Most recently, he was majority clerk of the House
Appropriations subcommittee on Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban
Development.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              150 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              March 7, 2003 Friday
                                 Final Edition

WASHINGTON IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 492 words


The Justice Department has dropped plans to tighten security by shortening the
visits of vacationing foreigners, soothing a policy rift between President Bush
and his brother, Florida Gov. Jeb Bush.

Last Friday, hours before the Department of Homeland Security was to take over
immigration enforcement, the Justice Department dropped the plan and dozens more
proposed regulations that could not have been set up by the time of the Saturday
switchover, officials said.

It was unclear whether the proposal had been killed or temporarily set aside,
Justice and Homeland Security officials said.

This week, the Florida governor issued a statement hailing the decision.
Tightening tourist visa rules, Gov. Bush said, would have hobbled his state's
top industry. Tourism generates 20 percent of Florida's revenue and employs
870,000 people, he said.

The Bush administration in April proposed eliminating the automatic six-month
stay currently granted to international tourists when they arrive in the United
States. Instead, it wanted inspectors to grant tourists only as much time as
needed to complete their trips, up to six months.

Since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, immigration officials had sought
ways to better track foreign visitors, and supporters of the proposal noted that
tourist visas remain among the most abused immigration documents.

Fifteen of the 19 Sept. 11 hijackers had entered the U.S. legally on travel
visas.

Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said the United States is opposed to North
Korea's possession of nuclear weapons and has not resigned itself to trying to
contain the expansion of nuclear efforts by the communist regime.

"The position of the United States is we don't want to see nuclear weapons in
the Korean Peninsula," Powell told a Senate committee. "It is also the position
of China. It is also the position of Japan and South Korea."

Powell disputed a report this week in The Washington Post that the United
States, Japan and South Korea are beginning to accept the prospect of North
Korea having nuclear weapons and that the United States is focused on preventing
North Korea from trading nuclear material.

"I don't know of any basis to the report that we have decided to live with a
nuclearized North Korea," he said.

President Bush aims to defuse the standoff with North Korea by attempting to
persuade regional allies and China to exert pressure on the North Korean leader,
Kim Jong Il, to adhere to agreements to halt nuclear arms development.

Former law enforcement officers would be allowed to carry concealed weapons into
states that ban them under legislation approved by the Senate Judiciary
Committee.

The bill -- approved by an 18 to 1 vote -- now goes to the full Senate. The
legislation applies to retired as well as off-duty law enforcement officers who
are in good standing with their departments, senators said.

Compiled from reports by the Associated Press, Reuters and Bloomberg

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              151 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              March 7, 2003 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Embracing Change

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A32

LENGTH: 186 words


Phillip C. Hughey's Feb. 25 letter "No Choice on Immigration" couched
anti-immigrant sentiment in language about unwelcome "change" in communities
such as Herndon.

We are all children, grandchildren, great-grandchildren and so on of immigrants.

Even aboriginal Americans are thought to have originally come from elsewhere.
Gang problems, overcrowding, etc., have a long history in the United States --
witness the Oscar-nominated film "Gangs of New York." And given the antipathy of
individuals such as Mr. Hughey, is it any surprise that recent immigrants would
feel unwelcome at town meetings or in interactions with "longtime" residents?

If Mr. Hughey thinks he must establish a hierarchy of immigrant rights based on
the date of entry to the United States, so be it, but let there at least be a
better reason than preserving Herndon's character. Even 50 years ago, Herndon
was not a suburb of subdivisions and cul-de-sacs. There was no Dulles Toll Road,
indeed no Dulles International Airport. Change has happened and continues to
happen. Let's not blame it on recent immigrants.

NIKOLAS TRENDOWSKI

Washington

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              152 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              March 9, 2003 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Disparity Marks Black Ethnic Groups, Report Says;
African Americans Trail Immigrants in Income, Education

BYLINE: Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 840 words


Black people who immigrate to the United States from the Caribbean and
sub-Saharan Africa tend to earn more money and have a slightly higher level of
education than native-born black Americans, according to a report by researchers
at the State University of New York at Albany.

The report, "Black Diversity in Metropolitan America," said Afro-Caribbeans stay
in school for an average of 12.8 years, compared with 12.5 for black Americans.
African immigrants, most of whom live in the Washington area, stay in school an
average of 14.5 years, a level that is "higher than [the level for] whites and
Asians," according to the report.

"The main routes to America for Africans is through institutions of education,"
said John Logan, director of the Lewis Mumford Center for Comparative Urban and
Regional Research and author of the report. Africans and Afro-Caribbeans are
often higher wage earners in their impoverished native countries who emigrate
for education and employment opportunities, Logan said.

But Ron Walters, a political science professor at the University of Maryland,
said the per-capita wage and education levels among Africans and Afro-Caribbeans
are higher because so few of them are allowed into the country.

"It reflects the racism in U.S. immigration policy," Walters said. "If they
allowed Africans and West Indians to immigrate in the same numbers they allow
Vietnamese, their income and educational averages would fall."

The report, released last month, did not include black immigrants from Spanish-
and Portuguese-speaking countries. Those groups are difficult to define
racially, Logan said, because Latinos with noticeable African ancestry rarely
identify themselves as black.

America's black community, long considered to be a monolithic group with shared
cultural and political goals, includes 1.5 million Afro-Caribbeans. They
outnumber Cuban and Korean immigrants. Afro-Caribbeans settle mostly in New
York, Miami, Fort Lauderdale and Boston.

Nearly 70 percent of the Afro-Caribbeans living in the United States were born
overseas, earned a median household income of $ 40,000 and attended school an
average of 12.8 years, according to figures from the 2000 Census.

The number of Africans in the United States passed the half-million mark during
the 1990s, with a population that was 85 percent foreign-born. Their median
household income was $ 40,300. Africans from Ghana, Nigeria, Somalia and
Ethiopia largely settle in Washington, New York and Atlanta.

African Americans had a median household income of $ 33,500 and attended school
an average of 12.5 years. Their unemployment rate was 9.9 percent, while
unemployment among Afro-Caribbeans and Africans was 7.3 percent and 5.1 percent,
respectively.

Asians living in the United States earned a median household income of $ 64,000
and remained in school an average of 13.9 years. Among Hispanics, those numbers
were $ 37,600 and 10.7 years in school, the report said.

Among white people, they were $ 52,000 and 13.5 years.

"The numbers clearly reflect selective immigration," said Roderick Harrison, a
demographer at the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies. "Immigration
laws are skewed across race and ethnic groups toward highly educated immigrants.

"It takes a certain kind of ambition or risk to say 'I'm going to leave Nigeria
or Jamaica and strike out for the United States, leaving behind family roots,' "
Harrison said. "You're talking about a particularly elite group of people. This
is an old pattern that's just being noticed because the numbers are getting a
little higher."

Despite their differences in earning and education, black immigrants and African
Americans tend to live in urban communities that are segregated from white
areas, according to a previous study by the Mumford Center.

That study, "Separate but Unequal: The Neighborhood Gap for Blacks and
Hispanics," found that black families with incomes of more than $ 60,000 tended
to live in communities with higher poverty rates than white families with
incomes of less than $ 30,000.

"I certainly interpret this as showing the very strong constraints on where
African Americans [and black immigrants] are able to choose to live," Logan
said.

Although black groups live near each other, "this does not mean they share the
same neighborhoods," Logan said. "Segregation among black ethnic groups reflects
important social differences between them."

Those differences have sometimes shown up as conflicts between groups, but that
is nothing new, Logan said.

Conflicts between native-born Americans and new immigrants predate the Civil
War. White Americans, for example, once thought of Irish immigrants as an
inferior race. Similar insults were leveled at Italian and Jewish immigrants
near the turn of the last century.

"I think there is some conflict, but there's a potential source for solidarity
among these groups," Logan said. "Their children play in the same streets and at
the same parks, and they both suffer from the great disparity between white and
black groups."

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              153 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 10, 2003 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Feeble Economy, Tighter Borders Don't Stem Immigrant Tide

BYLINE: D'Vera Cohn, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 861 words


Immigration has continued at a steady pace in the past two years despite the
nation's weakened economy and efforts to tighten its borders, according to new
studies of Census Bureau numbers. And those new immigrants are finding jobs.

The number of employed immigrants rose by 593,000 from 2000 through the end of
last year, while the number of U.S.-born workers declined by 1.5 million, said a
new report by the Center for Labor Market Studies at Northeastern University.
Immigrant men and women gained equally, and most of the new workers were recent
arrivals, not people already living here who joined the workforce, according to
the report.

The data make it clear that the United States still offers substantial appeal to
people from other countries, even though more than 2 million jobs have vanished
in the past two years, and 8.5 million people are unemployed. Despite concerns
that refugees and others are waiting longer to get in, some immigrants are
managing to do so, including many who arrive illegally.

The Census Bureau is to release a report today showing that more than 3 million
immigrants arrived in the previous two years, about the same pace as that in the
1990s. That brought to 32.5 million the number of foreign-born people living in
U.S. households last March, an all-time high.

The steady pace of arrivals also continued in the Washington area, where one in
six people is foreign-born. The Washington-Baltimore metro region drew 175,000
immigrants from 2000 to early 2002, according to the Center for Immigration
Studies. "My analysis suggests there has been no slowdown," said the center's
demographer, Steven Camarota.

The 1990s was a period of record growth among the nation's foreign-born
population. And during that time, immigrants accounted for half the expansion of
the labor force, a previous Northeastern University study found. That impact on
the job market became even more pronounced recently, with immigrants making up
more than 60 percent of the labor force growth from 2000 through 2002, according
to the Northeastern report.

"Despite the recession, despite 9/11, the number of immigrants who came into the
country of working age rose as fast as it did during the 1990s," said the
report's lead author, economist Andrew Sum. He said many, if not most, of these
workers probably are undocumented.

Many jobs they are finding, Sum said, are those with constant turnover, such as
fast-food or home health-care employment. Immigrants make up one in four of the
nation's lowest-wage workers, double their share of the overall population.

"Most of the people who are continuing to come are doing jobs no American would
do -- cleaning toilets, cleaning offices and construction jobs," said Jaime
Contreras, secretary-treasurer of a local chapter of the Service Employees
International Union representing janitors and other service workers. "Anybody
can go downtown and fill out an application. They probably will get hired."

He said that even the dreariest of jobs, with a District minimum wage of $ 6.15
an hour and no benefits, is better than what is available for the workers in
their home countries. "The minimum wage in El Salvador is maybe 40 cents, 50
cents an hour," Contreras said.

Also, while the number of immigrants with jobs went up, so did the number who
were unemployed.

Sum said the job losses have hit hardest U.S.-born workers with less than a
college education, especially men in manufacturing and other sectors where jobs
are vanishing. "It is really not immigrants who were the cause of their losing
their jobs," he said.

But younger U.S.-born high school graduates are squeezed at both ends, he said.
Jobs that would have gone to them in the past are now being grabbed by college
graduates. The lowest-wage jobs are unappealing, and employers will not raise
wages as long as immigrants will take them.

In his earlier report, Sum said the nation's economic growth was possible only
because of foreign-born workers. His new research, he said, persuades him that
the nation should increase restrictions on immigration in bad economic times.

Camarota, whose group favors tighter limits on immigration, said such a targeted
change would be difficult to implement. The United States has not done enough to
ramp up border enforcement, despite a reported increase in arrests, he said.
"The advocates of open borders complain a lot and make it seem as if a lot is
happening," he said, "but not much is happening."

Jeffrey Passel, who studies immigration at the Urban Institute, said although
there are new restrictions on certain immigrants, longer waits for some visas
and other targeted actions, there is little appetite for an across-the-board
crackdown on immigration. The reason is that people recognize that the country
increasingly depends on foreign-born labor and residents, he said.

"It is the way the country is going to be," he said. "There's certainly a
recognition in the political class of it. I think the importance of our ties to
other countries through the labor force and the importance of the foreign-born
labor force is highlighted by the lack of strong calls to restrict immigration,
post 9/11."

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              154 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 14, 2003 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Undocumented and on the Road

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A26

LENGTH: 488 words


THE IMMIGRATION DEBATE once crossed over into many concerns: jobs, schools,
relations with Mexico. Now it has mostly been boiled down to one: the war on
terrorism, particularly now that the Immigration and Naturalization Service has
been folded into the Department of Homeland Security. The narrowed focus tends
to distort reality, as seen most recently in local debates about driver's
licenses for immigrants illegally in the country.

Since Sept. 11, 2001, Virginia has gone from being one of the nation's most
lenient states to one of its strictest in this respect. Some of the hijackers
traveled to Virginia to get driver's licenses because it was so easy to forge
proof of residency there. But instead of merely closing that loophole, Virginia
went all out and last month passed a law solidifying what the state has been
slowly doing anyway through Department of Motor Vehicles rule changes: As of
Jan. 1, 2004, applicants for a driver's license will have to prove they are
legal residents, unless Gov. Mark R. Warner (D) vetoes the bill.

Maryland, meanwhile, is considering going in the opposite direction. A bill
sponsored by Del. Joseph F. Vallario Jr. (D), chairman of the House Judiciary
Committee, would instruct the Motor Vehicle Administration not to require proof
of legal residency for a driver's license. On its face the proposal seems almost
lawless; why grant a legitimate form of ID to someone who isn't supposed to be
here? But the proposal makes sense, as 10 or so other states have concluded, for
the safety of Maryland citizens. An estimated 200,000 to 400,000 undocumented
immigrants live in Maryland and Virginia. They work in restaurants, at
construction sites, on farms and in private homes. Many drive to work. Yet if
they are unlicensed, they cannot buy insurance and police officers who stop them
won't know who they are or where they live. That's why police groups support the
Maryland bill. And a proposed amendment to require that all applicants' names be
run through a federal crime and terrorism database should ease some worries.

Yes, such a law would erode the unique privileges of citizenship. Some might
even call it a cynical compromise. If so, it's a product of a nation's confusion
on immigration. Legislatures bow to the demand for low-wage workers -- who, once
here, are treated like shadows, though they contribute more in spending and
taxes than they take in services. A solution might be to set realistic quotas
for temporary and permanent working visas, but after Sept. 11 realistic policy
on the federal level seems remote. Meanwhile, state and local governments are
charged with the simpler matter of keeping the streets safe. Virginia Attorney
General Jerry W. Kilgore is urging Mr. Warner to sign the Virginia bill, citing
security and other concerns, and the measure passed the General Assembly
overwhelmingly. But we think the governor should resist the pressure and veto
it.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              155 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 20, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Muslim Institutions Focus on Legal Matters;
Immigrant Issues Become Common Topic

BYLINE: Nurith C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: PRINCE GEORGE'S EXTRA; Pg. T03

LENGTH: 878 words


Friday prayer services at the Prince George's Muslim Association Community
Center in Lanham have always been followed by a series of cheerful public
announcements -- the start of a new Arabic class, an upcoming feast to celebrate
the end of the holy month of Ramadan, another sale at a local halal grocery
store.

But recently, the list is just as likely to include a more serious type of event
-- the latest seminar on how to stand up for your rights as a Muslim in America.

There have been many to choose from. Faced with several new immigration and
security laws that the government maintains are needed to prevent terrorism but
that critics charge unfairly target thousands of innocent Muslims, Arab and
South Asian residents, mosques and community groups across Prince George's
County are increasingly expanding their mission.

Once, they focused on improving members' spiritual or social lives, but now they
also offer immigration information, legal referrals and pep talks.

"A lot of families in our community are feeling very apprehensive . . . and
immigration lawyers tell us it's only going to get worse," said Minhaj Hasan,
editor of Muslim Link, a monthly newsletter published by the Dar-us-Salaam
mosque in College Park.

About 10,000 copies are printed for distribution across the Washington region,
and the publication has been quick to adapt. Founded four years ago, it
originally featured meditations on "the basics of Islam, rules and regulations,
things like that," he said.

Now there are also articles on civil rights and editorials exhorting readers not
to abandon their faith in the face of discrimination or to shop at Muslim-owned
businesses that lost non-Muslim customers after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks.

The most recent issue also has a "questions and answers" column with an
immigration lawyer. The first in what Hasan said will be a series, it deals with
one of the most controversial federal security initiatives -- a program to
register, fingerprint and question thousands of male visitors from 25 countries
considered sources of terrorism.

The "special registration" effort has caused widespread panic and confusion
because more than 1,600 of the more than 41,000 men nationwide who have signed
up were detained for visa violations, and many had applications pending for
permanent residency. Large numbers of those arrested spent a night or more in
jail.

Although nearly all have been released, they and about 3,800 who were not
detained face deportation proceedings. The government has refused to release
statistics on the number of registrants detained in the Washington area.

The deadline for most nationals who must register under the program has passed.
However those from Saudi Arabia and Pakistan have until tomorrow, and those from
Bangladesh, Egypt, Indonesia, Jordan, and Kuwait have until April 25.

Because the program covers countries with large non-Muslim populations, even a
few local churches have mobilized to help immigrant parishioners navigate legal
questions it entails.

That's the case at St. John the Baptist, a Catholic church on New Hampshire
Avenue just across the Prince George's County border with Montgomery County in
Silver Spring. A few weeks ago, church officials organized an informational
meeting on special registration between about 50 Indonesian parishioners and
David Cleveland, an attorney with Catholic Charities who speaks their language.

"People asked a lot of questions that we didn't know the answers to," Cleveland
said. "Congress has written an unclear law, the [U.S.] attorney general has
issued some unclear rules and he constantly makes amendments, so the law today
may be different from the law next month."

To help people navigate that system, a South Asian group called Asian Pacific
American Legal Resource Center in the District has set up a hotline, staffed by
law students who speak a range of South Asian languages. The group offers legal
referrals to area immigrants seeking advice on special registration and has
negotiated with lawyers to provide low rates for clients it refers.

The group's services are in high demand, said Deepa Iyer, who oversees the
hotline. "Before special registration was announced, a lot of the people calling
in had questions about divorce, or child custody issues. . . . Now we're getting
people saying 'I'm undocumented, and I'm really scared to register. Should I do
it?' "

Much of the legal outreach in Prince George's has been done by another regional
group called South Asian American Leaders of Tomorrow (SALT). Over successive
weekends, its members have visited county butcher shops, pizza parlors and
mosques that Pakistani, Bangladeshi and Indonesian residents are known to
frequent, passing out fliers with the hotline number.

Not everyone approached is grateful, noted Iyer, also a SALT member.

"Sometimes, people will say, 'I don't need this. This doesn't affect me because
I'm a legal permanent resident.' . . . It's a defensive response,she said.

But many more express deep gratitude. "They say, 'I'm so concerned. I don't know
what to do. I don't know where to turn,' " Iyer said.

Shopkeepers are also appreciative, she added, offering to post the fliers and
sometimes giving free drinks to volunteers distributing them.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              156 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 25, 2003 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Metro;
In Brief

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 1058 words


MARYLAND

An 80-year-old Pennsylvania woman was ejected from a car and killed early
yesterday in a crash at New Hampshire Avenue and Spencerville Road in Cloverly,
Montgomery County police said.

Mathilde Goldsmith of Easton, Pa., was riding without a seat belt in the back of
a 1996 Oldsmobile station wagon when the car turned into the path of a Toyota
Corolla heading north on New Hampshire about 6:16 a.m., police said. Goldsmith
was declared dead at the scene.

The driver of the Oldsmobile, Arcalino Destefano, 75, of Easton, and the driver
of the Toyota, Jose Raque-Lemus, 22, of Silver Spring, were taken to Maryland
Shock Trauma Center with non-life-threatening injuries. Four other people in the
cars were taken to hospitals; the extent of their injuries was not known.

Maryland's House of Delegates voted yesterday to create a task force to study
the desirability, feasibility and security implications of letting undocumented
immigrants obtain state driver's licenses.

The bill, which passed by a vote of 81 to 55, will next be considered by the
Senate. It is a scaled-down version of a proposal that would have prohibited the
state from denying licenses to residents based on immigration status and would
have allowed applicants to use a variety of foreign documents to establish age
and identity.

Sponsors on the House Judiciary Committee voted Saturday to amend the original
measure after it became apparent that it was likely to fail in a House vote.

THE DISTRICT

Mayor Anthony A. Williams (D) signed a measure yesterday moving next year's D.C.
presidential primary to Jan. 13 -- ahead of all the states -- in what D.C.
Council members have said is a bid to call attention to the city's struggle for
home rule and the right to a vote in Congress.

City officials said the measure signed yesterday was short-term emergency
legislation enacted March 4, which does not require congressional review. D.C.
Council Chairman Linda W. Cropp (D) said the council would pass permanent
legislation later this year.

Traditionally, New Hampshire has held the first primary, and Iowa the first
caucus. Advancing the date of the D.C. primary puts the city at odds with
leaders of the two major parties. National Democratic leaders have said the city
could lose most of its 38 delegates to the national convention.

Residents who have questions or concerns about 2004 property assessments and
taxes can address the city's Board of Real Property Assessments and Appeals at a
public hearing tomorrow.

The hearing is scheduled for 6:30 p.m. in the old council chambers at One
Judiciary Square, 441 Fourth St. NW. Some residents have complained that the
city's Office of Tax and Revenue has used a faulty formula to determine
assessments, which in some neighborhoods have gone up an average of more than 50
percent.

Those wishing to appeal assessments have until April 1 to file an appeal with
the city's tax office, which will issue a ruling. A second appeal can be filed
with the assessment appeals board. Anyone who would like to speak at the hearing
should call 202-727-6860.

The Rayburn House Office Building was evacuated for about 30 minutes yesterday
because the smell of smoke was coming from a garage maintenance room, U.S.
Capitol Police said.

Firefighters determined that there was no fire but could not locate the source
of the smell. The evacuation was ordered at 11:59 a.m. Workers were allowed to
return about 12:30 p.m. "There were no problems with the evacuation," Officer
Jessica Gissebel said.

Separately yesterday morning, previously scheduled evacuation drills were
conducted at the Cannon, Longworth and Rayburn House office buildings, Gissebel
said.

VIRGINIA

The coalition managing the country's newest national park near Middletown, Va.,
has made its first purchase within the boundaries of the Cedar Creek and Belle
Grove National Historical Park.

Two members of the coalition, the Shenandoah Valley Battlefields Foundation and
the National Park Service, have purchased a 142-acre farm in Warren County that
has remnants of Civil War earthworks and trenches, according to a news release.

The land, the scene of an October 1864 engagement between Union and Confederate
forces, will remain in production by the family that farms it now, in keeping
with the park's policy of maintaining the agricultural economy of the Shenandoah
Valley

Tuberculosis cases in the United States fell to an all-time low last year, but
they went up in Virginia.

Officials at the Virginia Department of Health say there were 315 cases last
year, nine more than in 2001. More than half of last year's cases in the state
were in Northern Virginia. At yesterday's Fairfax County Board meeting, health
officials reported 98 tuberculosis cases in Fairfax last year, an increase of 9
percent from 2001.

State health officials say the increase is tied to more immigrants arriving from
places where TB goes untreated.  Nationwide, the number of TB cases fell nearly
6 percent last year, to just more than 15,000.

Thirteen hospitals in Northern Virginia have created an emergency radio network
to share information in a large-scale medical emergency, such as a biological
attack.

The system was launched March 14, said Michael K. Wyrick, a retired Air Force
major general who is executive director of the recently formed Northern Virginia
Hospital Alliance.

In an emergency, Fairfax Inova Hospital would gather information on the
availability of beds and specialty care at each hospital and provide that
information to emergency medical system managers. "Prior to this, we could have
still communicated through telephone, cell phone, e-mail, and fax and could
patch through fire, police and emergency medical services systems," Wyrick said.
"But this enables us to talk directly among the hospitals by radio. . . . We
have a long reach with this."

"These people gave their lives, and we're doing everything we can to get them
back to their families."

-- Air Force Master Sgt. Raenita Monroe, a staff member at the Charles C. Carson
Center for Mortuary Affairs at Dover Air Force Base in Delaware, which is
preparing to receive combat fatalities from the war in Iraq.  -- Page A25

Compiled from reports by staff writers Fredrick Kunkle, Nurith C. Aizenman,
Martin Weil, David Nakamura, Spencer S. Hsu, Linda Wheeler, Lisa Rein and Avram
Goldstein.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              157 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 27, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Registrants May Face Deportation

BYLINE: George Lardner Jr., Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 293 words


Nearly 12 percent of the men who have registered under the government's special
program for temporary visa holders from Muslim nations have been charged with
violations that could result in their deportation, according to statistics
released yesterday.

U.S. immigration officials said 60,822 foreign nationals have reported to
authorities under the controversial program for male visitors from 25 countries,
almost all of them predominantly Muslim, since the system was started last fall.

As of Tuesday, 7,201 "walk-in" registrants had been warned they were subject to
deportation and ordered to appear before an immigration judge on charges ranging
from overstaying their visas to misrepresenting themselves as U.S. citizens,
said Bill Strassberger, a spokesman for the Bureau of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement.

That was a jump of 1,565 from the week before, reflecting a last-minute rush of
immigrants from Pakistan and Saudi Arabia who had been given a final deadline of
March 21 to show up at immigration offices across the country for questioning
and fingerprinting.

"Those who had fears of their status being questioned evidently waited until the
last minute," Strassberger said.

The registration program for males 16 and older has touched off confusion and
fear among visitors. Some have chosen not to sign up, and some have fled the
country.

Pakistanis are by far the largest group affected, with 21,495 of those
registered. More than 2,500 of them signed up in the past week. Saudi
registrants totaled 3,464, an increase of 171 since March 18.

The program also covers newly arriving visitors at airports and other ports of
entry who meet criteria officials refuse to disclose. A total of 49,712 have
been registered under that part of the program.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              158 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 27, 2003 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Montgomery Calendar;
Community Events

SECTION: MONTGOMERY EXTRA; Pg. T20

LENGTH: 2823 words


IMMIGRATION HISTORY, Martin Ford, associate director of Maryland Office for New
Americans, discusses "Melting Pot or Mixing Bowl: How Immigration Shapes Our
History," sponsored by Adventures of the Mind Club, Montgomery College. 3 p.m.,
Bliss Room, Commons Building, Montgomery College Takoma Park Campus, 7600 Takoma
Ave., Takoma Park. Free. 301-251-7952.

HILLWOOD MUSEUM AND GARDENS TALK, presented by Angie Dodson, a director at
Hillwood Museum, Asbury Methodist Village auditorium, 417 Russell Ave.,
Gaithersburg. $ 1. 301-216-4475.

WOMEN IN AMERICAN HISTORY, for seniors 55 and older, a talk on women's art and
artistry, presented by Liane Lunden, a National Portrait Gallery docent. 11
a.m., Long Branch Senior Center, 8700 Piney Branch Rd., Silver Spring. Free.
301-431-5708.

BETHESDA STORY TIME, for children 24 months and younger accompanied by an adult,
Born to Read, a program of bounces, songs and books. 10:30 a.m., Little Falls
Community Library, 5501 Massachusetts Ave., Bethesda. Free. 301-320-4880.

TRANSPORTATION SOLUTIONS TALK, Francine Waters, director of Bethesda
Transportation Solutions, discusses "Getting Around in Montgomery County,"
sponsored by the Seniors Organized for Change political advocacy group.
10:45-11:45 a.m., Jewish Community Center of Greater Washington, 6125 Montrose
Rd., Rockville. Free. 301-230-3754.

MUSIC IN SHAKESPEARE'S PLAYS, "Enter With Drum, Trumpet Within, Hautboys Under
the Stage," a workshop and demonstration, presented by teacher James David
Jacobs. 11 a.m., Montgomery College Rockville Campus; 1:30 p.m., Montgomery
College Takoma Park Campus. Free. 301-279-5250. www.montgomerycollege.edu, click
on Calendar.

SILVER SPRING VIOLIN CONCERT, for seniors 55 and older, performed by Anthony
Hyatt. 11 a.m., Long Branch Senior Center, 8700 Piney Branch Rd., Silver Spring.
Free. 301-431-5708.

VEGETABLE GARDENING TECHNIQUES, for intensive gardening, learn how to get
maximum production from a small yard. 1-2:30 p.m., Brookside Gardens, 1800
Glenallan Ave., Wheaton. $ 11; preregistration required. 301-949-1451,
www.brooksidegardens.org.

ROCKVILLE RSUM WORKSHOP, for inexperienced rsum writers, "Rsum Writing 101: A
Basic Guide." 10 a.m.-noon, Montgomery County Commission for Women, 401 N.
Washington St., Suite 100, Rockville. $ 10; nonresidents of Montgomery County, $
15; preregistration required. 240-777-8300 or 301-279-1034 (TTY).

SHAKESPEARE'S SPIRITED WOMEN, for seniors 55 and older, a dramatic performance
of scenes from William Shakespeare's best-known plays, by actress Cherie
Weinert. 1 p.m., Margaret Schweinhaut Senior Center, 1000 Forest Glen Rd.,
Silver Spring. Free. 301-681-1255.

ROCKVILLE STORY TIME, for children ages 24 months and younger, with one adult
for each child, Born to Read, a program of rhymes, stories and other activities.
10:30 a.m. Friday and Saturday, Aspen Hill Library, 4407 Aspen Hill Rd.,
Rockville. Free; preregistration required. 301-871-2094.

NEW MOTHERS' SUPPORT GROUP, and informal discussion, babies welcome. 10-11:30
a.m., Holy Cross Resource Institute, 9805 Dameron Dr., Silver Spring. $ 20;
preregistration required. 301-754-8800.

MINORITY CONTRACT PROCUREMENT FAIR, more than 50 government agencies and
corporations; seminars on financing, using the Internet, minority certification
and more; plus a continental breakfast and a box lunch; sponsored by the Mario
Loiederman Procurement Center, a program of the Hispanic Business Foundation of
Maryland, state government agencies and Montgomery College. 8 a.m.-1:30 p.m.,
University System of Maryland-Shady Grove Center, 9630 Gudelsky Dr., Rockville.
$ 30; preregistration required. www.procurementcenter.org or 240-314-7171.

ROCKVILLE HEALTH SCREENINGS, for lipid, glucose, prostate, osteoporosis, body
fat and blood pressure, sponsored by the Shady Grove Adventist Hospital.
10-11:30 a.m., Rockville Senior Center, 1150 Carnation Dr., Rockville. Fees vary
per screening. 800-542-5096.

GREAT FALLS NATURE PROGRAMS, led by a volunteer naturalist, explore the signs
and sounds of the season near Great Falls. Dress for the weather, wear sturdy
shoes; not handicapped accessible. 10 a.m.-noon Saturday. Also, a Ranger's
Choice program (a demonstration, a talk or a walk), 1:30 p.m. Sunday (ending
time varies with program); some programs are not handicapped accessible, call
for details on the day of the program. Great Falls Tavern Visitor Center, 11710
MacArthur Blvd., Great Falls. Program, free; park admission, $ 5 per car; hikers
and bicyclists, $ 3. 301-767-3714.

WORLD MUSIC AND DANCE, for children 3 and older, an interactive show celebrating
diversity and the role of music in world cultures, plus a related craft,
sponsored by the Silver Spring Regional Center and the Silver Spring Library.
10:30 a.m., Silver Spring Community Library, 8901 Colesville Rd. Free.
301-565-7689.

BETHESDA THRIFT SHOP SALE, all merchandise except consignment items on sale,
benefits community services in Montgomery County. Half-price sales, 9:30
a.m.-4:15 p.m. Saturday, Monday, April 1 and April 2; $ 3 per bag sale (bag
provided by the Thrift Shop), 9:30 a.m.-noon April 3, Montgomery County Thrift
Shop, 7125-27 Wisconsin Ave., Bethesda. Admission is free. 301-654-0063.

ASIAN CULTURE CELEBRATION, for all ages, traditional tales from Asian countries
with music and theater, presented by storyteller Robert Kikuchi-Yngojo. Part of
the Celebrate! US Series, sponsored by Friends of the Library, the American
Library Association, the National Endowment for the Arts, Wallace-Reader's
Digest Fund and the John S. and James L. Knight Foundation. 2 p.m., Potomac
Community Library, 10101 Glenolden Dr., Potomac. Free. 240-777-0020.

RED CROSS CENTER GRAND OPENING, for all ages, activities including pet first aid
demonstrations, tours of Red Cross emergency response vehicles and community
disaster education presentations and sign-ups for CPR and first aid classes,
sponsored by the American Red Cross. 10 a.m.-2 p.m., Upcounty Service Center,
200 Girard St., Unit 204, Gaithersburg. Free. 301-588-2515 or
www.redcrossnca.org.

POTOMAC C&O CANAL WALK, for hikers 50 and older of all ability levels, an
hour-long walk along the C&O Canal. Bring good walking shoes and water; coffee
after the walk at a nearby restaurant. Sponsored by the Fifty-Plus Fitness
Association. Meeting at 8:45 a.m., walk begins at 9 a.m. the last Saturday of
each month, Falls Road and MacArthur Boulevard, near the Old Angler's Inn,
Potomac. Free. 301-570-3263 or 240-632-8355.

MONTGOMERY COUNTY WOMEN'S FAIR, workshops on women's issues, exhibits,
networking and a talk by author and TV personality Iyanla Vanzant; no on-site
child care available. 8:30 a.m.-5 p.m., Montgomery Blair High School, 51 E.
University Blvd., Silver Spring. $ 20; ages 60 or older and students with ID, $
15. 301-949-2055 or www.mcwomensfair.org.

SILVER SPRING CHORAL CONCERT, for seniors 55 and older, a performance by the
Rockville Chorus. 3 p.m., Margaret Schweinhaut Senior Center, 1000 Forest Glen
Rd., Silver Spring. Free. 301-681-1255.

CIVIL WAR BOOK CLUB, discuss the book "Clara Barton; Professional Angel," and
meet its author, Elizabeth Brown Pryor. 1 p.m., Clara Barton National Historic
Site, 5801 Oxford Rd., Glen Echo. Free. 301-492-6245.

WOODEND SANCTUARY BOOK TALK, "Birds of the Mid-Atlantic," by John Rappole. 2-4
p.m., Woodend Sanctuary, Audubon Naturalist Society, 8940 Jones Mill Rd., Chevy
Chase. Admission is free. 301-652-9188.

VENEZUELA PRESENTATION, "The Natural History of Venezuela," by Donald
Messersmith, retired University of Maryland professor of entomology. Part of the
Asbury Methodist Village resident-run Keese School of Continuing Education. 7:30
p.m., Parker Hall, Asbury Methodist Village, 405 Russell Ave., Gaithersburg. $
1. 301-216-4475.

CHEVY CHASE STORY TIME, for children 3-6, stories, rhymes and other activities.
Wearing pajamas is optional. 7 p.m., Chevy Chase Community Library, 8005
Connecticut Ave. Free. 301-986-4313.

PARENTING SEMINAR, "Back Talk: How Dare You Speak to Me That Way!" sponsored by
the Parent Encouragement Program Inc. 7:30-9:30 p.m. Monday and April 7, Parent
Encouragement Program, 10100 Connecticut Ave., Kensington. $ 50; preregistration
and advance payment required. 301-929-8824 or www.ParentEncouragement.org.

DISABLED VETERANS BENEFITS, for armed forces veterans and their families,
counseling and claim-filing assistance,sponsored by the Disabled American
Veterans Mobile Service Office. 10 a.m.-6 p.m., mobile office at Super Kmart
parking lot, Kentlands Square shopping center, Great Seneca Highway and Route
124, Rockville. Free. 410-230-4440.

READING LECTURE/DEMONSTRATION, for teachers and parents, "Answers to the
Stumbling Blocks to Reading," presented by Sheila Goodfriend, a special
education and elementary school teacher, sponsored by the Learning Disabilities
Association of Montgomery County. 7 p.m., Brookside Gardens Visitor Center
Auditorium, 1500 Glenallan Ave., Wheaton. Free; reservations advised.
301-933-1076.

WHEATON IMMIGRATION SEMINAR, topics include nonimmigrant visas, employment- and
family-based immigration, asylum and deportation, sponsored by the Charles W.
Gilchrist Center for Cultural Diversity and the Bar Association of Montgomery
County (Immigration Section). 6-8 p.m., Gilchrist Center, 11319 Elkin St.,
Wheaton. Free; limited space, preregistration advised. 240-777-4940.

CAREER PLANNING WORKSHOP, three sessions. 6:30-8:30 p.m., Tuesdays, through
April 15, Montgomery County Commission for Women, 401 N. Washington St., Suite
100, Rockville. $ 30; nonresidents of Montgomery County, $ 45; preregistration
required. 240-777-8300 or 301-279-1034 (TTY).

PIANO SINGALONG, for seniors 55 and older, Mark Fuhrer performs a variety of
songs in an interactive "Fool's Day Folly" program. 1:15 p.m., Holiday Park
Senior Center, 3950 Ferrara Dr., Wheaton. $ 1. 301-468-4448.

BETHESDA BASSOON CONCERT, for seniors 55 and older, "Music and Musings with Ken
Pasmanick," a former principal bassoonist for the National Symphony Orchestra.
1-2:30 p.m., Bethesda Senior Source, 4805 Edgemoor Lane. Free; preregistration
required. 301-951-1990.

COMMUNICATION TOOLS FOR COUPLES, learn about skills for a harmonious
relationship. 7-8:45 p.m. Tuesdays, through April 15. Montgomery County
Commission for Women, 401 N. Washington St., Suite 100, Rockville. $ 30;
nonresidents of Montgomery County, $ 45; preregistration required. 240-777-8300
or 301-279-1034 (TTY).

WOMEN IN BUSINESS CONFERENCE, learn how to start or expand a business, increase
profits and improve careers; seminars, networking, a Business Opportunities
Expo, a lunch and more. Sponsored by the Rockville Chamber of Commerce. 8:30
a.m.-4:30 p.m., Bethesda Marriott, 5151 Pooks Hill Rd., Bethesda. $ 149;
preregistration and prepayment required. 301-424-9300 or
www.women-in-business.org.

STRESS MANAGEMENT WORKSHOP, a four-part series. 7 p.m. Tuesdays, through April
22, Shady Grove Adventist Hospital, 9901 Medical Center Dr., Rockville. $ 40;
preregistration required. 800-542-5096.

LIFE-ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM, for women, improve health, finances and relationships.
7:30 p.m. Tuesdays, through May 6, Washington Adventist Hospital, 7600 Carroll
Ave., Takoma Park. $ 60; preregistration required. 800-542-5096.

PAIN MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION, for seniors 55 and older, chiropractor Robert Rifkin
demonstrates ways to reduce or prevent pain. 11 a.m.-noon, Margaret Schweinhaut
Senior Center, 1000 Forest Glen Rd., Silver Spring. Free. 301-681-1255.

CHEVY CHASE STORY TIME, for children ages 18-36 months accompanied by adults,
explore the library, plus a brief rhyme and story program. 10:15 a.m. and 11
a.m. Tuesday and April 18, Chevy Chase Community Library, 8005 Connecticut Ave.
Free; tickets distributed 30 minutes before each program; limited seating.
301-986-4313.

WHEATON GARDEN DESIGN TALK, learn how to use foliage with texture and color
instead of flowers, a slide presentation by Anne Brooks, Hollywalk Nursery.
1-2:30 p.m., Brookside Gardens, 1800 Glenallan Ave., Wheaton. $ 11;
preregistration required. 301-949-1451 or www.brooksidegardens.org.

TRAVEL SHOW, for seniors 55 and older, seminars, exhibits, giveaways and door
prizes, ongoing travelogues and a keynote address at 1 p.m. by writer and radio
talk-show host Rudy Maxa. Sponsored by Montgomery County Recreation Department
Senior Programs, Senior Beacon newspaper and Eyre Tour & Travel. 9:30 a.m.-3:30
p.m., Holiday Park Senior Center, 3950 Ferrara Dr., Wheaton. Admission, free;
box lunch, $ 5; must be reserved by March 28. 301-468-4448.

STARTING A SMALL BUSINESS, for women entrepreneurs, learn about legal rights and
obligations, and laws that regulate and protect businesses. 6:30-8:30 p.m.,
Montgomery County Commission for Women, 401 N. Washington St., Suite 100,
Rockville. $ 10; nonresidents of Montgomery County, $ 15; preregistration
required. 240-777-8300 or 301-279-1034 (TTY).

CREATE A NATURE JOURNAL, for naturalists ages 8-12, learn how to record
experiences with nature, materials provided. 2-3:30 p.m., Locust Grove Nature
Center, 7777 Democracy Blvd., Bethesda. $ 5; preregistration required.
301-299-1990.

COUNTY HISTORY LECTURE, Maryland-National Capital Park and Planning Commission
archaeologist James Sorensen discusses "Montgomery County's Pre-History." 8
p.m., Waters House, 12535 Milestone Manor Lane, Germantown. $ 6; preregistration
requested. 301-515-2887.

BETHESDA BOOK DISCUSSION, "Plainsong," by Ken Haruf. 1 p.m., Little Falls
Community Library, 5501 Massachusetts Ave., Bethesda. Free. 301-320-4880.

HEPATITIS SUPPORT GROUP, for those with chronic hepatitis. 7 p.m., Shady Grove
Adventist Hospital, , 9901 Medical Center Dr., Rockville. Free. 301-216-1367.

EATING DISORDERS SUPPORT GROUP, for adults with anorexia or bulimia and a
support group for families and friends. 7 p.m., both groups, Shady Grove
Adventist Hospital, 9901 Medical Center Dr., Rockville. Free. 301-977-7782.

ARTHRITIS AND JOINT PAIN CLASS, discussion of hip- or knee-replacement
procedures, the hospital stay and rehabilitation program. 1:30 p.m., Shady Grove
Adventist Hospital, 9901 Medical Center Dr., Rockville. Free; preregistration
required. 800-542-5096.

WEIGHT-LOSS CLASS, learn about techniques for permanent, healthy weight loss. 7
p.m. Wednesdays, through May 21, Washington Adventist Hospital, 7600 Carroll
Ave., Takoma Park; also 7 p.m. Thursdays, through May 22, Shady Grove Adventist
Hospital, 9901 Medical Center Dr., Rockville. $ 130, either location;
preregistration required. 800-542-5096.

WORKPLACE STRESS MANAGEMENT, for managers and employees, "The 'Stress Doc' Is
In: Identifying and Managing Workplace Stress," strategies to keep a productive
workplace during challenging times, a seminar led by Mark Gorkin, a social
worker and psychotherapist, presented by the Mental Health Association; plus a
continental breakfast. 8-11 a.m., University of Maryland, Shady Grove Center,
9630 Gudelsky Dr., Rockville. $ 65; association members, $ 60; preregistration
required online at www.mhamc.org or by calling 301-424-0656, Ext. 129.

GARDEN REPLANTING WORKSHOP, dig, divide and replant perennials. Wear old
clothes, sturdy boots and gardening gloves; digging tools provided. 9:30-11 a.m.
or 1-2:30 p.m., Brookside Gardens Fragrance Garden, 1800 Glenallan Ave.,
Wheaton. $ 19, either session; preregistration required. 301-949-1451 or
www.brooksidegardens.org.

DIABETES SELF-MANAGEMENT, for type 1 and type 2 diabetics. 9 a.m.-noon April 3,
10 and 17, Holy Cross Hospital, 1500 Forest Glen Rd., Silver Spring. Free.
301-754-7448.

WOMEN'S STUDIES EVENT, "But Some of Us Are Brave: Women, Race and Gender in the
21st Century," presented by Judith Winston, a former undersecretary and general
counsel of the U.S. Department of Education. 1:30 p.m., Montgomery College
Takoma Park Campus, Science North, Room 100, 7600 Takoma Ave., Takoma Park.
Free. 301-650-1662.

SMOKING CESSATION CLASS, for Montgomery County residents, make the transition to
a nonsmoking lifestyle, sponsored by Shady Grove Adventist Hospital. 5:30 p.m.
Thursdays, through May 22, Montgomery County Department of Health and Human
Services, 401 Hungerford Dr., Rockville. Free; preregistration required.
240-777-3848.

PARENTING SEMINAR, "Winning Children Over: Strategies for Discipline Without
Threats or Bribes," presented by psychologist Francis X. Walton, sponsored by
YMCA Bethesda Youth Services. 7-9 p.m., Suburban Hospital Auditorium, 8600 Old
Georgetown Rd., Bethesda. Requested donation, $ 10; preregistration required.
301-229-1347.

-- Christine Swerda

Items are accepted from public and nonprofit organizations only, and must be
received at least 14 days before the Thursday publication date. Submit
information to: Community Events, The Washington Post, 51 Monroe St., Suite 500,
Rockville Md., 20850. Include event name, dates, times, exact address, prices
and a publishable contact phone number.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 28, 2003, Friday



CORRECTION:  The Community Events calendar in the March 27 Montgomery Extra gave
an incorrect date for a lecture on public transportation sponsored by Seniors
Organized for Change. The talk will be held from 10:45 to 11:45 a.m. on April 3
at the Jewish Community Center of Greater Washington, in Rockville.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LIST

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              159 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 27, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Local Muslims Turn Attention To Civil Rights;
Registration for Immigrants Becomes Particular Concern

BYLINE: Nurith C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: HOWARD EXTRA; Pg. T05

LENGTH: 830 words


Friday prayer services at the Prince George's Muslim Association Community
Center in Lanham have always been followed by a series of cheerful public
announcements -- the start of a new Arabic class, an upcoming feast to celebrate
the end of the holy month of Ramadan, another sale at a local halal grocery of
items required by Islamic dietary laws.

But recently the list is just as likely to include a more serious type of event
-- the latest seminar on how to stand up for your rights as a Muslim in the
United States.

There have been many such events from which to choose. Mosques and community
groups across Prince George's County are expanding their mission to address new
immigration and security laws that the U.S. government maintains are needed to
prevent terrorism but that critics charge unfairly target thousands of innocent
Muslims and Arab and South Asian residents.

"A lot of families in our community are feeling very apprehensive . . . and
immigration lawyers tell us it's only going to get worse," said Minhaj Hasan,
editor of the Muslim Link, a monthly newsletter published by the Dar-us-Salaam
mosque in College Park.

About 10,000 copies of Muslim Link are printed for distribution across the
Washington region, and the publication has been quick to adapt. Founded four
years ago, it originally featured meditations on "the basics of Islam, rules and
regulations, things like that," he said.

Now it also contains articles on civil rights and editorials exhorting readers
not to abandon their faith in the face of discrimination, or to shop at
Muslim-owned businesses that lost non-Muslim customers after the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center in New York and the Pentagon.

The most recent issue also has a "questions and answers" column with an
immigration lawyer. The first in what Hasan said will be a series, it deals with
one of the most controversial federal security initiatives -- a program to
register, fingerprint and question thousands of male visitors from 25 countries
considered sources of terrorism.

The "special registration" effort has caused panic and confusion because more
than 1,600 of the 41,000-plus men nationwide who have signed up were detained
for visa violations, and many had applications pending for permanent residency.
Large numbers of those arrested spent a night or more in jail.

Although nearly all have been released, they and about 3,800 who were not
detained face deportation proceedings. The government has refused to release
statistics on the number of registrants detained in the Washington area.

The deadline for most nationals who must register for the program has passed.
Those from Bangladesh, Egypt, Indonesia, Jordan, and Kuwait have until April 25.

Because the program covers countries with large non-Muslim populations, a few
local churches also have mobilized to help immigrant parishioners navigate the
program's legal questions.

That's the case at St. John the Baptist, a Catholic church at 12319 New
Hampshire Ave. in Silver Spring, close to Prince George's. A few weeks ago,
church officials organized an informational meeting on special registration for
about 50 Indonesian parishioners with David Cleveland, a lawyer with Catholic
Charities who speaks their language.

"People asked a lot of questions that we didn't know the answers to," Cleveland
said. "Congress has written an unclear law, the [U.S.] attorney general has
issued some unclear rules, and he constantly makes amendments, so the law today
may be different from the law next month."

Another regional group providing legal outreach in Prince George's has been
South Asian American Leaders of Tomorrow (SALT). During successive weekends, its
members have visited county butcher shops, pizza parlors and mosques that
Pakistani, Bangladeshi and Indonesian residents are known to frequent. They
passing out fliers with the hotline number.

Not everyone approached is grateful, noted Deepa Iyer, a SALT member.

"Sometimes, people will say, 'I don't need this. This doesn't affect me because
I'm a legal permanent resident.' . . . It's a defensive response," she said.

But many more express deep gratitude. "They say, 'I'm so concerned. I don't know
what to do. I don't know where to turn,' " Iyer said.

Another South Asian group, Asian Pacific American Legal Resource Center, based
in the District, has set up a hotline. It is staffed by law students who speak a
range of South Asian languages. The group offers legal referrals to area
immigrants seeking advice on special registration and has negotiated with
lawyers to provide low rates for clients it refers.

The group's services are in high demand, said Iyer, who is also involved with
the District group and oversees its hotline.

"Before special registration was announced, a lot of the people calling in had
questions about divorce, or child custody issues. . . . Now we're getting people
saying 'I'm undocumented, and I'm really scared to register. Should I do it?' "

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              160 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 2, 2003 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. Says Colo. Men Trained in Terrorism;
3 Held on Immigration Charges;
Agent Links One to Pakistan Terror Camp

BYLINE: T.R. Reid, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 680 words

DATELINE: DENVER April 1


The FBI has evidence that three Denver-area men from Pakistan have been trained
in terrorist techniques and pose "a danger to the community," federal
prosecutors said today as they sought to hold the men in jail on immigration
charges.

An FBI agent told a U.S. magistrate at a bail hearing Monday that one of the
defendants, Pakistani citizen Haroon Rashid, had been trained at a terrorist
camp in Pakistan and wanted to take part in a jihad, or holy war, against the
United States, according to wire service reports.

Rashid's attorney, Anthony Joseph of Denver, denied that, saying his client has
no connection with terrorism. But U.S. Magistrate Michael Watanabe ordered that
Rashid be held without bail on an immigration charge.

Two alleged associates of Rashid's, Irfan Kamran and Sajjad Nasser, also held
for immigration violations, will appear in federal court here Friday to seek
release on bail. In documents filed with the court, prosecutors said their
release, too, will be opposed on grounds that they pose a public threat related
to terrorism and that they are flight risks.

There have been no formal charges of terrorism in the case. "They're not
indicted for anything related to terrorism," said Jeff Dorschner, a spokesman
for the U.S. Attorney's Office in Denver. "The evidence on terrorism came up
when we asked the judge to deny bail on the immigration charge."

Authorities have used immigration charges to detain numerous suspects in the
nearly 19 months since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, before laying out terrorism
allegations against some when they later asked judges not to release them.

Since the attacks, the government has accused several other U.S. residents of
traveling to terrorist camps for training, including three men from Lackawanna,
N.Y., who recently pleaded guilty to supporting terror groups.

The Denver case came to court last week when six Denver-area residents were
indicted on federal charges of harboring an illegal immigrant from Pakistan,
Dorschner said. At the initial hearing, a magistrate released five of the men on
bail, but ordered that Rashid be jailed pending trial.

The government immediately appealed the release of Kamran and Nasser; they, too,
were jailed pending Friday's bail hearing.

The three others charged in the immigration case, Abdul Qayyum, Saima Saima and
Chris Marie Warren, are free on $ 10,000 bail. Saima is Rashid's wife.

In the federal magistrate's court on Monday, Rashid asked to be released on
bail. According to the Denver Post, his attorney, Joseph, said: "There is
nothing to show he is the alleged terrorist the government is trying to paint
him as being."

FBI agent Michael Castro told the magistrate that Rashid, 32, went to Pakistan
shortly after the Sept. 11 attacks to attend a terrorism training camp. The
agent said Rashid boasted he is a mujaheddin and was expecting to receive orders
to engage in violence in the United States.

Castro said that the FBI had interviewed Rashid's boss in his former job as an
airport shuttle driver. The former employer said that Rashid had expressed
interest in joining a jihad against the United States. The former employer did
not appear in court.

The FBI agent also referred to an unnamed pawnshop owner who told the bureau
that Rashid had been shopping for a rifle with a scope equipped for night
firing. The pawnshop owner said, according to the agent's statement in court,
that Rashid claimed to have been part of a military unit in Afghanistan that
killed thousands of American soldiers.

The agent also told the court that Rashid has been charged with hitting a
15-year-old 10th-grader in Arapahoe County in suburban Denver. He also said that
Rashid had been convicted of murder in Pakistan, a conviction that was
overturned on appeal.

Joseph, the defense attorney, reportedly told the court that Rashid has been in
the United States for about five years, with the appropriate visa. He said the
defendant had worked as an airport shuttle driver and as an auto mechanic.

Staff writer Dan Eggen in Washington contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              161 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 7, 2003 Monday
                                 Final Edition

For Immigrants, a Special Sacrifice;
War Takes Toll on Foreign-Born in Armed Forces

BYLINE: Amy Goldstein and Sylvia Moreno, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 1712 words


Pfc. Diego Fernando Rincon, 19, flew a Colombian flag from the rearview mirror
of the Mustang he bought with his Army signing bonus. Cpl. Kemaphoom A.
Chanawongse, 22, created a Web site with photographs of himself in Marine
uniform under the title, "the Thai import with a baby face." Just before Lance
Cpl. Jesus A. Suarez Del Solar enlisted in the Marines, he went back to Mexico
and bought a figurine of the Aztec warrior he considered himself to be.

Chanawongse now is classified as missing in action in Iraq. Rincon and Suarez
Del Solar have been killed. Their fates attest to the toll the Iraq conflict is
taking on young men and women who are fighting a war for a country that was not
originally theirs.

After the war's first 21/2 weeks, the Pentagon has disclosed the names of 71
U.S. service members killed, seven missing and seven captured in Iraq. Of those,
eight of the dead, two of the missing and two prisoners of war had immigrated to
the United States, according to interviews with relatives and friends. Just four
of the immigrants were U.S. citizens when the war began.

Their presence among the war's early victims outstrips the representation of
immigrants in the U.S. military overall. Yet it reflects the military's
attractiveness to foreign-born residents as they come of age -- an appeal that
is fostered, in part, by policies that offer a quick path to citizenship for
those who enlist.

As they explained it to their families, the attraction is a blend of wanderlust,
economic aspiration and adoptive patriotism. Shortly after the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks, Rincon approached an Army recruiter, who had wandered into a
Conyers, Ga., gym where the teenager worked, and announced that he wanted to
help fight terrorism. On March 29, Rincon was one of four soldiers killed in a
car bombing in Iraq.

This cadre of immigrants, now missing or dead, talked of an indelible pride in
the armed services, in the nation's elemental values. Yet their individual
identities persisted.

As a teenager in Tijuana, Mexico, Suarez Del Solar had been so eager to become a
U.S. Marine that he persuaded his father to drop a budding political career
there to move to Escondido, Calif. But after six years in this country, and
nearly two in the Marines, the young man had chosen not to apply for U.S.
citizenship. "He was a proud Mexican," said his father, Fernando Del Solar.

"He went to fight and he died, not specifically for the United States, but
because he wanted to defend the world from this cancer that is Saddam Hussein,
this cancer that is terrorism," his father said. "It wasn't just simple American
patriotism."

Coexistent identities are an outgrowth of a military that historically has drawn
its enlistees from diverse backgrounds, including foreign ones -- especially at
moments of high need for recruits, according to social scientists and policy
specialists. During World War I, toward the end of three decades of widespread
European migration, nearly one in four enlistees in the U.S. armed services was
foreign-born, according to Robert L. Goldich, a defense analyst for the
Congressional Research Service.

According to Goldich and other researchers, Hispanics account for many of
today's immigrant service members, although there also is a significant presence
of Asian Americans, including young Vietnamese men and women who resettled as
refugees from the war there.

All told, more than 37,000 members of the active-duty military -- nearly 3
percent of 1.4 million -- are noncitizens, one-third of them Latino, according
to Defense Department figures. Compared with their U.S.-born counterparts,
noncitizen military personnel are significantly more likely to be on active
duty, rather than in the reserves. About one in six is a woman, similar to the
military overall.

The service offers recent arrivals to the United States a way to "enter the
mainstream without entirely relinquishing their origins," said Dowell Myers, a
professor of urban planning and demography at the University of Southern
California. "There are multiple ways of belonging."

Immigrants who enlist tend to be "the upwardly mobile ones, the ambitious,"
attracted to a stable salary and a paid education, said Charles Moskos, a
Northwestern University sociologist who specializes in the military. "And easy
American citizenship, too. It's sort of win-win, unless you get killed."

"He just thought that this was a way for his future to start," said a cousin of
Marine Sgt. Fernando Padilla-Ramirez, 26, who was born in a Mexican border town,
grew up in San Luis, Ariz., and joined the Marines straight out of high school.
He became a naturalized citizen two years ago and viewed the military as a route
to his ultimate goal. "He wanted to be a motorcycle cop. He just had that in
him," said the cousin, Andres Ramirez Jr. After the Pentagon announced last
Sunday that he was missing in southern Iraq, the San Luis police fastened yellow
ribbons to the grilles of their patrol cars.

The theme of upward mobility figures prominently in recruiting messages. One
Navy Web site in English and Spanish, oriented toward a Latino audience, uses
the motto: "El Navy. Accelerate your life."

The military's allure to some immigrants has been accentuated by a change in
federal rules. Since the early 1900s, members of the military have been allowed
to apply for citizenship after three years as a legal U.S. resident, two years
less than the wait for civilians. In July, President Bush, using the war on
terrorism to invoke a special rule for periods of military conflict, issued an
executive order that waived the waiting period altogether. In the eight months
since, the government has handled nearly 5,500 citizenship applications from
military personnel under that rule -- a 60 percent increase over the eight
months before the rule took effect.

The incentive for the military's immigrants to become citizens is strong: With
few exceptions, only citizens may become officers.

Angela Infante, 24, moved from Colombia to Fairfax a dozen years ago and never
thought much about citizenship when she was younger. Last Tuesday, as she
awaited deployment to Iraq with her D.C. National Guard unit, she sang "The
Star-Spangled Banner" and recited an oath of allegiance at a naturalization
ceremony, having realized that citizenship would allow her to apply for military
security clearances and promotions.

The military also provides a forum for expressing a sense of Americanism. Before
Marine Gunnery Sgt. Joseph Menusa went to the Middle East for the first time, to
serve in the Gulf War of 1991, he was enraged by images he saw of protesters and
Iraqis burning American flags. "He took it pretty personally," said his younger
brother, David, also a Marine. "He said, 'Man, I want to go over and punch
someone, because they don't understand what freedom is.' " The boys moved from
the Philippines when they were 10 and 8 to join their mother, who had resettled
in San Jose with a U.S. Navy man she met and married in Manila. Joseph was
killed in action March 27.

For the enlistees' pride and patriotism, there is -- among several parents of
the killed, the captured and the missing -- remorse at the idea that their
efforts to provide better lives for their children in the United States have
gone amiss.

Diego Rincon's father, George, moved his family to an Atlanta suburb in 1989
from Bogota, where he had suffered high blood pressure and threats on his life
as a bodyguard to a wealthy Colombian businessman. "I said we have to move to
the United States. It's the only way for my sons to have something in the
future," said George Rincon, who started a carpet cleaning business six months
after they arrived.

Last week, he was inconsolable. His handsome son had become a gymnast, a
cheerleader and an actor -- once playing a Vietnam veteran in a play at Salem
High School. He and his best friend had been chosen by Georgia Public
Broadcasting to appear in a public service announcement against teenage
drinking.

At Diego's enlistment ceremony in January 2002, his father was so moved that he
approached a sergeant and asked whether he could sign up, too. He was too old.
"He was so proud to be an American. You know what I mean?" his father said
through tears last week.

Jesus Suarez Del Solar's father had long been more ambivalent about his son's
choice. From the age of 11, the boy had been enthralled with the U.S. Marines,
and he and a sister -- who was eager to join the Navy -- persuaded their father
to move the family from Tijuana.

After they settled in California, Fernando Suarez Del Solar urged his son to
became a lawyer, or perhaps a politician like the boy's grandfather. But by the
time he was in high school, Jesus was bringing home literature from military
recruiters. It was on a Tijuana trip to celebrate his high school graduation
that Jesus bought the small Aztec warrior statue that symbolized his sense of
himself. He chose one with the head of an eagle, because the bird is swift and
precise -- and appears on the seals of both the United States and Mexico.

He was in Kuwait in late February when his father wrote to him. "Letter to my
soldier son," the letter began. The impending war was "disastrous," he wrote. "I
want you to remember above all else the moral values which you inherited from
your Hispanic origin: respect for others, above all. Remember always and at all
times, you are not an assassin. . . . Be tough, but not merciless. Never abuse
the weak, it does not matter if it is your enemy. Be humane."

Five weeks later, his son was killed in action.

The government appears to recognize immigrants' role in the war. Last week, the
Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services granted citizenship posthumously
to two Marines who had been killed: Cpl. Jose A. Garibay, 21, who emigrated from
Mexico to California as a baby, and Lance Cpl. Jose Gutierrez, 28, who grew up
an orphan in Guatemala, crossed illegally into California as a young man and
became one of the war's first combat casualties, on its second day. A citizen
after death, Gutierrez's remains, Guatemalan newspapers have said, will be sent
to his sister, in his native land.

Washington Post researchers Lucy Shackelford and Margot Williams contributed to
this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              162 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 9, 2003 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Gassed by Iraqi Troops, Blindsided by the INS;
Exile Lends Support to Bush, Then Finds Herself on Immigration's Deportation
List

BYLINE: Peter Carlson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 1709 words


On March 14, when President Bush was seeking international support for an
invasion of Iraq, he summoned Iraqi exile Katrin Michael to a meeting in the
Oval Office, where she recounted her horrific story of being gassed by Saddam
Hussein's troops in 1987.

That day, White House spokesman Ari Fleischer and State Department spokesman
Richard Boucher both used the meeting as an opportunity to issue statements
attacking Hussein for his use of chemical weapons. And Michael told her story on
National Public Radio and ABC-TV.

A week later -- on March 21, the day after the war began -- Michael received a
letter from the Immigration and Naturalization Service demanding that she report
to a deportation officer.

"I was scared, I got crazy," says Michael, 53, who works as a translator for the
Iraq Foundation in Washington. "I asked the deportation officer, 'You're going
to deport me in this war situation?' And he said, 'No, you should be detained.'
I said, 'I met President Bush last week and now I'll be in jail in America?' "

This morning, Michael is scheduled to meet with her deportation officer. "I'm
going to take a picture of me with President Bush and show it to him," she says.

The White House declines to discuss Michael or the deportation action against
her. A White House press officer referred inquiries to the National Security
Council, which referred inquiries to the State Department, which referred
inquiries to the Department of Homeland Security, where Greg Gagne, spokesman
for the Executive Office of Immigration Review, uttered this on-the-record
comment:

"We don't discuss these things."

Michael's deportation problem is just the latest crisis in a life filled with
turmoil and horror. She was born in 1950 in northern Iraq, a member of the
Assyrian Christian minority in that predominantly Muslim nation. During her
childhood, she says, her father, an oil company auditor, was jailed several
times for his political activities in support of equal rights for Christians. At
14 she, too, was briefly jailed, she says, accused of smuggling food and
information to her father, who was in hiding.

In the early '70s she studied geology at Mosul University, where she acquired a
reputation as an outspoken feminist.

"She was very active and very vocal," recalls Audisho Khoshaba, a Chicago doctor
who met Michael when they were both students at Mosul. "She was harassed by the
Baath regime. They tried to intimidate her."

In 1976, Michael won a scholarship to study geology and petroleum engineering in
Azerbaijan, then part of the Soviet Union. By the time she returned to Iraq with
a PhD in geology in 1982, Hussein had seized power, her father had died after
another brutal stint in prison, and two of her brothers had joined the
Peshmerga, the Kurdish guerrillas fighting Hussein's army. She, too, joined the
Peshmerga, she says, organizing support among women in Kurdistan.

Sitting in her small Arlington apartment, she pulls out a photo album filled
with snapshots from her guerrilla days. In one picture, she stands on a rocky
mountainside, holding a rifle. In another, she's smiling broadly, cuddling a
friend's son, a little boy named Sim-Sim, who was, she says, later injured in a
gas attack by the Iraqi army.

She turns the page to a photo of guerrillas and points to a smiling young woman.
"This is me," she says. She points to another guerrilla. "This is a friend of
mine. He was killed."

She flips to another page, this one a photo of people sitting in a stone house.
"This is me," she says. "This is my friend. Her brother was killed in a fight.
We were having a ceremony for him, a funeral."

When she closes the album, her eyes are glossed with tears. "Through all my
travels, I lost everything else, but I kept these photos," she says. "I feel
this is my wealth."

All through the 1980s, while Iraq was at war with Iran, the Peshmerga guerrillas
fought Hussein's army in the rugged mountains of Kurdistan. On June 5, 1987, the
Iraqi army, which had already used poison gas against Iranian troops, dropped
bombs containing mustard and cyanide gas on Kurdish guerrillas in the Zewa
valley. Michael was there.

"Every day they were bombing us," she says. "This was not something strange.
This was for us a usual day. But it was the first time they used chemical
weapons."

She takes out a piece of paper and draws a rough map -- squiggly lines for two
rows of mountains, a couple of straight lines for the stream that ran through
the valley in between.

"Here is the stream and here are the Peshmerga sites and here are the civilian
villages," she says. "It was a valley, so the poison gas didn't blow away. It
stayed in the valley."

The bombs fell about 7:30 that night. At first, the guerrillas didn't know the
bombs contained poison gas. There was an odd smell -- like rotten garlic, she
says -- but they figured it was sulfur from the explosions. Then one guerrilla,
her friend Rebar Ajeel, said he felt ill.

"He said, 'I took a lot of the sulfur,' and he vomited everything from his
stomach and I took him some water and we put him on a blanket."

She stops, takes a deep breath, continues. "We didn't know it was chemical
weapons. We just give him some water."

It was a summer night and the guerrillas slept outdoors on a terrace, she says,
but she decided to sleep inside. She doesn't know why she did, but she figures
now that it might have saved her life.

At 2 in the morning, she was awakened by someone screaming, "Get up!" She
stumbled outside to find hundreds of people -- guerrillas and civilians --
gathered around a bonfire. By then, they realized they'd been gassed and they
hoped the smoke rising from the fire would draw the gas up and away.

But it didn't work. All around her people were vomiting, their stomachs twisting
in pain, their eyes swollen shut, their skin covered with a rash. Her own eyes
swelled, too, until she could barely see.

"You feel like they're infected," she says. "They are swollen and red and it
really hurts."

They fled into the mountains, where they hoped the air would be cleaner.
Stumbling, sick and nearly blind, the guerrillas and villagers climbed, with
those who could still see leading those who'd gone blind. Her friend Rebar
Ajeel, the first person to feel the symptoms, was carried on a mule.

By the time they reached the top, Michael was blind. For three days she couldn't
see, she says, then her vision returned. She was lucky. Some people stayed blind
for a month. Two people died -- one of them Ajeel. "The poor man was 28 years
old," she says.

Michael says she still suffers aftereffects from the gassing: trembling in her
hands, damaged lungs that cause her to wake up gasping for air and -- worst of
all, she says -- nightmares. "I can't get rid of the pictures I have in my
head."

That attack was merely an early, crude experiment. Over the next year, the Iraqi
army learned to make its gas attacks more lethal. On March 16, 1988, Iraqi
troops gassed the Kurdish town of Halabja, killing 5,000 civilians and injuring
10,000, according to State Department figures.

The attacks sent thousands of Kurds fleeing to Turkey. Michael, then 38, joined
the exodus and ended up in a Turkish refugee camp. It was a terrible place, she
says, so she sneaked into Syria, where she was briefly jailed for entering the
country illegally. After being released, she arranged for a job teaching geology
in Algeria, where, she says, she was harassed by Muslim fundamentalists who
frowned on Christian women teaching college. In 1991, she fled to Bulgaria, then
later to Russia, then Romania, then Greece, where she found work as a translator
for three years.

In December 1997, at 47, she came to the United States, hoping to find a
translator and a publisher for her memoirs, which she'd written in Arabic while
in Greece. Living with cousins in Southern California, she applied for asylum in
1998, but her application was denied. She filed an appeal.

While her appeal was pending, she moved to Washington in 2000 and found a job at
the Iraq Foundation, a nonprofit organization devoted to bringing democracy to
Iraq. She works translating Iraqi government documents captured by Kurdish
rebels in 1991.

Last year, as America debated the prospect of war in Iraq, Michael wrote an
op-ed essay that was printed in several newspapers. "As an Iraqi woman who wages
peace and has fought in war, I am compelled to support a U.S.-led action to
remove Saddam Hussein," she wrote. "After 26 years of resistance against Saddam,
I have come to the conclusion that only forces from outside Iraq can bring an
end to the nightmare of his rule."

In March, Michael and several other Iraqi refugees met with national security
adviser Condoleezza Rice and Vice President Cheney. Then, on the eve of the 15th
anniversary of the Halabja attack, they were summoned to meet Bush.

That night she called her brother Basil, who lives in Toronto with her mother.
"When I walked into the Oval Office," she remembers telling him, "it was like a
dream."

The rude awakening came a week later, when she received the letter demanding
that she report to a "deportation officer." Stunned, she called the officer and
learned that her asylum appeal had been rejected by the Board of Immigration
Appeals in December.

She contacted Riva Khoshaba, a Washington lawyer who is the daughter of her old
Mosul University friend Audisho Khoshaba.

"She was pretty scared," says Riva Khoshaba, who agreed to take her case without
charge. "This is a pretty scary thing for someone who has been a refugee for 20
years."

Khoshaba hopes to reopen Michael's case, and she has enlisted the aid of veteran
Chicago immigration attorney Robert De Kelaita.

"This woman should not be deported or detained," De Kelaita says. "This could be
very embarrassing for the Bush administration. It could spark an interesting
debate in the Arab world over how Iraqis are treated in the U.S. and what
democracy will be like in Iraq."

Michael admits that she's a little scared about the prospect of deportation.
She'd like to return to Iraq eventually, she says, but she worries about her
safety there now.

"Where should I go?" she asks. "Should I travel to Iraq? I give you a question:
Where should I go?"

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              163 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 9, 2003 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Hispanics Split Over War in Iraq;
Views Diverge Between Immigrants, U.S.-Born

BYLINE: Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A33

LENGTH: 528 words


Hispanic Americans are divided over support for the war with Iraq, placing the
nation's fastest-growing ethnic group firmly between white Americans who
overwhelmingly favor the fighting and African Americans who do not, according to
a poll released yesterday by the Washington-based Pew Hispanic Center.

The nationwide survey, conducted last week in English and Spanish, shows that 61
percent of the Latinos surveyed said they supported the war, and that 27 percent
said they opposed it. Among white Americans, 81 percent supported the war, while
61 percent of African Americans opposed it, according to a Washington Post-ABC
News poll this week.

"You can really see a rally-around-the flag effect in the nation by Latinos,"
said Roberto Suro, director of the Pew Hispanic Center. "It's like a 20 percent
jump in favor of the war between February and November."

Latinos born in the United States were more supportive of the invasion of Iraq
than those who immigrated, the survey found. Fifty-two percent of foreign-born
Hispanics supported the war, compared with 75 percent of U.S.-born residents.
Nearly 40 percent of foreign-born residents and 19 percent of native citizens
opposed the war.

Suro said U.S.-born Latinos, 79 percent of whom watch English-language
television news, said they had a clear idea of the reasons for the war.
Foreign-born Latinos, 59 percent of whom watch Spanish-language television, were
less likely to say that they understood why the United States was fighting.

The telephone poll was conducted among 500 adults between April 3 to 6 and has a
margin of error of four percentage points. The sample was representative of the
Latino adult population in age, education, national origin and gender. Most
foreign-born participants were Mexican natives.

Latinos make up the nation's fastest-growing ethnic group, according to the
latest Census Bureau projections. As a group, census officials say, Latinos are
equal to African Americans as a percentage of the U.S. population, but Latino
activists contend that the Hispanic population has surpassed that of black
Americans.

Gilbert Moreno, head of the Association for the Advancement of Mexican
Americans, said he believes Latinos support the war out of pride. "I think there
is a tremendous sense of duty and honor among Hispanics," he said. "There's a
long line of service of Latinos in the armed services. I think, overall, that's
the sentiment I've heard. Obviously, there are a lot of young people who oppose
the war, and they've joined the antiwar movement."

Fernando Guerra, director of the Center for the Study of Los Angeles at Loyola
Marymount University, said the differences in opinion between native-born and
foreign-born Latinos is telling.

"Foreign-born Latinos understand the economic consequences if there is
instability," he said. "They are the last to be hired and the first to be fired.
Also, there is always a fear of being caught without their documents in a time
of war, increasing the tension they live with every day."

Moreover, Guerra said, foreign-born Latinos from war-torn countries such as
Nicaragua and El Salvador are more sensitive to the consequences of war.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              164 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 9, 2003 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Advocates for Immigrants Endorse D.C. Language Bill

BYLINE: Sylvia Moreno, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 694 words


Immigrant advocates testified yesterday in favor of a D.C. bill that would
require translators in all city agencies and the appointment of a citywide
coordinator to ensure that residents who are not proficient in English are
provided equal access to services.

But such a measure, city officials responded, would be too costly to implement
during an economic downturn that has forced the government to cut programs and
slash agency budgets.

Advocates said the bill could help prevent problems like ones they have
encountered recently:

A Vietnamese woman who waited six years to get subsidized housing only to lose
it because by the time she found someone to translate the official notice, the
deadline for responding had passed.

A Sudanese man who was turned away by the Department of Motor Vehicles because
of language difficulties and an employee's misunderstanding of the immigration
documents required of a refugee.

And a Mexican woman who could not get Spanish-language information about special
education services for her children and who later unsuccessfully filed a
complaint in Spanish and English with the Office of Human Rights against an
employer she said had sexually harassed and even tried to rape her.

"No response was sent," Cesil Valladares said in Spanish at a hearing before the
D.C. Council's Subcommittee on Human Rights, Latino Affairs and Property
Management, chaired by council member Jim Graham (D-Ward 1).

"The personnel of this agency ignored me," she said.

Denise Gilman of the Washington Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights and Urban
Affairs said the city must "remove the burden from hardworking, tax-paying
members of our community simply because they don't speak English well."

The proposed legislation "simply ensures access to programs, and failure to do
so is a form of national-origin discrimination," she said. "It's really a civil
rights issue."

The measure, introduced last fall and again in February by Graham, would require
agencies dealing with the public to designate a language access coordinator to
develop and implement a plan that includes hiring bilingual employees and
translating official materials into languages from Spanish to Amharic, the
language of Ethiopia.

The bill also would require the D.C. Office of Human Rights to coordinate the
effort and monitor the agencies' compliance.

But top city officials said the cost would be prohibitive. City financial
officials estimate that the program would cost $ 7.74 million from fiscal 2003
through fiscal 2006. However, the D.C. Fiscal Policy Institute, a private
research group that studies the effect of budget policies on low- and
moderate-income residents, estimates that such a program would cost $ 500,000 a
year.

Deputy Mayor Herbert R. Tillery testified that the city has started a
language-access pilot project in four agencies to better serve immigrants from
Latin America and Asia. He said the mayor's office hopes to expand it to all
other agencies by next year. In addition, he said, the city's Office on Asian
and Pacific Islander Affairs and Office on Latino Affairs are responsible for
dealing with those populations.

Tillery said the mayor's office agrees "with the spirit and intent of the
proposed legislation." But he said the government would "have some difficulty in
meeting the unfunded mandates that would be imposed by [the] bill."

Already in effect in the District is a 1976 law that requires certain city
agencies to hire Hispanic program managers to translate official documents and
to serve Spanish-speaking residents. In addition, Mayor Anthony A. Williams (D)
issued a directive in August 2000 urging all city agencies to comply with the
Title VI requirement of the U.S. Civil Rights Act, which prohibits
discrimination on the basis of national origin.

But Graham said the city's current efforts are uncoordinated, applied
haphazardly and poorly funded. "Everybody should learn English, but in the
meantime . . . there is a true urgency to this," Graham said. "Until we are
ready to put some money in this, we won't move ahead."

Graham said he expected to send the Language Access Bill to the full council by
the beginning of May.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              165 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 15, 2003 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrant Marine Fights for Citizenship;
Application Denied Because of 'Mistakes'

BYLINE: Sylvia Moreno, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 931 words


Sgt. Khanh T. Nguyen is a man without a country fighting for the United States.

Born in the Republic of South Vietnam, which no longer exists, and twice denied
U.S. citizenship, Nguyen has been fighting two wars: overseas against Saddam
Hussein's regime and here against immigration officials who say he does not have
the moral character to be a U.S. citizen.

Nguyen's citizenship was denied because he omitted information on his
application about arrests when he was a juvenile.

"I have spent my entire adult life earning my citizenship by serving the United
States of America honorably and well as a United States Marine," Nguyen, 30,
wrote in a November letter to the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration
Services. "Please grant me the opportunity to clear my name and become a United
States citizen."

Nguyen has even pleaded his case on national television, in an April 3 interview
with a Fox News Channel reporter embedded with his unit somewhere in the Iraqi
desert. The unit, the 4th Light Armored Reconnaissance Battalion, 4th Marine
Division, had seen combat the day before with Iraqi soldiers who had fired
rocket-propelled grenades, mortars and small arms. It was the battalion's second
battle with Iraqi forces in a matter of days.

"I honestly want to believe when this is all over, that I've earned my
citizenship," Nguyen said during the interview.

Nguyen, a Marine Corps Reservist who lives in Silver Spring, is one of almost
13,000 noncitizens in the military reserves, along with more than 37,000
active-duty U.S. military personnel who are noncitizens.

The immigrant soldiers entered the spotlight as soon as Operation Iraqi Freedom
began. Several of the first U.S. casualties in the war were noncitizens, and
seven have been awarded U.S. citizenship posthumously.

In recent days, several religious leaders and elected officials have urged the
Bush administration to grant immediate citizenship to immigrant soldiers while
they are on the war's front lines.

"There is something terribly wrong with our immigration policies if it takes
death on the battlefield to earn citizenship," Cardinal Roger M. Mahony of the
Archdiocese of Los Angeles wrote to President Bush on April 7.

Rep. Hilda L. Solis (D-Calif.) and Sen. Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.) last week
introduced legislation to make it easier for active military personnel and
reservists to become U.S. citizens. Rep. Richard Hastings (R-Wash.) introduced a
bill making active-duty immigrants immediately eligible for citizenship. And
Sens. Zell Miller (D) and Saxby Chambliss (R), both of Georgia, introduced a
bill to grant immediate citizenship to noncitizen soldiers who die in combat.
That bill was approved by the Senate Judiciary Committee on Thursday.

Nguyen immigrated to the United States in 1973 at the age of 6 months with his
sister and mother, who had married a U.S. serviceman, and grew up in Phoenix. As
a legal permanent resident of the United States, he enlisted in the Marine Corps
upon graduating from high school and served for six years. He was discharged
honorably in 1997. In 1999, he and his fiancee, Anneli Nilsson, moved to Silver
Spring and he joined a Marine Reserve unit based in Frederick.

A year later, Nguyen applied for U.S. citizenship under a provision that allows
noncitizens who have served at least three years of active military duty to
naturalize. But he made a mistake: He denied that he had ever been arrested.

In fact, he had been charged with a schoolyard assault, shoplifting and being in
possession of alcohol as a minor when he was about 15. He had revealed all this,
and the fact that he had tried marijuana once, in his Marine Corps enlistment
package. Immigration officials had access to Marine records when investigating
Nguyen's background for citizenship.

When he was interviewed in October by immigration officials, Nguyen denied being
arrested.

After his application was denied, he wrote in a November letter asking for a
hearing: "I was not even thinking about the trouble that I got into as a child.
It was never my intention to deceive. My mistakes are well documented, and I
feel that I have since more than made up for them."

Nguyen received overseas deployment orders Jan. 31, and he managed to get a
hearing on his citizenship denial Feb. 4. His unit left for Camp Lejeune, N.C.,
Feb. 7 and for Kuwait on Feb. 22. He was denied citizenship a second time in a
letter dated March 20 that Nilsson opened at their Silver Spring home.

Immigration officials say that Nguyen's teenage offenses, if he had declared
them, would not have provided grounds for rejection of his citizenship
application. But his misstatement did.

"He didn't provide accurate information," said Bill Yates, associate director
for operations in the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services.

Yates said Nguyen may reapply for citizenship when he returns from overseas
duty, under an order signed by Bush last year and made retroactive to Sept. 11,
2001, to expedite citizenship for military personnel who serve in active duty
during the U.S. war on terrorism.

Yates said soldiers who apply under the executive order "only need to establish
good moral character for the year prior to the filing of the application."

Nilsson acknowledges that her fiance made a mistake. But she believes, as he
does, that he has proved his good character.

"He joined the Marine Corps to pay the United States back for taking him in as a
baby, and the only thing he ever wanted, that I've heard him say, was to be a
Marine and to be a U.S citizen," Nilsson said. "He feels that he has earned it."

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              166 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 19, 2003 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

CRIME & JUSTICE

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 300 words


MARYLAND

Shooting at playground: One man was killed and two others were wounded last
night in a shooting at a Capitol Heights playground, Prince George's County
police said.

About 6:15 p.m., officers found two men with gunshot wounds, one of them dead,
in a park in the unit block of Tunic Avenue, Cpl. Tammy Sparkman said. A third
man fled to a nearby home, and police later took him to a local hospital,
Sparkman said.

The slain man was not identified last night, and police had no suspects,
Sparkman said.

THE DISTRICT

Woman in fire was beaten: A woman found dead in a burning apartment early
Thursday had been beaten, the D.C. medical examiner's office said.

Firefighters found the badly burned body of Dorothy L. Evans, 52, in a hallway
of the building where she lived in the 300 block of 50th Street NE. The medical
examiner's office said Evans died of blunt trauma to her head, neck and torso.
Her death has been ruled a homicide.

VIRGINIA

Fairfax mother faces deportation: The Fairfax County mother who pleaded guilty
in July to attacking her three daughters in their Springfield apartment was
arrested by immigration officials yesterday and will face deportation charges,
authorities said.

County police and immigration authorities took Sohalia Ali into custody, without
incident, at a Springfield home, Bureau of Immigration and Customs officials
said. Ali was sentenced to 27 months in prison and 14 years of probation for
stabbing and beating her children, who then ranged in age from 22 months to 5
years, during the Feb. 2001 attack, before trying to kill herself.

Ali, an Afghan citizen, must go before an immigration judge and may be removed
from the country, an immigration spokeswoman said. A date for a hearing has not
been set, she said.

Compiled from reports by staff writers.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              167 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 26, 2003 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Judge Allows Deportation of Saudi Grad Student

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 183 words

DATELINE: BOISE, Idaho April 25


An immigration judge decided today that a University of Idaho graduate student
allegedly linked to Islamic radicals can legally be deported.

Sami Omar Al-Hussayen, 35, violated the terms of his student visa by accepting
pay to create Internet pages for groups including the Islamic Assembly of North
America, Judge Anna Ho ruled.

Al-Hussayen, a Saudi national, will remain in custody pending a possible appeal.

Al-Hussayen faces both immigration counts and federal charges related to alleged
links to Islamic extremists.

Authorities contend his enrollment at the school was a cover for his work with
the Islamic Assembly, to which federal prosecutors said he funneled $ 300,000
and tapped into sensitive material through the university's computer.

In an unrelated case in Seattle, a judge sentenced a Muslim cleric to 11 months
in prison for a guilty plea he made to a weapons charge as part of a terrorism
investigation. Semi Osman, 32, was arrested last year in a probe of the
now-closed Dar-us-Salaam mosque. Some of its members were suspected of terrorist
activities at a ranch in Bly, Ore.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              168 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 10, 2003 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Homeland Security, Washington-Style

BYLINE: Colbert I. King

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A23

LENGTH: 1278 words


Here's a little something about homeland security that newly minted Secretary
Tom Ridge may not know. The Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services, now
an agency in Ridge's Department of Homeland Security, is doing a booming
business in a neighborhood satellite office about a 10-minute drive from the
White House.

Well, to be honest, it's a real stretch to say that the folks performing
immigration and citizenship services at 17th and Fuller streets NW are on
Ridge's payroll; they aren't. But according to longtime residents who keep a
close eye on the streets, if you ever find yourself in need of a green card, a
driver's license, a Social Security card or an ID card, you need only drive or
walk to that Northwest Washington corner or along a three-block area of nearby
Columbia Road and queue up to obtain -- for a fee -- all the documents you need
to function as a citizen or legal immigrant in this country. (Warning: Saturdays
and Sundays are their busiest days.)

The beautiful thing, at least from the point of view of the people trafficking
in forged and illegal papers, is that there is no reason to worry about being
caught, because (a) U.S. immigration officials hardly ever venture into the
area, and (b) D.C. police, who literally speed through Fuller Street when they
bother to go there at all, couldn't care less about false immigration documents
-- that being a problem for the feds.

What's more, it's an open question whether Homeland Security and immigration
sleuths -- even if they found their way to 17th and Fuller -- would be smart
enough to decode all the hand signals and whistling that precede the transfer of
false documents. In other words, the reach of U.S. immigration, as with the
District's policing of that neighborhood, is something of a joke -- or a
nightmare, when you think of potential terrorists and radical groups strolling
in search of false papers.

But let's be fair: The U.S. immigration services and the D.C. police aren't the
only agencies averting their gaze from this hard-pressed community. Out-of-state
motorists who descend on the area for their drug buying, hell raising and
document hustling have it made. They can come to Euclid, Fuller or Mozart
streets near Ontario Road, park their cars and stay as long as they like, thanks
to the absence of the District's parking enforcement division. Roving parking
enforcement officers may be hell on wheels when it comes to ticketing cars with
out-of-state license plates in other neighborhoods. But in the vicinity of 17th
and Fuller, city parking enforcers are missing in action.

Ah, but not so with crime.

Which explains why eight or nine people reportedly have been robbed in the
lobbies of the Century apartment buildings at 16th and Fuller over the past
decade. In the past month, apartments in 1620 Fuller have been burglarized
twice. Three and a half weeks ago, a young woman was robbed in front of 1620
Fuller, and about the same time a young man was robbed at Fuller and Mozart. And
this week, the police reportedly recovered a gun on the grounds of H.D. Cooke
Elementary School, which is on 17th Street between Euclid and Fuller. Cooke, you
see, is a drug-free zone. Nobody said anything about gun-free.

As for vandalizing and stealing cars, don't even go there. Who in the
neighborhood hasn't had a car vandalized or stolen is the better question to
ask. Oh, in case you wonder, the 3rd Police District headquarters, which covers
17th and Fuller, is three blocks away.

While I'm at it, let me clarify a point in last week's column, "The View From
17th and Euclid." I identified members of the 1-7 crew (or gang) who were
involved in homicides either as victims or perpetrators. A law enforcement
source says I overlooked the murder of Thomas J. Holly last July. Holly's death
never made our paper. Neither did the name Jayvon Marshman, a member of 1-7 who,
according to the source, is being held pending trial for that murder. Sorry for
the omission.

Okay, now, let's cut to the chase. A column on 17th and Euclid last week, and
now a piece on 17th and Fuller, one block away? What's sparking all this
attention to that small piece of city real estate? A reader who has been living
in the neighborhood for most of 14 years asked whether it's because white people
have started moving in, gentrifying the neighborhood. The reader said she has
been seeing the kind of activity described in last week's column as long as she
can remember. She also recalled that when she first moved there, most of the
residents in run-down and dilapidated dwellings were "minorities." She says:
"Then all of a sudden white people started moving in . . . and [now] the 1-7
violence becomes a problem. . . . Why is it that it takes a certain class of
people to enter the neighborhood for something to be done?"

She deserves an answer.

It may come as a surprise to the reader, but sources for these two articles are
not yuppies, gentrifiers, urban pioneers or whatever. Last week's sources were
intimately acquainted with the 1-7 members I wrote about. This week's sources
are decades-long residents of the community. But they all have something in
common with the new faces on the block. They too don't like the loitering,
eating, drinking and throwing trash on the ground. They too are fed up with the
cursing, pot smoking and yelling late into the night. They too don't like seeing
their sidewalks used as public toilets.

They too want the police to treat their neighborhood the same way cops treat MCI
Center or the White House or a 10K race through the city. They too are sick and
tired, and, as the late Fannie Lou Hamer said, "Sick and tired of being sick and
tired."

As mentioned before, there are 17th and Euclids and 17th and Fullers in other
parts of this city. These columns are a microcosm of what's going on in other
neighborhoods. Some communities have even reverted to the state of nature.
Consider:

* Two boys, 15 and 7, force a 7-year-old boy to perform oral sex on them in a
school.

* An 11-year-old girl is sexually assaulted on the sidewalk outside her house.

* A 17-year-old girl is grabbed by the neck at a bus stop, threatened with
shooting, taken to another location and sexually assaulted.

* A man grabs an 18-year-old girl on her way to school, carries her to an
abandoned building and rapes her.

* Two girls, 15 and 13, waiting for a bus are abducted by four people in a car,
driven to another location and sexually assaulted.

* A 38-year-old man sexually assaults a 6-year-old female relative.

These incidents occurred in Southeast Washington over the past five months. They
were dutifully reported in The Post's District Crime Watch on May 1. And the
victims? A horrified Northwest Washington reader who called this to my attention
asked: Who's caring for them? Who's helping them to recover? Have the cops
caught anyone? It's a safe bet that those questions are not on the minds of our
local powers that be, just as the Euclids and the Fullers are the furthest
removed from their thoughts.

Our pols and their minions are consumed with dreams of a new $ 339 million
stadium for a Major League Baseball team. They are busy throwing fits over
school vouchers and otherwise demonstrating to the world that when it comes to
meeting citizens where they really are and on issues of urgent concern, our
politicians and the government they have given us are about as useful as screen
doors on a submarine.

Which is why the dudes dealing dope, the thugs doing all the robbing and
stealing, the predators having their way with vulnerable children, and those
flouting the immigration laws on the streets of the nation's capital have never
had it so good.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              169 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 16, 2003 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Dulles Faulted for Customs Delays;
Lufthansa CEO Calls Processing of Passengers 'Medieval'

BYLINE: Keith L. Alexander, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. E03

LENGTH: 680 words


The chairman and chief executive of German airline Lufthansa yesterday blasted
Dulles International Airport for its "medieval age" treatment and excessively
long processing of international passengers.

Juergen Weber, the head of the airline, flew into Dulles on Wednesday and said
he saw some passengers waiting in lines for more than three hours to pass
through customs and immigration inspections. Weber said he plans to meet with
senior officials from the Bush administration next week to discuss Dulles'
problems, which he described as one "of the sicknesses" affecting the declining
travel industry.

"I can tell you if the authorities here at this airport don't react very fast,
business and passengers will channel through other hubs," he said. "This is the
worst I've seen in the U.S. It's a day-to-day problem."

Jim Michie, a spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security's Bureau of
Customs and Border Protection, said immigration at Dulles is operating with 20
fewer inspectors than normal, 25 percent below its usual staffing level. But, he
added, the shortfall should be corrected by July after a new wave of inspectors
complete their training.

Michie said the majority of arriving Lufthansa passengers yesterday were cleared
within 43 minutes and only a small percentage had nearly a three-hour wait.
Those passengers who had longer waits had to go through additional screening, he
said.

Weber made his comments yesterday during a joint news conference with
Arlington-based US Airways. The two airlines announced that they were entering
into a marketing alliance, starting in October, that will allow them to sell
tickets on each other's flights and permit travelers to use each other's airport
lounges. The agreement also lets travelers earn frequent-flier miles on either
airline. The "code sharing" alliance is expected to bring in about $ 50 million
a year for each carrier.

The two airlines called yesterday's agreement the first step for US Airways'
participation in the Star Alliance, the code-sharing group made up of 17
international carriers, including United Airlines.

At Dulles, Weber was able to bypass a long wait himself but watched and
investigated the slow processing. His criticisms are not unique. Last year,
airport officials criticized immigration processing at the airport, which was
stranding travelers in lines for more than an hour after they had spent eight or
so hours on international flights.

Airport officials said the long waits are a seasonal problem between May and
August, the peak international travel season.

Richard P. DeiTos Jr., executive director of the Metropolitan Washington
Airlines Committee, which represents the major airlines that fly in and out of
Dulles and Reagan National, said that many top-paying international frequent
travelers avoid Dulles and opt instead to fly into the United States either
through Chicago or New York. That could further hit Dulles' financial position,
which is already weakening because of the overall decline in travel and the
slump at United Airlines, the airport's biggest carrier.

"We're in a crunch now, and as passenger loads are projected to build over the
summer season, delays could just get worse," DeiTos said.

DeiTos said that when lines outside the International Arrival Building at Dulles
get too long, travelers are forced to remain inside cramped mobile lounges used
to shuttle passengers from planes to the concourse. Last year, the government
increased the number of employees to process passengers. But funding for those
new workers was removed in October, at the end of the fiscal year.

The complaints come as Dulles is facing a further challenge from Reagan National
Airport. Federal lawmakers are circulating a proposal to increase the number of
flights at National, a prospect that troubles United. In a letter to
Transportation Secretary Norman Y. Mineta, Glenn F. Tilton, United's chairman
and chief executive, said allowing more flights into National would greatly
diminish the carrier's operations at Dulles and cause further damage to the
airline's revenue.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 17, 2003, Saturday



CORRECTION:  An article in the May 16 Business section mischaracterized the
Customs Bureau's staffing at Dulles International Airport. Although the number
of immigration inspectors is down 25 percent from normal levels, the Customs
Bureau is filling the shortfall with overtime and additional workers
cross-trained for immigration duties.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              170 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 17, 2003 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 164 words


A listing for the Alexandria Symphony Orchestra in the May 16 Weekend section
contained incorrect information. Pianist Yulya Gorenman will be the soloist for
tonight's concert, and the orchestra's phone number is 703-548-0885.

An article in the May 16 Business section mischaracterized the Customs Bureau's
staffing at Dulles International Airport. Although the number of immigration
inspectors is down 25 percent from normal levels, the Customs Bureau is filling
the shortfall with overtime and additional workers cross-trained for immigration
duties.

A May 13 Health section article incorrectly described the plaster casts of
Abraham Lincoln on display at the National Museum of Health and Medicine. The
museum has plaster casts of Lincoln's face and hands that were created after the
1860 presidential campaign.

An article in the March 16 Travel section incorrectly reported the address for a
Web site for the Cyprus Tourism Organization. The site is at
www.visitcyprus.org.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: CORRECTION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              171 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 17, 2003 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

19th Victim Dies from Botched Smuggling Attempt;
More Suspects Are Sought in Texas Case;
45 Immigrants Found in Additional Truck, Rail Incidents

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 422 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON May 16


The death toll from this week's botched smuggling attempt reached 19 today when
an immigrant died at a hospital, two days after being pulled out of a stifling
semitrailer.

Details were not released on the victim who died at DeTar Hospital Navarro in
Victoria, southwest of Houston. The toll is believed to be the highest in recent
U.S. history.

Also today, 18 suspected illegal immigrants were found alive in a
tractor-trailer at a truck stop not far from where the other victims were found.
None required hospitalization. They were turned over to immigration authorities
and the truck driver was taken into custody.

On Wednesday, sheriff's deputies found a trailer at a truck stop south of
Victoria with 17 bodies inside. With two deaths since then, it is the deadliest
U.S. smuggling incident since 18 immigrants died in a rail car in West Texas in
1987.

In initial autopsy reports, Travis County medical examiner Roberto Bayardo said
the victims died of dehydration, hyperthermia and suffocation. Four victims,
including a 5-year-old boy, may have suffocated under people who piled up on top
of them.

"It's difficult to tell if they were dead at the time or they died as a result
of the piling up of the other bodies," Bayardo said.

The driver of the truck, Tyrone Williams, 32, of Schenectady, N.Y., told
authorities he struck a $ 2,500 deal with two men Tuesday to haul 16 immigrants
from the border town of Harlingen north into Texas. Instead, authorities said,
more than 100 men, women and children from Mexico and Central America were
loaded into the hot and virtually airless truck.

Federal authorities were searching for three other suspects in the case. They
were also looking for 30 to 50 illegal immigrants believed to have fled the
trailer.

Forty-nine survivors were transferred to a Houston facility and will remain in
federal custody while the investigation continues. Five others remain
hospitalized.

Most of the immigrants were from Mexico, while others were from El Salvador,
Guatemala and Honduras.

Also today, authorities in the Houston suburb of Sugar Land found 10 illegal
immigrants under a sheet of plywood in the 5-by-8-foot back of a pickup truck.
Police said the men were okay but had not eaten or had any water for two days.
The driver was arrested.

And the Border Patrol said it rescued 17 suspected illegal immigrants from a
railroad container car Thursday near the Texas-New Mexico state line. They
appeared to be in good health despite temperatures estimated at 110 degrees
inside the car.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              172 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 17, 2003 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

On the Job in Adams Morgan

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 199 words


Colbert I. King ["Homeland Security, Washington-Style," op-ed, May 10] asserted
that the Department of Homeland Security is not taking action against document
vendors in the Adams Morgan area. This is not true.

The Washington district of the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement
began investigating sales of counterfeit immigration and identity documents in
Adams Morgan in April 2002. As a result, its agents have arrested 47 people,
removed 30 from the country and prosecuted 14. Twelve of the 14 have pleaded
guilty, and two cases are in process. We also have seized more than 1,000
fraudulent documents, including 585 resident alien cards ("green cards") and 405
Social Security cards with a street value of more than $ 105,000.

Our efforts have improved the quality of life for Columbia Road residents, and
"Pigeon Park" has been returned to the community for its intended use. We have
dismantled the structure of several document vendor organizations and disrupted
this method of counterfeit document sales in the District.

WARREN A. LEWIS

Interim Director, Washington District Office

Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement

U.S. Department of Homeland Security

Washington

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              173 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 18, 2003 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Journey to the West

BYLINE: Reviewed by Peter Schrag

SECTION: BOOK WORLD; Pg. T04

LENGTH: 996 words


THE CHINESE IN AMERICA

A Narrative History

By Iris Chang

Viking. 496 pp. $ 29.95

Viewed from a distance, the history of the Chinese in America -- the hardships
of immigration and discrimination, the triumphs of achievement and assimilation,
the impact on the wider culture -- seems not so different from that of many
other groups on these shores. And indeed, until a half-century ago, when the
Maoist Revolution and the relaxation of the U.S. quota system began to increase
Asian immigration, it often was treated more like a footnote than a chapter in
the national story.

But within the larger American epic, it has always been a major drama all its
own. Unlike the Jews, with whom they're still sometimes compared, the Chinese
were easily identifiable and thus found it hard to pass as complete Americans.
In contrast to some other groups, their energy has largely gone into commercial
and professional success, not political organization. In the 1960s, in a
not-so-subtle comparison with blacks, Asians became the "model minority."

Yet even to say this much, as Iris Chang points out in her new "narrative
history," is to risk stereotyping beyond what the facts will bear. As Chang,
author of the bestselling The Rape of Nanking, tells it, there have really been
two major streams of Chinese immigration: One, beginning with the California
Gold Rush of the 1850s and the construction of the transcontinental railroad a
decade later, was composed largely of men coming over for the hardest and
lowest-paid work in the development of the West. Many soon found themselves
driven into other low-wage work in which they were tolerated -- as herbalists,
cooks, waiters, grocers (especially in the postbellum South) and, of course, as
laundrymen. Even in those occupations they were often harassed by the
authorities.

The most striking thing about this part of Chang's story is not the hardships
and the abuse, official and unofficial, that the early Chinese immigrants
endured; it's the ends for which those hardships were sustained. As she tells
it, most of the earnings from those early backbreaking jobs went straight to
relatives in China who used the money to live royally, lord it over their
villages and never work at all, even as they complained to the
laundryman-husband or brother in San Francisco that he wasn't sending enough.

Because the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882 and succeeding restrictions virtually
shut the doors on all legal Chinese immigration for three-fourths of a century,
the Chinese resorted to all sorts of devices to enter the country by other
means. The most original of them, the "paper sons" -- in which immigrants
claimed to be China-born children of American citizens -- spawned a lively trade
in forged documents. In response, U.S. authorities detained thousands of
would-be immigrants for months in prison-like conditions on San Francisco's
Angel Island. And since the immigrants were overwhelmingly male, there also
developed the thriving trade in prostitutes for the miners -- and later of sex
slaves to respectable Chinatown merchants -- that became the foundation of the
warring gangs that evolved into the secret societies called tongs.

The other, more recent wave has been composed disproportionately of educated
people like Chang's own parents -- she calls them "intellectuals" -- a catchall
category that includes engineers, doctors, scientists and others who had already
been well-educated in China, Hong Kong or Taiwan.

Many of those academic successes then came here for further training in American
universities. Their children now make up disproportionate parts of the upper
ranks of the graduating classes of the country's selective universities, the
winners of the Intel National Science Talent Search and the rolls of other high
achievers. But that success hasn't immunized some of them against charges that
they're spies for the old country, charges that are painful reminders that old
prejudices die hard.

Chang's book is crammed with telling stories not only from the mining camps and
Chinatowns of America but from the Chinese villages and cities, especially
rebellious Guangdong Province, from which many of the original settlers came;
portrayals of the dark American quarters where laborers lived and worked; and
descriptions of the Depression-era "wicked Orient" exotica of hoked-up opium
dens, leper colonies and underground sex parlors that the San Francisco Chinese
created to liven up the tourist trade. But the book badly needs a stronger
thread of hard data and analysis. Despite her attention to the crucial ups and
downs of immigration, Chang provides no comprehensive population figures,
sketches only the thinnest background of the larger Chinese Diaspora, leaves us
wanting much more about the larger Chinese contribution to the national culture,
and seems uncertain of her own narrative theme. (On page 321 she alludes to a
"new generation of Chinese American political activists." On page 323 she says
that experience with political repression at home "caused many Chinese to focus
their energies on economic achievement rather than politics.")

And what's the significance -- both for immigration policy and the larger
society -- of the fact, assuming it is a fact, that the majority of latter-day
Chinese immigrants are "intellectuals"? Equally worrisome, her simplistic
discussions of the larger currents in recent American history -- the Cold War,
McCarthyism, the Reagan-era financial scandals -- make you a little
uncomfortable with the rest of her account.

Chang has found a great subject, and her stories are well worth reading. But
their very power begs for more depth, a clearer narrative line and a stronger,
more confident sense of history. The story deserves it. *

Peter Schrag, former editorial page editor of the Sacramento Bee, is author of
"Paradise Lost: California's Experience, America's Future," and of the
forthcoming "Final Test: The Struggle for Adequacy in America's Schools."

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: REVIEW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              174 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 21, 2003 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Homeland Security in Adams Morgan

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A32

LENGTH: 211 words


Warren A. Lewis, interim director of the Bureau of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement's Washington district office, says that his agency's efforts to
eliminate phony-document vendors in Adams Morgan "have improved the quality of
life for Columbia Road residents and [that] 'Pigeon Park' has been returned to
the community for its intended use" [letters, May 17].

True, federal authorities have made some arrests, obtained some convictions and
seized some fraudulent documents.

But Mr. Lewis did not note that new vendors, or "micas," appear almost
immediately after each bust to take the place of those arrested.

The federal government uses homeland security to justify closing Pennsylvania
Avenue in front of the White House, turning the Capitol grounds into an armed
camp and inconveniencing thousands of D.C. residents and visitors at the drop of
a hat.

Meanwhile, the man in charge of immigration enforcement in our area seems
unaware that, as Colbert I. King reported [op-ed, May 10 and 17], fake green
cards, Social Security cards and other official documents are still being openly
peddled barely two miles north of the White House. What kind of homeland
security is that?

ALAN J. ROTH

Washington

The writer is a member of Advisory Neighborhood Commission 1C.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              175 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 27, 2003 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Fox Asks for Action on Immigration;
President Says Mexicans Working in U.S. Are 'Reliable People,' Not Security
Threat

BYLINE: Mary Jordan and Kevin Sullivan, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 965 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY May 26


-- President Vicente Fox appealed today for action on a long-delayed immigration
accord with the United States, now that the Iraq war is over and more than 20
months have passed since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.

Fox said the deaths earlier this month of 19 illegal immigrants in a sweltering
tractor-trailer in Victoria, Tex., the worst such tragedy recorded in the United
States, are testimony to the urgent need for a new immigration agreement.

In an interview, Fox urged Washington to broaden its focus from security issues
and start increasing the number of work visas for Mexicans, which would help the
United States "avoid having to deal with problems like Victoria, with people
dying on their territory."

"To see people die following their dream is very sad," Fox said in his office in
Los Pinos, the wooded presidential compound in central Mexico City. "Something
must be done."

Fox said he understood that "the world changed on September 11th" and that many
in Washington, particularly in Congress, now view increased immigration as a
threat to homeland security.

"It's understandable that the worry exists, but we must be pragmatic and
objective in evaluating the situation: No terrorists have come from Mexico, and
none has been a Mexican," said Fox, who also wants the legalization of some of
the estimated 4 million illegal Mexican immigrants already in the United States.

Fox said that the vast majority of Mexican immigrants travel to the United
States with "a clear dream to work." He called them "reliable people" who have
helped drive U.S. economic success in recent years, whether by picking produce
or caring for the elderly. Noting that soldiers of Mexican descent fought in the
Iraq war, he said, "Many migrants participate in the U.S. Army, participate in
the defense of U.S. security."

Fox said the people who died in the Texas truck disaster, including a father and
son, underscored the benign intent of immigrants from Mexico: "How do you
conceive a father and a 5-year-old son would harm U.S. interests?"

Fox and Bush, who took office within two months of each other, promised early in
their administrations to make the flow of Mexican workers into the United States
more "safe and orderly," and to begin giving legal status to millions of Mexican
immigrants working and paying taxes in the country.

But relations between the United States and Mexico have cooled dramatically in
the past year and a half. Mexico was frustrated when progress on new immigration
rules died after the Sept. 11 attacks. And relations between Fox and Bush
further soured when Fox, following overwhelming antiwar sentiment among the
Mexican public, became a vocal critic of military action against Iraq. Mexico
refused to support Bush's Iraq plans in the U.N. Security Council.

Fox has not met Bush in person since an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit
last October in Los Cabos, Mexico. They have spoken on the telephone several
times, but people familiar with the calls said they were businesslike and
lacking the warmth of their earlier encounters, when Bush used his first White
House state dinner to host his rancher "amigo" from Mexico.

The two men are scheduled to see each other this weekend at a meeting of the
Group of Eight industrialized countries in Evian, France. Fox said he and Bush
would have only an informal meeting but that he would raise immigration if he
had the chance.

Fox said he did not believe that the disagreement over Iraq would cause lasting
damage to relations. He said goodwill between the two countries "cannot be
erased by once in a while having a conflict."

He said that while Mexico did not support U.S. strategy in Iraq, the country has
a "very solid, clear partnership with the United States in working together
against terrorists."

Looking tanned and robust after a trip to South America last week and nearly
three months after major back surgery, Fox said Mexico had gone to great lengths
to strengthen border security and anti-terrorism measures, reflecting
Washington's top priority.

Now, he said, "we will be insisting on our priority, which is migration."

Fox said he was not asking the United States to solve Mexico's economic
problems, which lead to a vast flow of citizens abroad, but simply to have
"co-responsibility." He said Mexico has spent billions of dollars this year
alone on roads, energy and housing to improve economic conditions. There has
been special focus, he said, on the poorest areas of Mexico, which send the most
immigrants to the United States.

Fox said he was encouraged that the United States seemed to be focusing more
attention on economic matters since the end of the Iraq war. Improvement in the
U.S. economy would benefit the Mexican economy, he said, easing some of the
pressure to emigrate.

"When you are neighbors you have commitments and you have to share and you have
to be co-responsible," he said. "There should be no misunderstanding: It's as
important for the United States to deal with the migration issue as it is to us
in Mexico."

Fox proposed starting with a "sector-by-sector" approach to granting work visas
to Mexicans, perhaps beginning with nurses and bilingual teachers, who are in
short supply in many parts of the United States. Some U.S. hospitals facing
severe shortages of nurses have begun recruiting in Mexico.

Fox said he has been disappointed by some in the United States who consider
increased legal immigration of Mexicans a threat. He called that "thinking from
50 years ago" that does not take into account the economic partnership and
intertwined economies of the two nations.

"We will keep insisting until the final day of this administration," Fox said,
"that the migration issue can be solved with big opportunities for both
countries."

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              176 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 29, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

An Exodus Grows in Brooklyn;
9/11 Still Rippling Through Pakistani Neighborhood

BYLINE: Michael Powell, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 2342 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


The FBI grabbed the cook at Lazzat Pakistani Pizzeria as he spun dough. The
plump newsstand man from Lahore rode the D-train to register with the
Immigration and Naturalization Service -- and never came back. The owner of
Kashmir Travel pulled down his metal gate one night and vanished. His darkened
store sits there, paperwork, copiers and gumballs in place.

Qamar, 25, drove his mom, dad and younger brother north a month ago. His brother
had a visa problem so his parents decided to apply for asylum in Toronto. Now
the younger brother calls Qamar in Brooklyn each night.

"He wanted to know all about prom night at Dewey High School," says Qamar, who
asked that his last name not be used. His hair is gelled and brushed forward,
his jeans ride low; his affect is Pakistani boyz in the New York 'hood. "He
still thinks he's coming back.

"I tell him: 'Hello! Brother, that life's over.' "

Once the mosque on Coney Island Avenue was so crowded on Friday afternoons that
white-capped Pakistani taxi drivers and computer analysts placed their prayer
rugs on the sidewalk. Once the restaurants were so crowded that scents of
saffron and rose water and vindaloo wafted across the broad avenue all night.

Now Little Pakistan in Brooklyn is a neighborhood being pulled up at its roots.
Of the 120,000 or so Pakistanis who lived near here, 15,000, maybe more, have
left for Canada, Europe or Pakistan, according to Pakistani government
estimates. The departures began after Sept. 11, 2001, when federal agents began
stopping and detaining hundreds of Pakistanis. The exodus accelerated five
months ago when the Department of Homeland Security required that every male
Pakistani visa holder age 16 or older register with the Bureau of Immigration
and Customs Enforcement.

Pakistanis make up the largest immigrant group of the 25 nations, almost all of
them predominantly Muslim, named in the registration requirements. The
immigration bureau acknowledges that more than 83,000 males have registered and
that 2,747 are currently detained, but refuses to specify the number of
Pakistanis. Although Pakistan is a U.S. ally, key al Qaeda leaders have been
arrested there and federal investigators have turned their attention to the
community here -- with disquieting results.

The mosque on Coney Island Avenue is one-third empty on Fridays. Restaurants
close at 10 p.m. Hairdressers and pizza joints report a 40 percent drop in
business. Sada-E-Pakistan newspaper, written in Urdu, sells 60 percent fewer
ads. The United States has deported enough illegal immigrants to Islamabad to
fill four jetliners.

In what was the tightest of labor markets, "For Rent" and "Help Wanted" signs
sprout on lampposts and in grocery stores.

The Pakistani Embassy reports that immigrants from the nation -- the largest
concentration of them living in New York -- have shipped hundreds of millions of
dollars back home. Its foreign exchange holdings have jumped from $ 1.2 billion
on Sept. 11, 2001, to $ 10 billion today.

In the rowhouses and apartment buildings of Brooklyn and Queens, the sense of
being watched is pervasive. Pakistani immigrants with their proper South Asian
English accents and their 70-hour workweeks and their ever-more-American ways
live in a state of suspicion. Children are pulled out of schools by parents
fleeing to Pakistan. Wives watch husbands being taken into detention. Many fear
their phones are tapped, their e-mails monitored.

In his storefront office at the Council of Pakistan Organization, Mohammad "Moe"
Razvi, a gregarious bolt of a man who was 6 years old when his family arrived
here from Lahore, rummages through his desk drawers. He pulls out a laminated
book and flips to two pages of FBI and INS business cards. For months, these
cards have appeared in door jambs and mailboxes throughout the neighborhood.

"Hello," reads the handwritten note on the back of a card. "I'm with the FBI.
Please contact me ASAP."

Most Pakistanis complied and many disappeared into detention facilities. Fear of
the cards grew. "A friend of mine saw that card and didn't come home again for
four days," Razvi recalled. "Not a day goes by that someone doesn't ask me:
What's next?"

FBI officials describe the Muslim communities as engaged in a mutually
beneficial dialogue, and they defend questionings as needed to safeguard
national security. Some mosques -- although none that are predominantly
Pakistani -- have been linked to fundamentalist clerics. The FBI has assigned a
team of agents who investigate terrorism to visit mosques and talk with the
ethnic media, and to assure both that no ill will is intended.

"We understand that you feel frightened and afraid and angry," special agent
Mary Jo Lyons, clad in a black head scarf, told 200 people assembled in a mosque
in Little Pakistan a week ago. "We are in a war on terror, and the only way to
overcome the fear is to work hand in hand with us."

Pakistani immigrants readily agree that the United States has a right to police
its border. The Pakistani Embassy estimates that 30,000 of its nationals live
here "without status," meaning that they have overstayed their visas or lack
proper working papers. As the saying goes here, these people live on the mercy
of circumstance.

But the United States is a nation -- and New York is a city -- stuffed to the
gills with immigrants. Each ethnic community has its legal citizens and visa
holders, as well as illegal immigrants. The government has subjected only a
handful of these communities to intense government scrutiny, few as rigorously
as the Pakistanis. This disparity confounds them.

No Pakistanis, they note, were among the Sept. 11 hijackers. Just four of the
roughly 410 Pakistanis deported by the United States were felons, according to
the Pakistani Embassy. Three residents of Little Pakistan -- an emergency
medical services worker, an auxiliary cop and a businessman -- died inside the
World Trade Center, and commemorative photos of the towers adorn the walls of
grocery stores and restaurants here.

Asad Reza, a painfully polite man dressed in slacks, a polar vest and a gray
cap, sits, legs crossed, in a dimly lit room on Coney Island Avenue, waiting to
speak to a lawyer. He's a 53-year-old gray-haired bookkeeper. A month ago, he
took his two sons to register at Federal Plaza in Manhattan. The INS officials
put them in handcuffs and held them overnight in a room with no chairs.

It turned out that Reza's application for permanent resident status had a
technical glitch. It's the sort of problem, immigration lawyers say, that would
be easily remedied in better times. Reza faces deportation.

"My sons, 16 and 18, are on the roll of honors at their high school." Reza
blinks and wags his head. "Actually, they are very worried.

"We love this country," he said. "Please tell me why we are being singled out."

"An officer accused me of being terrorist. I live in fear of police and FBI raid
. . . "

-- A grocery store packer

"I am a taxi driver, night shift, my boss threatens to fire me because he says
I'm a terrorist."

-- Car service driver

"They chased me for three blocks and told me to go back where I came from or
they would kill me."

-- A 13-year-old junior high school student

-- From city Human Rights commission surveys filled out by Pakistanis on

Coney Island Avenue

Bobby Khan turns the key and opens the door to the one-bedroom apartment and
it's as though someone just left. A coffee grinder sits on the kitchen counter,
the TV set stands in the living room, the air conditioner is plugged in. There
is a phone list for Little Hands Pre-K and a saying from the Koran on the
refrigerator: "Be Patient." Khan's friends, a father and mother, lived here for
10 years with their three U.S.-born children -- until they packed a few bags in
February and took an overnight bus to Montreal.

These ghost apartments are scattered across Brooklyn and Queens. Families fled
and friends now watch over the apartments, pay the rent for a few months, in
hopes of -- what?

Khan shrugs. Dark-haired and bearded, with circle-rimmed eyes, he is a trained
financial analyst who volunteers seven days a week as an interpreter and
advocate for his embattled community. "They had been in New York 18 years," he
says of his friends. "He was a cabdriver; I knew him from Pakistan. They were
very happy, but their status was unclear. It's hard to think about leaving
forever."

Qamar, the young man whose mom, dad and brother live in a Toronto motel, stops
by his parents' apartment in a dowager of a prewar apartment building in
Brooklyn's Bath Beach neighborhood each week. He runs the washing machine,
waters the plants, looks at old photos. Sometimes he packs their clothes.

"My mom and I talked about it; they are fully Americanized but they can't leave
my brother alone," said Qamar, who is married to a U.S. citizen. "When they are
ready, I will close the apartment and drive their boxes up to them. This life is
past."

That's hard for many to accept -- they see Little Pakistan as built of
collective effort. Accountant Ashgar Choudhri, dressed in tweed jacket and
pants, with a plaid vest and a professorial aspect, recalls coming to Coney
Island Avenue in the early 1960s. He found a desolate strip of walkups and
storefronts, wedged between the Victorian houses of Flatbush and growing
Orthodox Jewish neighborhoods of Midwood and Borough Park.

A mosque, the granddaddy of the present one, opened in a basement. Immigrants
with degrees in engineering and accounting and medicine worked construction,
drove taxis and hawked tabloids on the Brooklyn Bridge.

Many underwent the slow metamorphosis from tourist visa holder to green card to
permanent resident status. About 40,000 became citizens. "When you return to
Pakistan, I tell you, everyone can see you're not the same," Choudhri said. "You
walk different. You talk different. You are an American."

By the 1990s, Pakistani dentists and obstetricians had busy practices. The halal
butchers expanded to service the Orthodox Jews. Crime plummeted, and each Friday
cops from the 70th Precinct allowed livery drivers to double-park so they could
pray. On Pakistan Day in August, 10,000 people crowded onto Coney Island Avenue
to listen as mayor and governor wished them well.

"My God, you don't know what it is to feel the freedom here," Choudhri said,
slapping his battered brown leather briefcase for emphasis. "Freedom of speech,
freedom of movement."

Which explains why those who fled are so reluctant to relinquish their homes.
Regardless of status -- and some who fled are citizens -- they hope one day to
trickle back. Those who remain wonder about the shape of that future. "I try to
speak out for those who are being harassed," Choudhri said. "But sometimes I
keep quiet now. Because you see" -- his smile is sheepish -- "I, too, am
scared."

She imitates the sound of knocking on her apartment door at 2 a.m. She recalls
peering through the peephole and seeing two plainclothes detectives holding up
their badges. She opened the door that night in December 2002, and her life
changed.

The police wanted her husband, a car service driver and a grocery worker. He
requested political asylum years earlier -- the application had languished. The
detectives took him into detention a few days later. His home is a cell in New
Jersey.

Razia Sultana has three children, ages 5, 6 and 10. A striking woman swathed in
a periwinkle headdress, she personifies the economic impact of the two-year
crackdown. She has no work permit, she has run up $ 200 a month in charges for
collect phone calls from her husband in prison, her rent is overdue. She cannot
afford meat or new clothes; her Kashmiri butcher and Punjabi sari shop owner
have lost a customer.

"Life was good and my husband worked very hard," Sultana said. "But to survive
on our own -- New York is very hard."

The Islamic Circle of North America held a fundraiser on Coney Island Avenue two
weeks ago that took in $ 55,000 for 275 families whose men are in detention.
"Sometimes we can pay the rent," said Adem Carroll of ICNA. "Sometimes we can
give just enough to keep them in a state of misery."

In the way of immigrant communities, waves of misfortune in Brooklyn ripple
through Lahore and Islamabad and dusty Indus River villages. Many Pakistani
immigrants send dollars to relatives in Pakistan -- an illiterate bricklayer who
lived with three other men in an apartment on Ditmas Road in Brooklyn said he
supported a family of nine in Pakistan.

Those who fled with their American nest eggs have fueled a housing boom in
Islamabad, where prices have tripled. "This has never happened in Islamabad,"
said Imran Ali, a Pakistani Embassy official. "There are no jobs to support
these lifestyles in Pakistan."

The Friday custom is well-established in Little Pakistan. As mosque services
end, families stroll in search of a late-afternoon snack. Lazzat pizzeria sits
across the street, a spotless, glass-lined eatery that promises customers, in no
particular order, eggplant parmigiana, halal fried chicken, Lahori dall Chawal
and baked ziti. A 52-inch satellite TV shows cricket and soccer matches.

This is Javed Chaudri's palace, and it's empty when it should be full.

"It is over," he said, waving a hand, wearily, at 13 empty tables. "I used to
make $ 1,800 in 24 hours -- now I make $ 800. My chef was arrested six months
ago, and he's gone back to Pakistan to start a construction business."

Chaudri climbed a well-worn immigrant ladder. He washed dishes, sold newspapers,
drove a taxi. "I was 24 when I came here and I'm 40 now," he said. "I spent the
prime of my life in struggle, and now my business goes down, down, down."

Would he return to Pakistan? He shakes his head without hesitation. Chaudri is a
U.S. citizen, and his oldest son will graduate high school and go to college
next year. He loves this country even if it's scared of him just now.

"America has been very good to us," he said. "I have kept my cab license. I will
struggle and this will pass."

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              177 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 31, 2003 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Demanding Neighbor

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 141 words


Mexican President Vicente Fox has incredible gall ["Fox Asks for Action on
Immigration; President Says Mexicans Working in U.S. Are 'Reliable People,' Not
Security Threat," news story, May 27]. First, he hints that the U.S. delay in
meeting his agenda for an "immigration agreement" caused the tragic deaths of
illegal immigrants in Victoria, Tex.

Next he wants legal status for "some" of the estimated 4 million Mexicans
already in the United States illegally. Then he wants the United States to have
"co-responsibility" for Mexico's economic problems. And he tosses off Mexico's
refusal to support the United States on the Iraq war as a neighborly difference.

Mr. Fox should face the fact that his is a Third World country with leaders who
have failed their people to the extent that those people risk their lives to
leave.

PATRICK FRAZIER

Arlington

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              178 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 31, 2003 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Dangerous Crossing

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 416 words


LIKE HURRICANES or locust plagues, horrific tragedies on the U.S.-Mexico border
seem to come in terrible, predictable cycles. Two weeks ago, 19 people,
including a 5-year-old boy, died in the back of a tractor-trailer where scores
had been locked in, and deprived of air, for many hours. But this, the worst
such tragedy to date, is only one of many. Over the past five years, some 2,000
others have drowned, frozen or suffocated trying to get across the Mexican
border to the United States. At least 11 other people, according to Post
reporters Kevin Sullivan and Mary Jordan, died, mostly unnoticed, within a week
of the tractor-trailer accident. To see people die following their dreams is
very sad, President Vicente Fox told Mr. Sullivan and Ms. Jordan.

He is right. While the United States is under no obligation to accept every
person who wants to live in this country, our current immigration policy has
long been absurd and is growing worse. Theoretically, the U.S. government sets
strict limits; in practice, the U.S. economy relies on immigrants, and
businesses compete for them. Knowing this, immigrants keep coming, and local
authorities have no choice but to deal with them. This week, Montgomery County
became the first area jurisdiction to decide to accept Mexican and Guatemalan
consular documents as legal proof of identity, enabling immigrants from those
countries to open bank accounts, pay rent and, if need be, identify themselves
to police. Some will criticize the county leadership for contributing to the
weakening of immigration law, and they have a point. But officials in Montgomery
County, and elsewhere, have no choice: If they do not accept some form of
identity card from illegal immigrants, those immigrants will simply join the
cash economy, living even further outside the law. In any case, it is not up to
local officials to enforce immigration policy. That, in theory, is the job of
the federal government.

It would be far better, both for Montgomery County and for the immigrants who
risk their lives to get there, if the United States created work visas that
would allow more necessary workers to enter this country and work here,
temporarily and legally. President Bush long ago promised Mr. Fox, his former
dear friend and now distant acquaintance, that he would do precisely that. When
he sees Mr. Fox this weekend, he should tell him he will make good on his
promise -- for the sake of more secure borders, more legal paychecks and fewer
desert deaths.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              179 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 31, 2003 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Report Questions Some 9/11 Detentions

BYLINE: Dan Eggen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 395 words


A long-awaited report from the Justice Department inspector general concludes
that federal authorities detained dozens of immigrants for unusually long
periods of time after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, according to Justice
officials and sources familiar with the report.

The report by Inspector General Glenn A. Fine, scheduled for release Monday,
found that some foreign nationals with no connection to terrorism were held for
months because of delays in routing information between the immigration service
and the FBI, according to Justice and FBI officials.

The report found that 54 of the 762 detainees were held for more than three
months, despite objections from officials in the former Immigration and
Naturalization Service that they should be released with "reasonable dispatch,"
one Justice official said.

At least 130 detainees did not acquire counsel during their proceedings,
although all were afforded the right to ask for lawyers, the Justice official
said.

Although the findings provide a glimpse of the impending report on Sept. 11
detainees, it was impossible to determine yesterday what other findings it might
contain. Neither the Justice Department nor the inspector general's office would
provide any part of the report itself.

"We would caution people not to draw conclusions based on a report that has yet
to be released," said Paul Martin, a spokesman for Fine.

The Justice Department and Attorney General John D. Ashcroft have come under
steady criticism since the Sept. 11 attacks from civil liberties groups, Arab
American organizations and some lawmakers for an aggressive dragnet that
ensnared hundreds of immigrants, mostly from Muslim countries.

Anthony Romero, executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union, said
yesterday that "the inspector general report shows that the war on terror
quickly turned into a war on immigrants."

"Government officials were implementing policies targeting immigrants who have
no connection to the terrorist attacks, and their policies did not make the
country any safer," Romero said.

But Justice and FBI officials said they believe the report shows they acted
within the law in detaining immigrants after Sept. 11. A Justice official said
the department has already implemented two of Fine's recommendations and is
reviewing the overall system for handling "special interest" detainees.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              180 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 1, 2003 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Dangerous Crossing

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 416 words


LIKE HURRICANES or locust plagues, horrific tragedies on the U.S.-Mexico border
seem to come in terrible, predictable cycles. Two weeks ago, 19 people,
including a 5-year-old boy, died in the back of a tractor-trailer where scores
had been locked in, and deprived of air, for many hours. But this, the worst
such tragedy to date, is only one of many. Over the past five years, some 2,000
others have drowned, frozen or suffocated trying to get across the Mexican
border to the United States. At least 11 other people, according to Post
reporters Kevin Sullivan and Mary Jordan, died, mostly unnoticed, within a week
of the tractor-trailer accident. To see people die following their dreams is
very sad, President Vicente Fox told Mr. Sullivan and Ms. Jordan.

He is right. While the United States is under no obligation to accept every
person who wants to live in this country, our current immigration policy has
long been absurd and is growing worse. Theoretically, the U.S. government sets
strict limits; in practice, the U.S. economy relies on immigrants, and
businesses compete for them. Knowing this, immigrants keep coming, and local
authorities have no choice but to deal with them. This week, Montgomery County
became the first area jurisdiction to decide to accept Mexican and Guatemalan
consular documents as legal proof of identity, enabling immigrants from those
countries to open bank accounts, pay rent and, if need be, identify themselves
to police. Some will criticize the county leadership for contributing to the
weakening of immigration law, and they have a point. But officials in Montgomery
County, and elsewhere, have no choice: If they do not accept some form of
identity card from illegal immigrants, those immigrants will simply join the
cash economy, living even further outside the law. In any case, it is not up to
local officials to enforce immigration policy. That, in theory, is the job of
the federal government.

It would be far better, both for Montgomery County and for the immigrants who
risk their lives to get there, if the United States created work visas that
would allow more necessary workers to enter this country and work here,
temporarily and legally. President Bush long ago promised Mr. Fox, his former
dear friend and now distant acquaintance, that he would do precisely that. When
he sees Mr. Fox this weekend, he should tell him he will make good on his
promise -- for the sake of more secure borders, more legal paychecks and fewer
desert deaths.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              181 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 6, 2003 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Ashcroft Wants Stronger Patriot Act;
Expanded Death Penalty and Bond Changes Sought

BYLINE: Susan Schmidt, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 1025 words


Attorney General John D. Ashcroft told Congress yesterday that he would like to
strengthen the USA Patriot Act to allow capital punishment for all terrorist
acts that result in fatalities and to prevent suspects accused of terrorism from
being released on bond.

Three days after the Justice Department's inspector general suggested that law
enforcement agencies had mistreated hundreds of immigrant detainees taken into
custody after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, Ashcroft asked Congress to tighten
several Patriot Act provisions, calling them "weaknesses which terrorists could
exploit."

Ashcroft testified before the House Judiciary Committee, where Republicans
lauded his efforts and Democrats expressed tempered concerns about whether civil
liberties were being trampled in the name of national security under the
19-month-old Patriot Act, which gave Justice far-reaching new powers to gather
information and crack down on terrorists.

Ashcroft acknowledged that authorities had subjected some illegal immigrants
detained after the attacks on the World Trade Center and Pentagon to harsh jail
conditions for long periods of time before the FBI cleared them of links to
terrorism. That was a central finding of the critical report issued Monday by
the Justice Department's inspector general, Glenn A. Fine.

Ashcroft said he had "some sympathy" for the criticisms leveled by Fine, who
found there were "significant problems" in the detention, on charges of
immigration violations, of many of the 762 foreign nationals after the Sept. 11
attacks. While none has been publicly charged with terrorism, they spent an
average of 80 days in jail before the FBI completed its investigation, and many
went weeks before being charged with immigration violations or seeing attorneys.
About515 were eventually deported.

Yesterday, Ashcroft said without elaboration that the department has obtained
plea agreements, "many under seal," from individuals cooperating in terror
investigations. Six of those plea agreements were reached with a group of Yemeni
American men in Buffalo who admitted training at al Qaeda camps in Afghanistan.

Ashcroft said the Justice Department policy, "for which we do not apologize," is
to fully investigate the illegal immigrants who came to the attention of
authorities investigating the attacks before deporting them.

"If we, God forbid, if we ever have to do this again, we hope we can clear
people more quickly," he told the panel. "There is no interest whatsoever that
the United States of America has in holding innocent people -- absolutely none."

He said the department's civil rights division is investigating four instances
of alleged abuse of detainees identified by the inspector general. For 14 of 18
incidents noted by the IG, evidence has been deemed insufficient to bring
criminal charges, he said, adding, "we do not stand for abuse."

Some Democrats, including Reps. Maxine Waters and Howard L. Berman of
California, said they were troubled by the FBI's information-gathering powers.
Said Rep. William D. Delahunt (D-Mass.): "It appears that the American people
feel that the government is intent on prying into every nook and cranny of
people's private lives, while at the same time doing all it can to block access
to government information that would inform the American people about what is
being done in their name."

But Committee Chairman F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. (R-Wis.) said that with the
aid of the Patriot Act, the Justice Department and the FBI have made "impressive
gains" in obtaining "critical knowledge of the intentions of foreign-based
terrorists, while preempting gathering terrorist threats at home." He stressed,
though, that his support for the law's provisions -- which are scheduled for
legislative sunset in 2005 -- "is neither perpetual nor unconditional."

The Patriot Act permits unprecedented information-sharing between law
enforcement and intelligence agencies. The failure of U.S. authorities to learn
of the Sept. 11 plot in advance has been blamed in part on real and perceived
legal barriers at the time to the sharing of such information.

The changes under the Patriot Act have resulted in numerous criminal
investigations, department officials have said, and at least one significant
terrorism-related prosecution -- that of Florida professor Sami al-Arian, who is
accused of aiding Palestinian suicide bombers.

One of the changes Ashcroft requested would increase penalties for certain acts
of terrorism. If a terrorist caused loss of life by sabotaging a nuclear or
defense facility, for example, current statutes do not carry the potential for
the death penalty, department officials said. The maximum penalty now is life
imprisonment.

Ashcroft also said he wants adjustments that will make it "crystal clear that
those who train for and fight with a designated terrorist organization" can be
charged under the statute that prohibits providing "material support" for
terrorist organizations. While the department has prosecuted men in Lackawanna,
N.Y., and Detroit using the material support statute, the U.S. Court of Appeals
for the 9th Circuit, which covers California and other Western states, has found
the statute vague, and officials are concerned about bringing prosecutions
there.

In addition, Ashcroft said, terrorism offenses should be added to the list of
crimes for which defendants are presumed ineligible for pretrial release, along
with weapons violations, organized crime and drug dealing.

Sensenbrenner complained that Ashcroft had not consulted with Congress last year
when he revised the attorney general's guidelines on FBI investigations. The
previous guidelines, adopted in the 1970s to curtail bureau spying on political
organizations, were widely interpreted as barring agents from gathering
information in public, political or religious settings, or even surfing the
Internet. The new rules allow agents to go where the public can go, including
into churches and mosques, even if there is no ongoing investigation.

Ashcroft said information from such visits "cannot be retained unless it relates
to potential criminal or terrorist activity."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              182 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 7, 2003 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Poland's Big Debate Becomes Chicago's;
Immigrants to Help Decide If Homeland Should Join the EU

BYLINE: Robert E. Pierre, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 912 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO June 6


The campaign rhetoric has been heating up for months, with shouting matches on
the radio, competing flyers, newspaper editorials and breathless accusations
with each side declaring that the other has a stubborn, uninformed view of the
world.

"We hate those guys," said a smirking Zbigniew Kruczalak, owner of D&Z House of
Books, whose opponents despise him just as much.

"We couldn't be further apart," said Alfred M. Karwowski, referring to people,
such as Kruczalak, who oppose him. "We don't agree on anything."

Typical brass-knuckle politics in Chicago, right? Sort of.

This debate will help decide whether Poland, about 4,700 miles away, will become
a member of the European Union. Voting in Poland is on Saturday and Sunday, and
polls there show that more than 70 percent favor joining.

In the United States, several major cities, including New York and Los Angeles,
have set up polling sites today and Saturday for residents with valid Polish
passports.

But none of those cities has the clout of Chicago, a magnet for immigrants from
Poland since the mid-1800s. The city has several Polish newspapers, three radio
stations and a television station to serve the largest population of Poles
outside of Warsaw, estimated at 800,000. The Polish yellow pages here are more
than three inches thick. And the signs at jewelry stores, check-cashing places
and restaurants in Polish neighborhoods across the city are written in English
and Polish.

These days, conversation harkens back to the homeland and whether to join the
EU.

"Everybody is talking about this," said Kruczalak, who moved to Chicago 13 years
ago and runs a Polish bookstore with his wife, Dorota.

Kruczalak views the invitation to Poland to join forces with its European
neighbors as an overdue sign that his native country is finally gaining respect.
With more fluid borders would come more jobs, investment and higher property
values, he said. It would also mark an end to isolationism. "We've never really
been part of Europe in the economic or cultural sense," said Kruczalak, 43.
"We've always been Poland."

Karwowski sees nothing wrong with that. The country, as the result of war, lost
its independence for more than a century. And Karwowski fears that by joining a
larger body, Poland jeopardizes its dedication to Roman Catholicism and its
culture.

"Poland will lose its identity, its sovereignty, its ability to decide its
future," said Karwowski, a spokesman for an informal group of organizations
called the Patriotic Anti-EU Movement. "It's a lie that several million Poles
will find work outside the country."

In Chicago, an estimated 9,000 people will vote, said Les Kuczynski, executive
director of the Polish American Congress, which has lobbying offices in Chicago
and Washington.

How people vote, he predicted, will depend largely on when they arrived here.

"I would say that more people here will vote no than in Poland because of the
experiences that brought them here," Kuczynski said. "The immigrants who came
after World War II or in the '80s were part of communist rule, so they have
fears about joining another large organization. But the younger generation are
looking at this as an opportunity."

Kuczynski was born in Germany to Polish refugee parents and immigrated to the
United States through Ellis Island in 1950. Few immigrants, he said, lose their
connection. Many, even after becoming U.S. citizens, retain Polish passports,
which allows them to vote on the EU question.

Some wish that residents with Polish roots would show the same enthusiasm about
Chicago elections as they have about this one. Polish names once figured
prominently in city politics. Among the best known was Dan Rostenkowski, the
former House Ways and Means Committee chairman. But that clout is waning as
local Poles move to the suburbs and focus their attention on money instead of
politics.

"Polish mothers don't raise their children to be alderman," said Aurelia
Pucinski, a former clerk of Circuit Court in Cook County. "They raise them to be
businessman. Unlike other ethnic groups, the political process is not something
they see as important in their lives."

That has not been true with this issue. Fifteen hundred people called a local
Polish radio station during an all-day telephone poll last week to weigh in on
the EU vote, with 78 percent saying they would vote yes. But those numbers do
little to assuage Piotr Dabrowski of the local group, Progress for Poland. He
said he thinks the measure will fail among voters in Chicago because his
opponents have been spending money and spreading misinformation, namely that
Poland will lose its independence.

Still Dabrowski has no doubts that the measure will pass in Poland. "This is the
moment to change things around," he said. "We will bring the European Union
closer to America."

At Holy Trinity Church, a couple of people were waiting to greet Marcin
Wyrzykowski as he opened one of six local polling sites at 6 a.m. A center of
the Polish community, drawing 3,000 people to Mass each Sunday, the church's
basement was set up with Polish flags, poll watchers and a red and white box in
which to stuff paper ballots.

Wyrzykowski said that 30 people had voted by 10 a.m., but he expected nearly all
of the 600 who registered at the site to show up by the time the polls close on
Saturday.

"This is just a very hot issue right now," Wyrzykowski said.

Special correspondent Kari Lydersen in Chicago contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              183 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 8, 2003 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Foreign Nationals Plagued by Travel Rules;
Oversights, Misinformation Keeping Many in Limbo While Trying to Reenter U.S.

BYLINE: George Lardner Jr., Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 1210 words


Shahid Mahmood is about to come home, none too soon for his poor and elderly
patients.

Hundreds of them have been without medical care since U.S. immigration officials
refused last month to let Mahmood reenter the country after a trip to Pakistan
because of an oversight that is also plaguing other foreign nationals who travel
abroad. It took almost a month of pleading from lawyers and pressure from
members of Congress before U.S. diplomats relented last week and told Mahmood, a
Pakistani citizen, he would be granted a new visa.

"The patients are thrilled," Tracy Wall, office manager at Mahmood's Al Shifa
(The Healing) Clinic in rural Roxboro, N.C., said Friday. "A few of them
actually cried. He has more than 600 patients, and about half of them haven't
been coming in because he isn't here."

Other foreign visitors and students said they have run into similar problems for
unintentional violations of a regulation adopted after the Sept. 11, 2001,
attacks that requires them to report to immigration officials before they leave
the United States for even brief visits abroad.

Some commercial airline representatives have compounded the problem, the
travelers said, by assuring them they need to report to the government only when
they return. On other occasions, they said, they could not find any immigration
officials at airports before departing.

Mahmood, who runs his clinic under a federal program for medically underserved
areas, left the United States with his wife and 21/2-year-old daughter in April
to visit his sick father in Lahore, Pakistan.

Mahmood, 38, said he knew he could leave the country only through designated
points of departure because his travel agent told him that, but he had no idea
he was required to register with immigration officials before flying out of
Dulles International Airport on April 24.

When he tried to return on May 11, he said in a telephone interview from Lahore,
he was told he was in violation of the law for not having registered on April
24. He said the immigration officer with whom he spoke seemed sympathetic when
Mahmood explained he had not been informed of the requirement when he registered
with the government in late January under a special program for visitors from
mostly Muslim countries. But after the officer checked with a superior, Mahmood
was told he would have to go back to Pakistan.

Bill Strassberger, a spokesman for the Bureau of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, said the officers assigned to the program were often too busy to
spell out all the requirements to each registrant. However, he said, the
registrants are handed packets of rules, including a seven-page compilation of
questions and answers, that they are responsible for comprehending.

A paragraph near the bottom of the sixth page notes that "[w]hen you leave the
United States, including for visits to Mexico, Canada, or adjacent islands, you
must notify the INS in person on the date of your departure and leave through a
designated port. If you do not report your departure, you may be denied
admission to the United States at a later date."

Mahmood said the officer who interviewed him in Charlotte, N.C., in January did
not tell him about the rule and also failed to give him the rules packet. He
said he was given those papers in Pakistan after he, his wife and his daughter
had landed at Dulles and were forced to return to Lahore May 11-12.

When he left Dulles on April 24, he said, he asked a United Airlines
representative at the gate if he had to complete "more paperwork" or fulfill any
other requirements. He said he was told there were no more requirements until he
returned.

Yahya Jalil, a student in his final semester at the University of Pennsylvania's
Wharton School of Business found himself in a similar predicament. He said he,
too, was told by a United Airlines representative not to worry about registering
until he returned from a trip to London on spring break in March. In an
interview with the Stanford Daily, a student newspaper at Stanford University,
where Jalil did his undergraduate work, he said he registered with the INS twice
last winter, in Newark and Philadelphia, and neither of the INS agents informed
him of the departure registration rule.  Jalil has missed most of the semester
but is hoping to return so he can get his MBA degree and reunite with his wife.

Strassberger said it is unwise for travelers to rely on airline employees for
guidance instead of seeking out an immigration agent. In any case, he said,
foreign nationals "have to take responsibility" for complying with the rules.

A United Airlines spokesman did not dispute the reports involving the carrier,
but said that as a general rule, "We do not provide guidance to our customers.
That's up to immigration." A Continental Airlines spokesman said his airline has
a similar policy.

Another Pakistani student, Bilal Zuberi, a doctoral candidate at MIT, said he
was told when he registered with the INS in Boston on Jan. 15 that he had to
leave from an approved point of departure and "go to the airport five hours in
advance" -- though he was not instructed what to do when he got there. He said
he arrived at Logan Airport before 1 a.m. on March 27 for a flight to Mexico
City via Newark, and found no one there but janitors. The immigration office in
Terminal E did not open until half an hour after his flight left Boston from
another terminal.

He said he called Continental, explained his situation and was assured "by a
rather confident male voice that . . . if the INS wished to speak with me, they
would stop me either in Boston or Newark, and that the only important thing to
do was register when I reentered the country."

Zuberi said he later managed to persuade immigration officials in Newark to let
him back into the country but not until after "a quasi-criminal interrogation"
by one immigration agent who repeatedly told him he would be denied reentry.

North Carolina lawmakers who tried to intervene on Mahmood's behalf were
initially informed by U.S. Embassy officials in Pakistan that no waiver could be
granted. The consul general in Islamabad told Sen. Elizabeth Dole (R-N.C.) on
May 19 that the State Department and the Department of Homeland Security had yet
to develop rules permitting waiver relief.

The U.S. diplomats were evidently unaware of a memo from Secretary of State
Colin L. Powell to all embassies on May 10 allowing foreign nationals who show
"good cause" for failing to comply with registration rules and who promise not
to do it again to be granted new visas. Dole aides and a lawyer for Mahmood in
North Carolina, Dayna Kelly, said they brought the memo to the diplomats'
attention at the end of May.

Mahmood said he hopes to return to the United States next week. "Chances are the
inspectors [at Dulles] will go along with that," Strassberger said. But he
stressed that reentry still "comes down to the discretion of officials at the
port of entry. A visa never guarantees admission."

By Friday, however, Mahmood was getting nervous about the visa. He said U.S.
officials in Islamabad told him Tuesday that it had been issued and would be
delivered to him in Lahore by courier. He was still waiting for it Friday night
when the U.S. Embassy closed for the weekend.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              184 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 12, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

D.C. Region's Immigrants Faring Better Than Others

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1093 words


The Washington area has the highest percentage of foreign-born residents who
speak English well and the lowest immigrant poverty rate among the 10 U.S.
metropolitan areas with the largest international populations, according to a
study being released today.

The study, by the Brookings Institution, provides the most detailed sketch yet
of this region's foreign-born population, using 2000 Census data to delve into
English proficiency, country of origin, poverty levels and the neighborhoods
where immigrants live.

The portrait that emerges is one of a large, rapidly growing foreign-born
community that is starkly different from those in cities such as New York or Los
Angeles. Here, the report finds, there are no sprawling immigrant ghettos;
instead, most of the foreign-born live in moderate- or high-income
neighborhoods. Nearly 80 percent speak English well. And 10.6 percent are
officially poor, about half the immigrant poverty rate of metro areas such as
New York and Houston.

Still, the report emphasizes, the flood of newcomers is producing costs as well
as benefits. The sheer size of the immigrant population -- 832,000 -- means
there is a large number of people who don't speak English well. The number of
students enrolled in English-as-a-second-language classes doubled from 1993 to
2001, reaching 54,000, the report says.

And immigrants here are still more likely than U.S.-born residents to be needy:
Only 6.8 percent of the native-born are classified as poor.

"Compared to other major immigrant metropolitan areas, Washington appears to be
doing well, looking at these indicators. But there are local areas where some
immigrants are struggling, and service providers are also struggling," said
Audrey Singer, the demographer who did the report.

The Washington region now ranks seventh among U.S. metro areas in the size of
its immigrant population, with one in six residents born in a foreign country --
compared with one in 22 residents three decades ago.

The local immigrant population is distinct for a number of reasons. With its
international institutions, embassies, high-tech industry and universities, the
region draws educated workers from around the world. Thirty-six percent of
immigrants are from Asia and the Middle East, compared with 26 percent
nationally; 39 percent are from Latin America and the Caribbean, below the
national average of 52 percent.

Drew Dedrick, demographer for Montgomery County, noted that Washington attracts
a different mix of immigrants than a border state.

"Our immigrants mostly arrive here by airplane," Dedrick said. "A lot of people
come here because they can make a lot more money. They would be affluent where
they were."

Although El Salvador is the top country of origin among the area's immigrants,
it accounts for just 12.6 percent of the foreign-born, the report says. Ranking
second and third are Korea and India.

Many Washington area immigrants are white-collar professionals: physicians,
computer programmers, scientists working at the National Institutes of Health.

"The last time I looked, for Montgomery County, our immigrants had a higher
percentage of PhDs than our native population," Dedrick said.

One of those PhDs is Grace Virtue. She left a journalism job in her native
Jamaica in 1996 to study mass communications at Howard University. Virtue, 38,
now is the university's executive communications manager and lives in Silver
Spring. She stayed on because of the opportunities available, particularly for
her two daughters, 10 and 12.

"The education my child gets in public school is an education I would have paid
a lot of money for in Jamaica," she said.

The high rate of English proficiency among immigrants is explained in part by
those with advanced education. In addition, many immigrants come from countries
where English is widely spoken, such as India and the Philippines.

A further reason is the extraordinary diversity of Washington's immigrants, who
come from more than 150 countries. Consider the case of Khem Bahadur Gurung, 37,
a native of Nepal who lives in Tysons Corner. He arrived 20 years ago, to do
housework for a diplomat, and now owns a small landscaping business.

"I feel I should know English if I live in this country," said Gurung, who
slogged through three years of night school to learn the language.

He certainly needs it to function in his job and suburban neighborhood. His
neighbors are from Laos and Vietnam, as well as the United States. One of his
employees is Mexican. And about half of his customers are immigrants, including
a large number of Indians living in McLean.

Though a minority of immigrants are poor and lack English proficiency, they
still represent a challenge to governments, schools and health centers. And some
jurisdictions face bigger hurdles than others.

More than one-quarter of the foreign-born in the more densely populated
immigrant areas of Arlington, Alexandria and the District say they cannot speak
English well or at all. Poverty rates vary across the region; in the District,
18 percent of immigrants are poor, the report says.

Although the census sought to count both legal and illegal immigrants, immigrant
advocates say it missed some of those here without authorization. So figures for
poverty rates and English proficiency could be worse than those tabulated.

Immigration accounted for nearly half of the Washington area's population
increase of 700,000 in the 1990s, with the vast majority of newcomers settling
in the suburbs.

The report did not include U.S.-born children of immigrants, who are U.S.
citizens. They represent an additional 150,000 people, estimated Steven
Camarota, director of research for the Center for Immigration Studies.

"New immigration and births to immigrant women added about 500,000 people to the
Washington metropolitan area in the last 10 years," said Camarota, whose group
urges immigration cuts. "That has enormous implications, if we continue to do
that . . . for lots of things people seem to care about -- like loss of open
spaces, like crowding."

The study was underwritten by the Washington Area Partnership for Immigrants.
One of the foundations that funds the group is the Meyer Foundation, established
by a former Washington Post publisher.

Singer, the report's author, emphasized that it used data from the 2000 Census
and thus missed whatever changes came from the recession and stepped-up
immigration enforcement after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.

Staff writer D'Vera Cohn and database editor Dan Keating contributed to this
report.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              185 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            June 18, 2003 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Social Security Scales Back Worker Inquiries;
Agency Contacted Employers When False Data Were Used but Got Little Response

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 890 words


The U.S. government is scaling back an aggressive program to contact all
employers whose workers were using bogus or incorrect Social Security
information, concluding that the effort produced few corrections to its records.

The program last year had a major, if unintended, impact: It exposed many
unauthorized immigrants who were working "on the books," using stolen or made-up
Social Security numbers. Confronted by their employers, tens of thousands of
them quietly left their jobs or were fired, according to estimates by
immigration advocates and attorneys.

The Social Security Administration had launched the initiative, sending letters
last year to about 950,000 employers who had at least one worker whose name and
number did not match Social Security files. Government officials said at the
time that they were simply trying to get employers and workers to correct the
agency's records.

But few responded, said Mark Hinkle, a spokesman for the Social Security
Administration. As a result, he said, the agency plans to contact only about
130,000 employers this year in an effort to be "using our resources effectively
-- time, money, staff, that kind of thing."

Immigrant advocates and members of business groups, who had protested the
earlier Social Security program, said they were pleased with the change.
Activists for reduced immigration criticized the move and said it underlined the
government's lack of coordination in targeting unauthorized workers.

"It's aggravating beyond belief that the Social Security Administration isn't
waking up to its responsibility to be part of the federal government's
immigration enforcement arm," said Dan Stein, executive director of the
Federation for American Immigration Reform.

The Social Security Administration stumbled into the contentious issue of
illegal immigration because of a major bookkeeping problem. For years, it has
received a growing pile of money from mystery workers whose names or numbers do
not match Social Security files. In 2000, the contributions from such workers
and their employers totaled about $ 6 billion -- money that goes into the
general fund, since it cannot be linked to individual workers.

Some of the mystery workers are legally employed but simply have a mistake in
their records: a misspelling of their name, or a maiden name listed instead of
their married one.

But the government has found that most "no-match" cases are in industries that
rely on low-skilled and migrant workers, such as restaurants, farms and hotels.

That leads such people as Steven A. Camarota of the Center for Immigration
Studies, a think tank that favors reduced immigration, to question why Social
Security is cutting back on the letters and not coordinating with other agencies
to target undocumented workers. The number of people in the country illegally
has swelled to an estimated 7 million to 8 million.

"This process . . . could have been an important step in controlling or reducing
illegal immigration," Camarota said.

Social Security officials respond that that's not their job. In addition, they
say that privacy laws bar them from giving their information to immigration
authorities. Although the agency sent follow-up letters last year to employers
who ignored their first notices, it did not have the power to do much more, said
spokesman Mark Hinkle.

"We're not an enforcement agency," he said.

Immigrant advocates argue that unauthorized workers were not the only ones who
lost jobs. They said some bosses panicked and fired employees named in the
letters -- even though the notices emphasized that they were not grounds for
dismissal.

"Many companies used this as an excuse to terminate the employment of various
people" without cause, said Saul Solorzano, executive director of CARECEN, an
immigrant social-service agency in Columbia Heights.

He said Social Security's plan to send fewer letters is "better, to avoid
confusion."

The impact of the letters on the Washington area was "significant but not
severe," said Elissa McGovern, head of the local chapter of the American
Immigration Lawyers Association. "It was felt in the service sectors -- hotels,
restaurants, landscaping, industries where you have high turnover."

Immigrant and business groups had urged the Social Security Administration to
change its program. Did their efforts succeed?

"I'd like to think we had some impact," said Theresa Brown, director of
immigration policy at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. She noted, however, that the
Social Security Administration attributed its shift to the lack of results from
the letter-sending campaign.

Hinkle said that this year's letters will go only to employers who have at least
10 workers whose information does not match Social Security files. Such people
have to make up at least 0.5 percent of the employer's personnel to trigger a
letter.

The agency will continue to send individual letters to the homes of all
employees whose name or number do not match Social Security records.

Experts who work with or study immigrants said the "no-match" program did not
appear to reduce the number of people in the country illegally. Many workers who
were confronted with the letters "went somewhere else" to work, said Jeffrey
Passel, a researcher at the Urban Institute. "Or they showed up on Monday with a
different Social Security number."

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              186 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 19, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

WASHINGTON IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 482 words


As many as 30 people whose visas were revoked because of alleged terrorism ties
may still be in the United States because law enforcement officials do not
always receive word of such actions, congressional investigators have found. The
FBI, the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the State Department have no
set procedure to share the information, said the report by the General
Accounting Office.

"State and INS officials say they use the revocation process to prevent
suspected terrorists from entering the country, but none of the agencies has a
policy that covers investigating, locating and taking action when a visa holder
has already entered," the report said. It said the lack of formal, written
protocols on enforcing revocations increases the possibility of a terrorist
entering or remaining in the United States.

None of the 30 individuals was identified in the report. The INS said it has
located four, yet may not have the legal authority to remove them.

A group with Democratic ties is filing complaints against Rep. W. J. "Billy"
Tauzin (R-La.) and Sen. Richard C. Shelby (R-Ala.), saying they may have
solicited campaign donations from a utility in exchange for legislative
assistance. Both men deny soliciting the donations or providing help.

Citing internal documents from Westar Energy of Topeka, Kan., Citizens for
Responsibility and Ethics in Washington questioned whether Tauzin and Shelby
violated rules of professional conduct for lawyers, filing the complaints with
disciplinary panels in the home states of the two, who are lawyers. The
directors of the group filing the complaints include Democratic pollster Mark
Penn.

At issue is more than $ 55,000 in campaign donations from Westar and its
executives last year to members of Congress. Westar was seeking a legislative
exemption from regulatory oversight.

* Convicted Watergate figure Chuck Colson returned to the White House for a
meeting with President Bush on Colson's post-prison endeavor: ministering to
inmates.

* Scott McClellan, deputy White House press secretary, will succeed Ari
Fleischer as White House press secretary, administration officials said.

* Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld announced that former representative
Tillie K. Fowler (R-Fla.) will be chairman of the Defense Policy Board Advisory
Committee. Fowler is a law partner with Holland & Knight.

* DOJ Pride, the gay employee group that fought with the Department of Justice
over whether it could hold a Gay Pride Month event on its property, will hold
the event at the Capitol. The group had accused Justice of banning a ceremony to
honor two lawyers who have defended gay rights. The department said DOJ Pride
could use the auditorium at its own expense.  The event will be held in the
Russell Senate Office Building.

Compiled from reports by political researcher Brian Faler, Bloomberg News and
the Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              187 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 19, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Foreign-Born Faring Worse in D.C. Than in Suburbs

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: D.C. EXTRA; Pg. T03

LENGTH: 692 words


Immigrants in the District are more likely to be poor and slightly less likely
to be proficient in English, compared with other foreign-born residents in the
region, according to a new report by the Brookings Institution.

The study found that 10.6 percent of the foreign-born population in the
Washington metropolitan area meets the official definition of living in poverty,
and nearly 79 percent speak English well, the report said.

But the city's figures are worse: Here, nearly 18 percent of immigrants are
considered poor, and 76 percent are proficient in English, according to the
report, which was released last week and draws on 2000 Census data.

Audrey Singer, a demographer who wrote the report, said it showed how
immigration had brought both benefits and difficulties to Washington.

"Without more immigrants moving in, the District probably would have lost more
people," she said, referring to the exodus of residents in recent decades.

However, she added, "this is a new and fairly demanding immigrant population, in
the sense that many are coming from war-torn countries and have a lot of unmet
needs."

Washington, like the rest of the region, experienced a surge in immigration in
the 1990s. Newcomers were drawn by international institutions, the booming
economy and a rapidly growing foreign community that welcomed them.

The District's immigrant population rose by 25 percent in the 1990s, to 73,561,
the report noted. Overall, the city's population dropped 6 percent in the
decade, according to the census figures.

The poverty rate for Washington immigrants is lower than the rate for the city's
native-born citizens, which is about 20 percent, according to the data. But
immigrants here are more likely to be poor than foreign-born residents in most
suburban areas.

One possible reason: Just more than half of Washington's immigrants arrived in
the 1990s and could still be settling in and learning English.

Overall, a greater share of Washington's population is from Latin America and
the Caribbean: 50.4 percent, compared with 39 percent for the region.

"We are getting a lot of Central Americans, from El Salvador in particular, a
place ravaged by natural and political disasters," Singer said. "People are
coming here with little or next to nothing."

Nearly 22 percent of the District's foreign-born population comes from El
Salvador, nearly double the share they make up of regional immigrants.

Immigrant advocates at a panel discussion at Brookings emphasized that an
unknown number of people were missed in the census count. Thus, figures on
immigrant poverty and English proficiency could be somewhat worse.

One advocate, Eugenio Arene, executive director of the Council of Latino
Agencies, noted that the foreign-born population had not won political power
commensurate with its numbers. He urged officials to provide some way for
immigrants who are noncitizens to vote.

"Until we have access to the structure of power in this region, we will not make
these numbers count," he said.

Many Central American immigrants have stayed in the United States on temporary
permits that do not provide an automatic path to citizenship.

Because the Brookings report was based on 2000 Census data, it does not reflect
changes caused by the recession or the immigration crackdown that came after the
Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.

The study showed that the biggest concentration of immigrants was in the census
tract encompassing Mount Pleasant, Columbia Heights, Pleasant Plains and Park
View. There, nearly one in three residents was foreign-born.  Nearly half of
them (48.6 percent) were from El Salvador, followed by Vietnam (5.7 percent),
Ethiopia (5.3 percent), and the Dominican Republic and Honduras (4.7 percent
each).

But the city, like the region, has a remarkable diversity of immigrants. In the
fourth-biggest immigrant area, the Dupont Circle tract, more than one in five
residents is foreign-born, according to the report.

Within the Dupont area, the biggest countries of origin are: El Salvador (11.2
percent), the United Kingdom (5.8 percent), France (4.4 percent), Japan (3.4
percent) and Korea (3.3 percent).

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              188 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 29, 2003 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Music That Speaks to Their Seoul;
Korean American Concert Celebrates a Century of Immigration

BYLINE: Reilly Capps, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. D04

LENGTH: 756 words


A century after the first Korean immigrants arrived in this country,
Washington's Korean community announced it has finally, really and totally
arrived, with a festival and concert at RFK Stadium yesterday that promoters
billed the largest gathering of Koreans on the East Coast.

About 10,000 people showed up to the first Korean American Peace Festival. They
came to celebrate 100 years of immigration -- the first Koreans settled in the
United States in Hawaii, in 1903 -- and to see the two biggest acts in South
Korea's vibrant pop music biz: BoA and Shinhwa, that country's versions of
Britney Spears and 'N Sync. Event director Jerry Chin marketed the event in
communities up and down the East Coast, drawing people from as far away as Maine
and Michigan.

"Something this big, no one thought it would happen here," Chin said. "I kept
asking: Why not here?"

The D.C. metropolitan area boasts the nation's largest Korean population outside
New York and Los Angeles. Chin, who was born in South Korea but served in the
American military, said the event was about being both Korean and American at
the same time: celebrating the Korean culture while paying tribute to America.

"We helped build America," Chin said. "Now, we have a higher average income and
a better high school graduation rate than almost any other ethnic group. We
understand that America is a melting pot, but we're trying to show people, hey,
we're here, too. At the same time, we're saying thank you."

This year also marks the 50th anniversary of the Korean War armistice; Chin
brought up 20 American and South Korean veterans to be thanked by thousands.

The addition of older Korean stars such as Kim Gun-mo and Patty Kim to the
concert's young, hip bill meant that the crowd was more age-diverse than your
average teeny-bopper screamfest. Korea-born Jae Kyun Shim, 46, of Potomac,
brought his 13-year-old, sports-jersey-wearing son Stephen.

"I try to show the Korean culture to my children," Shim said. Added his wife,
Sun Mee: "We love the music, too, and we want to show them our way."

South Korean pop music is huge throughout Asia, and it's a sign of how
mainstream it has become that kids from the suburbs drive eight hours to listen
to songs they can't understand.

Amanda Ward, 15, and her friend Jolene Kozak, 16, came down from Pittsgrove,
N.J., at 3 in the morning. Their outfits scream Hot Topic and cul de sacs, but
their musical tastes are more kimchi than White Castle.

"I downloaded it off the Internet by accident two years ago," Jolene said of the
genre. "I fell in love with it." The girls all have their favorite singers, for
whom they'd kick Justin Timberlake to the curb any day. They're so in love with
Brian (no last name needed) of Fly to the Sky that they asked talent scout Gary
Boone, who discovered Brian, for a photo and his autograph.

"I'm not an entertainer," Boone demurred. "I'm just a businessman."

"If you didn't exist," Amanda said, "we probably wouldn't have Brian." The girls
talked to Boone like he was the man who discovered Elvis.

He found Brian in New Jersey, and the young performer has been working in South
Korea for four years. This concert, his first on the East Coast, was like a
homecoming for him.

"I've always wanted to do a show in the States, to perform for all people in the
States," Brian said.

The cultural exchange goes both ways: The performers almost all dress in hip-hop
style and speak a little English, even if they don't realize it. Words like "pop
artist," "R&B" and "rap" roll off Koreans' tongues as easily as a kim bap, the
seaweed-wrapped sushi cakes that were sold in the parking lot before the
concert.

In fact, an enormous slice of South Korean culture was on display, served with
sides of "mixed rice," "rolled rice" and "rice cakes," all of which taste
remarkably like rice. ("Koreans are famous for putting rice into different
shapes," said Stacy Nam, a festival volunteer.)

South Korean culture has become so alluring that more than a few Americans are
considering emigrating back. Jessica Tonz was adopted from Inchon, Korea, 16
years ago. She said she's never felt comfortable in her small Michigan town but
that she's always felt a connection with Korea, which is why she drove here for
the festival.

Korea "is where I'm from, and it's my identity inside," Tonz said. "I like the
culture and the food and the beliefs. I admire how religious they are. Someday,
I'm going to move to Korea."

For a photo gallery and video clips of scenes from the concert, visit
Washingtonpost.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              189 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 4, 2003 Friday
                                 Final Edition

California's Deficit

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 459 words


The article on California's two-year, $ 38 billion deficit [front page, June 30]
did not discuss a major cause of that deficit. A 1997 study by the National
Academy of Sciences found that the average native Californian household pays an
extra $ 1,178 in state and local taxes to finance $ 3,463 in services to each
immigrant household in that state.

If California's approximately 7.5 million native households are still paying at
least $ 1,000 toward services for immigrants, that amounts to about $ 7.5
billion annually, or roughly 40 percent of the $ 38 billion two-year total.

Policymakers need to examine the benefits of capping legal immigration at
200,000 people annually and getting tough on illegal immigration.

DAVID HOLZMAN

Lexington, Mass.

*

Rene Sanchez's article about California's budget woes did a good job of
discussing the current political picture but ignored the politics of how
California came upon such hard times so rapidly.

Was it the fiscal irresponsibility of Gov. Gray Davis (D)? I don't think so.

California was bilked out of billions by the power companies that generously
support our president and that he generously supports.

President Bush's Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) dillydallied rather
than acting on its mandate to ensure reasonable energy prices. It let the meter
run, allowing more time for the power companies to hold the western grid
hostage. FERC now refuses to force power companies to reimburse California for
what was stolen -- California will receive only $ 3 billion of the money owed.

Although without question the markets were manipulated on many occasions (see
Enron indictments for a partial list), FERC Chairman Pat Wood III wants the
energy companies to keep their ill-gotten gains. Thanks to him, ratepayers won't
receive a lead cent for the billions out of which they were bilked.

Kind of gives you a cozy feeling, doesn't it?

CAROL DAVIDEK-WALLER

Kirkland, Wash.

*

"As in many other states, the shortfall is largely the result of the national
economic downturn," wrote Rene Sanchez about California's financial crisis.
"Soaring health care costs for the poor and new expenses for homeland security
are other contributing factors."

As a third-generation Californian, I can state that there's much more to the
impending financial disaster than those simplistic assertions. California is
controlled by the Democratic Party. The bureaucrats have burdened the people
with heavy taxes, politically correct laws and outlandish business regulations,
which have forced many businesses to flee the state. Coupled with millions of
illegal aliens who drain the health care and welfare systems, the state has been
floating on fantasies and mismanaged by incompetents.

B.J. SULLIVAN

San Francisco

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              190 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 10, 2003 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

WASHINGTON IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 430 words


The Department of Homeland Security launched an operation yesterday to help
protect children from pornographers, child prostitution rings, Internet
predators and human traffickers.

The initiative will use the Internet more effectively to track sex offenders who
prey on young people and build a central database of child pornography images to
help rescue the children involved and arrest those who exploit them.

"Harming a child in any manner or form is a despicable, despicable thing," said
Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge as he announced "Operation Predator,"
which will be run by the department's Bureau of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement.

Vowing to use all means possible to keep American children safe, Ridge said the
goal of the operation is to identify child predators, prosecute them and force
them out of the country if they are foreigners subject to deportation.

The program will for the first time allow agents to prioritize and identify
illegal immigrants who are serving time for sexual offenses to ensure they are
deported once they complete their sentences.

The Senate rejected President Bush's order to block U.S. assistance to
international family planning agencies if they perform or advocate abortions.

Defying Bush's veto threat, the Senate voted 53 to 43 for an amendment to
overturn his order, as lawmakers debated a bill authorizing State Department
operations and foreign aid programs for the next fiscal year, which begins on
Oct. 1.

Democrats led the drive to repeal Bush's order, which abortion rights advocates
said amounts to a "global gag rule."

The Senate confirmed President Bush's nominees to fill four vacancies on the
16-member U.S. Court of Federal Claims, brushing aside complaints about the size
of this bench.

On a vote of 54 to 43, the Republican-led Senate approved Victor Wolski, a
Washington attorney, and then confirmed three others on a voice vote -- Mary
Ellen Coster Williams of Maryland, Susan Braden of the District of Columbia and
Charles Lettow of Virginia.

There have been questions in recent years about whether the two-decade-old
court, which hears monetary claims against the United States, should be trimmed
or needs to exist.

Although federal appeals court judges handle, on average, 355 cases a year,
federal claims judges handle, on average, 24, Sen. Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.)
said.

"This is a boondoggle, a waste of money," Schumer said, voicing the sentiment of
many Democrats.

Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) dismissed the
complaints.

-- Compiled from reports by Reuters

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              191 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 15, 2003 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Shrinking Population Not a Problem

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 378 words


Calls for more immigration to offset the United States' declining birthrate
["The Baby Bust," editorial, July 6] ignore readily available demographic data.

The U.S. birthrate and the U.S. immigration rate are higher than those of many
European countries with stable or declining populations. The U.S. yearly
immigration rate of 3.5 immigrants per 1,000 residents, according to the CIA
World Factbook, is more than triple that of the United Kingdom and five times
that of France.

Thus, according to midrange estimates by the Census Bureau, the U.S. population
is expected to rise from 283 million today to 403 million in 2050, mostly
because of immigration, as the U.S. birthrate is below replacement level.

The decline in the U.S. birthrate should be celebrated, as it helps moderate our
soaring population.

CHRISTOPHER S. EDWARDS

New York

*

The "baby bust" is not a problem, it is a solution to polluted air, freshwater
shortages, urban sprawl, global warming, destruction of natural habitats and
other related issues that regularly grace The Post's pages.

Compared with the benefits of a shrinking population, the downsides are
manageable. If there aren't enough young adults to allow me, a baby boomer, to
retire at 65, that's okay. I'd be pleased to work until I drop if it would
afford my grandchildren the benefits of a shrinking population.

And what evidence is there that a shrinking population will cause economic and
intellectual "stagnation"?

As for the military, we have the world's strongest forces with a population less
than a third of those of at least two other nations.

PETER S. ROSS

Arlington

*

The U.S. population has increased by more than 80 million people since the
bicentennial in 1976. Going back a little further, the population of the United
States was about 110 million during World War II, 450 years after Europeans
began sailing to the New World. During the last census, the population had
ballooned to more than 280 million people.

If the birthrate is so low, where are these people coming from? Is it all
immigration? Anyone who's spent an hour trying to cross a bridge into the
District can tell you that whatever America's problems are, they won't be solved
by a concerted effort to speed up our Malthusian spiral.

SCOTT BARDEN

Arlington

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              192 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 18, 2003 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Witnesses Say Brothers Staged China Romances;
Md. Men Deny Involvement In Immigration Scheme

BYLINE: Carol D. Leonnig, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 960 words


In photos snapped in southeast China, Steve Lu and You Zhen Chen looked like a
couple deeply in love -- hugging as they posed together while sightseeing and at
an engagement luncheon with Chen's relatives.

But in a federal courtroom in Washington this week, Lu said he had met Zhen for
the first time on the day the pictures were taken and had received instructions
for his trip to China at a Dunkin Donuts in Rockville.

Their feigned romance was one of dozens that David and Michael Cheng cooked up
from the kitchens of restaurants they owned in the District, Silver Spring and
Chesapeake Beach, Va., according to federal prosecutors.

Families in China each agreed to pay the Cheng brothers $ 20,000 to $ 60,000 to
help them line up phony fiances in the United States so that their young sons
and daughters could get visas to enter the country, prosecutors have charged.
The soon-to-be-weds never walked down the aisle, but more than two dozen Chinese
twenty-somethings used the visas to slip inside America's borders during the
1990s with the Chengs' help, according to the government's case.

They quietly joined the ranks of an estimated 7 million illegal immigrants
living in the United States. That tide has been largely unstoppable in recent
years, and federal law enforcement agencies say curbing it is one of their top
priorities after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.

If convicted, David Cheng, 37, would face up to 25 years in prison and Michael
Cheng, 35, would face up to five years on charges that they fabricated
transcontinental love affairs and defrauded U.S. immigration officials for
profit. David Cheng is also charged with trying to pay a witness to lie for him.

The Cheng brothers argue through their attorneys that they developed an
expertise in immigration rules and were simply helping friends sort through the
paperwork. The Chengs say they cannot be held criminally responsible for love
that withered or fiances who got cold feet.

In the trial in U.S. District Court, more than 20 witnesses have come forward to
describe their supporting roles in what they described as a scam to smuggle
pretend brides and grooms into the United States. Among those who have taken the
stand are several Chinese-born U.S. citizens, many of them University of
Maryland students, who said they were recruited and paid to stage blossoming
romances with young Chinese women they had never met.

"They said I could easily make some quick cash," said Chun-Ping Cheng, now 29
and a financial analyst in Rockville. "All I had to do was go to China, take
some pictures with a girl, and sign some documents."

The steps for documenting a fake romance were similar, the men testified, with
several of them getting their instructions over coffee at the Dunkin Donuts on
Rockville Pike. Jimmy Sun testified that he worked for David Cheng and told the
young men they could make $ 8,000 each.

First, they had to sign an immigration paper saying they intended to sponsor a
young Chinese woman, bring her to the United States and marry her within 90 days
as the visa rule required, the witnesses testified. They said they were then
given plane tickets to travel from Reagan National Airport to China's Fujian
Province. On the day of their departure, David Cheng drove them to the airport
in his Camry, the witnesses said, and handed each of them two items: an envelope
containing information about the family they would contact in Fujian and a
camera for taking pictures with their "fiancees."

Once in China, another Cheng associate took them to the women's homes and took
pictures of each couple in hugging poses.

Back in the United States a few days later, the men said, they were told to
write love letters to the women, to call them once or twice and to provide the
Chengs with a copy of their phone bill for the calls.

"None of us knew the girls," Chung-Ping Chen said of his travels to Fujian with
two other Washington area men. "We were just told to act happy for the
pictures."

Chief Judge Thomas F. Hogan of U.S. District Court has presided over the trial,
now entering its eighth day of witness testimony. One of the trial's most
dramatic moments came when Chen described in her Mandarin dialect how her
parents summoned her from school to return to their village and told her to "act
like boyfriend and girlfriend" for a photo shoot with Lu. Chen, who was 22 at
the time and is now 27, said her parents had arranged to pay a man named David
in the United States $ 40,000 to fake her engagement so she could get into the
United States.

"That was the dream of my life, to come to America," Chen said through an
interpreter. "This is a free country. I could improve the livelihood of my
family. "

Federal agents began their investigation after David Cheng was arrested in the
District's Chinatown in March 1997 on an unrelated charge and police found
Cheng's Toyota Camry filled with petitions for visas and identification
documents for several people in China. A later search turned up more petition
files in Michael Cheng's home in Lanham, authorities said.

David Cheng's attorney, James W. Rudasill, told the jury that the government
cannot prove the Cheng brothers' money came from Chinese families paying for
such visa help. He said the brothers worked hard and long hours in five
restaurants throughout the 1990s to earn their money.

"They say they've got David's fingerprints on the documents," Rudasill said.
"That's because he still had the soybean oil on his hands when people came to
his kitchen asking for his help with their papers."

Rudasill and Doug Wood, attorney for Michael Cheng, said government witnesses
have agreed to plead to lesser charges for their alleged roles in lying about
the visas and therefore cannot be trusted.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              193 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 27, 2003 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Questions and Answers With . . .

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C04

LENGTH: 624 words


Casa de Maryland, an immigrant rights group, released a report last week calling
attention to traffic deaths of pedestrians, most of them Latino, in the
"international corridor" -- a collection of largely immigrant communities
centered on the intersection of University Boulevard and New Hampshire Avenue on
the border of Prince George's and Montgomery counties. Casa officials also
organized a news conference at which state and local leaders described plans for
improving safety in the corridor. Gustavo Torres, the group's executive
director, discussed the issue with staff writer Nurith C. Aizenman.

QHow would you describe the international corridor and its residents?

AThis is our village. Our office is on University Boulevard, up the block from
New Hampshire Avenue. The international corridor includes the intersecting
neighborhoods of Langley Park, Takoma Park and Long Branch and represents the
promise of a diverse Maryland. Seventy-two languages are spoken in our
elementary schools. Traditional African foods and Indian saris are purchased in
our corner stores. Salvadoran pupusas are sold in our streets. African
Americans, whites and recent immigrants join together in building community.
Despite working multiple jobs to support their families, people are active in
their children's education and attend ESOL [English as a second language] and
citizenship classes.

What prompted Casa de Maryland to produce this report?

When Casa began looking at the numbers of Latino pedestrians killed here, we
realized that we had a significant civil rights problem -- a lack of public
investment in communities whose residents are working class and people of color.
In just 14 months, from February 2002 to April 2003, seven pedestrians --
children, family wage earners, grandparents -- were killed simply trying to
cross the street. We heard from mothers and grandmothers permanently injured on
their way to PTA meetings. We realized that this was a crisis and that we needed
to focus policymakers on creating solutions.

Why is this area so dangerous?

Engineering. The international corridor was designed in the 1950s for cars. We
live in a sea of concrete roads and parking lots. Despite all the environmental
impediments to community life, our neighbors use public transportation, they
walk to buy their groceries, and they engage in neighborhood-cleaning campaigns.
We are lucky that our neighbors insist on creating a community life despite the
tremendous physical hurdles. But in order for them to do it safely, we must
reshape our streets physically and make them safe. We don't want to eliminate
commuters. We simply do not want cars to pose a danger to our children.

What have state and local authorities done, and what do they plan to do, to
solve this problem?

Montgomery and Prince George's counties have invested resources in bilingual
campaigns to educate residents on road safety -- a good first step. And the
state committed to start-up spending of $ 1 million to make very preliminary
safety upgrades [to roads]. That's important because the major roads in the
corridor are state roads, so the responsibility for them lies with the state.
But everyone involved knows this is not enough.

What more should be done?

Significant funds must be invested so that people stop dying. One study,
completed by the Maryland State Highway Administration, recommended $ 40 million
worth of measures to reshape a significant portion of the international
corridor. This included many steps that would increase pedestrian safety.
Improved public transportation is also an essential ingredient to the solution.
We must build Metro's Purple Line [from New Carrollton to Bethesda] to reduce
the number of cars traveling through the corridor.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: CHRONOLOGY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              194 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 1, 2003 Friday
                                 Final Edition

The 'Wrong Kind' of Immigrants

BYLINE: Marcela Sanchez

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 746 words


The first person I ever heard declare that Latinos were going to destroy this
country was not a U.S.-born worker who'd lost his job to a recent immigrant, nor
a homeowner shaken by the foreign invasion of his neighborhood, nor even a Texan
or Californian convinced that Mexicans were planning to take back their
territory. It was my mother.

Ines Fonseca Martinez had traveled to the United States for the first time in
the 1950s, invited by her well-off aunt and uncle. She was then a young student
of philosophy and letters, and the short visit was her first chance to behold
firsthand a country she admired as the birthplace of some of her favorite poets
-- Walt Whitman, Ezra Pound, T.S. Eliot.

Thirty years later, she visited again and couldn't believe her eyes. This time
the people on the flight from Bogota to New York were different. It was almost
as if she was riding a bus in rural Colombia, absent only the clucking chickens
and sacks of grain.

These were not exactly the people best to represent her country, her culture,
her generation. They would change the face of this country to a face she hardly
knew, or knew only enough to recognize, say, among the street vendors in
Manhattan -- certainly not among the throngs at the Met or in the Guggenheim.
This inspiring land would never be the same, she feared.

Since the mid-1960s, the United States has been changing from a country in which
most of the immigrants were European to one in which most are Latin American.
And like the Europeans before them, many have come fleeing war, hunger and
internal strife to find security and opportunity.

What shocked and saddened my mother has been an object of admiration for me
through years of living in this egalitarian society. Yes, the best-educated and
wealthiest of the world have come here, but it is the tired, the poor and the
huddled masses that have made this country what it is. I can understand why my
mother did not see that. All her life, she has lived in a country -- and a
region -- with an entrenched system of inequality and class. But what could be
the excuse for those who live here, where such inequality is not an established
fact, and who yet appear unable or unwilling to accept a change that has been
taking place in this country for years?

If the flood of messages I received recently in response to a column I wrote
about immigration reform and its benefits for homeland security is any
indication, some in this country have decided to fight back with a passion.
States such as California will soon "disintegrate," to cite one writer's
sentiment, and will become "a corruption- and poverty-ridden Third World." If
illegal immigration is halted, money now spent to serve these "criminals," as
another put it, could be "better used to construct or maintain our highways."

These writers are entitled to long for their good old days and to mourn the
passing of a certain way of life -- even at the risk of sounding, dare I say,
somewhat un-American. Like my mother, they seem unable to grasp the bigger
picture. For as long as there is desperation in the countries to the south and
demand for cheap and unskilled labor here, Latin American immigrants will keep
coming, legally or illegally.

And while some people have chosen to ignore this reality, others take into
account this country's aging population, projections for future labor shortages
and the post-9/11 need to have a better handle on who is here. The latter seem
willing -- as some members of Congress showed recently by introducing
comprehensive immigration reform legislation -- to extend a more benevolent hand
to immigrants and offer them a better chance to assimilate and contribute to
this nation.

It was in the 1950s, precisely when my mother first came to the United States,
that the bracero program, the first agreement covering temporary laborers, was
in full gear. Dubbed "legalized slavery" by one U.S. official, it ended in
disgrace a decade later. What my mother witnessed during her mid-1980s visit was
the next mounting wave of Latin American immigrants, coming under no special
program and often illegally.

Today Latinos have become the largest minority in this country. Their labor
benefits not only this economy but also their economies back home. I would hope
what my mother could see next, without even coming here, would be the equalizing
power of this country, rippling through Latin America and washing away some of
the old class structures around her.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              195 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 3, 2003 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Raids Don't Stop D.C. Street Trade In Fake U.S. IDs

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1704 words


Enrique, a young Nicaraguan with a tattoo of his infant son on his bulging
bicep, sits outside a shop on Columbia Road NW, crooning the siren song of a
new, American life.

"Miiiiii-cas. Miiiiii-cas," he softly calls to Hispanic families out for a
Sunday stroll.

Enrique and other vendors are the first stop for many illegal immigrants in the
Washington area seeking micas -- Spanish slang for laminated ID cards. For as
little as $ 80, the document rings working on Columbia Road can provide a fake
driver's license or a U.S. residency permit, authorities say. For $ 20, they can
produce a phony Social Security card.

Since the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, politicians and residents have
raised new concerns about the notorious fake-document market in Adams Morgan,
just two miles from the White House. A recent series of raids resulted in nearly
50 arrests and the seizure of more than 1,000 phony IDs, yet vendors like
Enrique continue to ply their trade.

"We're talking about terrorism, and yet, if you want a driver's license or
immigration papers or a Social Security card, this is where you go if you've got
$ 135," fumed D.C. Council member Jim Graham (D-Ward 1), who became so
frustrated with the illegal market that he pushed federal authorities to launch
the current crackdown.

Immigration authorities say the year-long operation, code-named Card Shark, is
disrupting the fake-document market that operates on Columbia Road between 16th
and 18th streets NW. But the nation's fight against document fraud is an uphill
battle, they say, with limited staff taking on a multimillion-dollar enterprise
that thrives on a huge supply of eager customers.

"There are not enough agents to do it all, especially after 9/11," said Cynthia
O'Connell, acting director of the identity fraud unit at the Bureau of
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, known as the ICE.

Some experts say the problem goes deeper than lack of staff. With few security
features on Social Security cards, birth certificates and some driver's
licenses, it is child's play to copy them, says Susan Martin, a Georgetown
University professor and prominent authority on immigration. The documents sold
in Adams Morgan are generally considered so shoddy that they would never get a
foreigner into the country, authorities say. But they are keenly sought by
illegal immigrants already here.

"They're not out to blow the country up," Martin said. "But anything as subject
to manipulation as the fraudulent-document system is can easily be used by
terrorists as well."

The fake-document market has operated informally for more than two decades in
Adams Morgan, the traditional heart of the capital's Latino immigrant community.
But it was only in the late 1980s that phony papers became a big business.

The impetus, experts say, was a 1986 law that required employers to verify that
their workers were legal. Suddenly, everyone starting a job had to produce ID
documents, such as Social Security cards and driver's licenses. Employers often
weren't equipped to tell whether the documents were genuine.

How big has the problem become?

"How many illegal aliens are there in the United States?" responded O'Connell.
(The latest estimate by the U.S. government: 7 million).

Adding to the booming business is the computer revolution, which has made it
easier to copy ID forms. According to area immigration officials, the Adams
Morgan rings typically acquire sheets of fake empty documents from suppliers in
other cities. They glue on photos of the customers, type in their information,
laminate the cards -- and presto, produce new IDs.

"They could do it in the back seat of a car," said Kevin Delli-Colli, the
special agent in charge of the Washington district office of the ICE, located in
Arlington.

If the ID documents are often rudimentary, the gangs that sell them are not.
Investigators say the groups are highly compartmentalized. There are the
"runners" who troll the streets for clients, chanting, "Micas!" or making an L
with their fingers, indicating an ID card. They lead customers to the operators,
who collect their information and photo. Finally, there are the document-makers.

"Even when you arrest that person doing street sales, he can't tell you where
the document is being produced," Delli-Colli said.

The sophisticated structure of the gangs is just one frustration for
investigators. Another: Many members of the rings get light punishment,
immigration authorities say, so they are willing to risk the illegal activity.

Consider the case of Alberto Cortina-Escamilla, 35, who was arrested in the
current crackdown and pleaded guilty to producing fake documents in an apartment
in the 2800 block of 15th Street NW. The Mexico City native, an illegal
immigrant, received a two-year sentence.

He knew what he was facing. Cortina-Escamilla's brother Armando and sister
Martha were arrested in Northwest Washington as part of a phony-document
investigation in September 2000, with Martha deported and Armando sentenced to
two years in prison. Another sister, Julieta, suspected of being a document
vendor, is in deportation proceedings.

The current crackdown on fake-document rings is hardly the first in Adams
Morgan. But officials believe it will be more enduring than past operations. The
recent arrests have seriously disrupted three of the four groups that operate on
Columbia Road, authorities say.

The biggest catch: "El Virus," Salomon Gonzalez-Gonzalez, a 32-year-old Mexico
City native considered one of the kingpins of the trade. He was arrested in
November at an apartment in the 1300 block of Shepherd Street NW, where
authorities found more than 500 fake residency cards, Social Security cards,
driver's licenses and other IDs. Gonzalez-Gonzalez, who had a string of
immigration and fake-document arrests in Washington, had been deported three
times and slipped back over the border each time.

This time he won't get off so lightly. After pleading guilty to making and
selling fake IDs, he was sentenced last month to 52 months in jail.

Warren Lewis, Delli-Colli's second in command at the local office, noted that
critics frequently point to the continued existence of document sellers on
Columbia Road.

"The inference is we have not done anything. But we have done more in this year
than we ever have," he said.

Agents say the phony-document groups are a different breed than narcotics gangs.
The ID peddlers work daytime hours and peacefully divide up territory. They
don't appear to have guns or illegal drugs. They generally invent the numbers on
the fake IDs, rather than stealing authentic ones.

While those arrested in the current crackdown are mainly unauthorized immigrants
from Mexico, authorities haven't detected an overall pattern to their
organizations.

"We've seen people who have gotten together while they're here, people from the
same town . . . [and] there are people who rotate in and out of the country,"
said William Blier, chief of trans-national and major crimes at the U.S.
attorney's office in the District, which has prosecuted 13 of those arrested in
Card Shark.

One thing the groups have in common: a seemingly endless supply of young runners
like Enrique. The Nicaraguan, who was soliciting customers on Columbia Road near
18th Street NW, declined to provide his last name or give a reporter details of
the business.

Council member Graham said immigration authorities had made progress on reducing
the document sales on Columbia Road. But, he said, it wasn't enough.

"If we put the resources up there we ought to have, it could be eliminated," he
said. "It's been a vigorous but halfhearted effort."

The crackdown in Adams Morgan comes during a sharp drop in federal
investigations of fake-document rings. O'Connell said the number of cases
handled by immigration authorities plunged from 1,335 in fiscal 2001 to 885 the
following year. The reason: Agents were overwhelmed with work linked to the
terrorist attacks.

"We didn't get any more agents to do that," O'Connell said.

She said federal authorities are now stepping up their efforts against
phony-document rings. O'Connell is putting together a national strategy to
combat the crime, focusing on gathering and sharing intelligence more
effectively and seeking tougher punishment. Still, there is no guarantee she'll
be able to see it through. She is on only a three-month assignment, under the
massive reorganization that has brought immigration enforcement into the new
Department of Homeland Security.

One reason document fraud hasn't been a higher priority is that its clients are
mainly hard-working dishwashers, construction workers and janitors -- not
terrorists. In fact, the documents sold in Adams Morgan are so poorly made that
agents call them "40-footers," since they can spot them from 40 feet away.

"Terror organizations that have money available buy a better-quality document
than this," Lewis said.

However, many of the 19 hijackers in the 2001 attacks did use phony Social
Security numbers after they entered the country on valid visas, according to
congressional testimony in September by James B. Lockhart III, deputy
commissioner of the Social Security Administration. It is not clear whether they
bought phony cards or simply wrote made-up numbers on forms. They could have
used the numbers for things such as opening bank accounts and renting
apartments.

Many officials say the key to ending the booming fake-document business is
adding biometrics or other security features to identity cards, making it easier
to detect fakes. But such changes could be expensive, and they raise concerns
among privacy activists.

Meanwhile, some say the Adams Morgan market is shrinking due to more than just
the crackdown by immigration agents. Saul Solorzano, executive director of the
Carecen immigrant services agency in Columbia Heights, said measures in recent
years to give temporary work permits to many Central American immigrants have
reduced the supply of consumers.

It is a paradox, he says: The vendors have become more visible not because they
are thriving but because they need to hustle for business more aggressively.
Now, he added, "people actually make fun of those who sell. This is a change."

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              196 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 9, 2003 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Va. Engineer Faces Deportation;
Family Fearful After Arrest in Wake of Asylum Denial

BYLINE: William Branigin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 898 words


From the outside, the one-story brick rambler in Falls Church gives every sign
of suburban normality: bikes and toys in the driveway, a soccer ball in the
front yard, a bag of fertilizer propped against a wall, a tall evergreen shading
a minivan.

But inside, a family lives in fear, dreading a knock on the door like the one
last week that led to the arrest by immigration agents of the family's
breadwinner.

Branislav Djordjevic, 48, who emigrated from Yugoslavia in 1991 and earned a
doctorate in physics from Michigan State University, and who is employed as a
software engineer at Verizon in Arlington County, was picked up shortly after 5
a.m. July 30 for deportation after his appeal of a long-standing political
asylum claim was denied.

Although Djordjevic had pending motions on the asylum decision, as well as
approval for a temporary work visa, agents of the Bureau of Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, a division of the Department of Homeland Security, locked
him up at their district office in Arlington, then sent him to the Rappahannock
Regional Jail in Stafford County, where he is being held without bond.

"For me, this is all deja vu," said his distraught wife, Dragana Vasiljevic, 45,
who is caring for the couple's two small children and a disabled elderly uncle,
who are U.S. citizens. "It happened to my grandfather, it happened to my father
and now it's happening to my husband," she said, sobbing, as she told her story
yesterday in the family den. Vasiljevic said her grandfather was arrested by
Yugoslavia's communist government after World War II and was never seen again.
Her father, now deceased, was once jailed for several months for telling a
political joke, she said. And she worries that she, too, may be picked up for
deportation since she is in the same legal predicament as her husband.

"I'm so afraid for my kids," she said. "I'm so afraid for my uncle. Can they
take my kids away?"

Michael Gilhooly, a spokesman for the Bureau of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement at its regional office in Vermont, said Djordjevic was picked up as
part of a long-running "absconder initiative" aimed at people who evade
deportation orders. He said Djordjevic was supposed to leave the country by Jan.
16 after his asylum claim was denied. "We're enforcing the judge's final order
of removal," Gilhooly said.

Djordjevic's current attorney, Douglas P. Wachholz of Arlington, said his client
is a victim of "ineffective assistance" from two previous immigration attorneys,
one of whom dropped the case without notification and failed to inform
Djordjevic that his asylum request had been denied until it was too late to
appeal.

But the case also reflects the sometimes capricious nature of immigration
enforcement, Wachholz said, especially because Djordjevic had pending motions
before the Board of Immigration Appeals and the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
6th Circuit, and had been approved last year for an H-1B visa. Once issued by a
U.S. consulate in the former Yugoslavia, this visa would allow Djordjevic and
his wife to live and work in the United States for up to six years, during which
time they could pursue an adjustment to permanent legal immigrant status.

Wachholz said that when he asked immigration officials why, under those
circumstances, his client had been arrested, "they just said it was basically
the luck of the draw." The attorney said he was told that agents had pulled out
files of people subject to deportation and that "Doctor Djordjevic isn't very
lucky."

"It's extraordinarily unusual for someone who has two active cases, and
especially someone who has a high-level job and is not remotely a risk of flight
or terrorism or any other kind of risk, to be apprehended," Wachholz said. "With
10 million illegal immigrants out there . . . I don't know why, of all people,
they would choose to pick him up and not release him."

Jim Moody, a former congressman from Wisconsin who has taken an interest in the
case, said he suspects that the arrest reflects a broader immigration crackdown,
even though there is no sign of a resumption of the workplace raids that
occasionally netted illegal immigrants in the 1990s. "I've just never seen an
atmosphere that's so repressive for people who are trying to comply with the
law," he said. "This captures something that is happening now, mostly below the
radar screen."

Wachholz said that because of the previous attorney's failings, Djordjevic did
not find out about that order until after the deadline. He then wrote
immigration authorities on his own to request more time to appeal, or at least
to extend the date of his voluntary departure.

"This country saved the life of my daughter, who was born 3 months premature,"
weighed less than two pounds and still needs specialized care for a weak
respiratory system, he wrote. "I hope you understand that this problem is the
matter of life and death."

Wachholz said there was no reply.

The arrest of her husband has left Vasiljevic an emotional wreck. She frequently
bursts into tears, and her hands tremble as she shows photos of her husband,
their son Marko, 4, and daughter Militca, 6.

"The kids don't know anything yet," she said. "They think Daddy is sleeping at
work. . . . The most difficult thing for me is to keep smiling in front of the
kids."

She fears another knock on her door: "Every night, I am afraid they will come
for me."

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              197 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 9, 2003 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

No Bleeding Heart, Just Hysteria

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 249 words


Carl P. Ackerman Jr. accuses your paper and Muslim American advocates of
"bleeding-heart sympathy" for pointing out the flaws in the government's
crackdown on illegal immigrants [Free for All, Aug. 2].

But an astonishing number of men were rounded up while waiting patiently to have
their once-legal immigrant status reauthorized after accepting a government
amnesty offer years ago.

If deported, many will leave behind wives and U.S.-born children, possibly as
further burdens on taxpayer-financed social services.

Your paper repeatedly has documented many of these cases, as well as the
immigration crackdown's negligible effect on the war on terrorism. Yet Ackerman
praises the Department of Homeland Security's actions as "common-sense measures
necessary to ensure the security of the United States."

The so-called enforcement of our long-neglected immigration laws has resulted in
the arrests of hundreds, if not thousands, of people whose major "crime" is
wanting to be left alone. Meanwhile, the federal treasury absorbs the cost of
incarceration, investigation and deportation of these former tourists and
students.

Post-9/11 hysteria has made terror suspects out of men from Arab and Muslim
nations who were obeying the government's orders to come forth and be
legitimized. Ackerman claims that your paper and the dragnet victims' supporters
do not understand the concept of "illegal."

I wonder what part of this gender-ethnic-religious targeting he considers
"American."

-- Gary Glover

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              198 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 10, 2003 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Bilingual Dispatchers In Demand;
Immigrant Population Growth Changes Needs

BYLINE: Ernesto Londono, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: SOUTHERN MARYLAND EXTRA; Pg. T03

LENGTH: 862 words


If you think fielding calls from hysterical people for a living might become
nerve-racking, try tackling such a call in Cantonese.

"Sometimes you don't even know what language a caller is speaking," said Gerber
Jimnez, a 911 dispatcher in Prince George's County. "It's hard to figure out who
to send when you don't know what type of help they need."

As the number of immigrants who speak little or no English rises in Maryland,
emergency communications centers are taking steps to hire more coolheaded
dispatchers who can answer frantic calls in many of the languages that have
flourished in the state in recent years.

Montgomery and Prince George's counties offer extra pay to dispatchers with
foreign language skills. Both also rely on a national translation service called
Language Line to field many of their calls. In June, Montgomery dispatchers used
Language Line 892 times -- with the county charged by the minute. In the first
six months of this year, the usage added up to 28,146 minutes at a cost of $
42,800, a police spokeswoman said.

"With the diversity in our county continuing to grow, use has continued to climb
over the years," said Stephen H. Souder, director of communications for the
Montgomery County Police Department. "At the same time, as we recruit a diverse
workforce, more people are bringing language skills to the job."

According to 2000 Census data, 12.6 percent of Maryland residents speak a
language other than English at home; that figure rises to 31.6 percent in
Montgomery and 15.6 percent in Prince George's. As in the rest of the state,
Spanish is the leading foreign language in the two counties.

Prince George's reported 1,087 Language Line calls during the first quarter of
this year, a sharp increase from the 388 recorded in the same period in 2001. In
fiscal 2002, Prince George's spent $ 53,000 on the service, county spokesman
Mark Brady said.

Charlynn Flaherty, the county's director of public safety communications, said
part of the increase was necessary because translators at Andrews Air Force Base
have been able to assist with fewer 911 calls since Sept. 11, 2001.

Flaherty said the number of 911 calls made by non-English speakers has prompted
Prince George's to reevaluate its hiring practices. "We've been definitely
making an effort to attract more [bilingual] people," Flaherty said.

Effective this year, dispatchers who pass a foreign language exam will get a $
520 bonus at the end of the year. Montgomery dispatchers who demonstrate
proficiency in a foreign language earn $ 1 to $ 1.30 more an hour than their
colleagues.

Dispatchers in counties with fewer immigrants have also been affected.

"There was a time when we rarely used [Language Line]," said Capt. Lee Cornwell
of the Anne Arundel County Fire Department. "It used to be a call every couple
of months, then a call every month. Now, we're receiving one every couple of
weeks."

Howard County police spokeswoman Cpl. Lisa Myers said dispatchers in the county
use Language Line about four times a week. William Frazier, supervisor of the
Charles County Department of Emergency Services Communications Center, said that
although dispatchers seldom receive calls in languages other than English, in
recent years "Spanish is starting to increase a little."

The census data showed that 14 percent of Howard residents speak a language
other than English at home. In Anne Arundel, the percentage was 7.3 percent and
in Charles, 5.1.

Language Line, based in Monterey, Calif., was founded as a nonprofit
organization in 1982 by Jeffrey J. Munks, a former police officer in San Jose,
who grew frustrated by his inability to communicate with recent immigrants in
the Santa Clara County area.

"Overnight, we became dysfunctional," Munks said in a telephone interview,
referring to one of the large waves of migration from Southeast Asia to Northern
California during the late 1970s. "A lot of people ended up getting killed and
imprisoned -- not due to malice, but simply because we didn't have the tools to
communicate."

What began as a voluntary force of translators who were on call to assist police
officers during emergencies in Santa Clara County snowballed into a private
corporation that aids 911 dispatch centers across the country. Interpreters are
available 24 hours a day, seven days a week to take calls in 150 languages.

Dispatchers call Language Line by pressing a speed-dial button on their
switchboard. In a matter of seconds -- 40 on average -- an operator at Language
Line locates a translator. Once a three-way call is established, the dispatcher
asks questions through the translator. Depending on the language and the time of
day, the service costs between $ 1.50 and $ 2.50 a minute.

Beyond the language barrier, 911 dispatchers and other emergency response
personnel in communities with large populations of foreign-born residents face
other challenges, chiefly that many of the newly arrived are reluctant to call
police.

"A lot of people think that if they call the police, [immigration officials]
will get involved," Jimnez said. "What we've been trying to do is also get the
word out to people that it's okay to call us in an emergency."

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              199 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 15, 2003 Friday
                                 Final Edition

OUR PICKS Exhibition Open ...

SECTION: WEEKEND; Pg. T03

LENGTH: 250 words


Opening Friday at the International Gallery of the Smithsonian's S. Dillon
Ripley Center, "Dreams and Reality: Contemporary Korean-American Art" marks the
centennial of Korean immigration to the United States with an exhibition
including one art-world superstar (video artist Nam June Paik), several
far-from-household names (Po Kim and Chong Gon Byun, for instance) and local
lights Y. David Chung and Taek Lee, who organized the 17-artist survey. Call
202-357-2700 (TDD: 202-357-1729).

-- Michael O'Sullivan

So many good movies this weekend! Kevin Costner's "Open Range," which includes
great performances from Robert Duvall and Annette Bening, is the best Hollywood
western since "Unforgiven." (Review on Page 33.) Alan Rudolph's "The Secret
Lives of Dentists" is a wry dramedy about a dentist (Campbell Scott) who
believes his wife (Hope Davis) may be having an affair. (Review on Page 33.) And
"Mondays in the Sun," Spain's Oscar submission for Best Foreign Film last year,
has an extraordinary performance from Javier Bardem. (Review on Page 34.)

-- Desson Howe

A nice way to remember the late Barry White would be to go see Memphis soul
legend Isaac Hayes, the other great deep-voiced soul survivor of the '60s and
'70s. After all, Hayes landed the job of Chef on "South Park" only because White
turned it down. Think "Shaft" and "Hot Buttered Soul," and on Sunday, head to
the Birchmere for one of the biggest old-school soul revues still on the road.
Call 703-549-7500.  -- Richard Harrington

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              200 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 16, 2003 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Death in the Desert

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 436 words


LAST WEEKEND FIVE MORE dead migrants were found in the desert that straddles the
Arizona-Mexico border. All had died attempting to cross the border. According to
the Tucson Citizen, the death toll in Arizona this year will break records, due
partly to unusually fierce heat, partly to increased patrols along other parts
of the border. This is a tragedy and a national embarrassment. It also reflects
a state of affairs that should worry the Department of Homeland Security. For
every migrant who dies or is caught, hundreds make it. The vast majority are in
search of jobs, but a few are criminals and others could be security threats as
well. Yet, although President Bush paid a visit to Arizona this week -- and
although he came to office promising to make this issue a priority -- he focused
his public remarks on other things.

If the president is silent, Arizona's Republican congressional delegation has
not been. Just before Congress broke for the summer recess, Sen. John McCain,
along with Reps. Jim Kolbe and Jeff Flake, introduced legislation designed to
tackle the problem at its source. All recognize that the desert deaths are a
symptom of a larger problem: an American immigration system that no longer
reflects reality. Immigrants would not be crossing the border if there weren't
businesses in this country eager to hire them. Legal avenues must be created to
satisfy that demand, to make it possible for immigrants to come -- and leave --
without fearing death, and to make it possible to keep better track of who,
exactly, lives in this country.

More bills may be introduced when Congress comes back in the fall -- Sen. Edward
M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) may propose one -- but the Arizona legislation is a good
start for a long-delayed national debate. It would set up guest-worker visas
that would allow Mexican and other migrants to enter the country legally and
work within the law. It also creates an appropriately onerous, six-year
procedure that would allow employed, taxpaying illegals to slowly win legal
status.

There are problems with the bill, but the fact that neither immigration
advocates nor opponents seem very enthusiastic about it is a good sign. Anything
that is seen to give illegal immigrants s a free ride would not make it through
Congress and would not be good policy anyway, as it would only encourage more
illegal immigration. At the same time, any failure to grapple with the real
issue -- the need to make the border easier to cross safely for legitimate
reasons -- will simply result in more deaths, a bigger underground cash economy
and a larger market in fake documents.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              201 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 17, 2003 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Death in the Desert

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 436 words


LAST WEEKEND FIVE MORE dead migrants were found in the desert that straddles the
Arizona-Mexico border. All had died attempting to cross the border. According to
the Tucson Citizen, the death toll in Arizona this year will break records, due
partly to unusually fierce heat, partly to increased patrols along other parts
of the border. This is a tragedy and a national embarrassment. It also reflects
a state of affairs that should worry the Department of Homeland Security. For
every migrant who dies or is caught, hundreds make it. The vast majority are in
search of jobs, but a few are criminals and others could be security threats as
well. Yet, although President Bush paid a visit to Arizona last week -- and
although he came to office promising to make this issue a priority -- he focused
his public remarks on other things.

If the president is silent, Arizona's Republican congressional delegation has
not been. Just before Congress broke for the summer recess, Sen. John McCain,
along with Reps. Jim Kolbe and Jeff Flake, introduced legislation designed to
tackle the problem at its source. All recognize that the desert deaths are a
symptom of a larger problem: an American immigration system that no longer
reflects reality. Immigrants would not be crossing the border if there weren't
businesses in this country eager to hire them. Legal avenues must be created to
satisfy that demand, to make it possible for immigrants to come -- and leave --
without fearing death, and to make it possible to keep better track of who,
exactly, lives in this country.

More bills may be introduced when Congress comes back in the fall -- Sen. Edward
M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) may propose one -- but the Arizona legislation is a good
start for a long-delayed national debate. It would set up guest-worker visas
that would allow Mexican and other migrants to enter the country legally and
work within the law. It also creates an appropriately onerous, six-year
procedure that would allow employed, taxpaying illegals to slowly win legal
status.

There are problems with the bill, but the fact that neither immigration
advocates nor opponents seem very enthusiastic about it is a good sign. Anything
that is seen to give illegal immigrants s a free ride would not make it through
Congress and would not be good policy anyway, as it would only encourage more
illegal immigration. At the same time, any failure to grapple with the real
issue -- the need to make the border easier to cross safely for legitimate
reasons -- will simply result in more deaths, a bigger underground cash economy
and a larger market in fake documents.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              202 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 31, 2003 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

A Fall Social Calendar of Benefits

BYLINE: Robin Groom, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. D04

LENGTH: 1701 words


Of immigrants, illustrators, designers, presidents, scholars and Miss America
contestants . . .

Sept. 4

A screening of "Dirty Pretty Things" kicks off the third annual D.C. Labor
Filmfest series at the American Film Institute's Silver Theatre and Cultural
Center and benefits the Immigrant Worker Freedom Ride, a nationwide action for
immigration reform, Sept. 20-Oct. 4. The evening also offers a reception, a
photo show by immigrant workers, and a screening of "Windows," a short
documentary about workers who died on 9/11 at Windows on the World. Tickets: $
15. Call 301-495-6720 or visit www.afi.com/silver/Theatre.

Sept. 5

The reigning Miss America, Erika Harold, and the 51 contestants in the Sept. 20
Miss America Pageant are the special guests at Champions for Children, a benefit
for Fight Crime: Invest in Kids at the Hilton Washington. Tickets start at $
150. Call 202-833-4456, Ext. 101.

Sept. 12

David Wiesner, William Joyce, Mark Teague and a host of other children's book
illustrators are the special guests at Every Picture Tells a Story, an event for
children and adults that benefits Reading Is Fundamental. The event at the
Corcoran Gallery of Art features readings by author Judith Viorst ("Alexander
and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Day") and Cheryl Barnes
("President Adams' Alligator and other White House Pets"). Ticket prices: $ 100
for adults; $ 25 for children; $ 200 for a family of four. Call 202-673-1604.
(The benefit is held in connection with the RIF National Reading Celebration
Sept. 13 at the Corcoran Gallery of Art, an event featuring renowned children's
illustrators that is free and open to the public. Call 877-RIF-READ and select
Option 7 or visit www.rif.org.)

The International Child Art Foundation Awards Dinner is at the Washington
Convention Center. Tickets: $ 150. It follows the International ChildArt
Festival on the Mall Sept. 9-11. Call 202-530-1000 or visit www.icaf.org.

"The Sky's the Limit," St. Coletta of Greater Washington's eighth annual benefit
auction and gala, is at the Washington Convention Center. Music provided by a
seven-piece swing band. Tickets: $ 100 and $ 200. ($ 200 tickets include a
seated dinner.) Call 703-373-1719 or visit www.stcoletta.org.

The Arts Council of Fairfax County's International Children's Festival Gala is
at the Sheraton Premiere at Tysons Corner. Tickets: $ 200. Call 703-642-0862,
Ext. 2. The International Children's Festival at Wolf Trap is Sept. 13 and 14.
Festival tickets $ 10 for adults/teens; $ 8 for ages 3-12 and age 65 and up;
free for children under 3. Call 703-218-6500 or visit www.wolftrap.org.

Sept. 13

"Evening Under the Stars," a benefit for CASA (Court Appointed Special
Advocates) of Greater Prince William, advocates for abused and neglected
children, is at the Loy E. Harris Pavilion in Old Town Manassas. The evening
offers music by Doc Scantlin and his Imperial Palms Orchestra. Tickets: $ 40 ($
75 at the door). Call 703-330-8145.

"Endless Summer," a benefit concert featuring Still Surfin', a Beach Boys
tribute band, with dancing, a cash bar and food at Good Shepherd Catholic Church
in Alexandria, benefits Good Shepherd Housing and Family Services. Tickets: $ 20
($ 25 for reserved seating). Call 703-768-9404.

The Shearwater Sailing Club's Hospice Club XXII benefits six area hospices.
Guests can watch the yacht race aboard a spectator boat. A shore party follows
the race at Oakland Hall in Annapolis. Tickets: $ 250. Tickets to the shore
party only: $ 60. Call 703-460-9219.

"Meet the Conductor," a fundraising party for the McLean Orchestra to welcome
Sylvia Alimena as its new music director, is at a private home in McLean.
Tickets: $ 100. Call 703-893-8646.

ArtView 2003, an art auction gala for St. John's Community Services, is at the
Carnegie Institution. Tickets: $ 75. Call 202-274-3409 or visit www.sjcs.org.

Sept. 16

The Women's Campaign Fund's fall cocktail reception is at Zaytinya. Tickets: $
40. Call 202-393-8164

"Helping Children Soar," the Children's Law Center benefit at the Kennedy
Center, honors Septime Webre, the Washington Ballet artistic director, and Juan
Carlos Rincones, director of the Rincones Dance Theater, for their work bringing
art to inner-city kids. The evening offers a cocktail and dinner buffet and
brief dance performances. Tickets: $ 100. Call 202-467-4900, Ext. 21, or visit
www.childrenslawcenter.org.

Sept. 17

"The National Building Museum's Honor Award Gala: A Salute to the National
Football League and Major League Baseball," with Paul J. Tagliabue, commissioner
of the National Football League, and Allan H. "Bud" Selig, commissioner of Major
League Baseball, accepting the honors, is at the National Building Museum.
Tickets: $ 300 and $ 600.  Call 202-272-2448, Ext. 3454.

"Put Kids First," an event that celebrates the Paul Berry Academic Scholarship
Foundation and the Outdoor Odyssey Youth Leadership and Development Academy, is
at the Hilton Washington. The evening honors AFL-CIO President John Sweeney,
Darrell Green Youth Life Foundation founder Darrell Green, and Bennett Zier,
executive vice president and general manager of Clear Channel Communications.
James Carville is the master of ceremonies. Tickets: $ 1,000. Call 703-312-5419.

Sept. 18

The Women's Edge Coalition fifth anniversary celebration is at the
Sewall-Belmont House. Loren Leidinger-Avila will receive the inaugural Elise
Fiber Smith Leadership Award. The coalition advocates with the U.S. government
for international economic and human rights policies that support women
worldwide. There's a silent auction of women's crafts from around the world and
live calypso music by Pepper Pat. Tickets: $ 150. Call 202-884-8396 or visit
www.womensedge.org.

Sept. 19

Former president Bill Clinton is keynote speaker at the Gede Foundation dinner
at the Marriott Wardman Park Hotel, a benefit for the Resource Center in Abuja,
Nigeria, which provides AIDS health care and training.  Tickets: $ 250. Call
202-833-2670.

Rachael's Women's Center annual gala and auction is at the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce. Tickets: $ 75 ($ 95 at the door). Call 202-682-8649.

The Cosmopolitans singles cocktail dance (for singles over 40), a benefit for
the American Cancer Society and other charities, is at the Embassy of Austria.
Tickets: $ 44 ($ 49 at the door, if space is available). Call 703-522-5344 or
703-379-6137.

Bella Notte, the 32nd Wolf Trap Ball, is on the Filene Center stage. Italian
Ambassador Sergio Vento is the host. Tickets: $ 300. Call 703-255-4030 or visit
www.wolftrap.org.

Maritime Magic, a benefit for Baltimore's Living Classrooms Foundation, is at
the foundation's East Harbor Campus. The evening offers entertainment by the
Iguanas and the Radiators, food and drink provided by more than 35 area
restaurants and a silent auction. The foundation provides education and job
training programs for youth. Tickets: $ 95 ($ 100 at the door). Call
410-685-0295.

NAMIC's Second Celebrity Benefit auction is at the Washington Times Arbor
Ballroom. Proceeds support the Patriots Center, NAMIC Mid-Atlantic's
neighborhood technology center. Tickets: $ 50. Call 202-608-2151.

Sept. 20

Community Family Life Services' Fifth Annual Casino Night is at the National
Rural Electric Cooperative Association in Arlington. Host: Bob Ryan of NBC-TV-4
News. Tickets: $ 50. Call 202-347-0511, Ext. 416.

The National Symphony Orchestra Season Opening Ball offers a concert conducted
by Music Director Leonard Slatkin with the National Symphony Orchestra and
Metropolitan Opera star Angela Gheorghiu followed by dinner and dancing at the
Kennedy Center. Tickets start at $ 500. Call 202-416-8102. Tickets for the
concert only are $ 20-$ 75 ). Call 202-467-4600.

"In Full Swing," the Glen Echo Park Partnership for Arts & Culture fundraiser at
the park, offers dinner, dancing, entertainment, a silent auction and carousel
rides. Tickets: $ 250 ($ 75 for dessert and dancing only). Call 301-320-7757.

The Young Benefactors gala to benefit Smithsonian Institution educational
programs is at the National Postal Museum. The evening offers music by Gonzo's
Nose, gallery tours, and a silent auction of more than 200 items. Tickets: $ 85,
$ 115 and $ 175. (An additional $ 20 is charged for tickets purchased at the
door.) Call 202-357-3030.

Howard University Hospital's 12th Annual Legacy of Leadership Awards Gala
honoring Maj. Gen. George Alexander, L. Julian Haywood, Donna Richardson, and
the Auxiliary of Howard University Hospital is at the Fairmont Hotel.
Entertainment: Chante Moore and Kenny Lattimore. Tickets start at $ 250. Call
202-238-2548.

The American Horticultural Society fall gala at River Farm, its headquarters in
Alexandria, offers a reception in the gardens, dinner under tents overlooking
the Potomac, and silent and live auctions. Tickets: $ 200. Call 703-768-5700,
Ext. 110.

"Angels Among Us," the Hospice Caring benefit, is at the Hyatt Regency in
Bethesda.  Tickets: $ 100.  Call 301-869-4673.

Sept. 22

Poste Brasserie's barbeque, a fundraiser for the Woolly Mammoth Theatre Company,
is at the restaurant. Tickets: $ 20. Reservations required. Call 202-312-5275.

Sept. 23

"Noche de Gala," the dinner of National Hispanic Foundation for the Arts, which
was founded by Jimmy Smits, Sonia Braga and Esai Morales, is at the Corcoran
Gallery. Rep. Loretta Sanchez (D-Calif.), NAACP President Kweisi Mfume and film
director Robert Rodriguez ("Spy Kids," "Once Upon a Time in Mexico") are the
honorees. Tickets: $ 1,250. Call 202-293-8330.

The Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute's second annual Reyes of Comedy
Night is at the Warner Theatre. Host: Jackie Guerra. Comedians: Gabriel
Iglesias, Rudy Moreno, Debi Gutierrez and Jeff Valdez. Tickets: $ 150. Call
202-543-1771.

The Washington Performing Arts Society's Season Opener benefit starts with a
Yo-Yo Ma concert, "An Evening of Latin American Music," at the Kennedy Center
that is followed by a supper with artists at the residence of the Brazilian
ambassador. Tickets start at $ 250 (which includes a preferred concert seat and
a place at the supper). Proceeds raised will go to the society's educational and
artistic programs. Call 202-293-9325.

To be continued.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              203 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 2, 2003 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

In Neb., 'Spanish Now Spoken Here';
West Point, Other Midwestern Communities Ramp Up Services to Meet Immigrants'
Needs

BYLINE: Robert E. Pierre, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1117 words

DATELINE: WEST POINT, Neb.


It's okay to drink the water -- that's the message officials here are trying to
relay to recent immigrants from Mexico, Guatemala and Honduras, countries where
tap water is often unsafe to drink.

The alert -- in English and Spanish -- went out after a rash of cavities, gum
disease and infections among immigrant youngsters that dentists believe resulted
because the children drank only bottled water, milk and juice -- instead of tap
water with cavity-fighting fluoride.

Communicating with Spanish-speaking newcomers is commonplace in most urban
areas, where residents are accustomed to being the destination for immigrants.
But insular and once-homogenous towns such as this community of 3,660 near the
Iowa border are finding it increasingly necessary to step up to the challenge as
well.

As a new generation of Hispanic immigrants establishes itself throughout the
small towns of the Midwest -- drawn by work at meatpacking plants, on farms and
wherever cheap labor is needed -- once static communities are making profound
changes in the institutions and ways of life that have defined them. And with
many of these towns looking for new economic development as they try to stem a
decline in their populations, they are recognizing that accommodating and
welcoming the newcomers may be critical to their futures.

West Point's new dental hygiene campaign represents the town's growing
acceptance of the fact that to thrive, it must also meet the needs of a Hispanic
community that did not exist a decade ago. Now, one in five babies here is born
to an immigrant family. The local Head Start -- majority white only a few years
ago -- now is filled with children who first spoke Spanish. And as white young
people continue to leave for larger cities, Hispanic families are the ones
buying new homes.

For most of its existence West Point has been virtually all white -- a community
settled by another generation of immigrants, German, Czech and Irish. But they
came over 100 years ago.

State Sen. Matt Connealy, a local farmer, said folks here are slowly accepting a
new reality.

"We're moving to the point where we realize it's not necessarily a problem and
that it's not temporary," Connealy, a champion of immigrant rights, said over a
hamburger at a local eatery. "It's the face of who we are going to be in the
next generation."

Across the Midwest in the 1990s, 800,000 Hispanics arrived as 640,000 whites
departed. So many were Mexicans that the country opened a consulate in Omaha to
service Nebraska, Iowa and the Dakotas after the 2000 Census confirmed the
obvious.

"The population was growing at a rapid pace," said Jose Cuevas, the Omaha-based
Mexican consul. "Some communities have been brought back to life."

West Point, with its brick-paved streets, stately homes and lush green lawns, is
a regional hub in northeast Nebraska. It has a 100-year-old hospital, banks, two
large meatpackers and another large employer that runs a hot-dip galvanizing
operation. Surrounded by corn and soy fields, the town depends for its survival
on beef and pork -- from the farms that grow the feed, to the livestock auction
houses, to the banks that provide farmers their loans.

As is happening in many other towns on the Plains, young people here are
graduating from high school and heading for bigger cities, leaving behind the
meatpacking and other low-skill jobs.  The exodus reached a crisis point in the
'90s.

"We didn't have enough population to fill the jobs," said Debra E. Schroeder, a
West Point resident who works for the University of Nebraska extension service.

Employers turned to people like Reina Bustamante. A native of Honduras who
arrived in West Point four years ago, after 11 years in Los Angeles, she earns $
9 an hour as a laborer at the galvanizing plant. The peace and quiet and better
schools for her children are a bonus.

"When I was living in California, it was more hard," said Bustamante, who
recently became a citizen. She is also buying a house and learning English.
"Right here the salary is better. The people are more friendly."

But many longtime residents were uneasy. Race and ethnicity had never been an
issue here before -- most folks who have been here awhile remember the black boy
who was adopted by Tom Black and his wife, and the Vietnamese family that came
to live with Gwen and Dick Lindberg. That was a couple of decades ago.

"A lot of people felt threatened at first," said Gwen Lindberg, who along with
her husband published the weekly West Point News before retiring. "There are so
many [Hispanics] moving to town now that people can't be mad anymore. They buy
food. They rent the houses. They've been good for this community."

Local political leaders, business owners and Hispanic volunteers formed the
Multicultural Action Committee to find ways to meet the needs of the immigrants.
They got a local laundromat to extend its hours to accommodate families in which
the husband worked long hours and the wife did not drive. Banks began accepting
weekly, rather than monthly, mortgage payments.

Still, there are gaps that remain to be bridged.

St. Mary's Catholic Church has 1,100 families in its congregation, about 200 of
which are Hispanic. Whites attend the Mass in English; Hispanics the one in
Spanish. They seldom interact. "Right now, I feel like I'm pastor of two
parishes," said the Rev. Gerald E. Gonderinger. "I want to be pastor of one
parish. The task now is how to integrate and educate."

There is more than neighborliness at stake, officials said. A Nebraska
legislative task force two years ago found significant problems for immigrants
in obtaining basic social services because many are in the country illegally and
are reluctant to seek help. The report also found some immigrants were harassed
by police. The task force said that if new immigrants were not made a top
priority, "a cycle of working poverty, dropouts, lack of hope and lack of civic
engagement will continue."

If West Point is successful, it will be partly because of volunteers such as
Shirley Schlueter. She had taken Spanish lessons with plans to retire to
Arizona. But when her plans changed, she found a use for her new language skills
in her home town. Schlueter is now on call round-the-clock to help new
immigrants navigate the local bureaucracy. She goes along when babies are born
and mortgages are signed, and helps immigrants resolve disputes and obtain
government documents.

"I didn't plan on using Spanish in West Point, Nebraska," said Schlueter, whose
personal phone book now has the names and numbers of 296 Hispanic families. "I
like the people I meet. But I wouldn't know anybody if I didn't have this
ability to communicate a little bit."

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              204 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 5, 2003 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Opinion Is Split on Homeland Security's Job Consolidation

BYLINE: Stephen Barr

SECTION: METRO; FEDERAL DIARY STEPHEN BARR; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 709 words


The reorganization at the Department of Homeland Security took a huge step
forward this week with the announcement by Secretary Tom Ridge that customs,
immigration and agriculture inspections would be combined into one job at ports
of entry.

The announcement also launched the department into an ambitious cross-training
program to meld about 10,000 customs inspectors, 6,500 immigration inspectors
and 1,500 agriculture inspectors so that they know how to apply laws affecting
millions of travelers entering the United States each year.

The job consolidation, however, is not going over well with union leaders, who
faulted the department for making the decision without consulting frontline
employees. John Gage, president of the American Federation of Government
Employees, said he has asked aides to look for ways to challenge Ridge's
decision.

International travelers typically undergo separate inspections by immigration
and customs officials, and if they are bringing in foods or plants, they also
see an agriculture inspector. The inspectors are trained in specialized
procedures intended to screen foreign visitors, collect revenue and protect
crops.

This spring, Ridge directed the three groups of inspectors to report to one
supervisor at airports, seaports and other entry points, and Tuesday's
announcement continues the department's frontline restructuring.

"The three separate faces of government and the many inefficiencies that go with
it will soon be gone," Ridge said. "We will have one face in one uniform, a
single officer trained for primary inspections as well as how to determine who
needs to go through secondary inspections."

Ridge said the number of travelers pulled aside for a second round of questions
"could very well rise," especially if the government's intelligence on terrorist
threats suggests higher levels of scrutiny.

The combined position will carry the title of "customs and border protection
officer." Experienced officers will be paid at General Schedule 11 rates, with
base pay ranging from about $ 42,000 to $ 55,000 annually.

But some agriculture inspectors will be retained in separate positions, with the
title of agriculture specialist, because education in biology and the sciences
is essential for evaluating cargo and baggage for possible pests, a department
official said. The specialists will not carry weapons, as customs and border
protection officers will.

Mike Randall, president of the National Association of Agriculture Employees,
said, "It is very unclear how this is going to play out." Few agriculture
inspectors are likely to volunteer for law enforcement training, he said.
Colleen M. Kelley, president of the National Treasury Employees Union, which
represents customs inspectors, said the new job will require knowledge of
numerous complex laws. Employees, she said, fear that their skills and expertise
"will be diluted."

Gage, whose union represents immigration employees, said he was worried that new
training might turn out to be less than inspectors currently receive. He added,
"It is dumbing down, in a way, the national security."

The new position was proposed, the department official said, after "extensive
study" by a group of managers and personnel experts.

The first class of customs and border officers, recently hired by the
department, will start 70 days of basic training next month and then receive
on-the-job training, the official said. Next spring, the cross-training of
current inspectors will begin.

Ridge said the job consolidation will improve the government's ability to stop
terrorists from entering the country. "More people better trained to do more
things and positioned to be directed if the need arises: It's flexibility,"
Ridge said.

Colleen M. Kelley, president of the National Treasury Employees Union, will be
the guest on "FEDtalk" at 11 a.m. today on federalnewsradio.com.

Michael Jackson, former deputy transportation secretary, will be the guest on
"The Business of Government Hour" at 9 a.m. tomorrow on WJFK radio (106.7 FM).

"Retire? What's Most Important -- Age or Length of Service?" will be discussed
on the Imagene B. Stewart call-in program at 8 a.m. Sunday on WOL radio (1450
AM).

Stephen Barr's e-mail address is barrs@washpost.com.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              205 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 6, 2003 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Gov. Davis Shifts on Licenses for Immigrants

BYLINE: William Booth, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1000 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES Sept. 5


Reversing himself as he faces a recall election, Gov. Gray Davis (D) tonight
signed into a law a bill granting more than 1 million undocumented residents the
right to obtain a driver's license, a move he said would make California roads
safer.

Davis has twice vetoed similar legislation, and his turnabout was attacked by
critics who said his action would make it easier for terrorists to get licenses
and move about the nation. Republicans hoping to oust the governor accused him
of pandering to liberals and Latinos to shore up his support just 32 days before
he faces voters.

In remarks earlier today, Davis said that California was following privileges
granted in states such as New Mexico and Nevada, and he also made an economic
argument in support of the bill. "You couldn't get food at a reasonable cost
without farm workers who toil in the hot sun. I believe we need to honor their
hard work, which subsidizes our economy."

Arnold Schwarzenegger, the Austrian-born actor running as a Republican, said
that if he is elected governor, he would immediately lead the fight to repeal
the law.

In an appearance before the California Chamber of Commerce in Dana Point today,
Schwarzenegger said, "You know, our own governor was vividly against this a few
months ago. Now it's election time -- and everything changes."

Schwarzenegger said, "I'm pro-immigrant. But we should not invite fraud or
undermine law enforcement. The federal government has expressed security
concerns over this measure, and in a time of heightened national security, we
should not undermine our nation's immigration laws."

State Sen. Tom McClintock, another GOP candidate for governor, called it "a
dangerous measure."

"The only purpose of it is to place valid state identification documents in the
hands of illegal immigrants, undermining enforcement of immigration laws," he
said.

The Bush administration's homeland security officials have not spoken out on the
law, but some terrorism experts have said that making licenses available to
people who are in the country illegally could aid potential terrorists. A
driver's license is the most indispensable piece of plastic in America -- making
it possible to open bank accounts, cash checks, rent cars and hotel rooms and
fly on airplanes.

While a dozen other states make it possible for illegal immigrants to obtain a
license, the large number of undocumented workers in California makes the law
here a significant policy change in the contentious debate over how to treat the
estimated 8 million people who live in the nation without valid visas and
permits.

It scores a major victory for immigrant rights advocates, but it further roils
the electorate in California, where voters have long had a love-hate
relationship with the state's undocumented residents.

Davis has twice vetoed the controversial legislation, most recently after the
Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, when he said that national security dominated
his concerns. "The driver's license is more than just a license to drive," Davis
said then. "It is one of the primary documents we use to identify ourselves."

But Davis now says granting licenses without proof of legal residency
acknowledges reality in a state with as many as 2.2 million illegal immigrants,
who account for about a third of the national total.

"Let's not kid ourselves: People are driving to work," Davis said at a
town-hall-style meeting in San Diego on Thursday night. "They're driving without
demonstrating they know the rules of the road. They're driving without
insurance."

The measure is also supported by Lt. Gov. Cruz M. Bustamante, the most prominent
Democrat in the recall race, who said at Wednesday night's debate that granting
licenses is only fair. Bustamante said the state's hotels, farms and
construction sites are filled with workers "who come across the border" and do
the kinds of jobs "that you and I do not do, in fact, would not do."

Bustamante said, "If it takes a driver's license for them to get to work, to
take care of their families, get their kids to school and take care of the
seniors . . . I'm for giving them a driver's license."

One of the bill's sponsors is state Sen. Gilbert Cedillo, a Democrat from Los
Angeles, who said the new law requires scrutiny of new drivers. To obtain a
license, an applicant must show a federal taxpayer identification number (but
not a Social Security number, which requires lawful residence and permission to
work) and other documents, such as a foreign passport, foreign driver's license
or an identification card issued by foreign consulates, such as the matricula
identification cards issued by the Mexican government.

Cedillo pointed out that before 1994, it was possible for an undocumented worker
to obtain a license. But during the early 1990s recession, anti-immigrant
sentiment grew and the law was changed. "It was very popular legislation at the
time, but it was wrong," Cedillo told the Associated Press. "It was wrong
because it didn't work."

Other candidates to replace Davis also applauded the license bill. The columnist
Arianna Huffington, running as an independent, said at a debate Wednesday, "I
would have signed the bill the first time in when the governor vetoed it because
his back was not against the wall." Green Party standard-bearer Peter Camejo and
GOP businessman Peter Ueberroth also supported the measure.

Also today, a federal court in San Jose ruled that the recall election could
proceed after the Justice Department announced that Monterey County would not be
in violation of the Voting Rights Act by reducing the number of polling places
open on the Oct. 7 recall. One last legal hurdle remains. The American Civil
Liberties Union has appealed a lower-court decision and will appear before the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit on Sept. 11 to argue that the use of
punch-ballot voting machines in six urban counties could disenfranchise poor and
minority voters because those machines are more error-prone.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              206 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 7, 2003 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Metro;
In Brief

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C03

LENGTH: 791 words


THE REGION

Salvadoran immigrants living in the United States have until Sept. 15 to reapply
for temporary work permits that will allow them to legally remain in the country
for 18 additional months.

The immigrants, many of whom were granted temporary protected status in March
2001, must submit two forms and a money order for $ 120 to the U.S. Bureau of
Citizenship and Immigration Services. This is the second extension of the
program, which was granted by the Bush administration after earthquakes
devastated El Salvador nearly three years ago.

The new extension is in effect until March 9, 2005. El Salvador's ambassador,
Rene Leon, yesterday warned that people who miss the deadline risk being
deported and could lose their jobs or immigration status.

Salvadorans in the metropolitan area can get help with the application at the
embassy at 2308 California St. NW in the District. Copies of the forms can be
obtained by calling 1-800-914-2835 or on the Internet at www.elsalvador.org.
Assistance also will be available from noon until 6 p.m. Sept. 14 at the
Gaithersburg International Hispanic Festival at the Montgomery County
Fairgrounds.

An off-duty D.C. police officer fired several shots at a 17-year-old Southeast
Washington resident early yesterday near Seat Pleasant after the youth tried to
carjack the officer's car, police said.

Calvin Kyle, 17, of the 800 block of Southern Avenue was hospitalized yesterday
for several gunshot wounds in the lower body, said Cpl. Joe Merkel, a Prince
George's police spokesman. He was charged as an adult with attempted carjacking.

Police would not release the officer's name, Kyle's condition or the name of the
hospital where Kyle is being treated. Kyle's injuries were not life-threatening,
Merkel said.

The officer was in his Chevrolet Impala at a traffic light at Central Avenue and
Hill Road near Seat Pleasant when Kyle and another person allegedly approached
and brandished a handgun, Merkel said. The officer fired several shots, hitting
Kyle. The other person, apparently uninjured, Merkel said, fled with a third man
in a Ford Crown Victoria.

The National Aquarium in Baltimore has agreed to manage the National Aquarium of
Washington in a move aimed at improving it.

"They will be enhancing us, they will be adding to us, and they will have a
presence here," said Nina Selin, board chairman of the National Aquarium
Society, which operates the D.C. facility.

The 30,000 square feet of exhibits in the basement of U.S. Commerce Department
headquarters, just a few blocks from the White House, has about 500,000 paid
visitors each year. The 130-year-old aquarium is the oldest continuously
operating aquarium in the nation.

MARYLAND

An off-duty Annapolis police officer died Friday after his motorcycle collided
with a car at an intersection in Carroll County, police said.

Patrol officer Shane Evans, 32, of Sykesville was driving south on Route 32
about 9 p.m. when his Harley-Davidson crashed into a Saturn driven by Colleen
Joynce Holmes, 51, according to a news release from the Maryland State Police.
Evans was conscious after the accident but died after suffering a heart attack
while on a helicopter en route to Maryland Shock Trauma Center, Annapolis police
spokesman Hal Dalton said.

The accident is under investigation and no charges had been filed as of
yesterday, state police said. Evans, an officer in Annapolis for six years, was
on his way to work the midnight shift when the accident occurred, Dalton said.

VIRGINIA

The Virginia Department of Education has awarded Reading First grants totaling $
8,877,480 to 47 elementary schools, including four in Prince William County.

Belmont, Dumfries, Neabsco and River Oaks elementary schools will receive a
combined $ 899,328 for remediation programs. Reading First, a component of the
federal No Child Left Behind Act, provides resources for schools to start
effective reading programs. Schools with high poverty and low reading
achievement are eligible to compete for the funds.

In Prince William, the money will be used to hire a full-time reading coach at
each of the four schools, said Joyce Mannherz, the Title I supervisor for Prince
William. The coach will work directly with teachers on reading-instruction
techniques. Part of the money will be used for reading materials.

The grants come in addition to almost $ 2.8 million awarded in July to 18
elementary schools, including $ 224,825 to Bucknell Elementary in Fairfax.

"The idea was that you'd go to church to be miserable, and it usually worked."

-- James F. White, professor emeritus of liturgical studies at Notre Dame, on
kneeling in church. -- Page C1.

Compiled from reports by staff writers Christina A. Samuels, David Snyder and
Yolanda Woodlee.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              207 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 9, 2003 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

WORLD IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 1045 words


TORONTO -- A Canadian immigration adjudicator ruled yesterday that a man who is
suspected of having ties to an al Qaeda sleeper cell must remain in jail while
police continue to investigate.

Last month, Canadian police arrested 19 Pakistani men who immigration officials
said followed "a pattern of suspicious behavior." Police said one of the 19 men
took piloting lessons that involved flying over a nuclear power plant. Two of
the men were stopped taking an early morning walk near a nuclear power plant,
and another had associates who had access to material to make "dirty bombs."

Ilze Decarlo, an adjudicator for Canada's Immigration and Refugee Board, said
that Manzoor Qadar Joyia's reasons for being in Canada are suspicious. "More
than 21/2 years after he arrived," Decarlo said, "what he was up to remains a
mystery."

The adjudicator said that Joyia had applied in Ontario to marry a woman who
lived in Pensacola, Fla., but there was no evidence the marriage had taken
place. The adjudicator also cited testimony that a tenant who lived in an
apartment building where Joyia resided told the building's superintendent that
he saw some men from the apartment toss paper bags out the window while another
man waiting in a taxi retrieved the bags. The tenant told investigators that he
saw passports and other identification documents in a bag.

Joyia's attorney, Tariq Shah, said after the hearing that he was disappointed in
the ruling. Shah said the evidence filed on the 19 men was a "document of mass
deception."

-- DeNeen L. Brown

asia

* JAKARTA, Indonesia -- Prosecutors here said they had appealed the verdict in
the case of radical cleric Abubakar Baasyir, who was convicted last week of
treason for involvement with the Jemaah Islamiah network but acquitted of the
more serious charge of heading the group.

Prosecutors hope to win a ruling that Baasyir was the commander of the militant
group, which is linked to al Qaeda and blamed by authorities for the bombing of
two Bali nightclubs last year and the JW Marriott Hotel in Jakarta last month,
according to a senior official in the Jakarta prosecutor's office. He said
prosecutors also want to obtain a stiffer sentence than the four-year term given
to Baasyir by the court last week.

Baasyir has already announced he also intends to appeal the lower court
decision.

Separately, a court in Bali sentenced three militants to prison sentences of 15
to 16 years for a robbery that funded the October attack on the island's popular
entertainment strip. The bombings killed 202 people, mainly foreign tourists.

-- Alan Sipress

* SINGAPORE -- Officials sealed off three wards at Singapore's largest hospital
today after reporting the world's first probable SARS case since the World
Health Organization declared the global epidemic over in July.

Singapore General Hospital said the wards were shut to all visitors after an
ethnic Chinese man had tested positive yesterday for Severe Acute Respiratory
Syndrome -- Singapore's first victim of the potentially lethal respiratory virus
since May.

The man, a Singaporean citizen, had worked in a virology laboratory and had not
recently traveled to China or Hong Kong, which had previously been hit hard by
SARS, the Straits Times newspaper reported.

* NEW DELHI -- U.S. special forces began exercises with their Indian
counterparts in a remote high-altitude region north of Kashmir, officials said.

The three-week maneuvers in India's Ladakh region, which has a long border with
China, are part of new military ties that India and Washington have built since
the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks in the United States.

Indian army officials played down the significance of the exercises, which took
place as Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon flew to India on a visit some see
as part of a growing relationship among Washington, New Delhi and Tel Aviv.

India, which is fighting a bloody insurgency in Muslim-majority Kashmir, is
raising new battalions of special forces to be trained by Israeli experts and
armed with Israeli assault and sniper rifles.

EUROPE

* MADRID -- A reporter from the television network al-Jazeera who interviewed
Osama bin Laden shortly after the Sept. 11 attacks was questioned by a Spanish
judge because of suspected ties to al Qaeda.

Tayssir Alouni was arrested last week at his home in the southern city of
Granada on the orders of Spanish Judge Baltasar Garzon. He is suspected of
belonging to the al Qaeda network, an allegation denied by his wife and
colleagues.

"Al-Jazeera condemns this arrest, and we ask for the liberation of our colleague
immediately because he is a journalist, just a journalist. He is not a member of
al Qaeda for sure, for sure," said Ahmad Kamel, al-Jazeera's Brussels bureau
chief.

Alouni, a Syrian who al-Jazeera said was also a Spanish citizen, was suspected
of relaying messages to al Qaeda operatives in Europe, possibly including
messages from bin Laden, and was believed to have delivered funds to them, court
sources said last week.

* PARIS -- A representative of families of the 170 victims of the 1989 UTA
airliner bombing said they could accept a vote on lifting U.N. sanctions on
Libya before a UTA compensation deal was completed.

But the head of a French group defending terrorism victims said she hoped an
already twice-delayed U.N. Security Council vote now set for today would again
be put off until a final accord could be reached on additional money for the UTA
families.

Pending before the council is a draft resolution that would permanently end U.N.
sanctions imposed on Libya after the 1988 bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over
Lockerbie, Scotland, that killed 270 people.

The resolution won the backing of the United States and Britain after Libya last
month agreed to accept responsibility for the Lockerbie explosion and pay up to
$ 10 million in compensation to the families of each of the victims. France
threatened to block the resolution unless it could get more compensation from
Libya for the UTA victims. Although Libya has never admitted responsibility for
blowing up the UTA flight over the sub-Saharan African nation of Niger, it paid
a total of $ 34 million to France after a Paris court convicted six Libyans in
absentia for the attack.

-- From News Services

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              208 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 13, 2003 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Hispanic Or Latino: Who Cares?

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 149 words


Regarding Spanish Ambassador Javier Ruperez's letter, "Hispanic or Latino: Roots
Are the Same" [Free for All, Sept. 6]: Instead of Hispanics or Latinos worrying
about cultural identity, how about trying to assimilate into the U.S. culture? I
am half "Hispanic." My father was 100 percent Hispanic and was a patriotic
American who served in the military.

He was born here and wasn't interested in Spanish-speaking countries and their
cultures.

I am tired of being reminded of how we're supposed to embrace and celebrate
foreign cultures. Yes, we're a "nation of immigrants," but the United States has
its own culture and identity, which have been overlooked for too long. I believe
in the United States as a sovereign nation with secure borders, limits on
immigration and English as the common language. Political correctness is our
nation's biggest weakness.

-- Brad Cordova

St. Louis Park, Minn.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              209 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 8, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

The Week Ahead Sept. 9-13, 2002

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. H03

LENGTH: 278 words


President Bush meets with Canadian Prime Minister Jean Chretien in Detroit to
sign "smart border" customs and immigration pact.

Federal Trade Commission hosts two-day workshop on competition law and
health-care industry at its headquarters on Pennsylvania Avenue.

American Association of Health Plans opens week-long Medicare and Medicaid
conference at Renaissance Washington Hotel.

House Education and Workforce subcommittee holds hearing on pension law
enforcement and accountability.

House Energy Committee holds hearings on subsidies for the steel industry to
offset legacy retirement costs.

Center for Strategic and International Studies hosts panel discussion on
terrorism insurance. Speakers include Hank Greenberg, chairman of AIG, and
Laurence Meyer, former Federal Reserve governor.

First anniversary of terrorist attacks on World Trade Center and Pentagon.
Opening of stock markets delayed 90 minutes. Some businesses giving employees
day off.

Pennsylvania appeals court hears oral argument on injunction against sale of
Hershey Foods.

Economic indicators: Federal Reserve "beige book."

Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan testifies before House Budget Committee
on economic outlook.

Federal Communications Commission considers changes in media ownership rules and
proposal to establish a do-not-call list for telemarketing calls and faxes.

Senate Foreign Relations Committee holds hearing on replenishment of World Bank
concessional lending fund. Treasury Undersecretary John Taylor will testify.

Economic indicators: Second-quarter current account.

Economic indicators: August producer prices and retail sales, September consumer
sentiment.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              210 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 10, 2002 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

9/11 Detainee Files Lawsuit;
Egyptian Arrested Sept. 12 Alleges Mistreatment

BYLINE: Dan Eggen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 633 words


In the first lawsuit of its kind, an Egyptian national arrested in the wake of
the Sept. 11 attacks alleged yesterday that he was denied access to an attorney
and mistreated by federal prison guards during two months of confinement in
Louisiana.

Hady Hassan Omar, who was arrested Sept. 12 after he purchased an airline ticket
on the same Kinko's computer as one of the terrorist hijackers, claims that he
was subjected to numerous unnecessary body cavity searches, harassed and
ridiculed by guards and was not allowed to pray or eat according to Islamic
traditions.

At one point, Omar alleged, he was forced to urinate on himself because he was
not able to use a bathroom.

"Throughout his 73 days of detention, [Omar] underwent treatment which rises to
the level of torture," the lawsuit says.

Omar, 23, of Fayetteville, Ark., appears to be the first Sept. 11 detainee to
formally accuse the Justice Department of mistreatment during his incarceration.
His lawsuit, filed in the Western District of Louisiana, is the latest in a
series of legal actions challenging a nationwide dragnet after the attacks that
ensnared more than 1,200 immigrants and has come under fire from civil liberties
advocates.

The Omar lawsuit names several prison and immigration officials, including the
warden at the federal penitentiary in Pollock, La. The Justice Department, which
oversees both the U.S. Bureau of Prisons and the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, declined comment on the lawsuit yesterday.

Since Sept. 11, the Bush administration has sought to enforce a rule of blanket
secrecy on immigration cases arising from the investigation into the Sept. 11
attacks on New York and the Pentagon.

But last month, a federal appellate panel in Cincinnati called that policy
unconstitutional, while a federal judge in Washington ruled that the Justice
Department should release the names of those it has detained in connection with
the Sept. 11 probe.

Omar, who is married to a U.S. citizen, was detained by FBI agents in Fort
Smith, Ark. According to news reports and the lawsuit, Omar aroused suspicions
because he had been aboard a flight from Florida to Arkansas that was stranded
in Houston as a result of the Sept. 11 attacks, and he had purchased tickets for
that flight at the same copy center used by alleged hijacking ringleader Mohamed
Atta.

Omar was interrogated for 7 1/2 hours about his religious beliefs and his views
of the terrorist hijackings, according to the lawsuit. After passing a polygraph
exam, Omar was charged with overstaying his tourist visa.

For the next two weeks, according to the lawsuit, Omar was kept isolated from
the outside world, subjected to numerous invasive body searches and refused
contact with a lawyer. "Today the attorney general signed a new law, and we can
keep you here as long as we want," one prison official allegedly told Omar.

Even after an immigration attorney hired by Omar's wife was allowed to contact
him, the lawsuit says, authorities continued to interfere with his case and deny
him telephone calls to his family. The lawsuit also alleges that Omar was served
pork despite his religious objections; was subjected to 24-hour video
surveillance; and was forced to hide under his blanket in order to pray.

Omar was released on Nov. 23 after prosecutors said he had no connection to
terrorism. He is fighting the immigration charges pending against him and is
seeking permanent residence in the United States, according to one of his
attorneys.

"This case is indicative of how immigrants, innocent of any criminal charge,
were treated following Sept. 11," said Robert Rubin, an attorney with the
Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights of San Francisco, which is representing Omar
in his lawsuit. "This type of treatment cannot be justified."

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              211 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 15, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrants Rewriting the Book at Libraries;
Suburban Jurisdictions Adapt to Meet Newcomers' Needs for Culture and Language
Centers

BYLINE: Lisa Rein, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 1539 words


Saturday at the Woodrow Wilson Library in Falls Church dawns with trouble: A
class in Microsoft Word is packed, and three of the seven terminals in the tech
room are down.

But when they arrive promptly at 11 a.m., Agnes Choi of Korea, Olga Bufill of
Cuba, Isabel Winter of Portugal and three others whose first language is not
English are happy to double up at the working computers, taking turns creating
documents and saving and formatting them under the patient tutelage of Thieu
Nguyen, a volunteer who is himself a refugee from Vietnam.

The small stone library off Route 7 in Fairfax County, born 41 years ago among
the apartments and ramblers of postwar Washington government workers, still
circulates bestsellers, and the reference librarians still help high school
students with their term papers.

But today's patrons at Woodrow Wilson and at dozens of libraries in suburban
Washington are less likely to be American-born than hail from a league of
nations from Central America to Asia and the Middle East.

Immigrants and their children are making an already bustling system busier than
ever. As the economic downturn and the Internet lure new patrons to libraries
across the country, systems in the Washington suburbs are setting their own
records in lending and a newer area of growth -- visits.

The newcomers, simply by virtue of their needs, are quickly turning these
libraries into community centers that function as job centers, English-language
schools, keys to the mysteries of a new culture and even babysitters. And the
libraries are carrying out this new mission even as they serve their traditional
base of educated, English-speaking, often-affluent patrons.

As a result, branches already strained by steep budget cuts in local and state
governments are struggling to divvy up their resources among often diverging
needs.

"A lot of people in this county have graduate degrees, and they expect their
library to have information on a wide variety of subjects," said Harriet
Henderson, director of the Montgomery County system, which lost 16 percent of
its budget for new books this year. "We don't want to say, 'Let's buy Spanish
books instead of the biography of John Adams.' The challenge is how to allocate
your collection budget." The library collects books and materials in English,
Spanish, Vietnamese and Korean -- often with expensive imported volumes.

Montgomery circulated 11.1 million books and other materials last year, a 6.5
percent jump over the record-setting previous year. The Fairfax County library
system, Virginia's largest, lent 12.1 million books, videos and tapes, a growth
of 5 percent that set a high for the county. Lending in fast-growing Loudoun
County grew by 9 percent, and visits by 4 percent. Library use has declined in
recent years only in the District, a system beset by deep cuts in book budgets,
staff and operating hours.

At Woodrow Wilson, in the heart of polyglot Baileys Crossroads, the books, tapes
and videos are organized not by age or subject but by language.

Babar the Elephant and Paddington Bear adventure in Vietnamese, and Al Hayat, a
newspaper popular with Arabic-speaking immigrants, hangs on the rack above
Tiempos del Mundo and Easy English News, a daily written for English learners.
Foreign-language materials are now the fastest-growing collection in Fairfax,
where the system's 3,630 Vietnamese books were checked out 34,900 times last
year.

Books are the least of it.

On a bulletin board crowded with information on citizenship classes, English
conversation hours and seminars on asylum hearings, the county has translated
social service announcements into Farsi, Kurdish, Tamil and 16 other languages.
The 18 librarians can answer questions in English, Spanish, Korean or
Vietnamese.

Such librarians do more than find books. Roberto Soto, a 39-year-old
construction worker born in El Salvador, stood in the lobby of the Long Branch
library in Silver Spring one morning last week in search of an application for a
lottery Montgomery County has scheduled for tomorrow for subsidized housing
vouchers.

"My English is not so good," Soto said, preparing to return at 12:30 p.m., when
the Spanish-speaking librarian's shift would begin. "For new immigrant, the
library is very, very important."

Long Branch, on the border between Silver Spring and Takoma Park, provides its
largely immigrant community computer labs for learning English and children's
story hours that encourage literacy at an early age. A two-year renovation
created four tutoring rooms for an after-school homework lab. In the month after
the branch reopened in May, 11,300 people streamed in. It now stays open an
extra half-hour four nights a week, until 9 p.m.

Libraries offer new arrivals more than survival skills. The Gaithersburg branch
will host a concert of Chinese classical music next week, and in October, Quince
Orchard will celebrate Spanish Heritage Month with Latin American music.

Many of the new patrons grew up in countries where public libraries were
available only to students, or to those who could afford to pay to borrow books.
Free access is a surprising privilege to many.

As the computer class at Woodrow Wilson got underway last weekend, there was no
space for Akwasi Agyemang-Kusi. But he clutched a book on how to become a U.S.
citizen and wandered to the children's corner with his two boys, who raced to
the shelves for storybooks.

"During the week, we read, and Saturday we come to the library for more books,"
said Agyemang-Kusi, who emigrated from Ghana 12 years ago and works as a night
security guard for the Arlington schools.

As much as it opens a door to his children's future, the library is a lifeline
to Agyemang-Kusi's past. He reads the Ghanaian Chronicle online to track his
homeland's politics. Six weeks ago, he took his boys to hear a storyteller
recount Ghanaian folk tales.

Immigrants have always been devoted library users, from the early days of the
public library movement in New York in the 1850s. But the shift has been
dramatic in suburban systems, where many libraries are marshaling their
resources to reach out to their new neighbors.

Arlington, where lending grew by 8 percent last year to hit 2.3 million books,
sends emissaries to immigrant associations that help new arrivals get settled,
and the library has set up satellites in apartment complexes in three low-income
neighborhoods. Working with their counterparts in several middle schools,
librarians have set up Spanish-language book clubs that meet once a month.

Fairfax is conducting its first in-depth survey of the neighborhoods around its
19 branches to discover what languages the residents speak and what jobs they
hold.

Loudoun's population is less diverse than those of its neighbors. But last year,
the library put out a guide to county services in Spanish and invited Louis
Rodriguez, a poet and author, to read stories about Latin America.

The newcomers present cultural challenges. For parents whose work shifts spill
into evenings and weekends, the library is a safe place for their children. Last
weekend at Woodrow Wilson, a 10-year-old and her 7-year-old brother told a
visitor they often spend Saturday afternoons at the library while their mother
cleans houses and their father cleans windows. The children said their family
came from Guatemala five years ago.

Unattended children can thrust librarians into a role they are not always
prepared to handle, such as guarding children at closing time before parents
have arrived to pick them up.

"We waited until the parent arrived," said Elizabeth Waller, who worked at the
Pohick Branch in Burke before becoming a branch division head. "They were
usually apologetic. Though sometimes they didn't understand a word I was
saying."

Children are helping to boost what librarians call a "door count": the number of
people who visit the library to surf the Internet or attend a class or music
program. The door count is almost as high as circulation at some branches,
including Woodrow Wilson, where it was 172,700 in the last fiscal year, just
10,000 lower than the circulation numbers.

But as their business booms, libraries are struggling with the reality that in
hard times, their services are usually the first to go.

Faced with budget cuts and hiring freezes, many library systems have responded
by turning to volunteers and private donors for services for new arrivals. The
Fairfax County Library Foundation, formed eight years ago, has raised $ 1
million of a $ 3 million campaign for programs for immigrants.

"The county can only pay for basics," said Alice Starr, who sits on the
foundation's board of trustees.

At the same time, libraries are loath to cut back on their traditional services,
which include recorded books, bestsellers, how-to books and large-print books
for the elderly.

For now, Fairfax can still offer an evening with newsman Sam Donaldson and a
program of Latin American music and poetry by guitarist Francesc de Paula Soler
and poet Rei Berroa. But libraries wonder when they will have to start making
choices.

Said Kay Ecelbarger, Montgomery's chief of collection development, "Everybody
underestimates how much of this stuff is really needed."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              212 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 15, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrants' Needs Redefine Suburban Libraries' Mission;
Many Facilities Serve as Culture, Language, Job Centers

BYLINE: Lisa Rein, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 1543 words


Saturday at the Woodrow Wilson Library in Falls Church dawns with trouble: A
class in Microsoft Word is packed, and three of the seven terminals in the tech
room are down.

But when they arrive promptly at 11 a.m., Agnes Choi of Korea, Olga Bufill of
Cuba, Isabel Winter of Portugal and three others whose first language is not
English are happy to double up at the working computers, taking turns creating
documents and saving and formatting them under the patient tutelage of Thieu
Nguyen, a volunteer who is himself a refugee from Vietnam.

The small stone library off Route 7 in Fairfax County, born 41 years ago among
the apartments and ramblers of postwar Washington government workers, still
circulates bestsellers, and the reference librarians still help high school
students with their term papers.

But today's patrons, at Woodrow Wilson and at dozens of libraries in suburban
Washington, are less likely to be American-born than hail from a league of
nations from Central America to Asia and the Middle East.

Immigrants and their children are making an already bustling system busier than
ever. As the economic downturn and the Internet lure new patrons to libraries
across the country, systems in the Washington suburbs are setting their own
records in lending and a newer area of growth -- visits.

The newcomers, simply by virtue of their needs, are quickly turning these
libraries into community centers that function as job centers, English-language
schools, keys to the mysteries of a new culture and even babysitters. And the
libraries are carrying out this new mission even as they serve their traditional
base of educated, English-speaking, often-affluent patrons.

As a result, branches already strained by steep budget cuts from local and state
governments are struggling to divvy up their resources among often diverging
needs.

"A lot of people in this county have graduate degrees, and they expect their
library to have information on a wide variety of subjects," said Harriet
Henderson, director of the Montgomery County system, which lost 16 percent of
its budget for new books this year. "We don't want to say, let's buy Spanish
books instead of the biography of John Adams. The challenge is how to allocate
your collection budget." The library collects books and materials in English,
Spanish, Vietnamese and Korean -- often with expensive imported volumes.

Montgomery circulated 11.1 million books and other materials last year, a 6.5
percent jump over the record-setting previous year. The Fairfax County library
system, Virginia's largest, lent 12.1 million books, videos and tapes, a growth
of 5 percent that set a new high for the county. Lending in fast-growing Loudoun
County grew by 9 percent, and visits by 4 percent. Library use has declined in
recent years only in the District, a system beset by deep cuts in book budgets,
staff and operating hours.

At Woodrow Wilson, in the heart of polyglot Baileys Crossroads, the books, tapes
and videos are organized not by age or subject but by language.

Babar the Elephant and Paddington Bear adventure in Vietnamese, and Al Hayat, a
newspaper popular with Arabic-speaking immigrants, hangs on the rack above
Tiempos del Mundo and Easy English News, a daily written for English learners.
Foreign-language materials are now the fastest-growing collection in Fairfax,
where the system's 3,630 Vietnamese books were checked out 34,900 times last
year.

Books are the least of it.

On a bulletin board crowded with information on citizenship classes, English
conversation hours and seminars on asylum hearings, the county has translated
social service announcements into Farsi, Kurdish, Tamil and 16 other languages.
The 18 librarians can answer questions in English, Spanish, Korean or
Vietnamese.

Such librarians do more than find books. Roberto Soto, a 39-year-old
construction worker born in El Salvador, stood in the lobby of the Long Branch
library in Silver Spring one morning last week in search of an application for a
lottery Montgomery County has scheduled for Monday for subsidized housing
vouchers.

"My English is not so good," Soto said, preparing to return at 12:30 p.m., when
the Spanish-speaking librarian's shift would begin. "For new immigrant, the
library is very, very important."

Long Branch, on the border between Silver Spring and Takoma Park, provides its
largely immigrant community computer labs for learning English and children's
story hours that encourage literacy at an early age. A two-year renovation
created four tutoring rooms for an after-school homework lab. In the month after
the branch reopened in May, 11,300 people streamed in. It now stays open an
extra half-hour four nights a week, until 9 p.m.

Libraries offer new arrivals more than survival skills. The Gaithersburg branch
will host a concert of Chinese classical music next week, and in October, Quince
Orchard will celebrate Spanish heritage month with Latin American music.

Many of the new patrons grew up in countries where public libraries were
available only to students, or to those who could afford to pay to borrow books.
Free access is a surprising privilege to many.

As the computer class at Woodrow Wilson got underway last weekend, there was no
space for Akwasi Agyemang-Kusi. But he clutched a book on how to become a U.S.
citizen and wandered to the children's corner with his two boys, who raced to
the shelves for storybooks.

"During the week, we read, and Saturday we come to the library for more books,"
said Agyemang-Kusi, who emigrated from Ghana 12 years ago and works as a night
security guard for the Arlington schools.

As much as it opens a door to his children's future, the library is a lifeline
to Agyemang-Kusi's past. He reads the Ghanaian Chronicle online to track his
homeland's politics. Six weeks ago, he took his boys to hear a storyteller
recount Ghanaian folk tales.

Immigrants have always been devoted library users, from the early days of the
public library movement in New York in the 1850s. But the shift has been
dramatic in suburban systems, where many libraries are marshaling their
resources to reach out to their new neighbors.

Arlington, where lending grew by 8 percent last year to hit 2.3 million books,
sends emissaries to immigrant associations that help new arrivals get settled,
and the library has set up satellites in apartment complexes in three low-income
neighborhoods. Working with their counterparts in several middle schools,
librarians have set up Spanish-language book clubs that meet once a month.

Fairfax is conducting its first in-depth survey of the neighborhoods around its
19 branches to discover what languages the residents speak and the jobs they
hold.

Loudoun's population is less diverse than those of its neighbors. But last year,
the library put out a guide to county services in Spanish and invited Louis
Rodriguez, a poet and author, to read stories about Latin America.

The newcomers present cultural challenges. For parents whose work shifts spill
into evenings and weekends, the library is a safe place for their children. Last
weekend at Woodrow Wilson, a 10-year-old and her 7-year-old brother told a
visitor they often spend Saturday afternoons at the library, while their mother
cleans houses and their father cleans windows. The children said their family
came from Guatemala five years ago.

Unattended children can thrust librarians into a role they are not always
prepared to handle, such as guarding children at closing time before parents
have arrived to pick them up.

"We waited until the parent arrived," said Elizabeth Waller, who worked at the
Pohick Branch in Burke before becoming a branch division head. "They were
usually apologetic. Though sometimes they didn't understand a word I was
saying."

Children are helping to boost what librarians call a "door count": The number of
people who visit the library to surf the Internet or attend a class or music
program. The door count is almost as high as circulation at some branches,
including Woodrow Wilson, where it was 172,700 in the last fiscal year, just
10,000 lower than the circulation numbers.

But as their business booms, libraries are struggling with the reality that in
hard times, their services are usually the first to go.

Faced with budget cuts and hiring freezes, many library systems have responded
by turning to volunteers for help and to private donors to help pay for services
for new arrivals. The Fairfax County Library Foundation, formed eight years ago,
has raised $ 1 million of a $ 3 million campaign for programs for immigrants.

"The county can only pay for basics," said Alice Starr, who sits on the
foundation's board of trustees.

At the same time, libraries are loath to cut back on their traditional services,
which include recorded books, bestsellers, how-to books and large-print books
for the elderly.

For now, Fairfax can still offer an evening with newsman Sam Donaldson and a
program of Latin American music and poetry by guitarist Francesc de Paula Soler
and poet Rei Berroa. But libraries wonder when they will have to start making
choices.

Said Kay Ecelbarger, Montgomery's chief of collection development, "Everybody
underestimates how much of this stuff is really needed."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              213 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 15, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrants Rewrite the Book at Libraries;
Suburban Jurisdictions Adapt to Meet Newcomers' Needs for Culture and Language
Centers

BYLINE: Lisa Rein, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 1539 words


Saturday at the Woodrow Wilson Library in Falls Church dawns with trouble: A
class in Microsoft Word is packed, and three of the seven terminals in the tech
room are down.

But when they arrive promptly at 11 a.m., Agnes Choi of Korea, Olga Bufill of
Cuba, Isabel Winter of Portugal and three others whose first language is not
English are happy to double up at the working computers, taking turns creating
documents and saving and formatting them under the patient tutelage of Thieu
Nguyen, a volunteer who is himself a refugee from Vietnam.

The small stone library off Route 7 in Fairfax County, born 41 years ago among
the apartments and ramblers of postwar Washington government workers, still
circulates bestsellers, and the reference librarians still help high school
students with their term papers.

But today's patrons at Woodrow Wilson and at dozens of libraries in suburban
Washington are less likely to be American-born than hail from a league of
nations from Central America to Asia and the Middle East.

Immigrants and their children are making an already bustling system busier than
ever. As the economic downturn and the Internet lure new patrons to libraries
across the country, systems in the Washington suburbs are setting their own
records in lending and a newer area of growth -- visits.

The newcomers, simply by virtue of their needs, are quickly turning these
libraries into community centers that function as job centers, English-language
schools, keys to the mysteries of a new culture and even babysitters. And the
libraries are carrying out this new mission even as they serve their traditional
base of educated, English-speaking, often-affluent patrons.

As a result, branches already strained by steep budget cuts in local and state
governments are struggling to divvy up their resources among often diverging
needs.

"A lot of people in this county have graduate degrees, and they expect their
library to have information on a wide variety of subjects," said Harriet
Henderson, director of the Montgomery County system, which lost 16 percent of
its budget for new books this year. "We don't want to say, 'Let's buy Spanish
books instead of the biography of John Adams.' The challenge is how to allocate
your collection budget." The library collects books and materials in English,
Spanish, Vietnamese and Korean -- often with expensive imported volumes.

Montgomery circulated 11.1 million books and other materials last year, a 6.5
percent jump over the record-setting previous year. The Fairfax County library
system, Virginia's largest, lent 12.1 million books, videos and tapes, a growth
of 5 percent that set a high for the county. Lending in fast-growing Loudoun
County grew by 9 percent, and visits by 4 percent. Library use has declined in
recent years only in the District, a system beset by deep cuts in book budgets,
staff and operating hours.

At Woodrow Wilson, in the heart of polyglot Baileys Crossroads, the books, tapes
and videos are organized not by age or subject but by language.

Babar the Elephant and Paddington Bear adventure in Vietnamese, and Al Hayat, a
newspaper popular with Arabic-speaking immigrants, hangs on the rack above
Tiempos del Mundo and Easy English News, a daily written for English learners.
Foreign-language materials are now the fastest-growing collection in Fairfax,
where the system's 3,630 Vietnamese books were checked out 34,900 times last
year.

Books are the least of it.

On a bulletin board crowded with information on citizenship classes, English
conversation hours and seminars on asylum hearings, the county has translated
social service announcements into Farsi, Kurdish, Tamil and 16 other languages.
The 18 librarians can answer questions in English, Spanish, Korean or
Vietnamese.

Such librarians do more than find books. Roberto Soto, a 39-year-old
construction worker born in El Salvador, stood in the lobby of the Long Branch
library in Silver Spring one morning last week in search of an application for a
lottery Montgomery County has scheduled for tomorrow for subsidized housing
vouchers.

"My English is not so good," Soto said, preparing to return at 12:30 p.m., when
the Spanish-speaking librarian's shift would begin. "For new immigrant, the
library is very, very important."

Long Branch, on the border between Silver Spring and Takoma Park, provides its
largely immigrant community computer labs for learning English and children's
story hours that encourage literacy at an early age. A two-year renovation
created four tutoring rooms for an after-school homework lab. In the month after
the branch reopened in May, 11,300 people streamed in. It now stays open an
extra half-hour four nights a week, until 9 p.m.

Libraries offer new arrivals more than survival skills. The Gaithersburg branch
will host a concert of Chinese classical music next week, and in October, Quince
Orchard will celebrate Spanish Heritage Month with Latin American music.

Many of the new patrons grew up in countries where public libraries were
available only to students, or to those who could afford to pay to borrow books.
Free access is a surprising privilege to many.

As the computer class at Woodrow Wilson got underway last weekend, there was no
space for Akwasi Agyemang-Kusi. But he clutched a book on how to become a U.S.
citizen and wandered to the children's corner with his two boys, who raced to
the shelves for storybooks.

"During the week, we read, and Saturday we come to the library for more books,"
said Agyemang-Kusi, who emigrated from Ghana 12 years ago and works as a night
security guard for the Arlington schools.

As much as it opens a door to his children's future, the library is a lifeline
to Agyemang-Kusi's past. He reads the Ghanaian Chronicle online to track his
homeland's politics. Six weeks ago, he took his boys to hear a storyteller
recount Ghanaian folk tales.

Immigrants have always been devoted library users, from the early days of the
public library movement in New York in the 1850s. But the shift has been
dramatic in suburban systems, where many libraries are marshaling their
resources to reach out to their new neighbors.

Arlington, where lending grew by 8 percent last year to hit 2.3 million books,
sends emissaries to immigrant associations that help new arrivals get settled,
and the library has set up satellites in apartment complexes in three low-income
neighborhoods. Working with their counterparts in several middle schools,
librarians have set up Spanish-language book clubs that meet once a month.

Fairfax is conducting its first in-depth survey of the neighborhoods around its
19 branches to discover what languages the residents speak and what jobs they
hold.

Loudoun's population is less diverse than those of its neighbors. But last year,
the library put out a guide to county services in Spanish and invited Louis
Rodriguez, a poet and author, to read stories about Latin America.

The newcomers present cultural challenges. For parents whose work shifts spill
into evenings and weekends, the library is a safe place for their children. Last
weekend at Woodrow Wilson, a 10-year-old and her 7-year-old brother told a
visitor they often spend Saturday afternoons at the library while their mother
cleans houses and their father cleans windows. The children said their family
came from Guatemala five years ago.

Unattended children can thrust librarians into a role they are not always
prepared to handle, such as guarding children at closing time before parents
have arrived to pick them up.

"We waited until the parent arrived," said Elizabeth Waller, who worked at the
Pohick Branch in Burke before becoming a branch division head. "They were
usually apologetic. Though sometimes they didn't understand a word I was
saying."

Children are helping to boost what librarians call a "door count": the number of
people who visit the library to surf the Internet or attend a class or music
program. The door count is almost as high as circulation at some branches,
including Woodrow Wilson, where it was 172,700 in the last fiscal year, just
10,000 lower than the circulation numbers.

But as their business booms, libraries are struggling with the reality that in
hard times, their services are usually the first to go.

Faced with budget cuts and hiring freezes, many library systems have responded
by turning to volunteers and private donors for services for new arrivals. The
Fairfax County Library Foundation, formed eight years ago, has raised $ 1
million of a $ 3 million campaign for programs for immigrants.

"The county can only pay for basics," said Alice Starr, who sits on the
foundation's board of trustees.

At the same time, libraries are loath to cut back on their traditional services,
which include recorded books, bestsellers, how-to books and large-print books
for the elderly.

For now, Fairfax can still offer an evening with newsman Sam Donaldson and a
program of Latin American music and poetry by guitarist Francesc de Paula Soler
and poet Rei Berroa. But libraries wonder when they will have to start making
choices.

Said Kay Ecelbarger, Montgomery's chief of collection development, "Everybody
underestimates how much of this stuff is really needed."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              214 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 18, 2002 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Rockville Mulls Letting Resident Aliens Vote

BYLINE: Annie Gowen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 610 words


A proposal to allow resident aliens to participate in Rockville municipal
elections would give them more voice in the city's future, according to local
supporters -- or dissuade them from becoming citizens, opponents say.

Officials have asked a commission reviewing the city charter to explore whether
Rockville, like five Maryland municipalities and a handful of other communities
nationally, should permit legal immigrants who are not citizens to cast ballots
in municipal elections.

Only U.S. citizens can vote in state and federal elections.

"We want as many people as possible who live in Rockville to feel like they have
a stake in Rockville's future," Mayor Larry Giammo said yesterday.

Giammo and at least two City Council members support the idea, saying it makes
sense given the ethnic diversity of Rockville's rapidly growing population of
47,388. Asian Americans accounted for 5 percent of the city's population in 1980
and 14.8 percent in 2000, according to U.S. Census data. The city's Hispanic
population grew from 4 percent of the population to 11.7 percent.

City officials could not provide statistics on how many residents are legal
immigrants.

Council member Susan R. Hoffmann is opposed. "I think it cheapens the value of
the right to vote," she said. Franchising resident aliens would be "one less
incentive to become a citizen. The right to vote is so important. It's so
precious and should be treasured and not given away easily."

But minority activists said they are pleased that the city is considering the
move.

"It's a revolutionary step to be taken," said Henry Quintero, director of the
Latino Civil Rights Center of Montgomery County.

Quintero was active in Takoma Park's campaign to enfranchise its resident aliens
in 1991. The city held a highly contentious referendum that year, after the 1990
Census and subsequent redistricting revealed large discrepancies between
population and voter registration in City Council wards.

Four smaller Montgomery County jurisdictions in which many diplomats live --
Somerset, Chevy Chase, Martin's Additions and Barnesville -- have long allowed
resident aliens to participate in local elections.

Across the country, a few other communities allow resident aliens -- an
estimated 18 million people -- to cast ballots, said Harvard University
professor Alexander Keyssar, author of "The Right to Vote: The Contested History
of Democracy in the United States." Yet a century ago, he noted, at least 22
states permitted non-citizens to vote. As tensions grew because of burgeoning
immigrant populations, the citizenship requirement gradually was added.

Maryland, however, requires only that a voter be a resident at least 18 years of
age.

In Takoma Park, several hundred resident aliens have taken part in elections
there. In 2001, 475 non-citizens cast 9 percent of the total vote, according to
city officials.

"There was some sort of panic and concern back in 1991, that if we did this it
would permanently change the politics of the city. We would be a welfare magnet
or immigrants would pour in," said George L. Leventhal, a Democratic candidate
for County Council who was active in that effort. "None of those things
happened. It had very little impact of any kind, good or bad."

The charter commission was convened in July to review, among other points, the
City Council's size and term lengths. After it makes its recommendations this
year, the council will decide whether to put the voting issue up for referendum
in November 2003.

The charter commission will hold a public forum at 7:30 p.m. tomorrow at City
Hall.

Staff researcher Bobbye Pratt contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              215 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 19, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

WORLD;
In Brief

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 543 words


EUROPE

AGRIGENTO, Italy -- Italian police divers and coast guard ships pulled 12 bodies
from the sea yesterday, bringing to 27 the number of illegal immigrants who
drowned when their boat sank off Sicily last weekend.

Fishermen alerted authorities after spotting the bodies of the immigrants,
believed to have been Liberians, floating about 500 feet from where the boat
went down Sunday, coast guard Cmdr. Giuseppe Rando said.

The coast guard expects to find more bodies, he said.

Rescuers saved 92 people after the rickety boat sank in stormy waters off the
southern Sicilian city of Agrigento. Survivors have given varying figures on how
many people were on board.

Associated Press

BERLIN -- An American woman and her fiance arrested on charges of planning a
Sept. 11 anniversary attack in Germany have not been linked to international
terrorism, German prosecutors said.

Astrid Eyzagujierre, 23, who worked at a store at a U.S. military base in
Heidelberg, and her German-born Turkish boyfriend Osman Petmezci, 25, were
arrested this month on charges they were planning an attack on the base.

Reuters

AFRICA

BUJUMBURA, Burundi -- Burundi's government confirmed yesterday that 183 people,
mostly civilians, were killed last week in an attack for which army and rebel
forces have blamed each other.

A government spokesman said an investigation would determine who was responsible
for the Sept. 9 slayings, one of the worst incidents of mass violence in the
country's nine-year civil war.

The head of the parliament's human rights commission, Leonidas Ntibayazi, said
Tuesday he had been told of the killings by officials in Gitega province, adding
that the victims had been fleeing clashes between Hutu rebels and the Tutsi-led
army.

Reuters

HARARE, Zimbabwe -- Zimbabwe's ruling party pushed a bill through parliament
giving it power to evict within days white farmers accused of using legal
loopholes to hang on to land targeted for redistribution to blacks.

President Robert Mugabe's party used its comfortable majority in the 150-seat
parliament to pass the Land Acquisition Amendment Bill, modifying a 10-year-old
law.

The amendments will allow the government to re-issue any eviction notices the
High Court previously declared invalid. Farmers who received such an order after
the expiration of the initial 90-day notice will have seven days to vacate.

Mugabe ordered 2,900 commercial farmers to leave their land without compensation
by Aug. 8 under a controversial program to seize white-owned farms and hand them
over to the largely landless black majority.

ReutersASIA

SRINAGAR, India -- Two ruling party workers were shot in Indian Kashmir's main
city and a lawmaker was attacked before the second round of voting in a state
election beset by violence.

National Conference workers Ali Mohammed Dar and Ghulam Rasool Mir were killed
within hours of each other in Srinagar, the summer capital of the Himalayan
state at the center of a military standoff between India and Pakistan.

An opposition party worker was killed in another incident in northern Kashmir
overnight. They are the latest political victims in a campaign in which more
than 460 people have been killed since early August, including 19 in the past 24
hours.

Reuters

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              216 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 19, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

INS Won't Meet Deadline To Track Foreign Students

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 237 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service will not be able to begin tracking
foreign students attending college in this country by Jan. 30, the deadline set
by Congress for implementation of a new automated system, the Justice Department
inspector general said yesterday.

While the agency is expected to have a new computer system in place by then, it
will not have completed training its own inspectors or officials at colleges and
technical schools around the country, Inspector General Glenn A. Fine told a
House Judiciary subcommittee.

"The agency has made significant strides, yet we continue to believe full
implementation is unlikely by the deadline," he told the panel.

Congress ordered the creation of a foreign student tracking system six years
ago. The issue took on renewed urgency last year with the discovery that three
of the Sept. 11 hijackers were in the United States on student visas.

The INS hopes to have the Internet-based Student and Exchange Visitor
Information System (SEVIS) in operation by January. However, Fine said in a
report in May that he did not expect the INS could fully implement the program
by the deadline.

INS Deputy Commissioner Janis Sposato told the panel that the computer system
would be operational by Jan. 30.  Some 547,867 foreign nationals held student
visas in the last year, says the INS, and 72,000 schools were certified by the
INS to accept them.

-- Susan Schmidt

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              217 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 21, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Advocates Seek Increase in Admission of Refugees

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 495 words


President Bush has told the State Department it can authorize 70,000 refugees to
enter the United States in 2003, far fewer than immigrant advocates had hoped
for after tightened security prevented thousands from seeking new lives in this
country this year.

Despite authorization of 70,000 refugees for the year ending Sept. 30, only
about 28,000 were allowed to resettle in the United States. The others, who were
held up by delays in processing and security checks, will have to try to gain
entry in 2003.

As a result, advocates had hoped that next year between 100,000 to 140,000 would
be allowed in.

"We . . . are actively working until the last minute and the ink is dry . . . to
see the administration sets as high a target as possible," said Gideon Arnoff, a
Washington representative for the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society.

The administration released details of the refugee authorization in a memo
posted on the White House Web site yesterday. The State Department still must
consult with Congress, which has no power to reject the limit, and Bush will
sign off on the final number by the end of the year.

White House spokesman Taylor Gross said the administration "is committed to
increasing the number of refugees admitted compared to this year. The purpose of
the consultations is to engage in discussions in exact numbers."

Asked whether the numbers would increase in those consultations, Gross said:
"We're not yet ready to announce a number."

Immigration groups, however, said the proposal is an indication of where the
administration is headed.

Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), chairman of a Senate immigration subcommittee,
said he had met with Secretary of State Colin L. Powell about increasing the
number and recommended improvements for processing and better identifying
vulnerable populations.

"Considering the enormity of the world refugee population and the gravity of our
humanitarian obligations, not a single refugee slot should go to waste," Kennedy
said.

Usually lawmakers quickly approve the president's proposal, but this year
advocates are urging members of Congress to press for higher numbers, said Hiram
Ruiz, spokesman for Immigration and Refugee Services of America. The national
group has partner organizations in 35 U.S. cities.

Arnoff said his group supports tougher security measures, but they have
consequences. For example, they have caused a delay of up to eight months in
processing security reviews for Iranian religious minorities.

"What's resulted is an extremely long delay for Iranian Baha'is, Jews and
Christians, who are not a threat to us, but do come from a country that is a
supporter of terrorism, which is the reason they are fleeing and the reason why
they are seeking a safe life and is the reason why we are opposed to the
government of Iran," Arnoff said.

Arnoff said more resources are needed for security clearances for refugees, many
of whom are living in United Nations-operated refugee camps.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              218 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 24, 2002 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

CRIME &;
JUSTICE

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 274 words


MARYLAND

Woman fatally shot: A St. Mary's County woman was shot to death and another
woman was wounded Saturday night in the Coltons Point area of St.

Mary's County.

Paula Hoopes, 46, was shot in the chest about 11:13 p.m. and died at the scene
on Bowles Road, down the street from her home. Janie Sue Woods, 45, who was with
Hoopes, was treated for minor injuries at St. Mary's Hospital and released.
Anita Lynn Jackson, 44, of Mitchellville was arrested and charged with
second-degree murder. Steven Ray Bowles, 41, also was arrested and charged with
first- and second-degree assault.

Immigrants held: Three immigrants were ordered held without bond yesterday after
the Immigration and Naturalization Service said they were being investigated for
possible links to terrorism.

The FBI is examining two computers -- containing information on flight schools
and regional and local airports -- found in the Baltimore apartment where the
men and three others were arrested Sept. 10, INS lawyer Melody Brukiewa said.
Officers also found literature written in Arabic mentioning jihad, or holy war.

Judge Lisa Dornell denied bail for Unsir Hafeez, Reza Zazai and Choudry Jamil
Khan, who are being held on routine immigration charges, pending an Oct. 7
hearing.

HOMICIDES

* A 21-year-old District man was found suffering from gunshot wounds Sunday
night in the 3500 block of 29th Street in Temple Hills, Prince George's County
police said. Curtis Glover, of the 100 block of Longfellow Street NW, was
pronounced dead at Greater Southeast Community Hospital moments after he
arrived.

Compiled from reports by staff writers and the Associated Press.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              219 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 2, 2002 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Lost Chance on Terrorists Cited;
INS, FAA Might Have Found 2 of 19 Hijackers, Officials Say

BYLINE: Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1093 words


Federal immigration and aviation officials testified yesterday that they might
have been able to locate two of the Sept. 11 hijackers before the attacks in New
York and at the Pentagon if they had been given more information about a CIA
alert in late August 2001.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service did not use its master database to
aggressively search for Sept. 11 hijackers Nawaf Alhazmi and Khalid Almihdhar in
the three weeks before the attacks because the agency was not told the case was
urgent, Joseph Greene, the agency's assistant commissioner for investigations,
told the House and Senate intelligence committees yesterday. Both terror
suspects were already in the United States.

Similarly, aviation officials complained that they received no notice that
intelligence agencies were searching for the pair, because such information was
not routinely given to the Federal Aviation Administration at the time. "Had we
had information that those two individuals presented a threat to aviation or
posed a great danger, we would have put them on the list and they should have
been picked up in the reservation process," Claudio Manno, a Transportation
Security Administration intelligence official, told the committees yesterday.
Both men bought tickets in their own names for the American Airlines flight that
slammed into the Pentagon.

The new testimony, some of which was immediately disputed by intelligence
officials, was the latest in a series of sharp critiques to emerge from three
weeks of committee hearings on intelligence community failures before the terror
attacks. Unlike previous disclosures, the lapses revealed yesterday were
attributed more to weaknesses in the way government agencies communicated with
each other before Sept. 11, 2001, than to the mishandling of information.

U.S. intelligence officials disputed the INS account, arguing that a Central
Intelligence Report that accompanied the Aug. 23 notice was marked "immediate"
and noted: "We recommend that these two individuals be watch-listed immediately
to be denied entry into the United States."

"It was not done on a routine basis," one U.S. intelligence official said. "It
was done on an immediate basis."

Also yesterday, an unrelated audit by the Justice Department's inspector general
noted that, more than a year after the attacks, the FBI has failed to compile a
comprehensive written assessment of the terrorist threat to the United States.

Inspector General Glenn A. Fine's investigators found that the FBI never
followed through on a promise to Congress in March 2000 to create a
comprehensive written assessment of terrorist risks. At the time of the attacks,
the FBI had prepared a draft assessment, but it merely outlined terrorist groups
and their sponsors, including little detailed information that would be useful
in guarding against an assault inside the United States, the auditors found.

"Among the report's many omissions are assessments of the training, skill level,
resources, sophistication, specific capabilities, intent, likelihood of attack,
and potential targets of terrorist groups," the audit said. "Further, the draft
report does not discuss the methods that terrorists might use."

The FBI said in a statement yesterday that its counterterrorism division has
completed an internal draft report of the kind recommended by the inspector
general, but that the document is still under review.

In a written report and testimony to the joint congressional committee
yesterday, the panel's staff director, Eleanor Hill, recounted more than a dozen
instances in which information about terrorists was not shared among government
agencies. For example:

* The INS, the FAA, the Customs Service and the State Department all had routine
information on the 19 hijackers, but "none of that data was related to their
terrorist activities or associations," according to Hill's report. None of the
agencies was significantly focused on Osama bin Laden's declared war against the
United States, her report said.

* The CIA did not share 1,500 warnings with the State Department's watch list
program until after the Sept. 11 attacks. After an analysis of those reports,
the department added the names of 58 new suspected terrorists to its list.

* A memo written by a Phoenix FBI agent in July 2001, which warned that Middle
Eastern terrorists might be training at U.S. flight schools, was not received by
the FAA until May 2002 -- weeks after it was recounted in news reports.

"Organizations that gather intelligence don't share the information because of
turf issues," testified former Virginia governor James S. Gilmore III, chairman
of an advisory panel assessing the domestic responses to weapons of mass
destruction. Or they are worried that "if you give it out to someone, there's a
risk it will be released. There a cultural resistance built into this," Gilmore
said.

Hill said the government spends about $ 50 billion per year on computerized
information, but "there is no single agency or database or computer network that
integrates all counterterrorism information nationwide."

Watchdog groups have complained for years that intelligence agencies classify
too much information unnecessarily, withholding data needed for well-informed
policy decisions. The Hill report made clear yesterday that the tendency to
over-protectiveness extends to other government agencies as well.

Sharing information with local police departments also remains a tremendous
problem, Baltimore Police Commissioner Edward Norris told the panel yesterday.
"We can tell if they move from one cave to the other in Afghanistan, but we
can't tell you if they move from one rowhouse to another in Baltimore," Norris
said.

The Justice Department report released yesterday -- an unclassified summary of a
larger, secret audit -- noted that the FBI still has trouble keeping track of
its counterterrorism expenditures and has no set standards for agents and
analysts working in the area.

The FBI statement said that Director Robert S. Mueller III welcomed the report's
"constructive guidance." But Dale Watson, the FBI's recently retired
counterterrorism chief, told auditors that the FBI was "fully aware of the
threats, both before and after September 11," according to the report.

The inspector general's report comes amid mounting criticism of the bureau for
its performance in assessing and reacting to potential terrorist threats before
the Sept. 11 attacks, including the failure to seek a warrant to search the
belongings of alleged conspirator Zacarias Moussaoui.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              220 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             October 4, 2002 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Security Jobs, Not Job Security;
Conversion to Federal Airport Screening Displaces Thousands, Many Immigrants

BYLINE: a Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. E01

LENGTH: 1303 words


Tesfaye Y. Asfari was a biology teacher in his native Ethiopia, but until this
week he supported his family by working as a security screener at Reagan
National Airport.

On Tuesday, he and nearly 500 other screeners -- many of them recent immigrants
-- lost their jobs when a new force of federal security workers took over the
airport's checkpoints.

Nationwide, the gradual rollout of crisp-shirted Transportation Security
Administration screeners is displacing thousands of immigrant workers because
Congress required the agency to hire only U.S. citizens.

Immigrant advocates say the actions unfairly target a hardworking segment of the
population. For the individuals involved, losing their jobs is a complicated
blow -- depriving them not only of income, but of a measure of faith in their
adopted home.

"This is the U.S., the great democratic country. Here I expect so many things
that were not in my country," said Asfari, 51, smiling even as his eyes filled
with tears. "I'm really very sorry when I see this."

He has spent the last seven months working the late shift at National. He won
political asylum in the United States 10 months ago, along with a friend who
also works as a passenger screener.

The airport jobs were the only work they could find to support themselves, their
children -- each man brought one child to America -- and their wives back home.

Before last year's terrorist attacks, private security companies hired by
airlines screened passengers before they boarded airplanes. At National, Globe
Aviation Services Corp. and DAL Global Services Inc., a unit of Delta Air Lines
Inc., provided those services.

But after the hijackings, Congress passed a law requiring the government to
replace private airport screeners with federal workers by Nov. 19. The change
was made to address lawmakers' concerns that the low-paid screeners who worked
for private companies received insufficient training to detect weapons and
explosives and sometimes could not speak English, making it hard for them to
detect potential hijackers.

The law required the government to hire only people who are U.S. citizens, speak
English and have a high school diploma. The federal government also increased
pay and training requirements.

Before the Sept. 11 attacks, baggage screeners often made $ 7 to $ 8 an hour
with no health benefits and received 52 hours of training. Pay for federal
screeners now ranges from $ 23,600 to $ 35,400 a year, plus health benefits and
regional cost-of-living adjustments that can be as high as 19 percent. They
receive 100 hours of training.

Some screeners said they understand. "I think American citizens will be better
screeners. They will get long-time training. They speak good English," said
Abdallah M. Babikir, a Sudanese immigrant who has lived in the United States for
over three years and worked as a Globe airport screener at National for nearly
two years. Babikir still has another job at the airport, as a "skycap" who helps
passengers in wheelchairs.

But other screeners said they are upset and worried about their future. "I have
nothing. I have only $ 40 in my checkbook," Asfari said.

Beyene Ayele, 50, who came to the United States from Ethiopia nine years ago,
has worked at his screening job for eight years. "America is also my country,"
he said. "Since '94, working security, we have not had any problems. We have not
made any mistakes. Our only problem is that we are not citizens; that is not our
problem. We don't understand."

Ayele, who was making $ 14 an hour as a security screener, said he has applied
for a job at Home Depot and as a cashier at a parking lot, but he hasn't heard
from either place.

"In this country we have all men created equal," said Ethiopian immigrant
Yirsaw, a screener who declined to give her first name. "We didn't do anything
with September 11. They can punish anybody for this, but we are just trying to
do our best. They just kick us out like the trash: 'You go!' "

Screeners who lost their jobs, including some U.S. citizens, have three major
complaints. First, they were given only a few days' or hours' notice before they
were dismissed. Second, those who are U.S. citizens say their experience should
help them get the federal jobs, but instead, they say, the hiring process is
biased against them.

And third, laid-off screeners said they have not received the severance bonuses
they were expecting.

Screeners said they should have been given far more warning about when their
employment would end. Heather Rosenker, a TSA spokeswoman, said that although
the agency only gave the screeners four days' notice, it informed the workers as
soon as a final date was chosen for the transition.

"We try to give people as much notice as we can," she said. She added that if
screeners know too far in advance when they are to be laid off, non-U.S.
citizens might quit and leave a staffing gap, she said.

U.S. citizens who failed the test for federal screeners also would have little
incentive to stay. Rosenker said it has been widely known since last November
that federal workers would take over those jobs.

A bigger concern to Erika Gulatte, a 30-year-old part-time Howard University
student and Globe screener, is the feeling that she did not have a fair shot at
the federal job. Three months ago, Gulatte took a job with Globe, thinking it
would help her get a federal job.

She studied for the test, which she took two weeks ago. She thought she did well
but was told she failed. After the test, she and other current screeners boarded
a bus that took them back to their jobs at National. "Nobody on the bus passed.
A lot of people were crying," Gulatte said.

The TSA denies there is any bias against current screeners. As of mid-September,
217,092 people had tested for screener jobs, and 31,041 were offered posts,
according to the TSA. Private screeners accounted for 5 percent -- or 10,864 --
of those interviewed, and 2,210 of those screeners received job offers.

In the meantime, many laid-off screeners complained they had yet to get the $
500 to $ 1,000 "patriot pay bonus" that the government included as part of its
contracts with private security companies. The bonus was included to help retain
as many screeners as possible during the transition to a federal workforce.

DAL and Globe said that is because they are waiting for the TSA to conduct a
review of the company's work at National and to determine the exact bonus each
person should get.

"We want to treat these people as well as we possibly can. It's been a very
difficult environment over the past year," said Globe President Ron Harper. Both
firms said they have been trying to help former employees apply for work with
the TSA and to assist them in finding other jobs in their companies.

The former screeners at National -- like many others in the nation -- plan to
leave quietly, in contrast to the dozens in Florida who testified before a House
panel last month that the TSA's hiring process was biased.

Some lawmakers are having second thoughts about the citizenship requirement. The
Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation voted last month to
allow legal residents to apply for TSA jobs. But it's unclear whether there is
support for that change in the House.

Monday was Asfari's last day of work. Since then, the Ethiopian immigrant has
spent hours at his home in Silver Spring filling out applications, including one
to work as a cashier at Marshall's. He also stopped by Catholic Charities,
hoping it could help him find a job, and he called unemployment services to find
out if he would qualify for unemployment benefits.

"I believe in self-reliance. We like to work. I'm strong enough; I'm healthy,"
he said. But he was doubtful of his prospects. "It's hopeless. I don't know . .
. where to go."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              221 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 9, 2002 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

INS Defends Dealings With Immigrant Who Shot 5

BYLINE: Susan Schmidt, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 402 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service properly handled an asylum
application by Hesham Mohamed Hadayet, the Egyptian immigrant who shot five
people this summer at Los Angeles International Airport, an agency official said
in written testimony to be given to Congress today.

Even if Hadayet, who was denied asylum after an INS case officer in 1993 told
him he did not believe Hadayet's denials about ties to Egyptian radicals, had
applied under today's improved system, Deputy Executive Associate Commissioner
William Yates said in his written testimony, "the outcome may have been the
same."

Hadayet was denied asylum as a result of the case officer's interview, but was
not immediately deported. INS officials have told a congressional panel that
they could not locate Hadayet after his deportation appeals ran out in late
1995, but issued him a new U.S. work permit anyway when he applied five months
later.

Despite the asylum case officer's concerns, the INS properly handled Hadayet's
asylum application, Yates said. The case officer's letter denying Hadayet asylum
was also provided to a House panel on immigration.

Hadayet, who ran a limousine service from his home in Irvine, Calif., fatally
shot two people and wounded three others July 4 at the El Al ticket counter. He
was shot and killed by an airline security guard.

Immediately after the July shootings, the FBI said Hadayet had no known ties to
terrorist groups. Last month, however, the INS revealed that Hadayet had claimed
in his asylum interview that the Egyptian government had falsely accused him of
membership in Gama'a al-Islamiyya, a group the State Department designated as a
terror organization in 1997.

The same year, the INS granted Hadayet a visa after his wife was awarded a visa
in the INS annual diversity visa lottery.

Attorney General John D. Ashcroft has ordered the INS to review the files of
other asylum applicants for any indications of terrorist links.

The INS case officer, whose identity was withheld by the agency, told Hadayet in
a letter denying him asylum status that his interview raised "serious questions
of credibility." The officer said he did not believe Hadayet's claims of
religious persecution and cited "inconsistencies" in his story that were
"suggestive of concealment and call into question your assertion that all you
wish for the government of Egypt is that it be overthrown by peaceful means."

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              222 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 10, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Rapper Gets a Washington Rep

BYLINE: Judy Sarasohn

SECTION: A SECTION; SPECIAL INTERESTS JUDY SARASOHN; Pg. A31

LENGTH: 812 words


In Washington, where every conceivable cause and special-interest group seems to
have a lobbyist on retainer, even a rapper can use someone to press his case in
Congress and the administration.

Island/Def Jam Music Group hired local lobby shop Fenner Gray & Associates to
work on behalf of Slick Rick -- Ricky Walters -- the British-born,
platinum-record rapper who has been held at the Immigration and Naturalization
Service detention center in Bradenton, Fla., since June pending deportation. The
INS determined he was a flight risk while he fights the deportation order for
having served five years in prison for shooting his cousin. He pleaded guilty in
that case in 1991 and was released from prison in 1996; his supporters say he's
been clean since then.

Aaron Manaigo, former head of the National Council of Black Republicans and a
Fenner Gray lobbyist, said he's brought Slick Rick's case to the attention of
the House Judiciary Committee, the White House, the Justice Department and INS
officials. Walters has also gotten support from actor and rapper Will Smith,
actor Chris Rock, activist Jesse Jackson and others.

Walters, 37, has lived legally in the United States since he was 11. His wife
and children are citizens.

Bill Adler, a New York PR agent hired by Def Jam, Walters's record label, said
the lobbying efforts are being temporarily suspended while Walters's supporters
figure out their next step.

"Ricky went in and rehabilitated himself. . . . He got married, raised his
children, paid his taxes," Adler said. "He's not a risk to the community or a
flight risk. He's a rapper."

Albany law firm Whiteman Osterman & Hanna is expanding its government relations
operations and opening a D.C. lobby shop, WOH Government Solutions. The
president of the new subsidiary is Todd Howe, most recently senior vice
president for corporate relations for the Mortgage Bankers Association of
America.

Before entering the Washington lobby biz, Howe worked for the secretaries of
housing and urban development and labor in the Clinton administration. He also
worked in the New York governor's office under then-Gov. Mario Cuomo (father of
former HUD secretary Andrew Cuomo) and was vice president of an Albany-based
PR/public affairs shop.

The law firm's government relations practice has represented such clients as the
Metropolitan Museum of Art, American Express and the New York Stock Exchange.

Speaking of the Cuomo connection . . . Rebecca Morley, who also used to work for
former HUD secretary Cuomo and Sen. Jack Reed (D-R.I.), has been appointed
executive director of the National Center for Healthy Housing (NCHH), succeeding
founder Nick Farr, who's retiring. Morley, who also worked for the U.S Public
Interest Research Group, most recently was with ICF Consulting.

NCHH was founded in 1992 as the National Center for Lead-Safe Housing. The group
changed its name last year, recognizing that a variety of environmental health
hazards result from poor housing.

Ananias "Andy" Blocker III, a lobbyist at American Airlines since 1997 and a
former Clintonite, has left for the New York Stock Exchange, where he is vice
president for government relations.

In his new job, Blocker will be the NYSE's primary liaison to House and Senate
members, advise management on the impact of public policy and aid in strategic
and tactical planning. He reports to NYSE's senior vice president for government
relations, Richard L. Ribbentrop.

Blocker, who earlier this year received his MBA from Georgetown University, said
the NYSE job is "a great opportunity."

Before joining American Airlines, Blocker served as a special assistant for
legislative affairs to President Bill Clinton. Earlier, he was a budget analyst
for the Senate.

Nels Olson of Korn/Ferry International helped with the move. The position had
been open for some time.

mCapitol Management has acquired Chief Advantages, a public affairs and
grass-roots lobby shop, and with it, Craig T. Smith, former White House
political director for former president Clinton. Smith becomes senior vice
president of mCapitol Management. Also signing on: Troy P. Queen and Chris J.
Lavery.

The Gay & Lesbian Victory Fund's executive director, Brian K. Bond, is leaving
in early 2003 after six years to move to New York. The group has started a
national search for a new leader. Earlier, Bond had served as gay and lesbian
outreach director for the Democratic National Committee.

It's all within the AFL-CIO, but after 14 years as director of government
affairs for the Association of Flight Attendants, Jo Deutsch has moved over to
the Women's Rights Department at the American Federation of State, County and
Municipal Employees as assistant director.

Before joining AFA, she worked for the Business and Professional Women's Clubs
Inc., the Human Rights Campaign and for then-Rep. (now senator) Barbara Boxer
(D-Calif.).

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              223 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 15, 2002 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 483 words


ST. LOUIS -- A review of government documents and court records indicates
hundreds of elderly patients in nursing homes are dying of neglect, according to
a newspaper report.

The St. Louis Post-Dispatch, in a weeklong series that began Sunday, reported
that the quiet epidemic is rarely detected by government inspectors, appraised
by medical examiners, or investigated or prosecuted by law enforcers.

Most of the deaths are caused by neglect traced to caregivers whom the elderly
rely on for food and liquid, and for turning them in their beds to prevent
life-threatening sores, investigators and researchers say.

The latest national compilation of more than 500,000 nursing home deaths -- for
1999 -- lists starvation, dehydration or bedsores as the cause on 4,138 death
certificates.

Most of the deaths can be traced to an inadequate number of nurses and aides.
The Department of Health and Human Services reported to Congress this year that
nine of 10 nursing homes have inadequate staff.

The American Health Care Association, the lobbying group for most nursing homes,
said in a statement that the newspaper unfairly included deaths from neglect
with deaths from natural causes.

* NEW YORK -- A Russian immigrant, threatened with deportation after his wife
was killed in the World Trade Center attack, will be allowed to remain in the
United States. Vasily Ryjov, 38, was granted permanent residency by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service after Sen. Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.)
intervened.

* CAPE CANAVERAL -- Making the third and final spacewalk of their mission,
shuttle Atlantis's astronauts finished installing a $ 390 million girder on the
international space station. Atlantis and its crew are scheduled to leave the
space station on Wednesday and return to Earth on Friday.

* ENFIELD, N.C. -- A truck slammed into a slow-moving line of cars in a
construction zone, injuring nine people, six of them critically, authorities
said.

* SALT LAKE CITY -- For apparently the first time in more than 100 years, Utah
prosecutors are charging a woman on polygamy-related charges. Suzie Stubbs Holm,
36, is accused of getting her 16-year-old sister to marry into Holm's polygamous
household. Holm could be imprisoned 10 years if convicted of abetting bigamy and
illegal sex. Her husband, Hildale police officer Rodney H. Holm, 36, was charged
with illegally marrying the little sister.

* ST. JOHNS, Mich. -- A woman who drove her 19-year-old son and daughter-in-law
to an abandoned farmhouse and supplied the young people with drugs so they could
commit suicide was sentenced to 15 to 30 months in prison. Kathleen Holey, 43,
pleaded guilty to a reduced charge of attempted assisted suicide in August. Her
son, Patrick Holey, died in the suicide pact, but his wife, Jennifer, survived
and was sent to prison on a no-contest plea in the rape of a 14-year-old girl.

-- From News Services

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              224 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 19, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

8 Years for Cheating Immigrants

BYLINE: Tom Jackman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 567 words


A key figure in a scheme by an Arlington law firm to defraud thousands of
immigrants was sentenced yesterday to more than eight years in prison, and
federal authorities announced a plan to help repay the immigrants using $ 4
million of the defendant's money.

Ronald W. Bogardus, 65, a fire safety engineer for the State Department and the
former fire marshal of California, was arrested in July along with lawyer Samuel
G. Kooritzky, 63, who operated the Capital Law Centers in Arlington, Washington
and Takoma Park. The law firm specialized in immigration cases, particularly
helping immigrants obtain "green cards" for permanent residency.

For many, the process of getting a green card involves obtaining a labor
certification, in which an employer states that the immigrant is needed for a
particular job and that no American citizen is available. Bogardus admitted he
used his State Department identification while visiting businesses in Northern
Virginia to learn the names and titles of managers. That information was listed
on the labor certifications, particularly from restaurants such as Chili's,
Applebee's and the Silver Diner. Prosecutors allege that Kooritzky submitted
more than 2,700 applications without the businesses knowing.

Kooritzky's firm charged immigrants between $ 8,000 and $ 20,000 for a labor
certification application to a state Labor Department and then a green card
application based on the labor certification. Immigrants said they didn't know
the scheme was illegal. Kooritzky advertised on Spanish-language television and
placed full-page ads in Latino newspapers that declared, "If You Don't Have a
Sponsor, We Can Help You Find One," according to court papers.

A Colombian woman who lives in Maryland said in an interview last month that she
"had no reason to believe that they were doing something illegal" because the
law office was big and busy and advertised widely. Her documents show she agreed
to pay Capital Law Centers $ 8,500.

Federal agents found $ 1 million cash in Bogardus's Arlington apartment when he
was arrested. Court records show he had $ 2.5 million in a bank account and $
500,000 more in assets. As part of his plea agreement, Bogardus will forfeit all
$ 4 million. U.S. District Judge James C. Cacheris will appoint a receiver to
review claims from people who allege they were defrauded by Capital Law Centers,
and the receiver will recommend who is repaid.

Assistant U.S. Attorney John T. Morton said after the receiver is appointed, a
special hotline will be established for claimants to call. A Justice Department
official said the program would focus on restitution to victims and would not
seek to deport applicants.

Not long after Bogardus and Kooritzky were arrested, Bogardus began cooperating
with investigators. He pleaded guilty in August to one count each of conspiracy,
labor certification fraud, money laundering, immigration fraud and extortion.
Cacheris sentenced him to 97 months. Kooritzky, indicted last month on 38 counts
of conspiracy, fraud and money laundering, is scheduled for trial in December.

"Many of the immigrants involved have lost their life savings," Morton said.
"Much of what Mr. Bogardus did the last few years was a lie."

Bogardus spoke briefly yesterday, apologizing to the court "and to anybody that
was harmed or disturbed by my actions. I accept full responsibility for my
actions," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              225 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 20, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

For the Record;
Here's how some major bills fared recently in Congress and how local
congressional members voted, as provided by Thomas's Roll Call Report Syndicate.
NV means Not Voting.

SECTION: LOUDOUN EXTRA; Pg. T18

LENGTH: 911 words


The House passed a bill (HR 2155) empowering Immigration and Naturalization
Service agents to arrest drivers at border crossings under state alcohol and
drug laws. It entitles INS officers to administer blood, breath and urine tests
without the driver's consent if they have reasonable grounds to suspect
violations. A yes vote backed the arrest powers.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cardin (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Cummings (D) [hbox]* [hbox]

Ehrlich (R) [hbox][hbox]*

Gilchrest (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Hoyer (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Morella (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Wynn (D) [hbox]* [hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) * [hbox][hbox]

T. Davis (R) [hbox][hbox]*

Moran (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Wolf (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cantor (R) * [hbox][hbox]

The House approved a fiscal 2003 spending measure (HJ Res 123) to fund the
government at 2002 levels until Nov. 22. The stopgap resolution was needed
because Congress has failed to enact 11 of the 13 appropriations bills needed to
run the government. Fiscal 2003 began Oct. 1. The budget battle will resume in a
lame-duck session scheduled to convene Nov. 12. A yes vote backed the stopgap
measure.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cardin (D) [hbox]* [hbox]

Cummings (D) [hbox]* [hbox]

Ehrlich (R) [hbox][hbox]*

Gilchrest (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Hoyer (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Morella (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Wynn (D) * [hbox][hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) * [hbox][hbox]

T. Davis (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Moran (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Wolf (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cantor (R) * [hbox][hbox]

The House rejected a Democratic bid to end stopgap funding (HJ Res 123, above)
on Oct. 21 rather than Nov. 22. Democrats sought to pressure the Republican-led
House to vote before the Nov. 5 elections on issues such as education spending
for fiscal 2003.

A yes vote backed the Democratic effort.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

Cardin (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Cummings (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Ehrlich (R) [hbox][hbox]*

Gilchrest (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

Hoyer (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Morella (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

Wynn (D) * [hbox][hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

T. Davis (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

Moran (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Wolf (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

Cantor (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

The House passed a five-year reauthorization of federal programs for delivering
health care to under-served rural areas. At a first-year cost of $ 1.34 billion,
the bill (S 1533) funds community health centers throughout the country as well
as programs such as the National Health Service Corps. The 1,000 community
centers serve an estimated 12 million people, many of them uninsured. A yes vote
supported funding the programs.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cardin (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Cummings (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Ehrlich (R) [hbox][hbox]*

Gilchrest (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Hoyer (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Morella (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Wynn (D) * [hbox][hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) * [hbox][hbox]

T. Davis (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Moran (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Wolf (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cantor (R) * [hbox][hbox]

The Senate sent President Bush the conference report on a bill (HR 3295) setting
federal standards for local, state and federal elections. The bill requires
states to allow voters to cast provisional ballots when their registration is
challenged and to correct ballot errors on the spot. States must set uniform
statewide definitions of what constitutes a legal vote on different types of
equipment and absentee ballots.

The bill authorizes $ 3.9 billion to states over three years amid uncertainty
over how much of the promised funding will be delivered in tight budget times.
The funds would be for purposes such as training poll workers; establishing
computerized, statewide registration rolls; replacing punch-card and
lever-operated voting machines with more reliable modern systems; and improving
ballot access for the disabled.

To register to vote under the bill, individuals must provide identification such
as a driver's license or the last four digits of their Social Security number.
Those registering by mail must show identification before they cast ballots.

The bill establishes a federal commission comprising two Democratic and two
Republican appointees to oversee the distribution of grants to states and to set
voluntary guidelines for voting systems and procedures.

A yes vote approved the conference report.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Mikulski (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Sarbanes (D) * [hbox][hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

Allen (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Warner (R) * [hbox][hbox]

The Senate sent President Bush the conference report on a bill (HR 5010)
appropriating $ 355.1 billion for military operations in fiscal 2003, up 12
percent from the comparable 2002 bill. The bill funds major weapons systems as
well as chemical and biological defenses in anticipation of war with Iraq. Sen.
Russell Feingold (D-Wis.) cast the dissenting vote on grounds it did too little
to eliminate wasteful spending and outdated programs.

The bill funds a 4.1 percent military pay raise and supports 1.4 million active
duty troops and 865,000 National Guard and reserve personnel. It includes $ 417
million for helping Russia dismantle its nuclear arsenal; $ 14.8 billion for
health care; $ 7.4 billion for the National Missile Defense; and $ 882 million
for drug interdiction.

A yes vote approved the conference report.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Mikulski (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Sarbanes (D) * [hbox][hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

Allen (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Warner (R) * [hbox][hbox]

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              226 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 22, 2002 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Takoma Park Couple Allegedly Enslaved Immigrant

BYLINE: Ruben Castaneda, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 373 words


A Takoma Park couple has been indicted for allegedly bringing a Ghanian woman
into the United States illegally and enslaving her, using her as an unpaid
domestic servant for about 17 months, the U.S. attorney's office said.

Maryland U.S. Attorney Thomas M. DiBiagio and Ralph F. Boyd Jr., assistant
attorney general for civil rights, announced that a federal grand jury on
Wednesday indicted Kenneth Blackwell and his wife, Barbara Coleman-Blackwell, on
immigration and conspiracy charges.

The grand jury also indicted Barbara Coleman-Blackwell's mother, Grace Coleman,
a Ghana national and a high-ranking Ghanian government official.

The three are charged in U.S. District Court in Greenbelt with fraudulently
bringing Margaret Owusuwaah into the United States and using her as an unpaid
domestic servant in the home of Kenneth and Barbara Blackwell.

The three defendants are charged with conspiring to induce an illegal immigrant
to come to the United States, harboring an illegal immigrant for financial gain,
and with recruiting an immigrant to come to and remain in the United States
illegally.

Barbara Coleman-Blackwell and her mother are charged with forced labor,
confiscating Owusuwaah's passport and visa in connection with forced labor,
making a false statement to U.S. officials and visa fraud.

According to the indictment, in February 2000, Coleman, working with
Coleman-Blackwell, fraudulently obtained a U.S.  visa for Owusuwaah by knowingly
submitting a visa application with false information. The two also allegedly
lied to an official at the U.S. Embassy in Ghana.

According to the indictment, when Owusuwaah arrived in the United States in
February 2000, Grace Coleman took her passport, and Barbara Coleman-Blackwell
hid Owusuwaah's passport and visa to prevent her from leaving her Takoma Park
home.

The two women allegedly intimidated Owusuwaah into providing domestic labor and
child care for little or no pay by threatening her with deportation.

The maximum penalties Grace Coleman and Barbara Coleman-Blackwell could face if
convicted of all charges are 20 years in prison and a $ 250,000 fine each.
Kenneth Blackwell faces a maximum of 10 years in prison and a $ 250,000 fine if
convicted of all counts.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              227 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 24, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

For the Record;
Here's how some major bills fared recently in Congress, and how local
congressional members voted, as provided by Thomas's Roll Call Report Syndicate.
NV means Not Voting.

SECTION: PRINCE GEORGE'S EXTRA; Pg. T20

LENGTH: 911 words


The House passed a bill (HR 2155) empowering Immigration and Naturalization
Service agents to arrest drivers at border crossings under state alcohol and
drug laws. It entitles INS officers to administer blood, breath and urine tests
without the driver's consent if they have reasonable grounds to suspect
violations. A yes vote backed the arrest powers.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cardin (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Cummings (D) [hbox]* [hbox]

Ehrlich (R) [hbox][hbox]*

Gilchrest (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Hoyer (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Morella (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Wynn (D) [hbox]* [hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) * [hbox][hbox]

T. Davis (R) [hbox][hbox]*

Moran (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Wolf (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cantor (R) * [hbox][hbox]

The House approved a fiscal 2003 spending measure (HJ Res 123) to fund the
government at 2002 levels until Nov. 22. The stopgap resolution was needed
because Congress has failed to enact 11 of the 13 appropriations bills needed to
run the government. Fiscal 2003 began Oct. 1. The budget battle will resume in a
lame-duck session scheduled to convene Nov. 12. A yes vote backed the stopgap
measure.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cardin (D) [hbox]* [hbox]

Cummings (D) [hbox]* [hbox]

Ehrlich (R) [hbox][hbox]*

Gilchrest (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Hoyer (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Morella (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Wynn (D) * [hbox][hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) * [hbox][hbox]

T. Davis (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Moran (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Wolf (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cantor (R) * [hbox][hbox]

The House rejected a Democratic bid to end stopgap funding (HJ Res 123, above)
on Oct. 21 rather than Nov. 22. Democrats sought to pressure the Republican-led
House to vote before the Nov. 5 elections on issues such as education spending
for fiscal 2003.

A yes vote backed the Democratic effort.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

Cardin (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Cummings (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Ehrlich (R) [hbox][hbox]*

Gilchrest (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

Hoyer (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Morella (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

Wynn (D) * [hbox][hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

T. Davis (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

Moran (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Wolf (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

Cantor (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

The House passed a five-year reauthorization of federal programs for delivering
health care to under-served rural areas. At a first-year cost of $ 1.34 billion,
the bill (S 1533) funds community health centers throughout the country as well
as programs such as the National Health Service Corps. The 1,000 community
centers serve an estimated 12 million people, many of them uninsured. A yes vote
supported funding the programs.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cardin (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Cummings (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Ehrlich (R) [hbox][hbox]*

Gilchrest (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Hoyer (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Morella (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Wynn (D) * [hbox][hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) * [hbox][hbox]

T. Davis (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Moran (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Wolf (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cantor (R) * [hbox][hbox]

The Senate sent President Bush the conference report on a bill (HR 3295) setting
federal standards for local, state and federal elections. The bill requires
states to allow voters to cast provisional ballots when their registration is
challenged and to correct ballot errors on the spot. States must set uniform
statewide definitions of what constitutes a legal vote on different types of
equipment and absentee ballots.

The bill authorizes $ 3.9 billion to states over three years amid uncertainty
over how much of the promised funding will be delivered in tight budget times.
The funds would be for purposes such as training poll workers; establishing
computerized, statewide registration rolls; replacing punch-card and
lever-operated voting machines with more reliable modern systems; and improving
ballot access for the disabled.

To register to vote under the bill, individuals must provide identification such
as a driver's license or the last four digits of their Social Security number.
Those registering by mail must show identification before they cast ballots.

The bill establishes a federal commission comprising two Democratic and two
Republican appointees to oversee the distribution of grants to states and to set
voluntary guidelines for voting systems and procedures.

A yes vote approved the conference report.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Mikulski (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Sarbanes (D) * [hbox][hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

Allen (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Warner (R) * [hbox][hbox]

The Senate sent President Bush the conference report on a bill (HR 5010)
appropriating $ 355.1 billion for military operations in fiscal 2003, up 12
percent from the comparable 2002 bill. The bill funds major weapons systems as
well as chemical and biological defenses in anticipation of war with Iraq. Sen.
Russell Feingold (D-Wis.) cast the dissenting vote on grounds it did too little
to eliminate wasteful spending and outdated programs.

The bill funds a 4.1 percent military pay raise and supports 1.4 million active
duty troops and 865,000 National Guard and reserve personnel. It includes $ 417
million for helping Russia dismantle its nuclear arsenal; $ 14.8 billion for
health care; $ 7.4 billion for the National Missile Defense; and $ 882 million
for drug interdiction.

A yes vote approved the conference report.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Mikulski (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Sarbanes (D) * [hbox][hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

Allen (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Warner (R) * [hbox][hbox]

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              228 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 24, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

For the Record;
Here's how some major bills fared recently in Congress and how local
congressional members voted, as provided by Thomas's Roll Call Report Syndicate.
NV means Not Voting.

SECTION: MONTGOMERY EXTRA; Pg. T16

LENGTH: 911 words


The House passed a bill (HR 2155) empowering Immigration and Naturalization
Service agents to arrest drivers at border crossings under state alcohol and
drug laws. It entitles INS officers to administer blood, breath and urine tests
without the driver's consent if they have reasonable grounds to suspect
violations. A yes vote backed the arrest powers.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cardin (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Cummings (D) [hbox]* [hbox]

Ehrlich (R) [hbox][hbox]*

Gilchrest (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Hoyer (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Morella (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Wynn (D) [hbox]* [hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) * [hbox][hbox]

T. Davis (R) [hbox][hbox]*

Moran (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Wolf (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cantor (R) * [hbox][hbox]

The House approved a fiscal 2003 spending measure (HJ Res 123) to fund the
government at 2002 levels until Nov. 22. The stopgap resolution was needed
because Congress has failed to enact 11 of the 13 appropriations bills needed to
run the government. Fiscal 2003 began Oct. 1. The budget battle will resume in a
lame-duck session scheduled to convene Nov. 12. A yes vote backed the stopgap
measure.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cardin (D) [hbox]* [hbox]

Cummings (D) [hbox]* [hbox]

Ehrlich (R) [hbox][hbox]*

Gilchrest (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Hoyer (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Morella (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Wynn (D) * [hbox][hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) * [hbox][hbox]

T. Davis (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Moran (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Wolf (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cantor (R) * [hbox][hbox]

The House rejected a Democratic bid to end stopgap funding (HJ Res 123, above)
on Oct. 21 rather than Nov. 22. Democrats sought to pressure the Republican-led
House to vote before the Nov. 5 elections on issues such as education spending
for fiscal 2003.

A yes vote backed the Democratic effort.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

Cardin (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Cummings (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Ehrlich (R) [hbox][hbox]*

Gilchrest (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

Hoyer (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Morella (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

Wynn (D) * [hbox][hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

T. Davis (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

Moran (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Wolf (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

Cantor (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

The House passed a five-year reauthorization of federal programs for delivering
health care to under-served rural areas. At a first-year cost of $ 1.34 billion,
the bill (S 1533) funds community health centers throughout the country as well
as programs such as the National Health Service Corps. The 1,000 community
centers serve an estimated 12 million people, many of them uninsured. A yes vote
supported funding the programs.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cardin (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Cummings (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Ehrlich (R) [hbox][hbox]*

Gilchrest (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Hoyer (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Morella (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Wynn (D) * [hbox][hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) * [hbox][hbox]

T. Davis (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Moran (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Wolf (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cantor (R) * [hbox][hbox]

The Senate sent President Bush the conference report on a bill (HR 3295) setting
federal standards for local, state and federal elections. The bill requires
states to allow voters to cast provisional ballots when their registration is
challenged and to correct ballot errors on the spot. States must set uniform
statewide definitions of what constitutes a legal vote on different types of
equipment and absentee ballots.

The bill authorizes $ 3.9 billion to states over three years amid uncertainty
over how much of the promised funding will be delivered in tight budget times.
The funds would be for purposes such as training poll workers; establishing
computerized, statewide registration rolls; replacing punch-card and
lever-operated voting machines with more reliable modern systems; and improving
ballot access for the disabled.

To register to vote under the bill, individuals must provide identification such
as a driver's license or the last four digits of their Social Security number.
Those registering by mail must show identification before they cast ballots.

The bill establishes a federal commission comprising two Democratic and two
Republican appointees to oversee the distribution of grants to states and to set
voluntary guidelines for voting systems and procedures.

A yes vote approved the conference report.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Mikulski (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Sarbanes (D) * [hbox][hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

Allen (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Warner (R) * [hbox][hbox]

The Senate sent President Bush the conference report on a bill (HR 5010)
appropriating $ 355.1 billion for military operations in fiscal 2003, up 12
percent from the comparable 2002 bill. The bill funds major weapons systems as
well as chemical and biological defenses in anticipation of war with Iraq. Sen.
Russell Feingold (D-Wis.) cast the dissenting vote on grounds it did too little
to eliminate wasteful spending and outdated programs.

The bill funds a 4.1 percent military pay raise and supports 1.4 million active
duty troops and 865,000 National Guard and reserve personnel. It includes $ 417
million for helping Russia dismantle its nuclear arsenal; $ 14.8 billion for
health care; $ 7.4 billion for the National Missile Defense; and $ 882 million
for drug interdiction.

A yes vote approved the conference report.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Mikulski (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Sarbanes (D) * [hbox][hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

Allen (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Warner (R) * [hbox][hbox]

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              229 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 24, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

For the Record;
Here's how some major bills fared recently in Congress and how local
congressional members voted, as provided by Thomas's Roll Call Report Syndicate.
NV means Not Voting.

SECTION: HOWARD EXTRA; Pg. T18

LENGTH: 911 words


The House passed a bill (HR 2155) empowering Immigration and Naturalization
Service agents to arrest drivers at border crossings under state alcohol and
drug laws. It entitles INS officers to administer blood, breath and urine tests
without the driver's consent if they have reasonable grounds to suspect
violations. A yes vote backed the arrest powers.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cardin (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Cummings (D) [hbox]* [hbox]

Ehrlich (R) [hbox][hbox]*

Gilchrest (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Hoyer (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Morella (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Wynn (D) [hbox]* [hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) * [hbox][hbox]

T. Davis (R) [hbox][hbox]*

Moran (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Wolf (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cantor (R) * [hbox][hbox]

The House approved a fiscal 2003 spending measure (HJ Res 123) to fund the
government at 2002 levels until Nov. 22. The stopgap resolution was needed
because Congress has failed to enact 11 of the 13 appropriations bills needed to
run the government. Fiscal 2003 began Oct. 1. The budget battle will resume in a
lame-duck session scheduled to convene Nov. 12. A yes vote backed the stopgap
measure.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cardin (D) [hbox]* [hbox]

Cummings (D) [hbox]* [hbox]

Ehrlich (R) [hbox][hbox]*

Gilchrest (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Hoyer (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Morella (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Wynn (D) * [hbox][hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) * [hbox][hbox]

T. Davis (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Moran (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Wolf (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cantor (R) * [hbox][hbox]

The House rejected a Democratic bid to end stopgap funding (HJ Res 123, above)
on Oct. 21 rather than Nov. 22. Democrats sought to pressure the Republican-led
House to vote before the Nov. 5 elections on issues such as education spending
for fiscal 2003.

A yes vote backed the Democratic effort.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

Cardin (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Cummings (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Ehrlich (R) [hbox][hbox]*

Gilchrest (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

Hoyer (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Morella (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

Wynn (D) * [hbox][hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

T. Davis (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

Moran (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Wolf (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

Cantor (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

The House passed a five-year reauthorization of federal programs for delivering
health care to under-served rural areas. At a first-year cost of $ 1.34 billion,
the bill (S 1533) funds community health centers throughout the country as well
as programs such as the National Health Service Corps. The 1,000 community
centers serve an estimated 12 million people, many of them uninsured. A yes vote
supported funding the programs.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cardin (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Cummings (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Ehrlich (R) [hbox][hbox]*

Gilchrest (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Hoyer (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Morella (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Wynn (D) * [hbox][hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) * [hbox][hbox]

T. Davis (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Moran (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Wolf (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cantor (R) * [hbox][hbox]

The Senate sent President Bush the conference report on a bill (HR 3295) setting
federal standards for local, state and federal elections. The bill requires
states to allow voters to cast provisional ballots when their registration is
challenged and to correct ballot errors on the spot. States must set uniform
statewide definitions of what constitutes a legal vote on different types of
equipment and absentee ballots.

The bill authorizes $ 3.9 billion to states over three years amid uncertainty
over how much of the promised funding will be delivered in tight budget times.
The funds would be for purposes such as training poll workers; establishing
computerized, statewide registration rolls; replacing punch-card and
lever-operated voting machines with more reliable modern systems; and improving
ballot access for the disabled.

To register to vote under the bill, individuals must provide identification such
as a driver's license or the last four digits of their Social Security number.
Those registering by mail must show identification before they cast ballots.

The bill establishes a federal commission comprising two Democratic and two
Republican appointees to oversee the distribution of grants to states and to set
voluntary guidelines for voting systems and procedures.

A yes vote approved the conference report.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Mikulski (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Sarbanes (D) * [hbox][hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

Allen (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Warner (R) * [hbox][hbox]

The Senate sent President Bush the conference report on a bill (HR 5010)
appropriating $ 355.1 billion for military operations in fiscal 2003, up 12
percent from the comparable 2002 bill. The bill funds major weapons systems as
well as chemical and biological defenses in anticipation of war with Iraq. Sen.
Russell Feingold (D-Wis.) cast the dissenting vote on grounds it did too little
to eliminate wasteful spending and outdated programs.

The bill funds a 4.1 percent military pay raise and supports 1.4 million active
duty troops and 865,000 National Guard and reserve personnel. It includes $ 417
million for helping Russia dismantle its nuclear arsenal; $ 14.8 billion for
health care; $ 7.4 billion for the National Missile Defense; and $ 882 million
for drug interdiction.

A yes vote approved the conference report.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Mikulski (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Sarbanes (D) * [hbox][hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

Allen (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Warner (R) * [hbox][hbox]

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              230 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 24, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

For the Record;
Here's how some major bills fared recently in Congress and how local
congressional members voted, as provided by Thomas's Roll Call Report Syndicate.
NV means Not Voting.

SECTION: FAIRFAX EXTRA; Pg. T10

LENGTH: 911 words


The House passed a bill (HR 2155) empowering Immigration and Naturalization
Service agents to arrest drivers at border crossings under state alcohol and
drug laws. It entitles INS officers to administer blood, breath and urine tests
without the driver's consent if they have reasonable grounds to suspect
violations. A yes vote backed the arrest powers.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cardin (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Cummings (D) [hbox]* [hbox]

Ehrlich (R) [hbox][hbox]*

Gilchrest (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Hoyer (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Morella (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Wynn (D) [hbox]* [hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) * [hbox][hbox]

T. Davis (R) [hbox][hbox]*

Moran (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Wolf (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cantor (R) * [hbox][hbox]

The House approved a fiscal 2003 spending measure (HJ Res 123) to fund the
government at 2002 levels until Nov. 22. The stopgap resolution was needed
because Congress has failed to enact 11 of the 13 appropriations bills needed to
run the government. Fiscal 2003 began Oct. 1. The budget battle will resume in a
lame-duck session scheduled to convene Nov. 12. A yes vote backed the stopgap
measure.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cardin (D) [hbox]* [hbox]

Cummings (D) [hbox]* [hbox]

Ehrlich (R) [hbox][hbox]*

Gilchrest (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Hoyer (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Morella (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Wynn (D) * [hbox][hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) * [hbox][hbox]

T. Davis (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Moran (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Wolf (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cantor (R) * [hbox][hbox]

The House rejected a Democratic bid to end stopgap funding (HJ Res 123, above)
on Oct. 21 rather than Nov. 22. Democrats sought to pressure the Republican-led
House to vote before the Nov. 5 elections on issues such as education spending
for fiscal 2003.

A yes vote backed the Democratic effort.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

Cardin (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Cummings (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Ehrlich (R) [hbox][hbox]*

Gilchrest (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

Hoyer (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Morella (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

Wynn (D) * [hbox][hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

T. Davis (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

Moran (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Wolf (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

Cantor (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

The House passed a five-year reauthorization of federal programs for delivering
health care to under-served rural areas. At a first-year cost of $ 1.34 billion,
the bill (S 1533) funds community health centers throughout the country as well
as programs such as the National Health Service Corps. The 1,000 community
centers serve an estimated 12 million people, many of them uninsured. A yes vote
supported funding the programs.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cardin (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Cummings (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Ehrlich (R) [hbox][hbox]*

Gilchrest (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Hoyer (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Morella (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Wynn (D) * [hbox][hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) * [hbox][hbox]

T. Davis (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Moran (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Wolf (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cantor (R) * [hbox][hbox]

The Senate sent President Bush the conference report on a bill (HR 3295) setting
federal standards for local, state and federal elections. The bill requires
states to allow voters to cast provisional ballots when their registration is
challenged and to correct ballot errors on the spot. States must set uniform
statewide definitions of what constitutes a legal vote on different types of
equipment and absentee ballots.

The bill authorizes $ 3.9 billion to states over three years amid uncertainty
over how much of the promised funding will be delivered in tight budget times.
The funds would be for purposes such as training poll workers; establishing
computerized, statewide registration rolls; replacing punch-card and
lever-operated voting machines with more reliable modern systems; and improving
ballot access for the disabled.

To register to vote under the bill, individuals must provide identification such
as a driver's license or the last four digits of their Social Security number.
Those registering by mail must show identification before they cast ballots.

The bill establishes a federal commission comprising two Democratic and two
Republican appointees to oversee the distribution of grants to states and to set
voluntary guidelines for voting systems and procedures.

A yes vote approved the conference report.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Mikulski (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Sarbanes (D) * [hbox][hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

Allen (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Warner (R) * [hbox][hbox]

The Senate sent President Bush the conference report on a bill (HR 5010)
appropriating $ 355.1 billion for military operations in fiscal 2003, up 12
percent from the comparable 2002 bill. The bill funds major weapons systems as
well as chemical and biological defenses in anticipation of war with Iraq. Sen.
Russell Feingold (D-Wis.) cast the dissenting vote on grounds it did too little
to eliminate wasteful spending and outdated programs.

The bill funds a 4.1 percent military pay raise and supports 1.4 million active
duty troops and 865,000 National Guard and reserve personnel. It includes $ 417
million for helping Russia dismantle its nuclear arsenal; $ 14.8 billion for
health care; $ 7.4 billion for the National Missile Defense; and $ 882 million
for drug interdiction.

A yes vote approved the conference report.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Mikulski (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Sarbanes (D) * [hbox][hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

Allen (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Warner (R) * [hbox][hbox]

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              231 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 24, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

For the Record;
Here's how some major bills fared recently in Congress and how local
congressional members voted, as provided by Thomas's Roll Call Report Syndicate.
NV means Not Voting.

SECTION: ALEXANDRIA - ARLINGTON EXTRA; Pg. T21

LENGTH: 911 words


The House passed a bill (HR 2155) empowering Immigration and Naturalization
Service agents to arrest drivers at border crossings under state alcohol and
drug laws. It entitles INS officers to administer blood, breath and urine tests
without the driver's consent if they have reasonable grounds to suspect
violations. A yes vote backed the arrest powers.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cardin (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Cummings (D) [hbox]* [hbox]

Ehrlich (R) [hbox][hbox]*

Gilchrest (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Hoyer (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Morella (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Wynn (D) [hbox]* [hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) * [hbox][hbox]

T. Davis (R) [hbox][hbox]*

Moran (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Wolf (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cantor (R) * [hbox][hbox]

The House approved a fiscal 2003 spending measure (HJ Res 123) to fund the
government at 2002 levels until Nov. 22. The stopgap resolution was needed
because Congress has failed to enact 11 of the 13 appropriations bills needed to
run the government. Fiscal 2003 began Oct. 1. The budget battle will resume in a
lame-duck session scheduled to convene Nov. 12. A yes vote backed the stopgap
measure.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cardin (D) [hbox]* [hbox]

Cummings (D) [hbox]* [hbox]

Ehrlich (R) [hbox][hbox]*

Gilchrest (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Hoyer (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Morella (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Wynn (D) * [hbox][hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) * [hbox][hbox]

T. Davis (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Moran (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Wolf (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cantor (R) * [hbox][hbox]

The House rejected a Democratic bid to end stopgap funding (HJ Res 123, above)
on Oct. 21 rather than Nov. 22. Democrats sought to pressure the Republican-led
House to vote before the Nov. 5 elections on issues such as education spending
for fiscal 2003.

A yes vote backed the Democratic effort.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

Cardin (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Cummings (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Ehrlich (R) [hbox][hbox]*

Gilchrest (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

Hoyer (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Morella (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

Wynn (D) * [hbox][hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

T. Davis (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

Moran (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Wolf (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

Cantor (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

The House passed a five-year reauthorization of federal programs for delivering
health care to under-served rural areas. At a first-year cost of $ 1.34 billion,
the bill (S 1533) funds community health centers throughout the country as well
as programs such as the National Health Service Corps. The 1,000 community
centers serve an estimated 12 million people, many of them uninsured. A yes vote
supported funding the programs.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cardin (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Cummings (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Ehrlich (R) [hbox][hbox]*

Gilchrest (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Hoyer (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Morella (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Wynn (D) * [hbox][hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) * [hbox][hbox]

T. Davis (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Moran (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Wolf (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cantor (R) * [hbox][hbox]

The Senate sent President Bush the conference report on a bill (HR 3295) setting
federal standards for local, state and federal elections. The bill requires
states to allow voters to cast provisional ballots when their registration is
challenged and to correct ballot errors on the spot. States must set uniform
statewide definitions of what constitutes a legal vote on different types of
equipment and absentee ballots.

The bill authorizes $ 3.9 billion to states over three years amid uncertainty
over how much of the promised funding will be delivered in tight budget times.
The funds would be for purposes such as training poll workers; establishing
computerized, statewide registration rolls; replacing punch-card and
lever-operated voting machines with more reliable modern systems; and improving
ballot access for the disabled.

To register to vote under the bill, individuals must provide identification such
as a driver's license or the last four digits of their Social Security number.
Those registering by mail must show identification before they cast ballots.

The bill establishes a federal commission comprising two Democratic and two
Republican appointees to oversee the distribution of grants to states and to set
voluntary guidelines for voting systems and procedures.

A yes vote approved the conference report.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Mikulski (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Sarbanes (D) * [hbox][hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

Allen (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Warner (R) * [hbox][hbox]

The Senate sent President Bush the conference report on a bill (HR 5010)
appropriating $ 355.1 billion for military operations in fiscal 2003, up 12
percent from the comparable 2002 bill. The bill funds major weapons systems as
well as chemical and biological defenses in anticipation of war with Iraq. Sen.
Russell Feingold (D-Wis.) cast the dissenting vote on grounds it did too little
to eliminate wasteful spending and outdated programs.

The bill funds a 4.1 percent military pay raise and supports 1.4 million active
duty troops and 865,000 National Guard and reserve personnel. It includes $ 417
million for helping Russia dismantle its nuclear arsenal; $ 14.8 billion for
health care; $ 7.4 billion for the National Missile Defense; and $ 882 million
for drug interdiction.

A yes vote approved the conference report.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Mikulski (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Sarbanes (D) * [hbox][hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

Allen (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Warner (R) * [hbox][hbox]

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              232 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 24, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

For the Record;
Here's how some major bills fared recently in Congress and how local
congressional members voted, as provided by Thomas's Roll Call Report Syndicate.
NV means Not Voting.

SECTION: ANNE ARUNDEL EXTRA; Pg. T07

LENGTH: 911 words


The House passed a bill (HR 2155) empowering Immigration and Naturalization
Service agents to arrest drivers at border crossings under state alcohol and
drug laws. It entitles INS officers to administer blood, breath and urine tests
without the driver's consent if they have reasonable grounds to suspect
violations. A yes vote backed the arrest powers.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cardin (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Cummings (D) [hbox]* [hbox]

Ehrlich (R) [hbox][hbox]*

Gilchrest (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Hoyer (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Morella (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Wynn (D) [hbox]* [hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) * [hbox][hbox]

T. Davis (R) [hbox][hbox]*

Moran (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Wolf (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cantor (R) * [hbox][hbox]

The House approved a fiscal 2003 spending measure (HJ Res 123) to fund the
government at 2002 levels until Nov. 22. The stopgap resolution was needed
because Congress has failed to enact 11 of the 13 appropriations bills needed to
run the government. Fiscal 2003 began Oct. 1. The budget battle will resume in a
lame-duck session scheduled to convene Nov. 12. A yes vote backed the stopgap
measure.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cardin (D) [hbox]* [hbox]

Cummings (D) [hbox]* [hbox]

Ehrlich (R) [hbox][hbox]*

Gilchrest (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Hoyer (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Morella (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Wynn (D) * [hbox][hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) * [hbox][hbox]

T. Davis (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Moran (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Wolf (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cantor (R) * [hbox][hbox]

The House rejected a Democratic bid to end stopgap funding (HJ Res 123, above)
on Oct. 21 rather than Nov. 22. Democrats sought to pressure the Republican-led
House to vote before the Nov. 5 elections on issues such as education spending
for fiscal 2003.

A yes vote backed the Democratic effort.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

Cardin (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Cummings (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Ehrlich (R) [hbox][hbox]*

Gilchrest (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

Hoyer (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Morella (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

Wynn (D) * [hbox][hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

T. Davis (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

Moran (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Wolf (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

Cantor (R) [hbox]* [hbox]

The House passed a five-year reauthorization of federal programs for delivering
health care to under-served rural areas. At a first-year cost of $ 1.34 billion,
the bill (S 1533) funds community health centers throughout the country as well
as programs such as the National Health Service Corps. The 1,000 community
centers serve an estimated 12 million people, many of them uninsured. A yes vote
supported funding the programs.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Bartlett (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cardin (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Cummings (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Ehrlich (R) [hbox][hbox]*

Gilchrest (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Hoyer (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Morella (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Wynn (D) * [hbox][hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

J. Davis (R) * [hbox][hbox]

T. Davis (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Moran (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Wolf (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Cantor (R) * [hbox][hbox]

The Senate sent President Bush the conference report on a bill (HR 3295) setting
federal standards for local, state and federal elections. The bill requires
states to allow voters to cast provisional ballots when their registration is
challenged and to correct ballot errors on the spot. States must set uniform
statewide definitions of what constitutes a legal vote on different types of
equipment and absentee ballots.

The bill authorizes $ 3.9 billion to states over three years amid uncertainty
over how much of the promised funding will be delivered in tight budget times.
The funds would be for purposes such as training poll workers; establishing
computerized, statewide registration rolls; replacing punch-card and
lever-operated voting machines with more reliable modern systems; and improving
ballot access for the disabled.

To register to vote under the bill, individuals must provide identification such
as a driver's license or the last four digits of their Social Security number.
Those registering by mail must show identification before they cast ballots.

The bill establishes a federal commission comprising two Democratic and two
Republican appointees to oversee the distribution of grants to states and to set
voluntary guidelines for voting systems and procedures.

A yes vote approved the conference report.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Mikulski (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Sarbanes (D) * [hbox][hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

Allen (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Warner (R) * [hbox][hbox]

The Senate sent President Bush the conference report on a bill (HR 5010)
appropriating $ 355.1 billion for military operations in fiscal 2003, up 12
percent from the comparable 2002 bill. The bill funds major weapons systems as
well as chemical and biological defenses in anticipation of war with Iraq. Sen.
Russell Feingold (D-Wis.) cast the dissenting vote on grounds it did too little
to eliminate wasteful spending and outdated programs.

The bill funds a 4.1 percent military pay raise and supports 1.4 million active
duty troops and 865,000 National Guard and reserve personnel. It includes $ 417
million for helping Russia dismantle its nuclear arsenal; $ 14.8 billion for
health care; $ 7.4 billion for the National Missile Defense; and $ 882 million
for drug interdiction.

A yes vote approved the conference report.

MARYLAND

Yes No NV

Mikulski (D) * [hbox][hbox]

Sarbanes (D) * [hbox][hbox]

VIRGINIA

Yes No NV

Allen (R) * [hbox][hbox]

Warner (R) * [hbox][hbox]

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              233 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 24, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Police Appeal to Immigrants For Help in Search for Sniper

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan and Sylvia Moreno, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 968 words


Local and federal authorities made a special appeal yesterday to immigrants to
step forward with any information they have about the deadly sniper attacks,
pledging to refrain from asking if they are here illegally.

Montgomery County Police Chief Charles A. Moose, the lead spokesman on the
investigation, said that some immigrants may have been witnesses but were afraid
to contact authorities. Fear swept through some immigrant households after two
Latinos arrested during the sniper investigation this week were found to lack
papers and placed in deportation proceedings, according to immigrants and their
advocates.

The head of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, James W. Ziglar, also
promised yesterday that his agency would not seek immigration information
provided by witnesses to local authorities.

"I want to personally urge the immigrant community to come forward if they have
information that will assist in this investigation," Ziglar said in a statement.
He noted that the INS provides special residency visas for people who help solve
crimes.

Several of the sniper's 13 attacks have occurred in suburban areas densely
populated by immigrants, and Spanish-speaking residents have emerged as
important witnesses. But callers have complained to some local Spanish-language
radio stations that other witnesses are afraid to come forward for fear they
will be kicked out of the country.

Officer Luis Hurtado, the Latino liaison for the Montgomery police, said the
decision to deport the two men detained at a gas station near Richmond on Monday
had created "a huge problem" among Hispanic immigrants. The men, Guatemalan and
Mexican natives, were arrested by police who mistakenly believed their white van
was linked to the sniper. They were found to be laborers.

"What they [immigrants] are viewing is, these guys had nothing to do with it,
they're arrested, they're being deported," Hurtado said.

Hurtado said the case, which was featured on Spanish-language TV and radio
programs, had unnerved Latinos. After Tuesday's slaying of a bus driver in Aspen
Hill, the officer said, he received four tips on his answering machine in
Spanish -- but none of the callers left a number.

Moose said during the news conference that a witness's immigration status "is
not our interest in this matter." Local police, he added "do not have any
authority or authorization to enforce immigration laws," which are a federal
responsibility.

He added that the $ 500,000 reward for information leading to the sniper's
arrest was open to anyone. "We've never said that the reward fund is only for
American citizens," he said.

Yesterday's appeal for information highlighted the delicate situation faced by
many police as the number of undocumented immigrants in the country has soared
to an estimated 7 million to 8 million. In the Washington area, many local
police have a policy of not asking about an immigrant's legal status if he or
she reports a crime.

But local immigrants said yesterday that they understood why many people would
be afraid to contact police. Alba Amaya, 37, said she had gotten work
authorization in 1998, several years after arriving from El Salvador.

"Nobody wants to lose their [immigration] papers, believe me," said Amaya, who
works at the Americana Grocery in Silver Spring, a favorite of local Latinos.
"And for maybe saying one wrong word, you might get into trouble."

The owner of a Latino grocery store in Aspen Hill called La Mixteca said she
believes that undocumented immigrants are afraid to speak to police.

"They should say something if they see something, but everyone's afraid," said
Ana Soriano, 40, a legal resident from Mexico whose store is about a
quarter-mile from where bus driver Conrad E. Johnson was shot Tuesday. "People
won't cooperate since they're illegal."

Some immigrants have been turning to Spanish-language radio to report tips on
the sniper. After the latest attack Tuesday morning, a caller rang Radio America
(1540 AM) to say she knew of some illegal immigrants living in Aspen Hill who
had witnessed a white van with a ladder on top fleeing the scene of the shooting
at such speed that it clipped a curb, said the station's president, Alejandro
Carrasco. The van had a phone number beginning with 800 painted on the side, the
caller said.

"They did not want to call the police" for fear they would be deported, Carrasco
said of the witnesses.

Ziglar, the INS commissioner, defended the decision to deport the two men.

"These fellas just happened to be at this phone booth" that police were
monitoring, Ziglar told CNN, referring to the arrests Monday. "They weren't
providing information to help the authorities."

Other illegal immigrants have apparently been caught up in the dragnet cast by
authorities as they try to find the sniper. On Friday, Fairfax County police
stopped a white Chevrolet Astro van in Newington and discovered six occupants
from Mexico, El Salvador and Guatemala, apparently involved in an
immigrant-smuggling operation, according to the INS. They are all in deportation
proceedings, a statement said.

Moose said yesterday that the tip line maintained by authorities had
Spanish-speaking officers available. But early in the investigation, immigrants
complained that they were frustrated when they tried to call in information.

In Prince George's County, many Spanish-speaking residents discovered the local
police hotline had only English-speaking staff members, said Pfc. Joe Perez,
president of the Hispanic National Law Enforcement Association.

Capt. Andrew Ellis, a spokesman for Prince George's police, said that all calls
were now being referred to the main task force line, which had Spanish speakers
available.

Staff writers Phuong Ly and Ruben Casteneda contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              234 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 25, 2002 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Logic

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A28

LENGTH: 704 words


"ILLOGICAL" WOULD BE one way to describe the federal government's policies
toward Mexican immigrants. "Alice in Wonderland" might be more apt. On the one
hand, border patrols along the Rio Grande have grown ever more draconian in the
wake of 9/11, and legal immigration ever more difficult. On the other hand,
businesses clamor for a larger workforce, and the government tolerates, in
effect, millions of illegal immigrants. Thousands of law enforcement officials
have dedicated their careers to preventing Mexicans from getting here. Thousands
of agricultural, industrial and service businesses depend upon their timely
arrival.

As President Bush will no doubt be told during his trip to Mexico this weekend,
this is the issue that won't go away. He and his Mexican counterpart, President
Vicente Fox, had seemed ready to forge a new approach at the beginning of Mr.
Bush's term. Their negotiations were effectively dropped after Sept. 11, 2001,
when the administration's priorities changed: Suddenly, it seemed more important
to make it harder for terrorists to enter the country and less important to make
it easier for Mexicans.

Yet as time goes on, it is becoming clearer that these two goals may well have
to be tackled in tandem. In fact, our southern border will never be truly secure
until we induce Mexicans of all kinds -- visitors, temporary workers, potential
immigrants -- to use expanded and upgraded legal channels to enter this country,
and until we involve the Mexican government more deeply in persuading them to do
so. Mexico is not just any foreign country, whose citizens can be subjected to
the same ponderous visa procedures as everyone else: Mexico shares an enormous,
porous border with the United States, and it is in the U.S. interest for Mexico
to play an active role in border security.

Certainly the Mexican government, which altered many of its own visa procedures
after 9/11, is willing to involve itself in pre-screening procedures, in the
construction of high-tech "smart borders" and in other efforts designed to keep
tighter control over people and goods traveling from south to north. The
American side must also be willing to recognize reality. That means
accommodating the enormous demand for low-skill labor by raising the quotas for
both temporary and permanent visas, and creating a feasible guest worker program
that would allow people to come -- and to go, safely and legally. It must be
designed to prevent some of the abuses that have plagued such programs in the
past.

It is also time for both governments to tackle the issue of the approximately
3.5 million Mexicans who reside illegally in this country. A blanket amnesty is
not the answer: In retrospect, the 1986 amnesty probably did stimulate more
illegal immigration and set a bad precedent. If those who are here and working
productively were given the opportunity to apply for legal work permits, however
-- without being penalized for having come here in the first place -- then the
size of the underground economy would decrease dramatically.

There are still good reasons to limit the number of people who come into this
country. Among other things, a slower rate of immigration would make it easier
to absorb and assimilate those who are already here. Yet not only have employer
sanctions and 10 years' worth of expanded funding for border control failed to
make a real dent in the numbers, they also have created new problems: a market
in forged documents (itself of great interest to potential terrorists) as well
as a rising death toll of migrants -- more than 1,500 since 1998 -- who now try
to cross in more remote areas. Eleven of them died, sealed in a rail car, only
last week. The choice, now, is not between more or less immigration, but between
recognizing reality and refusing to do so.

And the clock is ticking. In Mr. Fox the United States has, at the moment, an
ally who is more than willing to put enormous effort into working out a new deal
for the Mexicans who live here, and indeed has staked much of his political
reputation on getting one. His inability to cut a deal with his friend Mr. Bush
is now undermining his own position. A climate conducive to productive
discussion may not last forever.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              235 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 30, 2002 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

With Raised Hopes, Migrants Face Peril on Mexico Border

BYLINE: Mary Jordan and Kevin Sullivan, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1578 words

DATELINE: NOGALES, Mexico


The U.S. Border Patrol busted Urich Garcia Castro in a McDonald's just across
the border from here, less than a mile away. He was halfway through a Big Mac,
celebrating what he thought was a successful dash to a better life.

Within an hour, Garcia joined the daily parade of illegal immigrants returned to
Mexico by U.S. officials. Every day nearly 3,000 Mexicans caught in Oregon apple
orchards, North Carolina motels, Missouri bus stations and on Arizona desert
trails are put in U.S. immigration vans and buses and driven back to the border.

"It's never been this hard to get into the United States," said Garcia, one of
up to 300 people a day who are returned at this small Mexican border city, about
twice the number of two years ago.

The more hospitable border promised last year by President Bush and his Mexican
counterpart, Vicente Fox, has not appeared. As Bush pursues the war on terror,
the 2,000-mile U.S.-Mexico border instead has become more dangerous and
difficult to cross, especially along this desert stretch facing Arizona. Just
about every day a Mexican dies trying to cross into the United States.

Since last October, 323 people have died trying to cross into the United States,
often in the harsh and remote deserts of Arizona. Most recently, the badly
decomposed remains of 11 people, at least some of whom have been identified as
Mexican, were discovered weeks ago in a rail car in Iowa. They had apparently
hidden inside a grain car near the Mexican border city of Matamoros about four
months earlier, then baked to death when the car was locked from the outside.

Many Mexicans see the daily deportations and corpses coming home as a broken
promise from Washington. That disappointment, analysts said, is causing many
Mexicans to rethink the value of Mexico's much-heralded closer ties with the
United States. Even Fox, perhaps modern Mexico's most overtly pro-American
president, is losing patience and complaining that he needs results, not just
promises.

"It's very hard to defend our policies when we have nothing to show for them,"
said Arturo Sarukhan Casamitjana, a top Foreign Ministry official, who said he
and others feel "a great deal of aggravation" toward Washington about the
immigration issue.

During the 71 years of the Institutional Revolutionary Party's unbroken rule,
Mexican foreign policy was based largely on shying away from global issues and
defying Washington. Fox's enthusiasm for changing that "isn't going to last
forever," said Andres Rozental, one of Mexico's most senior diplomats.

Fox faces difficult congressional elections next year, and he is taking
political punches for his closeness to Washington. Critics say Fox's overtures
to Bush have resulted in nothing more than an increase in the number of
immigration agents on the border.

Fox is losing ground among voters such as Cesar Canua Guerrero, a cowboy boot
salesman whose outdoor stand here in Nogales, 60 miles south of Tucson, Ariz.,
is hurting because of sagging northward traffic across the border.

"We like Fox, but we don't think he has done anything to help us," Canua said.
Maybe if taxes and the prices of gas and electricity had not risen since Fox
took office, he said, it would be easier to overlook his failed promise about
improving the border. "But the border is tighter. Fox has had a good
relationship with Bush -- so what? That doesn't help me sell boots."

"It is a very hard time to be a pro-American," said Rafael Fernandez de Castro,
a leading international relations specialist in Mexico City.

Fernandez and others said much of Mexico's disillusionment stems from the
worsening state of immigration. Improvement on that issue is the number one
foreign policy goal of Mexico and a deeply personal issue for millions of
Mexicans who have relatives in the United States. Fox pressed the immigration
issue again with Bush when the two leaders met last weekend at an economic
summit in Los Cabos, Mexico. But, Mexican officials said, Bush only wanted to
discuss Iraq and the war on terror.

While many here say the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks understandably changed
Washington's priorities, they also believe Bush should be able to pursue the war
on terror and keep his promise to address immigration. "They don't seem to be
able to juggle more than one ball at a time, and that should be a requirement of
a world power as strong as the United States," Fernandez said.

In the first months he was in office, Bush raised expectations that Washington
was ready to be more receptive to Mexican labor in the United States. There was
hope for more Mexican visas, a new guest-worker program and legalization of at
least some of the estimated 3 million to 4 million illegal immigrants living in
the United States.

Instead, advantages that had already been won are being lost. Thousands of
Mexican students enrolled in U.S. colleges, for instance, were unable to report
for classes in September because of new delays and scrutiny of their visas.
Also, many Mexicans illegally in the United States have lost their jobs this
year because the Social Security Administration sent out letters to more than
800,000 businesses asking them to check their workers' records. Some employers
who had been hiring undocumented Mexicans felt they no longer could do so
because of the new scrutiny.

Plans in several U.S. states to loosen identification requirements to obtain
driver's licenses have also died. Millions of Mexicans have been working and
paying taxes in the United States for years but lack the Social Security number
required to obtain a license. Several states decided that it was wiser to let
these people drive legally and with insurance. But those plans have largely been
dropped, and illegal immigrants say they are retreating deeper into the shadows.

The arithmetic for people such as Garcia has not changed. He can earn $ 8 a day
working in a factory here making parts for electric garage-door openers, or he
can earn $ 70 a day as a handyman in the U.S. suburbs where the garage-door
openers are sold. So the push north continues. With unprecedented security
around urban areas along the border, especially since the terrorist attacks in
New York and at the Pentagon, more immigrants are seeking riskier routes through
remote deserts.

Rigo Mendoza Silva, 27, from Chihuahua state, was trying to get to a
construction job in Phoenix, but made it only as far as Tucson, where he said he
fell off a Union Pacific freight train. Police picked him up, and he ended up on
a bus with 35 other deportees who were dropped at the Nogales border crossing.

"I could have gotten killed," he said, his arms still bearing scrapes from the
fall. "But I am going to try again. I have no choice. I need work."

Homero Hernandez, who runs a shelter in Nogales, said he used to house perhaps
50 or 60 deportees a month, and now he has twice as many. He said many of them
describe a "harsher atmosphere" in the United States, where employers and
ordinary citizens are more eager to turn them in.

Hernandez said that atmosphere also seems to have increased the activity of
vigilante groups on the U.S. side of the border, many of whom wear military
fatigues, carry automatic weapons and detain illegal immigrants. Returnees here
describe more hostile run-ins with vigilantes. Those groups are suspected in at
least two shooting deaths of illegal immigrants in Arizona in recent weeks.

The overall number of Mexicans trying to sneak into the United States has
dropped significantly, according to the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
The best measure of that elusive figure is the number of arrests made along the
border: about 955,000 this year, the lowest count in more than a decade. More
than 2,600 people every day are taken back to Mexico.

Nearly all of those people are simply returned without formal deportation
hearings. But another 100,000 or so have been formally deported this year, half
of them after being caught for simple immigration violations, the other half
after committing robbery, drug offenses or other crimes.

Mexican government officials said they are spending more than $ 20,000 a month
in Nogales alone to house, feed and transport immigrants returned here, many of
whom have no ties to border cities and no money to return to their hometowns.

Carlos Hernandez arrived here on an immigration bus recently, rolling past the
Baskin Robbins ice cream shop and Walgreen's drug store in Nogales, Ariz.,
before stopping at the green wall and high fences at the border. Hernandez had
lived in Fresno, Calif., for 12 years before being convicted of selling cocaine.
When he finished his prison sentence, he was flown to a detention center outside
Phoenix, where he and 50 other ex-convicts were put on a bus for Nogales.

"I don't know anybody here. I am not from here," said Hernandez, as he walked
into Nogales, past vendors selling a dozen tortillas for $ 1.

Some bus lines have started offering deportees half-price tickets south toward
their homes. Jose Reyes, 30, was in tears as he tried to get a discounted ticket
for the two-day bus ride to his home in Cuernavaca. He said he had been caught
after wandering for two days in the Arizona desert trying to stay alive and
evade the Border Patrol.

"President Fox lied to us," Reyes said. "He said it would be easier for us to
get work in the United States, but it's harder. I thought I was going to die out
there."

Sullivan reported from Mexico City.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              236 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 30, 2002 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Antigua Opens Probe Of Suspects' Actions;
Possible Immigration Fraud Scrutinized

BYLINE: Justin Blum and Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 633 words

DATELINE: ST. JOHN'S, Antigua Oct. 29


A government-appointed commission began an inquiry today into the activities of
John Allen Muhammad and John Lee Malvo, focusing on allegations of immigration
fraud and the nature of the relationship between the two suspects charged in the
sniper attacks.

The commission also plans to look into whether Muhammad had been involved with
weapons or weapons training on the island, authorities said. Central to the
investigation will be allegations that Muhammad forged documents and helped
Jamaican nationals enter the United States illegally.

The four-member panel is expected to produce a preliminary report by Thursday
afternoon, an indication of how seriously officials here view a possible
connection between their island and the suspects in the sniper attacks.

"We want to know whether there is a relationship with the crimes in the United
States," Gertel Thom, attorney general for Antigua and the nearby island of
Barbuda, said in an interview.

Thom said the government is working closely with the United States on the
investigation, noting that two FBI agents are on the island.

Authorities believe Muhammad, 41, first turned up on this small Caribbean island
300 miles east of Puerto Rico in March 2000. He was accompanied by his three
children, who then became the subject of a custody dispute with his second wife.

Today, commission members met with the Antigua passport office and determined
that Muhammad had obtained only one passport. They were examining allegations,
widely believed by government officials here, that Muhammad used the name of a
woman from Antigua and passed her off as his mother, enabling him to claim
citizenship.

The investigation will also try to determine when Malvo and his mother, Una
James, arrived on the island, how the now 17-year-old came to befriend Muhammad
and how the two ended up living together, officials said. Among the things they
are trying to determine is whether James, a native of Jamaica, entered the
island using a different name.

Also a mystery is how Muhammad paid for repeated trips between the island and
the United States in 2000 and 2001. Authorities here said Muhammad had only
sporadic employment, as a mechanic and painter, which would not have provided
him with enough money to support his lifestyle.

"From these odd jobs, it could not have been possible for him to travel to the
United States," said Thom. "We need to know where the other sources of income
came from."

One way investigators believe Muhammad made money was by forging documents and
selling them to foreigners who would then illegally enter the United States.
That suspicion is based in part on an incident in March 2001, when Muhammad
turned up at the American Airlines ticket counter at an airport here and
attempted to check in for a flight to Miami.

Thom said Muhammad submitted a fraudulent birth certificate from Florida and a
bogus driver's license from Tacoma, Wash., with his picture. The two documents
were in the name of Dwight Russell, Thom said.

An American Airlines ticket agent was suspicious of the documents and alerted
authorities. Muhammad was taken to a local police station for questioning but
managed to escape, Thom said.

The episode is a window into how the forgery business may have worked. Thom said
Antiguan officials believe that a Jamaican named Steve Kelly was to have boarded
the flight to Miami. Under the scenario, Muhammad would have checked in at the
counter and then given the boarding pass and other documentation to Kelly.

The four-member panel includes two local lawyers, a retired police official and
a Catholic priest. Cosmos Marcelle, the police official, said it was "too early
to tell" what would emerge from the inquiry. "We just started work this
morning," he said.

Sheridan reported from Washington.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              237 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 31, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Fla. Voyage Spurs Charges;
Activists Urge Asylum for Haitian Immigrants

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 362 words

DATELINE: MIAMI Oct. 30


Six people were charged today with trying to illegally bring more than 200
Haitians into the country aboard a rickety freighter. Activists, meanwhile,
urged Florida Gov. Jeb Bush (R) to prevent authorities from deporting the
Haitians, who jumped overboard and dashed into a roadway to flag down cars.

The Haitians swam ashore near downtown Miami after their freighter ran aground
Tuesday, eight days after they left their impoverished island seeking a better
life. Twenty-one were rescued after jumping into water 10 to 12 feet deep and
becoming too fatigued to make it to shore, Coast Guard Lt. Jeffrey Smith said.
Border Patrol agents rounded up 208 others, including young children.

Authorities identified those arrested as Edner Dorvil, 52, the owner of the
vessel who they say coordinated the voyage; boat operators Jean Phillip
Petite-Homme, 45, Sali Atlanase Jean, 37, and Eli Louis, 29; mechanic Jean Eddy
Louis, 19, and security worker Genel Elmeus Osmin, 37.

Unlike Cubans who reach dry land, Haitian immigrants usually are denied asylum
in the United States and sent back home.

Rep. Carrie P. Meek (D-Fla.) today demanded that Bush call his brother, the
president, and persuade him to treat the Haitians like Cuban refugees. "Those
Haitians are standing on dry land. . . . You can do it," Meek told the governor,
who is running for re-election.

Ari Fleischer, White House press secretary, said the president would not get
involved despite any political pressure that may arise.

Gov. Bush told Meek he agrees the Haitians should be released until their asylum
request is heard. He had said earlier that he spoke to White House officials and
was assured the Haitians would receive "fair and decent treatment."

"There should be equal treatment and that's my position," he said.

"If Bush could champion the issue, he could shift the balance in the election,"
said Jean Robert Lafortune, president of the Haitian-American Grassroots
Coalition. "The time for lip service is over."

Thousands of Haitians each year risk dangerous voyages aboard rickety, crowded
boats to flee the crushing poverty in their homeland, where most people survive
on less than $ 1 a day.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              238 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 6, 2002 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

WORLD;
In Brief

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 536 words


ASIA

TOKYO -- Chinese authorities have detained a Japanese activist who helped create
an organization that assists North Korean refugees, Japan's Foreign Ministry
said.

Hiroshi Kato, who had been missing for six days, was detained along with his
interpreter for allegedly violating Chinese immigration laws, said Naoko
Murasaki, a Japanese official.

She said Kato, a co-founder of Life Funds for North Korean Refugees, was
expected to be expelled from China today.

Public TV broadcaster NHK reported that Kato was accused of planning and helping
to carry out the asylum bids of North Koreans who took refuge in foreign
embassies in Beijing.

The interpreter, Masahiro Mizuta, a Japanese student who attends a Chinese
university, would be released and allowed to continue his studies, the network
said.

Kato -- who was in China providing food, medicine and clothes to refugees --
disappeared on Oct. 30 after checking out of his hotel in Dalian, in
northeastern China.

Associated Press

HONG KONG -- Three men have been arrested in Hong Kong over an alleged attempt
to buy four Stinger anti-aircraft missiles for al Qaeda from undercover FBI
agents, the Hong Kong government said.

It was the first time that Hong Kong authorities had reported any al
Qaeda-linked activities in the Chinese territory.

The case is likely to revive concern that Hong Kong could be used as a center
for the clandestine transfer of arms and as a transit point for illegal
immigrants.

Reuters

THE Middle East

JERUSALEM -- Four Palestinian residents of East Jerusalem pleaded guilty to
direct involvement in a series of bombings in the city, including an attack that
killed five Americans at Hebrew University, court officials said.

Prosecutors said the Palestinians belonged to a cell that orchestrated attacks,
including a suicide bombing in a Jerusalem cafe in March that killed 11
Israelis.

One of the Palestinians, house painter Mohammed Oudeh, admitted to planting the
bomb in the Hebrew University cafeteria last summer that killed nine people,
including the Americans. The Palestinians were charged with attacks that took a
total of 35 lives.

Associated Press

FOR THE RECORD

Serbia's parliament voted to scrap a rule, which had invalidated the October
victory of Vojislav Kostunica over Zoran Djindjic, that 50 percent of registered
voters must turn out for a candidate to be elected president. . . . U.S.
Homeland Security chief Tom Ridge, on a week-long tour of Europe, pressed for
tighter security measures in European harbors to help prevent terrorists from
smuggling weapons of mass destruction into the United States. . . . Indonesian
authorities detained two possible suspects in the Bali bombings that killed
nearly 200 people last month, the national police chief said. . . . Italian
Premier Silvio Berlusconi was acquitted because the 41/2-year statute of
limitations had run out on charges of false bookkeeping in the 1992 transfer of
a soccer player to the team he owns, one of his lawyers said. . . . An Air
France Concorde had engine trouble during a flight from New York to Paris
Monday, causing the jet to lose 27,000 feet in altitude, the airline and
passengers said. None of the 67 passengers was injured.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              239 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 9, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

In Brief

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B09

LENGTH: 483 words


Federal cutbacks in the number of refugees allowed into the United States have
forced a Lutheran immigration agency to cut 14 positions and trim spending.

The Baltimore-based Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service said the cuts were
prompted by fewer refugees, less government financial support and
lower-than-expected private giving.

The agency is jointly administered by the Evangelical Lutheran Church in
America, the Lutheran Church-Missouri Synod and the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran
Church in America. Thirteen people were laid off in Baltimore; one open position
will remain unfilled.

"There is a temptation to say our financial situation is directly tied to the
events of September 11, but it isn't," Annie Wilson, the agency's vice president
for programs, said in a news release. "It's just a complex combination of things
that came together, exacerbated by what happened on September 11 and by the
slowdown in refugees."

Religious groups have criticized the Bush administration's decision to limit the
number of refugees to 70,000 in fiscal 2003. In fiscal 2002, 27,000 refugees
were admitted, down from 131,000 in fiscal 2001.

In 2001, the agency helped resettle 11,627 refugees in the country. This year,
the agency has helped 4,499.

President Bush hosted a White House dinner Thursday to mark the start of Ramadan
and thank Muslim nations assisting in the war against terrorism.

The iftar dinner, breaking the fast for the day, is a tradition during the
Muslim period of fasting that began Wednesday.

"In hosting tonight's iftar, I send a message to all the nations represented by
their ambassadors here tonight: America treasures your friendship. America
honors your faith," Bush told 50 representatives from Muslim nations and 24
American Muslim leaders gathered in the State Dining Room.

During the month-long Ramadan, the holiest time of the year for Muslims,
believers abstain from food, drink, smoking and other pleasures during daylight.

National Religious Broadcasters dedicated its first permanent headquarters in a
Nov. 1 ceremony in Manassas.

Glenn Plummer, NRB chairman and chief executive, welcomed about 125 people to
the two-story, 18,000-square-foot building. The building was purchased last year
for $ 1.8 million and later renovated. It includes offices for the
administration of the organization and space for the Religious Broadcasting Hall
of Fame.

The future Museum of Religious Broadcasting and Research Center will be housed
there.

"In 1944, the founders of NRB faced opposition and resistance to putting the
Gospel on the radio and, some years later, on television," Plummer said. "We are
still faced with the great challenge of providing access to the gospel. We are
here to dedicate our first permanent headquarters building to the lordship of
Jesus Christ."

The organization of broadcasters has nearly 1,550 members.

-- Religion News Service

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: REVIEW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              240 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 12, 2002 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

A Sept. 11 Detainee's Long Path to Release;
After Final Glitch, Ivory Coast Native Is Home

BYLINE: Amy Goldstein, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1604 words


Before Tony Oulai stepped out of a government car on Saturday at Orlando
International Airport, an immigration agent unlocked his handcuffs and slipped
them off his wrists.

It had been 422 days since Oulai, a pilot from a prominent West African family,
was arrested with flight manuals and a stun gun in the federal campaign to
detain suspected terrorists after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. It was 359 days
since an immigration judge had ordered him deported for the routine violation of
overstaying his student visa. But Oulai -- the first material witness in the
terrorism probe to speak publicly about his experiences -- was finally on his
way to his native Ivory Coast.

With a pair of Immigration and Naturalization Service officers at his side, he
flew from Orlando to Washington Dulles International Airport. As darkness fell,
he was put on a United Airlines plane for Amsterdam, where he would catch
another for home. Yet in his final minutes on American soil, the U.S. government
-- as it had repeatedly -- surprised Oulai and his advocates again.

Oulai's departure had been delayed a month by a coup attempt in the Ivory Coast.
The INS had told his attorney that, as a detainee from the terrorism probe --
even one who had been cleared of suspicion -- Oulai required U.S. escorts on his
flights home, but that the political instability made such travel impossible. In
the end, a senior Ivorian diplomat persuaded the INS to release Oulai by
agreeing to take the rare step of chaperoning the trip himself. Now, he was
waiting at the arranged gate.

Oulai, meanwhile, climbed into Seat 23C. His INS deportation officer shook his
hand and said, "Mr. Tony Oulai, you are a free man" -- and then left the plane.

As Oulai had his first sense of freedom, the diplomat was still looking for him:
The INS, without notice, had deposited the former material witness on a
different flight.

The glitch that left Oulai unescorted was, according to the INS, the result of a
"miscommunication." It was one of many unexpected turns his case took over the
past 14 months -- some of them never fully explained -- that prolonged his
detention. In all, he passed through a dozen jails and before seven federal
judges and was shuttled between the custody of the U.S. Marshals Service and the
INS.

Oulai's deportation order was issued last Nov. 15 -- and followed quickly by a
warrant designating him as a material witness, alleged to have information
crucial to the terrorism investigation. With his case enshrouded in official
secrecy at the time, the government never made clear what it believed that
Oulai, a Catholic black African who had lived in the United States since 1988,
could contribute to the massive probe of Muslim extremism.

It was during this time that Oulai began a series of interviews with The
Washington Post.

After three months, federal prosecutors filed a private court document
acknowledging there was no evidence that he was involved in any terrorist
activity. But just after dropping the material-witness warrant, they charged
Oulai with a seldom-prosecuted felony: making a false statement to a federal
official. The charge was the government's last legal basis for holding him in
custody.

As he flew over the Atlantic Ocean Saturday night, Oulai realized that he was
wearing the same double-breasted suit and blue shirt he had worn during his
trial in August, when he became a convicted felon.

The charge stemmed from the first day of his detention -- Sept. 14, 2001, three
days after the terrorist hijackings -- when he was arrested at Jacksonville's
airport while trying to fly home to Los Angeles. He was accused of telling INS
agents, who questioned him at the airport, that he was living in the United
States legally, when in fact his visa had expired.

Nine months later, his trial would hinge on two central questions concerning
what had taken place the day of his arrest: Had Oulai invoked his legal rights
against self-incrimination before INS agents arrived to question him? And had he
truly told them he was living lawfully in the United States?

At a pretrial hearing, the FBI and INS maintained he had not clearly invoked
those rights, but the picture that emerged at his trial was murkier. An FBI
agent, Robert Merta, testified that Oulai had refused to sign a form waiving his
rights and that Merta had related that fact to a pair of INS agents when they
arrived a few hours later.

As for what Oulai told the officials about his legal status, the INS agents'
testimony varied during the trial. The agents testified that Oulai had said he
was a "lawful permanent resident," that he had replied "yes" when asked if he
were, and that he had replied simply that he had once obtained a visa through an
immigration lottery for a green card.

U.S. District Judge Harvey E. Schlesinger found Oulai guilty. At his sentencing
in early September, however, Schlesinger said he already had served enough time.
By then, Oulai's attorney Wade M.  Rolle pointed out, he had been in custody
twice the maximum time set under federal guidelines for his crime. That day, an
INS official told the judge that Oulai would leave for the Ivory Coast within
perhaps a week.

But once again, his case was unexpectedly protracted.

Oulai was transferred immediately to Clay County Jail, less than an hour south
of Jacksonville, and for the next few weeks isolated in a section usually
reserved for violent offenders. One afternoon, Rolle arrived to visit and was
incensed to be, first, told that he could not visit his client and then, for the
first time in his career, frisked.

When Rolle and Oulai's brother and sister in the United States complained that
the government still was treating him like a terrorist, officials from the jail
and the INS traded blame.

Meanwhile, travel documents prepared by Ivory Coast officials for Oulai's
deportation hearing last November had expired and had to be renewed. Unbeknownst
to Oulai, his deportation was scheduled for Oct. 2.

Then Ivorian rebels attempted a coup. The government did not topple, but the
rebels continued to fight in parts of the country, and the U.S. government
issued travel restrictions.

"Put me on a . . . plane and send me home," Oulai said last month in a telephone
conversation from jail. "Don't tell me you are keeping me here for my safety."

In Washington, officials at the Ivory Coast embassy agreed. The unrest, they
reasoned, was hundreds of miles from the city of Abidjan, where flights
continued to arrive from the United States every day.

Finally, Charles Koffi, the embassy's first counselor, flew to Florida and
confronted Nigel Jason, Oulai's deportation officer. According to sources
familiar with their conversation, Jason first told Koffi that Oulai and the
required escorts simply could not travel to the Ivory Coast. Why then, Koffi
asked, had the embassy received INS requests that very month for travel
documents to allow the deportation of three other Ivorian citizens, unaffiliated
with the terrorism probe?

By the end of the meeting, the INS and the embassy had agreed that Koffi
personally would accompany Oulai home -- the agreement that went unfulfilled at
Dulles.

Within five minutes of Oulai's departure on the United flight, Koffi took off on
a KLM Airlines plane that was also bound for Amsterdam. They met Sunday morning
at an airport gate during the stopover.

Yesterday, an INS official who attributed the missed Dulles rendezvous to a
"miscommunication" said the diplomat had "booked a separate flight, not
realizing we had bought a United flight." The official said the mistake was not
discovered until the last minute, at which point INS agents decided to allow
Oulai to travel unescorted to Amsterdam, rather than postpone the trip for
another few days. Augustin Douoghui, a legal representative for the embassy,
said the INS explanation "doesn't sound plausible." Koffi "wouldn't have known
to go to KLM on his own."

As for Oulai, he learned that he would be traveling alone just before his flight
took off. "Freedom," he thought. But before he left Orlando, INS agents
fingerprinted him for a final time. They required him to sign a pledge that,
unless the U.S. attorney general grants permission, he will not return to the
United States for 10 years.

By Sunday, relatives and news crews were waiting for him to walk into the
passenger lounge at Abidjan's airport. Instead, he was led through a back door.
He wore sunglasses, but when his family was brought to see him, they saw his
tears nonetheless.

His mother, the widow of a military hero from the country's founding in the
1960s, and his siblings, including a member of the nation's parliament, have
found a house for him already, but Oulai said yesterday that he was not ready to
live by himself. Speaking by telephone from a sister's home, Oulai said he had
job offers, either with the Ivorian air force or a new national airline. But he
is not yet ready to work.

Rolle, his attorney in Jacksonville, said yesterday that he planned to pursue an
appeal of the conviction, unless Oulai instructs him to stop. Today, Oulai has
been summoned to a meeting with senior Ivorian government leaders.

Yesterday, jet-lagged and worn from the months in custody, he sounded tired. "In
my mind, I still think I am in jail," he said. "Although physically you are
free, it's going to take a little while for the subconscious to let certain
things go."

As he emerged yesterday morning from a bedroom in his sister's house, he was
confused and a little pained to see what his 70-year-old mother had chosen to
wear: a white T-shirt lettered on the front with "U.S.A."

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              241 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 21, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

What Next for the INS?

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A40

LENGTH: 553 words


THE PASSAGE OF the homeland security bill represents a positive step in the
reorganization of the federal government to fight the war against terrorism. But
the new Department of Homeland Security will not cure all the ills of all the
agencies it will absorb. On the contrary, as critics have pointed out, there is
a risk that some of these agencies' traditional functions will suffer in the
shuffle. This is true of the Coast Guard, the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and the Customs Service, among others, all of which deal with many issues
other than homeland security. Of most concern is the Immigration and
Naturalization Service (INS), an agency that has long been considered
dysfunctional and that now, after being sharply criticized for its visa policies
following the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, is demoralized as well.

In principle, nothing is wrong with moving the agency out of the Department of
Justice, where it has languished, or even dividing it in half, as the bill
proposes, the better to separate its enforcement functions (border control,
deportation) from its "benefits" functions (green cards, naturalization). It's
hard to argue that a badly functioning agency would be better off unchanged.
Moreover, the bill adds a few new elements -- an ombudsman, a Bureau of
Citizenship -- that could make immigration policy function better over time. The
real trouble lies elsewhere: in the lack of political will to make the
department function as it should.

For the truth is that the weaknesses of the INS reflect the country's
hypocrisies and ambivalence in the debate about immigration. Americans like to
celebrate, in the abstract, their history as a nation of immigrants. Yet the
tone of the political discussion is often broadly anti-immigration, with
politicians of all stripes favoring stricter enforcement of borders and greater
sanctions for illegal aliens. And -- one more zigzag -- many Americans, while
concurring with the need for higher fences at the borders, also want to enjoy
the benefits of high immigration, even illegal immigration, including cheaper
food and lower wages. Thus is the INS instructed to enforce strict laws -- and
simultaneously deprived of the means or the personnel to do so effectively.

In the end, real change will have to come not from the bureaucracy but from
Congress and the White House. Too often, immigration is treated as an isolated
phenomenon, to be accepted or rejected, rather than as an integral element of
the economic system. In reality, the choice is not between more immigrants and
fewer immigrants, but between more immigrants and more economic dynamism and
fewer immigrants and less economic dynamism. If the political rhetoric reflected
the fact that the nation has already chosen the former option, the bureaucracy
would follow. Politicians could instruct the new Bureau of Citizenship not only
to deal with the massive backlog in applications, for example, but also to
foster assimilation and the teaching of English. The president could appoint
someone to think more broadly about immigration policy, perhaps from a White
House perch; as the new bill is written, no such job exists. Great effort will
be needed if the social, political and legal challenges posed by immigration are
not to be ignored in the vast bureaucratic reshuffle.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              242 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 22, 2002 Friday
                                 Final Edition

WASHINGTON IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 432 words


The government could not find nearly half the 4,112 registered immigrants to
whom the authorities wanted to talk after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, according
to a report issued yesterday. The General Accounting Office found that the
Immigration and Naturalization Service didn't have the current addresses of
nearly 2,000 resident immigrants.

Visitors arriving in the United States for extended stays must report their
address to the government. They are supposed to let the INS know when they move,
but many may not know this because the INS doesn't publicize the requirement,
the report said. Others ignore the rules because the agency hasn't enforced the
regulation for almost three decades, according to the GAO. The maximum penalty
is 30 days in jail and a $ 200 fine.

The Bush administration has promised Israel $ 2.16 billion in military
assistance in 2004, up from the $ 2.1 billion it has asked Congress to provide
in 2003, the State Department said yesterday.

The increase is in line with a 1990s agreement that reduces economic assistance
to Israel by $ 120 million a year while adding $ 60 million a year to the
military component of the package, the largest the United States gives to any
country.

The $ 2.16 billion, which is subject to congressional approval next year,
compares with $ 2.04 billion allocated in the fiscal year 2002, which ended
Sept. 30.

North Korea has enough stored plutonium to make several more nuclear weapons in
addition to the one or possibly two it is believed to possess, the CIA says in a
new estimate. The plutonium has been under supervision of the International
Atomic Energy Agency through a 1994 U.S.-North Korean agreement.

But that agreement has begun to unravel with North Korea's acknowledgment last
month that it has initiated a uranium-based nuclear program in violation of the
accord. Since that admission, the fate of the remaining provisions of the
agreement has been in doubt, including the IAEA's supervision.

Renewing his call for universal health care, Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) is
offering a plan to provide coverage to millions of uninsured Americans.

"Quality, affordable health insurance for every American is a matter of simple
justice," Kennedy said in a speech prepared for delivery last night at the
Harvard School of Public Health.

Kennedy said he planned to introduce legislation when the new Congress convenes
in January. It would require all employers with more than five workers to
provide health insurance for employees and their dependents.

-- Compiled from reports from the Associated Press and Reuters

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              243 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 23, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Pakistani Who Threatened Bush Is Among Deportees

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 159 words


A Pakistani man who threatened to kill President Bush a week after the Sept. 11,
2001, attacks was deported to his home country this week along with 86 others in
a special airlift, officials said yesterday.

Khushal Khan, who attended George Washington University on a student visa, sent
an e-mail to Bush, Vice President Cheney and their wives with the heading, "I
will kill you," a week after the terror strikes in New York and on the Pentagon.

After pleading guilty, Khan was mistakenly released in August by the D.C. jail
instead of being transferred to federal immigration authorities for deportation
proceedings. He turned himself in to the Immigration and Naturalization Service
several days later.

A planeload of Pakistani deportees flew out of the Buffalo, N.Y., area on
Wednesday, the latest in a series of flights specially arranged by the U.S.
government to handle Pakistani nationals who have been ordered deported,
officials said.

-- Dan Eggen

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              244 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 24, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrants Are Not Above the Law

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B08

LENGTH: 412 words


After the remarkable contributions that Latino FBI agents, DEA operatives,
police officers and deputy sheriffs have made to upholding and enforcing the
laws of Virginia, it's distressing that a handful of Hispanic groups will lobby
the 2003 General Assembly on behalf of lawbreakers ["Warner Meets With Latino
Leaders," Metro, Nov. 20].

Nelson Rios, director of the Virginia Alliance of Latinos Organized for
Representation, opposes Virginia Attorney General Jerry W. Kilgore's directive
that the state's public colleges should neither admit nor grant in-state tuition
to illegal aliens. Rios and other Hispanic leaders also rail against Virginia's
crackdown on granting driver's licenses to unlawful immigrants.

I differ from Kilgore on most issues, but I agree with his spokesman that it's
not "too much to ask people to become legal citizens of this country before they
enroll in taxpayer-supported institutions."

Although the United States owes its greatness to immigrants, the Statue of
Liberty holds the torch of freedom in one hand and a book of laws in the other.
To reward people who flout U.S. and Virginia laws is a slap in the face to most
of the state's 330,000 Latinos, who work hard, care for their families and play
by the rules.

Access to public institutions is a privilege -- not a right -- and
multimillion-dollar budget cuts have slashed the number of faculty, staff and
classes at schools from George Mason to Virginia Tech. Providing wrongdoers
access to shrinking educational opportunities is unfair to prospective students
who have obeyed the law and seek to attend a public university. In addition,
turning a blind eye to an applicant's legal status would encourage more unlawful
aliens to head for Virginia campuses.

Then there's the question of in-state tuition. Why should Virginia lavish a
generous financial benefit on illegal immigrants when it does not confer it on
citizens who legally reside in other states?

As for their advocacy of issuing driver's licenses to unlawful residents, have
Rios and his allies forgotten that eight of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorists used
Virginia licenses as IDs when carrying out their nefarious plot?

Even as Virginians from all backgrounds rejoice in the remarkable
accomplishments of our Hispanic community, we should be second to none in
fidelity to the rule of law, especially in institutions committed to seeking the
truth.

-- George Grayson

teaches government at the College of William & Mary.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              245 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 25, 2002 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Through Workers' Eyes, a Different City;
Unseen America Project Lets Immigrants Tell Their Own Stories

BYLINE: Christine Haughney, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 985 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


One photographed chairs because she rarely sat down. Another took pictures of a
steaming cup of coffee because he usually worked out in the cold. And one woman
clicked as her 25-year-old son got his hair trimmed because her work had kept
her from seeing him get his first haircut when he was a child.

The images, stunning in their simplicity, tell stories. They are the sometimes
personal, sometimes poignant and always illuminating tales of dozens of faceless
janitors, nannies and day laborers given cameras by their union and urged to
make pictures.

"We just don't see so many of the people who make our lives work," said Esther
Cohen, creative director of Bread and Roses, the cultural arm of Local 1199 of
the Service Employees International Union. "It's such an insight into the lives
of all of us."

It started when Local 1199 tried to tell the stories of its growing immigrant
membership. Calling the project Unseen America, the union received 100 donated
cameras and organized 12-week introductory photography classes for its
membership: migrant workers, home care aides, building maintenance men, garment
workers and housekeepers. Each week students left with five rolls of film and
instructions to document their lives. In three months, they snapped thousands of
photographs of rarely seen New York scenes, some of which were displayed in the
union's local gallery.

The SEIU is the nation's fastest-growing union, gaining 153,000 members in the
past two years. Over that time, local union chapters nationwide have adopted the
program. More than 1,500 people from Boston to Chicago have taken Unseen America
classes and SEIU chapters from Los Angeles and Newark plan to launch projects.
Select photographs from earlier classes are circulating at universities and
galleries across the country and the AFL-CIO plans to exhibit some of these
photographs in Washington next spring.

One photograph on display here in the local's office is of a gray horse nodding
back at an empty carriage in Central Park.

"I am like the horse," Barbara Fu, 35, a Chinese immigrant and bill processor
for the Visiting Nurse Service of New York, wrote in a narrative accompanying
the photo. "I have to work whether I like it or not because I need to make a
living. Everyday is the same routine until we retire or our owner/company
doesn't want us anymore. I want to keep moments of life. Life passes too fast
and I can not stop it even if it is a happy moment."

The Unseen America photographs reflect a bleak and lonely New York. They feature
shadowy fire escapes clinging to tall Queens and Brooklyn tenements and cramped
Chinatown spaces where immigrant children plod through homework. They include a
Mexican laborer curled up on a sheetless bunk bed, his well-worn sneakers tossed
beneath him, and the snow-covered shoes of a homesick Filipino woman.

Historians praise these dark photographs as valuable documents of contemporary
immigrant life. Immigrant outsiders such as Jacob Riis and Lewis Hine took some
of the most intimate photographs of New York at the turn of the last century.
Most immigrant families' photographs came from Lower East Side portrait studios.

"Generally the best documentation of any group is the wealthy groups," said
Kenneth T. Jackson, New York Historical Society president and editor of "The
Encyclopedia of New York City." "Wouldn't it be great if we had a more complete
archive of what, say, an Italian immigrant's life was like?"

For Cristina Hinlo, 68, a Filipino immigrant, Unseen America gave her what her
daughter calls her first hobby besides housekeeping. Since she took her Unseen
America class 18 months ago, Hinlo has photographed fellow housekeepers
commuting through Long Island train stations and on weekends has snapped
pictures of birds soaring over her daughter's Queens apartment. When her
daughter took over her housekeeping job so she could retire, she started to
photograph her senior center's monthly birthday parties and her granddaughter
posing in new outfits.

"Everywhere I seem to look for something to capture," she said. "I am what you
call emotionally involved."

Hinlo, whose photographs of her granddaughter and a baptism have joined the
traveling exhibit, sometimes questions whether these bleak black-and-white
photographs should have the title "America" in them.

"When you are in the Philippines, these are the things you don't see," she said
about her classmates' work. But, she added, "these people are part of America."

Some photographs reflect the dangers of contemporary immigrant life. One
Filipino nanny asked that Bread and Roses organizers not include her pictures of
the child she cared for in the exhibit because she feared losing her job if the
mother disapproved. A day laborer photographed Long Island community groups as
they picketed him as undocumented for standing on a street corner waiting for
work.

"They have total access" to the scenes that they photograph, said David Bacon, a
California-based professional labor photographer and labor journalist who has
chronicled immigrant lives. "They just have no rights."

For Blase Alleyne, 53, an immigrant from Trinidad and environmental services
worker at the Mary Manning Walsh nursing home, it was more important to show to
his co-workers the steel-drum tuners and players with whom he spends his free
time rehearsing.

"I wanted them to see that besides doing what I usually do at work, there is
something else out there that interests me," he said. "People on the job didn't
even know I used to do this."

Alleyne, who recently finished his Unseen America course and whose photograph of
a steel-drum tuner "blending a tenor pan" remains on display, hopes to chronicle
his life in New York through more pictures.

"You go to certain places and see things. But when you go away you forget. Your
memory fails you sometimes," he said. "When you take pictures it will be an
everlasting memory."

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              246 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          November 27, 2002 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Fox Says It's Time to Reopen Talks on Immigration Concerns;
Senior U.S. Delegation Gives Mexico No Signal of Action Soon

BYLINE: Kevin Sullivan and Glenn Kessler, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 553 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY Nov. 26


President Vicente Fox urged Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and other
visiting U.S. Cabinet members today to restart stalled negotiations on improving
U.S.-Mexico immigration rules, but Powell offered no hope of early progress on
the divisive issue.

"The tragic events of [Sept. 11, 2001] obliged us to give priority to the topics
of security and postpone solutions to other important matters on the bilateral
agenda," Fox said, addressing Powell, Attorney General John D. Ashcroft and five
other members of President Bush's Cabinet at an annual binational meeting here.
"Now it is the moment to take up our negotiations again with newfound energy."

Fox has been criticized here for having little to show for his extensive efforts
to improve relations with the United States, particularly on the border issue,
which affects the many Mexicans who travel to work in the United States or have
family members who do so.

In several public addresses during a 24-hour visit here, however, Powell sought
to lower expectations for any immediate agreement on immigration. At the same
time, he assured America's southern neighbor that "there is no area in the world
that is more important to us than our own neighborhood."

Powell's trip here, like a one-day visit to Canada two weeks ago, was designed
largely to mend fences with a neighbor that has felt ignored since the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks. Many Mexicans, like many Canadians, believe that Washington
has lost interest in bilateral relations as it focuses on fighting terrorism.

Mexican reaction to Powell's visit was generally upbeat. There was no
expectation of much substance from the discussions, but many were pleased that
Bush had sent such a senior delegation at a time when the administration is so
occupied with Iraq and the war on terror.

Still, Mexicans are increasingly disappointed that warm ties between Bush and
Fox have yielded few concrete results, especially on changes to U.S. immigration
policy, which is Mexico's number one foreign policy priority. Despite heightened
security in the past year, Mexican immigrants continue to flow illegally into
the United States and deaths in remote desert border areas have increased
sharply.

Mexicans have urged Bush to grant more visas to Mexicans, create new guest
worker programs and legalize some of the estimated 3 million to 4 million
Mexican immigrants living illegally in the United States. Although Bush and Fox
had agreed to seek an immigration accord early last year, momentum on that plan
was stalled by the Sept. 11 attacks.

"U.S. migration policies must treat Mexican men, women and children with respect
and dignity," Bush said in a videotaped message played for Fox and the other
officials this morning. "Our Cabinet officials continue to work together on
creative new policies so that immigration is legal, orderly and safe."

Powell, at a news conference with Mexican Foreign Minister Jorge Castaneda, said
the United States is "just as committed today" to immigration reform as before
the Sept. 11 attacks. But he noted that those attacks, along with this month's
election of a new Congress and creation of a Department of Homeland Security,
changed the political realities in Washington.

"We have to be realistic about the changes that have occurred in the last 14
months," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              247 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 30, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Carrying a Torch for Hope;
Bearers of Flame From Our Lady of Guadalupe Relay Message to Immigrants in U.S.

BYLINE: Bill Broadway, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B09

LENGTH: 790 words


In the eyes of Ricardo Juarez, a 35-year-old construction worker from
Woodbridge, a painting of Our Lady of Guadalupe accompanying runners from Mexico
to New York could just as well be the Virgin Mary herself.

"All the Catholic people [in Latin America] call Our Lady of Guadalupe 'Our
Mother,' and in this case Our Mother was living with the runners when they
crossed the border Nov. 6," said Juarez, organizer of the local stretch of a
3,133-mile relay from the Basilica de Guadalupe in Mexico City to St. Patrick's
Cathedral in New York.

Those runners -- and thousands of others participating along the way --
represent millions of Mexicans and other Latinos who have sought a new life in
the United States and who often cannot return home to visit family and friends,
Juarez said.

Our Lady of Guadalupe, one of the saints most revered throughout Latin America,
"comes here to give them a chance to be with her," he said.

And she continues to accompany runners and people who have greeted them along
the route of Antorcha Guadalupana, a relay in which volunteers ages 12 to 70
take turns carrying a torch representing their hope for improved immigration
policies in the United States, he said.

Participants from Roanoke Rapids, N.C., are scheduled to arrive Thursday in
Stafford, where they will pass the torch to other runners -- most in their teens
and twenties but some in their sixties and seventies -- who will continue the
run to Manassas on Friday, Washington on Saturday and Baltimore on Sunday.

The event began Oct. 29 in Mexico City and will conclude in New York on Dec. 12,
the virgin's feast day.

Juarez, who will run portions of the 106-mile leg from Stafford to Baltimore,
said that more than 250 Washington area volunteers have signed up to run various
segments and that Mass will be said at churches along the route.

The main local event, he said, will be an ecumenical rally at 2:30 p.m. Saturday
at Constitution Avenue and 15th Street NW, between the Ellipse and the
Washington Monument, followed by a candlelight procession to St. Matthew's
Cathedral on Rhode Island Avenue NW.

Several thousand people are expected to attend the rally, which will include an
afternoon of music and other activities and speakers who will ask federal and
state legislators to pass laws ensuring better wages and working conditions for
immigrants, Juarez said. They will call on Congress to grant legal status to an
estimated 9 million illegal immigrants, about half of them from Mexico.

Antorcha Guadalupana is a tradition that started more than a half-century ago in
Mexico City, said Mario Najera, coordinator of the event and a leader of the
Tepeyac Association of New York, an organization that represents undocumented
workers and is sponsoring the run.

Beginning at the Basilica de Guadalupe, on the site where Catholics believe
Jesus's mother appeared in 1531 to a baptized Aztec Indian named Juan Diego,
runners would carry a torch to their home parish or village, calculating the
distance so they would arrive Dec. 12, Najera said.

Najera and others brought the tradition to New York four years ago, taking
torches from St. Patrick's Cathedral to local parishes. Last year, New York
Cardinal Edward Egan challenged them to organize a run from Mexico to New York.

Najera, who is accompanying the runners in a motor home, said he calculated the
journey at 45 days. Usually one person runs at a time, passing the torch to
another runner after a short distance so that the team maintains a speed of 8 to
10 miles per hour. When not running, participants ride in vans.

Different runners have joined in as the entourage has made its way from the
border at Brownsville, Tex., through Louisiana, Alabama, Georgia, the Carolinas
and on to Virginia. Participants stay in church halls or homes in more than 400
parishes along the route, he said.

Najera said the relay had a great following and participation in Mexico and less
in Texas but has been building in the Southeast, especially among Latinos in
such locations as Atlanta and Charlotte, which have large immigrant populations
and for whom the relay has meant an opportunity "to display their identity" as a
community.

Juarez said interest in the relay has increased rapidly among Washington area
Latinos and that the number of runners is much larger than he expected.

Two paintings, one of Our Lady of Guadalupe and one of Juan Diego, are a gift
from the basilica in Mexico City and will hang permanently in St. Patrick's.
During the relay, they usually travel in the motor home but are carried by
runners into churches at the end of each leg, Najera said.

For information on local routes and Masses, call 202-544-9355. For a relay
itinerary, go to www.tepeyac.org.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: REVIEW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              248 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 30, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

No Easy Way for Young Immigrants

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 317 words


"Immigrants Are Not Above the Law" [Close to Home, Nov. 24] exemplifies the
misinformation that has crept into the debate over Virginia college access for
undocumented students. It is too much to ask youth to become citizens before
they enroll in Virginia colleges because the traditional two routes to
immigration relief -- family and employment -- are closed to them.  As
dependents of their families, youth do not have the standing to apply for
themselves. They are too young and untrained to have employers sponsor them.
Without a change in the law, they have no way to become legal residents. It is
not a matter of will, it is a matter of law.

These children have done nothing wrong; most undocumented college-bound students
were brought to this country at young ages by their parents and played no part
in the decisions to enter or stay. Virginia will suffer when considerable
numbers of talented students are prevented from completing their education.
These children have the drive and skill to become Virginia's future doctors,
teachers and community leaders. With dashed dreams, many drop out and fail to
live up to their potential.

In Texas, the Legislature determined that "the cost of not helping motivated
students attend college is greater than the cost of helping them." Texas
estimated that for every dollar spent in the state higher education system on
these students, more than $ 5 is pumped into the Texas economy. Texas now offers
in-state tuition to its undocumented high school graduates willing to sign
affidavits that they will apply to become permanent residents as soon as they
can.

Allowing Virginia's undocumented college-bound students admission at in-state
tuition rates to the commonwealth's campuses is financially beneficial, and it
is the compassionate thing to do.

ANDRES TOBAR

SAMUEL G. McTYRE

Co-Chairmen

Virginia's Immigrant

Educational Rights Coalition

Arlington

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              249 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 30, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

INS Releases Rescued Cubans

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 234 words

DATELINE: MIAMI Nov. 29


Six Cubans found in a stranded boat were released today from U.S. immigration
custody, including a 14-year-old boy authorities say is a material witness in
the case of two accused smugglers.

The Cubans were found Monday after the boat ran out of fuel off Key West.

The Coast Guard towed it to shore, unaware that the teenager, his father and
four others were hiding inside.

After the rescue, the adults scampered onto a dock while the boy remained on
board. Under government policy, Cubans who make it to shore are generally
allowed to stay in the United States, while those who do not are sent back.

The boy was not sent back because he is considered a witness in the smuggling
case against boat owner Elizardo Ruiz Alvarez and Martin Mendez Diaz, officials
said. The two Miami men were freed on bail.

The Cubans were released to relatives, said Ana Santiago, an Immigration and
Naturalization Service spokeswoman.

The boy's mother in Cuba has identified him as Leonel Figueroa Orozco. She has
said she wants him to remain in the United States with his father. Her
pronouncement, along with his age, essentially averted a potential custody
battle similar to the Elian Gonzalez case.

Elian, then 5, survived a boat sinking in November 1999 that killed his mother.
He was sent to live with his Miami relatives, sparking a custody dispute and a
federal raid that returned him to his father and Cuba.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              250 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 2, 2002 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrants Account for Half of New Workers;
Report Calls Them Increasingly Needed For Economic Growth

BYLINE: D'Vera Cohn, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1281 words


A new study of census data concludes that recent immigrants were critical to the
nation's economic growth in the past decade, accounting for half of the new wage
earners who joined the labor force in those years.

The effect was particularly large among men: Eight of 10 new male workers in the
decade were immigrants who arrived during that time, according to the report by
the Center for Labor Market Studies at Northeastern University.

New immigrants accounted for 76 percent of the labor force growth in Maryland
and 44 percent in Virginia. In the District, where the workforce declined,
immigrants prevented further shrinkage.

The Northeastern University report, scheduled for release this week, offers
powerful new evidence of the growing impact of immigrants in American society.
Earlier data from the 2000 Census showed a record number of new arrivals during
the 1990s that prevented population loss in some cities and rural areas. The
newly analyzed workforce numbers show that immigration also is redrawing the
profile of the U.S. workforce, in some cases transforming entire industries.

More than 13 million immigrants came to the United States from 1990 to 2001 --
some legally and some illegally -- drawn by the healthy economy and family ties.
The report said 8 million immigrants joined the labor force, which means they
were either working or looking for work, over a period when the total number of
new workers was 16 million.

The impact on the workforce was significantly larger than in the previous
decades. In the 1970s, for example, immigrants accounted for 10 percent of the
labor force growth. It increased to roughly a quarter in the '80s before
expanding to half in the '90s.

Even so, 86 percent of the workforce is American-born.

For decades, the nation's immigration policy has been a subject of intense
debate, with critics saying the large numbers strain schools and other
government services and take jobs from American-born workers. One of the authors
of the Northeastern study argues that the research indicates the opposite: The
U.S. economy would have stumbled in the past decade without the new arrivals,
and most immigrants contribute more in taxes than they use in services.

"The American economy absolutely needs immigrants," said Andrew Sum, director of
the labor market center. "I realize some workers have been hurt by this, and
some people get very angry when I say this, but our economy has become more
dependent on immigrant labor than at any time in the last 100 years."

Sum said many of the new immigrant workers, possibly half, are here without
legal papers, meaning that the immigrants have an uncertain future and that the
economy is dependent on people in a legal no man's land.

The center's report was commissioned by the Business Roundtable, a group of
corporate chief executives.

A study released last week underscores that the immigration trend seemingly is
here to stay, absent a drastic change in policy. The Center for Immigration
Studies in Washington, which favors limits on immigration, said that even the
economic downturn and a crackdown on illegal entry since the 2001 terrorist
attacks have barely pinched the pace of arrivals. Two million immigrants have
arrived in the United States since the 2000 Census, according to Census Bureau
survey data quoted in the center's report.

The Baltimore-Washington region gained 175,000 new immigrants in the two years
since the 2000 Census, the report said. That represents an escalation of the
pace over the previous decade.

Susan Traiman, director of the workforce education initiative at the Business
Roundtable, said the Northeastern report sheds new light on the underpinnings of
the vigorous '90s economy. "We would not have been able to have this economic
growth without the growth in the workforce that was supplied by immigrants," she
said.

More than a third of the new immigrants were employed in blue-collar
occupations, but nearly one in four held a technical, managerial or professional
job. They were concentrated in certain sectors, especially manufacturing, retail
trade, business and repair services, and personal and entertainment services.
But they also have an above-average share of the nation's jobs in engineering,
computer science and physical science.

The impact of new immigrant workers varied by age group and region. Without new
immigrants, the labor force would have experienced no growth in New England and
the New York region. In the fast-growing southern and Rocky Mountain states,
however, which drew population from elsewhere in the country, immigrants had
less of an effect.

Immigrants also accounted for all the growth among workers under 35. That is
explained by a drop in U.S. birthrates in the 1970s and the resulting dip in the
U.S.-born population in that young age group. But even among those ages 35 to 44
-- the youngest baby boomers -- new immigrants supplied a third of the growth in
the labor force.

Anirban Basu, chief economist of the Regional Economic Studies Institute at
Towson University, said the arrival of immigrants "helped fill in some gaps that
would have otherwise persisted in the labor force," especially in the high-tech
sector and among younger workers.

"Not only did immigrants add to the raw total of the number of workers, but they
added in very meaningful ways," he said.

The effect was particularly noticeable among male workers, in part because of a
puzzling decades-long decline in the share of U.S.-born men in the workforce.
One factor is early retirements; another is that male high school dropouts are
less likely to work than they were in the past.

Had it not been for immigrants, the report said, "the nation's entire male labor
force would have grown only marginally over the past decade, and male labor
shortages would likely have been widespread in many areas of the country,
especially the Northeast and Pacific regions."

Among women, three in 10 new workers were recent immigrants, a much smaller
proportion than among men. That's because U.S.-born women are continuing to
enter the workforce in larger numbers, the report points out, while immigrant
women are much less likely to work.

The report cited evidence that the entry of many poorly educated immigrants into
the workforce has held back wages of the lowest-paid American-born workers. And
Sum said U.S.-born workers can be shunted aside when the economy slackens
because employers often prefer to hire immigrants, believing that they work
harder.

Nine in 10 new immigrants went to work for private industry, having a profound
effect on some companies. At the 7-Eleven nationwide convenience store chain,
for example, a heavily immigrant workforce allowed aggressive expansion in the
1990s, when the company added several hundred stores each year, spokeswoman
Margaret Chabris said.

Its increasingly foreign-born workforce required the company to adapt. In
mid-decade, 7-Eleven added a unit to its training program to "teach the nuances
of providing good customer service in America," she said. "We teach foreign-born
employees from certain cultures that American customers want to be looked in the
eye. They want their change handed to them rather than being put on the
counter."

The Northeastern University report was based on a broader definition of
immigrant than the government uses, including not only people born in foreign
countries but also those from Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands and other
U.S. island territories. People born in those territories accounted for only
368,000 of the 13.5 million people deemed immigrants in the report. The
workforce numbers were for civilians only, not the military.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              251 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 5, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrant Education Levels Rise;
More Foreign-Born Latinos Finish High School, College

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 628 words


Education levels among Latino immigrants have sharply improved in recent
decades, according to a report released yesterday that suggests such Hispanics
will begin to close the yawning gap they have with native-born Americans.

The study of census data, conducted by the Pew Hispanic Center, found that the
percentage of adult Latino immigrants who had completed only high school in 2000
had more than doubled since 1970, to 41 percent. An additional 18 percent had
gone on to college, nearly twice the figure of three decades earlier.

In contrast, about 53 percent of native-born Americans had just a high-school
degree in 2000, and an additional 35 percent had studied further, it said.

"Latino immigrants have done much better than is typically portrayed, and it's
likely they will continue to close the education gaps in the future," said the
report's principal author, B. Lindsay Lowell.

The education level of Latin American immigrants has become a major issue in
recent years, since their numbers have grown dramatically, to represent around
half the current foreign-born population of the United States.

Opponents of the large-scale immigration that began in the 1970s argue that
poorly educated newcomers add to poverty rolls.

One such opponent, Steve Camarota of the Center for Immigration Studies, said
the improvement by Latino immigrants wasn't enough.

"The fundamental question still remains: Why bring in hundreds of thousands of
high-school dropouts each year when we don't have to? We're, in effect,
importing poverty," he said.

The report predicted that the gap in education between the two groups would
narrow, in part for a technical reason: U.S. natives have reached a plateau,
with nearly 90 percent graduating from high school and a large number filling
universities, it said.

At the same time, the report said, several factors have been driving up
education levels among foreign-born Latinos. First, more families are
immigrating from Latin America than in the past, when the flow consisted mainly
of young men. That means children are arriving young enough to attend U.S.
schools. They typically go on to complete more study than those educated in
Latin America, the report said.

Second, education levels have been rising in sending countries, especially among
women. Third, older immigrants, many with very low education levels, are dying.
The percentage of Latino immigrants who had completed only primary school or
less plunged from 72 percent to 41 percent in the past three decades, the report
said.

"When you look at the U.S. population in 1970 and the Latino immigrant
population today, the levels of educational attainment are actually fairly
close," said the report's co-author, Roberto Suro, a former Washington Post
reporter.

He and Lowell predicted, however, that a narrowing of the educational gap was a
medium- to long-term process.

The report said that the least-educated Latino immigrants were those
unauthorized to work or live in the United States; about two-thirds of them had
not finished high school. About half the net increase of the Mexican- and
Central American-born population in the 1990s came from such illegal
immigration, it said.

Ruben G. Rumbaut, a sociologist at the University of California at Irvine who
has been carrying on a massive nationwide study of first- and second-generation
immigrant children, said the report's conclusions didn't surprise him. He added
that his research showed that even the children of little-educated immigrants
often excelled in school, due in part to their parents' high expectations.
Difficulties can arise among later generations, however, as the immigrant work
ethic declines and youths may feel their ambitions blocked by discrimination and
poverty, he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              252 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 9, 2002 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Former Mexican Leader Urges U.S. to Allow More Workers In;
Salinas Says Benefits of Trade Pact Should Be Broadened

BYLINE: Mary Jordan, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 1076 words


Former Mexican president Carlos Salinas de Gortari said yesterday that Mexico
will never enjoy the full benefits of free trade with the United States until it
reverses severe rural poverty and wins immigration concessions from Washington.

Salinas said the benefits of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA)
have gone "beyond our expectations," but now "much more has to be done to
broaden its impact," including signing an agreement with Washington to allow
more Mexicans to work legally in the United States.

Salinas, who has lived in self-imposed exile in Europe since his term ended in
1994, spoke in a rare interview at the Willard Inter-Continental Hotel on the
eve of a conference here marking the 10th anniversary of the signing of NAFTA.
Salinas is attending the conference along with former president George H.W. Bush
and former Canadian prime minister Brian Mulroney, the other leaders who signed
the trade pact that fundamentally changed commerce in North America.

"A migration agreement is indispensable. . . . It is a must for the future,"
said Salinas, who recounted behind-the-scenes maneuvering that led to the trade
pact, including his unsuccessful effort to get Washington to allow more Mexicans
to work legally north of the border.

Although that attempt failed, Salinas said it was time for a migration accord,
which would mark an overdue recognition of the key role that migrant workers
have played in the "impressive U.S. economic expansion of the last decade."

Salinas, 54, said Mexican workers are not stealing jobs from U.S. citizens and
the right thing to do was to acknowledge the demand for them by "giving order"
to the clandestine flow of Mexicans across the border. Hundreds of thousands
illegally attempt the trip each year.

Many Mexicans are disappointed that President Bush has shelved his plans to
expand the number of Mexicans legally working in the United States as he focuses
on the war on terror.

Salinas appeared to be sending a message to President Bush yesterday by saying
that Bush's father, while president, was able to juggle several crises
simultaneously. Salinas said, the elder Bush -- confronted with the Persian Gulf
War and a U.S. recession as well as his own reelection campaign -- "never
wavered" in pursuing NAFTA, which organized labor fiercely opposed.

Salinas has rarely spoken publicly about President Vicente Fox, who unseated
Salinas's long-ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) in 2000.
Yesterday, Salinas praised Fox's "very important initiative" of migration reform
and said the Mexican president was "making a determined effort to govern a very
complicated country."

No living Mexican politician inspires as much emotion as Salinas, most of it
negative. Salinas, who has a doctorate in economics from Harvard and became
Mexico's president at 40, is credited with the country's significant leaps
toward modernity during his term, which ran from 1988 to 1994. He successfully
pushed NAFTA, improved relations with Washington, completed important road and
public works projects and tackled difficult reforms of antiquated laws.

Despite those accomplishments, many Mexicans see Salinas as the embodiment of
government arrogance and corruption.

They blame him for the economic crisis that blew up within weeks of his exit, a
disaster that led to punishing inflation and the collapse of the peso,
devastating the middle class. Salinas blamed the crisis on his successor,
Ernesto Zedillo.

"Everyone wanted to put the blame on me," he said, adding that he hoped time
would restore the soaring popularity he once enjoyed among Mexicans. " I have
had many disappointments. I just hope they are not final."

Salinas has much ill will to surmount. A great number of Mexicans believe
Salinas betrayed them by not reining in his brother, Raul Salinas, who now is
serving a 27-year sentence for involvement in the murder of a leading political
figure, who was also the Salinases's brother-in-law. Raul Salinas is also
accused of using duplicitous means -- multiple passports and forged documents --
to hide more than $ 100 million in Swiss and other foreign bank accounts.

In a clandestine tape recording of a private conversation Raul Salinas had from
prison, he said the money belonged to Carlos Salinas. The tape created a media
sensation in 2000.

Carlos Salinas said yesterday said that the tape was "tampered with" and that he
had no connection to the Swiss money. He said his brother received the money
from "Mexican businessmen."

Carlos Salinas said he was spending more and more time in Mexico. "I go in and
come out often. I just don't publicize it," he said, accompanied during part of
the interview by his wife, Ana Paula Gerard, and their 4-year-old son.

Salinas, who remains a figure of mystery in Mexico, said he is researching the
effects of globalization and writing a book.

He said he still considers himself a member of the PRI. Despite the current
infighting in his party, he said he was hopeful that it would regain the
presidency.

Salinas said two major obstacles confronting Mexico are its broken banking
system and the lack of development in the countryside. More than 25 percent of
Mexico's 100 million people live in rural areas, many of them in extreme
poverty. Salinas said Fox needed to correct what he called mistakes made by
Zedillo.

"The campesinos were abandoned by the government," Salinas stated, pointing out
that government support for rural areas dropped from $ 2 billion 1994 to $ 500
million in 2000. He said the government "owes" the farmers billions of dollars:
"It is a debt that President Fox inherited, but he should pay them."

In recent weeks, angry farmers have been blocking highways and the doors of
Congress in Mexico City, saying their misery was growing because of tough
competition with U.S. farmers.

Salinas said the farmers' anger at NAFTA was misplaced and that overall the
trade pact had "exceeded" expectations. He said Mexico's foreign trade has
ballooned from $ 88 billion in 1994 to more than $ 350 billion today, and the
accord has attracted foreign investment and higher-paying jobs.

Asked if it bothered him that he was once a hugely popular president who is now
regularly pilloried -- street vendors in Mexico City sell bright red Salinas
masks with devil's horns on them -- Salinas said the ups and downs of public
life are to be expected.

"If I didn't read history, I would have been surprised," he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              253 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 9, 2002 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Highway A Haven for Immigrants

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 404 words


Buford Highway is home to the largest concentration of immigrant life in the
Deep South. It begins at the north edge of Atlanta and climbs through two
counties, a blinking jukebox of 15 miles of ethnic density, jumbled up and
vivid: a taqueria next to Pho 96 next to Waffle House.

More than a physical stretch of road, Buford Highway -- the very name -- has
come to symbolize the transformation of the white and black South.

In the 1970s, Atlanta began marketing itself as an international city, a New
South renaissance town emerging from the racial tensions of the previous decade.
But according to Susan Walcott, an urban geographer at Georgia State University,
nothing could have prepared Atlanta for what began to happen along the
improbable road called Buford Highway, U.S. 23, in the early '80s.

Two small, blue-collar white towns on Buford Highway, Chamblee and Doraville,
began to absorb large numbers of Latinos and Asians. Social and refugee
organizations targeted these areas for settlement because of cheap housing and
signs of Atlanta's strengthening economy. Suddenly, Chamblee became known as
Chambodia, and a city official joked at a council meeting that bear traps should
be used to catch the Latino laborers to send them back to Mexico.

The cultural upheaval dominated civic discussion. Still, the immigrants kept
coming, pocketing around Buford Highway. The upland Hmong settled in one
neighborhood and the lowland Laotians in another.

By the '90s, Latinos, primarily from Mexico, came in the largest wave yet, lured
by low-wage work in a boom economy. The thousands of apartment units built along
the highway a generation earlier for young Atlanta metro singles became prime
rental housing for immigrant families. Balconies originally designed for
hibachis became crammed with tricycles, mops and satellite dishes.

Unlike other immigrant "ethnoburbs" in the United States, Buford Highway is a
jumble of intermingled space, with a Mexican video store next to a Korean
restaurant. The lives of all the characters of this series weave in and out of
Buford Highway. No matter how affluent immigrants here become, or how far they
flee into the suburbs, they all return to la Buford, as the Latinos call it, to
reconnect to the touchstones of their early immigrant life, to the groceries,
noodle shops, barbershops, accountants, apothecaries, churches and flea markets
that remind them of home.

-- Anne Hull

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              254 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 9, 2002 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Implications

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 284 words


During a decade in which immigration to the United States reached all-time
highs, it is hardly surprising immigrants entered the labor market in large
numbers ["Immigrants Account for Half of New Workers," front page, Dec. 2]. But
not all growth is positive, and much of the 1990s labor increase is growth we
could have done without.

Consider that exploitative industries -- and their sweatshops -- made a roaring
comeback during the '90s. In addition to being socially harmful, these
industries and their workers are heavily subsidized by the rest of the economy.
Much of the growth in the number of people without health insurance, one of the
biggest problems in the United States, has been fueled by large numbers of
immigrants filling jobs that are created by their presence. This costs everyone
else dearly.

In addition to the creation of lots of marginal jobs, mass immigration has led
to a decline in wages and working conditions in vital industries, such as
construction and meatpacking, whose workers used to be self-sufficient.

Immigration has indeed created growth. We need to stop and ask whether it has
been smart growth.

DAN STEIN

Executive Director

Federation for American Immigration Reform

Washington

*

How surprising that a study commissioned by the Business Roundtable found that
the massive immigration of the 1990s made our wondrous economic growth possible.
I did not see in the findings, however, a rigorous calculation of the taxes paid
by these new workers in relation to the tax revenue spent on new schools,
hospitals and social services.

Coming next week . . . a study commissioned by Exxon that finds burning fossil
fuel reduces global warming!

SARAH K. BALL

Silver Spring

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              255 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 12, 2002 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. Holds 6 of 765 Detained in 9/11 Sweep

BYLINE: Dan Eggen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 308 words


Just six of the 765 people detained on immigration charges in the U.S. dragnet
after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorism attacks remain in U.S. custody, the Justice
Department said yesterday.

Almost 500 of the foreign nationals arrested on immigration charges during the
FBI's Sept. 11 probe have been deported to their home countries, officials said.

An additional 281 were released in the United States and are free or are
awaiting determination of their immigration status, authorities said.

In addition to the 765 people detained on immigration charges, 134 others were
arrested on criminal charges and 99 were convicted, according to the new
figures. A separate group of more than 300 were taken into custody in the early
months of the campaign by state and local law enforcement agencies, the
department said.

The numbers are the most detailed government accounting in months of the status
of immigrants caught up in the wide-ranging detention effort, which has been
shrouded in secrecy and has come under criticism from civil liberties advocates
and Arab American groups.

Justice Department officials released yesterday's statistics after first
providing them at the request of the Associated Press.

However, the department has yet to provide details on one other category of
detainees: those arrested on material witness warrants, which allow the
government to detain and investigate terrorism suspects without charging them
with crimes.

Federal officials, citing grand jury secrecy rules, have refused for 15 months
to say how many material witnesses have been taken into custody, or to reveal
their names or which courts are supervising the cases.

A review of such cases by The Washington Post last month found that federal
authorities had arrested and jailed at least 44 people as material witnesses in
connection with the Sept. 11 probe.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              256 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 14, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Malvo's Mother Being Deported to Jamaica;
Documents Describe Una James's Efforts to Leave Homeland, Gain U.S. Residency

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan and Maria Glod, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 970 words


The mother of the teenager accused in the Washington area sniper shootings is en
route to her native Jamaica, ending weeks of interrogations by federal law
enforcement officials.

Immigration and Naturalization Service officials would not say when Una James,
38, would arrive in Jamaica. But a source close to the case said she left
Seattle for another U.S. city yesterday and was scheduled to be sent home today.

The deportation comes nearly two months after her son, John Lee Malvo, 17, and
his companion, John Allen Muhammad, 41, were arrested at a Frederick County rest
stop in connection with the terrifying shootings that left 10 dead and three
wounded in the Washington area.

James has told authorities that she had no knowledge of her son's actions and
that she has not even spoken to him since March. People who have seen her say
she was distraught over the influence Muhammad had on her son.

"Mr. Muhammad is the devil," James told her son's lead defense attorney, Michael
S. Arif, during a four-hour conversation Wednesday at a detention center in
Bellingham, Wash. Arif repeated the remark yesterday but declined to comment
further.

"Obviously, she loves her son," Arif said. "She's extremely concerned."

Malvo's court-appointed guardian, Todd G. Petit, said James has been unable to
travel to visit Malvo because of her deportation proceedings. Petit said he has
talked to James twice but he is still missing details about her son's life and
"will need to try and contact her in Jamaica."

Authorities in Fairfax County have charged Malvo as an adult with two counts of
capital murder in connection with the Oct. 14 killing of FBI analyst Linda
Franklin outside a Home Depot. James will likely testify as part of the defense,
Arif said, noting that the deportation complicates matters.

"It makes for logistical problems to try to get her back into court to testify,"
Arif said. Witnesses can be allowed into the country under a special immigration
measure called parole.

James, an illegal immigrant, was ordered deported on Nov. 20. An official
knowledgeable about the deportation said James cooperated with authorities.

"She's been very sincere. She's torn up over all this," said the official,
speaking on condition of anonymity.

James's deportation order, signed by Judge Anna Ho in Seattle, sheds new light
on her odyssey. Ho, an immigration judge, criticized James for fraudulently
trying to gain residency, lying to Border Patrol agents after her arrest and
hampering the investigation. Her representatives say she arrived hoping to
escape poverty and instead saw her dream shatter.

According to the order, James admitted paying $ 5,500 to Muhammad, an
acquaintance from their previous home in Antigua, to provide her and her son
with fake identification and airline tickets for separate journeys to the United
States.

Una James arrived first, in June 1999, and sailed through the immigration
inspection at the Miami airport, the document said. Several other accounts have
placed her arrival date in 2000. The discrepancy could not be immediately
clarified.

James applied for asylum, saying that she feared for her family's safety in
Jamaica because her niece and nephew were victims of a politically motivated
killing, the document says. But, it adds, "at some point she was told that
Jamaicans are seldom granted asylum," and so she withdrew the application.

Her quest for residency continued. James settled in Fort Myers, Fla., and
eventually met Jeremiah Neal, who agreed to marry her in exchange for $ 2,500,
says the document.

James "conceded that she was actually the one who proposed the sham marriage to
Neal, negotiated the amount of money to be paid, and made all the arrangements,"
says the deportation document. She gave him a down payment of $ 800 or $ 900,
and they married in April 2001, it said.

Two months later, her son arrived, accompanied by Muhammad, whom he had lived
with in Antigua. James tried to persuade the boy to remain in Florida, the
document says, but he wanted to follow his older friend to Washington state.

Increasingly frantic about Muhammad's influence over her son, James traveled to
Washington state in December 2001 to get him back. But when she called police to
help, they detained her and her son and turned them over to the Border Patrol as
illegal immigrants. They were jailed for a month before posting $ 1,500 bond.

Their immigration court date was initially set for Jan. 22. But that month,
James filed another petition for a residence visa, claiming her marriage with
Neal had ended because he abused her, the deportation documents say.

Her immigration hearings were delayed while authorities examined that petition.
Last month, James withdrew it.

"She conceded that most of the information she provided . . . regarding Neal's
violent abusive treatment of her was untrue. In fact, [his] only mistreatment
consisted of extorting money from her by threatening to turn her in to INS, and
occasional verbal abuse," the document said.

James was ordered deported and given 30 days to appeal. Her immigration
attorneys did not return calls yesterday.

The deportation order clarified some of the mysteries that have surrounded James
since she was detained on Dec. 19, 2001. At the time, she claimed that she and
her son had arrived on a smuggler's ship. James apparently lied because Muhammad
was present, said the official familiar with the case.

"She was scared and afraid, and scared to death of him," the official said.

James has managed to avoid the media since her son's arrest, staying in an
undisclosed location east of Seattle. On Monday, James's attorneys told the
immigration court she would not appeal her deportation order. She was taken into
custody a day later.

Staff writer Serge Kovaleski contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              257 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 14, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

The New Nation of Immigrants

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A23

LENGTH: 789 words


Does your paper have an official policy to publish only positive immigration
stories? Recently it seems as though every major immigration story fails to talk
about any of the negatives. The Dec. 8 front-page article "Old South Goes With
the Wind" is an example of the latest.

Do sprawl, environmental degradation, gridlock and erosion of the middle class
ever get mentioned? They should, because that is what is happening as a result
of immigration all across this country. Immigration is fueling 90 percent of the
country's population growth to what end and cost? By 2050, projections are for
180 million more people in this country. Instead of cheerleading articles on the
subject, some hard-hitting stories covering the negative aspects would be nice.

-- Brian Sporrer

*

Your Dec. 8-11 front-page series, "Rim of the New World," is well written. The
problem is one of context. Rather than displaying varied portraits of Latinos,
your paper presents stereotypical views of minorities. You choose to profile
Nallely Ortiz, a "slouchy and henna-streaked" Latina teen who is a single mother
and regularly skips school, and Amy Nguyen, an "orchid delicate" Asian teen who
is studious, just got accepted to college and is reverential toward her family.
At the least, the stories should have made clear that these portraits of two
young minority women in Atlanta are not representative of the community as a
whole.

A fair representation of minorities would cover the good and the bad, day after
day, not just once every six months when a reporter who doesn't know our
language, culture or traditions gets assigned to the barrio. Then, and only
then, can your newspaper write the stories of the Atlanta teens, Nallely and
Amy, without furthering stereotypes that contribute to the marginalization of
minorities.  -- Jeordan Legon

*

Writer Anne Hull invested a lot of time and effort into her series on immigrants
in Atlanta, which is worthy of praise for its originality and depth of
reporting. But parts of it are disappointing because they resort to cliches that
were more relevant a decade ago. In particular, I am referring to the Dec. 10
installment, which focuses on Asian immigrants.

The story profiling a Vietnamese girl and her family embraced a number of
stereotypes about Asian youth, such as that of the model minority. While
teenagers like the one profiled certainly exist, there are fewer and fewer of
them every year. Many Asians growing up in America today have more
opportunities, more freedom and more open-minded families.

Certainly, this Vietnamese girl's story may deserve to be told. But by not
putting her situation in context, by not spending at least a few paragraphs
talking about how many other Asian youth are now growing up, the piece confirms
some people's narrow-minded views about what it's like to be a fairly recent
Asian immigrant in America.

The series could have included stories on such issues as the growth of the
evangelical Christian churches Asians are attending and how this is changing the
spirituality and political fabric of the South. Or perhaps you could have
considered a story about the shift of power in the South as some white
neighborhoods welcome Asians but are hostile to Latinos and blacks.

I applaud your paper for acknowledging the importance of covering the
increasingly diverse population in the United States and the immigrant groups
that are a large part of these communities. Please do so in the future with more
thought about the diverse situations that exist even within these racial and
ethnic groups so that your readers can be better informed.

-- Mae M. Cheng

The writer is

president-elect

of the Asian

American

Journalists

Association.

*

"Old South Goes With the Wind" describes a young man as being "half Latino and
half black."

"Latino" is not a race.

Although we may have stereotypes about what the "typical" Hispanic may look
like, Latin Americans can be of any race. For example, Argentina has a majority
white population, composed of Spanish and Italian heritage. Brazil has a
considerable German population.

Bolivia is composed mostly of indigenous groups, such as the Ayamara Indians.
Many nations in Latin America, the Caribbean and Central America have large
black populations as well -- Cuba, Brazil, Haiti and the Dominican Republic
being prime examples. Mexico's population is composed mostly of a mix of white
and indigenous blood, also known as mestizo. Peru has seen a large influx in the
number of Japanese immigrants.

"Latino" is an ambiguous term that can be used to describe any race or ethnic
group living in Latin America. One would hope that your esteemed publication
would not further propagate a social misunderstanding.

-- David Sohns

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              258 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 14, 2002 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Malvo's Mother Being Deported to Jamaica;
Documents Describe Una James's Efforts to Leave Homeland, Get U.S. Residency

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan and Maria Glod, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 970 words


The mother of the teenager accused in the Washington area sniper shootings is en
route to her native Jamaica, ending weeks of interrogations by federal law
enforcement officials.

Immigration and Naturalization Service officials would not say when Una James,
38, would arrive in Jamaica. But a source close to the case said she left
Seattle for another U.S. city yesterday and was scheduled to be sent home today.

The deportation comes nearly two months after her son, John Lee Malvo, 17, and
his companion, John Allen Muhammad, 41, were arrested at a Frederick County rest
stop in connection with the terrifying shootings that left 10 dead and three
wounded in the Washington area.

James has told authorities that she had no knowledge of her son's actions and
that she has not even spoken to him since March. People who have seen her say
she was distraught over the influence Muhammad had on her son.

"Mr. Muhammad is the devil," James told her son's lead defense attorney, Michael
S. Arif, during a four-hour conversation Wednesday at a detention center in
Bellingham, Wash. Arif repeated the remark yesterday but declined to comment
further.

"Obviously, she loves her son," Arif said. "She's extremely concerned."

Malvo's court-appointed guardian, Todd G. Petit, said James has been unable to
travel to visit Malvo because of her deportation proceedings. Petit said he has
talked to James twice but he is still missing details about her son's life and
"will need to try and contact her in Jamaica."

Authorities in Fairfax County have charged Malvo as an adult with two counts of
capital murder in connection with the Oct. 14 killing of FBI analyst Linda
Franklin outside a Home Depot. James will likely testify as part of the defense,
Arif said, noting that the deportation complicates matters.

"It makes for logistical problems to try to get her back into court to testify,"
Arif said. Witnesses can be allowed into the country under a special immigration
measure called parole.

James, an illegal immigrant, was ordered deported on Nov. 20. An official
knowledgeable about the deportation said James cooperated with authorities.

"She's been very sincere. She's torn up over all this," said the official,
speaking on condition of anonymity.

James's deportation order, signed by Judge Anna Ho in Seattle, sheds new light
on her odyssey. Ho, an immigration judge, criticized James for fraudulently
trying to gain residency, lying to Border Patrol agents after her arrest and
hampering the investigation. Her representatives say she arrived hoping to
escape poverty and instead saw her dream shatter.

According to the order, James admitted paying $ 5,500 to Muhammad, an
acquaintance from their previous home in Antigua, to provide her and her son
with fake identification and airline tickets for separate journeys to the United
States.

Una James arrived first, in June 1999, and sailed through the immigration
inspection at the Miami airport, the document said. Several other accounts have
placed her arrival date in 2000. The discrepancy could not be immediately
clarified.

James applied for asylum, saying that she feared for her family's safety in
Jamaica because her niece and nephew were victims of a politically motivated
killing, the document says. But, it adds, "at some point she was told that
Jamaicans are seldom granted asylum," and so she withdrew the application.

Her quest for residency continued. James settled in Fort Myers, Fla., and
eventually met Jeremiah Neal, who agreed to marry her in exchange for $ 2,500,
says the document.

James "conceded that she was actually the one who proposed the sham marriage to
Neal, negotiated the amount of money to be paid, and made all the arrangements,"
says the deportation document. She gave him a down payment of $ 800 or $ 900,
and they married in April 2001, it said.

Two months later, her son arrived, accompanied by Muhammad, whom he had lived
with in Antigua. James tried to persuade the boy to remain in Florida, the
document says, but he wanted to follow his older friend to Washington state.

Increasingly frantic about Muhammad's influence over her son, James traveled to
Washington state in December 2001 to get him back. But when she called police to
help, they detained her and her son and turned them over to the Border Patrol as
illegal immigrants. They were jailed for a month before posting $ 1,500 bond.

Their immigration court date was initially set for Jan. 22. But that month,
James filed another petition for a residence visa, claiming her marriage with
Neal had ended because he abused her, the deportation documents say.

Her immigration hearings were delayed while authorities examined that petition.
Last month, James withdrew it.

"She conceded that most of the information she provided . . . regarding Neal's
violent abusive treatment of her was untrue. In fact, [his] only mistreatment
consisted of extorting money from her by threatening to turn her in to INS, and
occasional verbal abuse," the document said.

James was ordered deported and given 30 days to appeal. Her immigration
attorneys did not return calls yesterday.

The deportation order clarified some of the mysteries that have surrounded James
since she was detained on Dec. 19, 2001. At the time, she claimed that she and
her son had arrived on a smuggler's ship. James apparently lied because Muhammad
was present, said the official familiar with the case.

"She was scared and afraid, and scared to death of him," the official said.

James has managed to avoid the media since her son's arrest, staying in an
undisclosed location east of Seattle. On Monday, James's attorneys told the
immigration court she would not appeal her deportation order. She was taken into
custody a day later.

Staff writer Serge Kovaleski contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              259 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 15, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Malvo's Mother Sent To Jamaica;
James May Return For Sniper Trial

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C07

LENGTH: 176 words

DATELINE: KINGSTON, Jamaica Dec. 14


The mother of the youth accused in the Washington area sniper killings was
escorted back to her native Jamaica today by U.S. marshals after being ordered
deported from the United States.

Una James, 38, arrived at Norman Manley International Airport here about 2:45
p.m. aboard a U.S. government jet, according to local police and airport
officials.

After being questioned by Jamaican authorities, James was permitted to slip out
a back entrance and into a waiting car to avoid reporters.

Her destination could not be learned. James entered the United States illegally
in 2000 and was detained a year ago with her son, John Lee Malvo, 17, in
Washington state by immigration officials. She had been free on bond until
Tuesday, when immigration officials took her into custody after a judge issued a
final deportation order.

James, who has been in seclusion since her son was accused along with John Allen
Muhammad, 41, in the sniper shootings, may be permitted to return to the United
States to testify at his trial, according to U.S. immigration officials.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              260 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 15, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Suspect's Mother Is Taken Back To Jamaica

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C07

LENGTH: 176 words

DATELINE: KINGSTON, Jamaica Dec. 14


The mother of the youth accused in the Washington area sniper killings was
escorted back to her native Jamaica today by U.S. marshals after being ordered
deported from the United States.

Una James, 38, arrived at Norman Manley International Airport here about 2:45
p.m. aboard a U.S. government jet, according to local police and airport
officials.

After being questioned by Jamaican authorities, James was permitted to slip out
a back entrance and into a waiting car to avoid reporters.

Her destination could not be learned. James entered the United States illegally
in 2000 and was detained a year ago with her son, John Lee Malvo, 17, in
Washington state by immigration officials. She had been free on bond until
Tuesday, when immigration officials took her into custody after a judge issued a
final deportation order.

James, who has been in seclusion since her son was accused along with John Allen
Muhammad, 41, in the sniper shootings, may be permitted to return to the United
States to testify at his trial, according to U.S. immigration officials.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              261 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 22, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Who's On, Who's Off

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 326 words


Males age 16 or older from Iran, Iraq, Libya, Sudan and Syria who are staying
temporarily in the United States were required to report to their local
Immigration and Naturalization Service office by last Monday or face arrest.
Those who did were photographed, fingerprinted and interviewed under oath. About
200 were also arrested -- for being "out of status," said Jorge Martinez, a
Justice Department spokesman. U.S. citizens and holders of green cards were
exempted, as were diplomats, refugees and a short roster of others.

In Round 2 of the program, males from Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, Eritrea,
Lebanon, Morocco, North Korea, Oman, Qatar, Somalia, Tunisia, United Arab
Emirates and Yemen must register at an INS office by Jan. 10.

The special registration is a direct response to 9/11. But you'll recall that
many of the hijackers on that date were from Saudi Arabia, a country notably
absent from the aforementioned lists. That, too, changed Monday, when Justice,
which had been criticized for its choice of countries, announced that Saudi and
Pakistani males must register by Feb. 21.

Also added to the list (see that day's Federal Register) but then quickly
removed was Armenia, a country generally not thought of as a terrorist haven.
The reversal came after Armenian Americans reportedly deluged the White House
with protest faxes. On Thursday, Martinez said simply, "The Federal Register has
been corrected."

Still missing is Egypt, birthplace of Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, ringleader of the
1993 World Trade Center attack. The INS focused first on nations designated as
sponsors of terrorism, Martinez said. Countries were added based on national
security considerations. But he stressed that for visitors newly arriving at
U.S. borders, the special registration "can apply to any temporary foreign
visitor. It's not country-specific." For details:
www.ins.usdoj.gov/graphics/lawenfor/specialreg/index.htm.

-- Kathleen Cahill, for Outlook

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              262 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 27, 2002 Friday
                                 Final Edition

For Somalis, a Home and Haven;
Residents of U.S. Fight Deportation as Too Dangerous

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 1331 words

DATELINE: SEATTLE


Mohamed Aweys was a teenager when he and his family fled Somalia's civil warfare
over a decade ago. Now, in an austere cell in a U.S. jail, he worries that he
could be deported back to that violence-wracked country, for what he calls a
youthful mistake.

"I feel I would be killed in Somalia. Everyone has guns and weapons in Somalia,"
said Aweys, 25, a bearded, heavyset man in blue prison scrubs, speaking through
a mouthpiece in the Plexiglass divider of a visitors' room.

For years, U.S. officials have deported Somalis who are in this country
illegally or have committed crimes, along with tens of thousands of other
immigrants sent home. But recently, lawyers have mounted an unusual challenge to
that practice, arguing that Somalia is so lawless and violent that the
immigrants' lives are being put at risk.

Their challenge centers on a narrow issue -- whether the Immigration and
Naturalization Service needs the receiving country to accept a deported
immigrant -- but it raises bigger questions about refugees' rights and the U.S.
government's anti-terrorism campaign.

"There's no functioning government" in Somalia, said Pramila Jayapal, director
of Hate Free Zone, a Seattle nonprofit group working with lawyers to launch a
class action suit aimed at ending the deportation of Somalis. "If we send people
back . . . they will be killed."

The United States has not recognized a government in Somalia since 1991, and the
State Department considers it "extremely dangerous" to travel in the East
African country. But immigration officials say their responsibility is to remove
people who have committed crimes or are otherwise ineligible to stay.

"Many people could argue that being sent back to their home country is not an
ideal situation . . . [but] millions and millions of people are living in these
countries," said William Strassberger, an INS spokesman.

The Justice Department, in court papers, has maintained that this case touches
on a central element of the war on terrorism. If the attorney general's powers
to deport people were limited, "he would be stripped of a vital tool to protect
the security of this nation's borders," department attorneys contend. The U.S.
government has grown increasingly concerned that Somalia could be a base for
terrorism, although the Somalis in this case are not accused of such activities.

Aweys, the son of a Somali air force engineer, fled his homeland as it was
engulfed by civil war in 1991. The family won asylum in Finland, but Aweys was
restless, and in 1995 he traveled to America as a tourist to visit relatives.
While his visa allowed only a brief visit, Aweys, then 18, stayed on.

"I made a mistake," he acknowledged. Within several months of arriving in the
United States, Aweys applied for political asylum, but failed to report that he
already had won refugee status in another country.

"I was young. I didn't know" that that would be interpreted as a fraudulent
claim, he said.

Meanwhile, his legal status in Finland lapsed. After his asylum claim here was
denied, the INS detained him, and scheduled him to be sent back to Somalia.

On a cool night in November, Aweys and four other Somalis in the INS detention
facility in Seattle received word that they were about to begin their journey to
Africa. But hours later, their attorneys won a temporary stay.

Aweys's pro bono attorneys contend that under international treaties, the U.S.
government cannot return people to places where they will face harm. They also
point to a recent case in Minnesota, in which a judge ruled that a Somali man
should not be deported because the INS lacked the required go-ahead from the
receiving country.

"The silence of a non-functioning government in a lawless territory . . . simply
cannot constitute 'acceptance,' " U.S. District Judge John R. Tunheim wrote.

The INS appealed that ruling. While INS and Justice Department officials won't
comment on the cases, they have argued in court papers that a country provides
de facto acceptance of a deported immigrant if it allows him to get off the
plane.

In addition, officials say the Somalis already had the chance during their
hearings to seek asylum based on fears of persecution back home.

After Aweys and the other detainees won their stay, their advocates and
attorneys were deluged with calls -- from Louisiana, Florida, Utah, Texas --
from Somalis hoping that they, too, could avoid imminent deportation.

Eventually, the attorneys decided to seek a class action lawsuit for all Somalis
facing deportation -- about 2,700 nationwide. Earlier this month a Seattle judge
ordered the INS to stop removing Somalis until she decides whether to certify
the suit, a ruling expected in January.

For Somali communities around the country, the deportations have evoked anger
and dread.

"We are scared about somebody deported from here. They won't survive" in
Somalia, said Geilani Hussein, an activist in Northern Virginia.

Activists say the INS has been stepping up deportations of Somalis as part of a
post-Sept. 11 crackdown. Between 1997 and 2001, U.S. immigration officials say,
they have sent between 22 and 47 people a year back to Somalia. This year, they
have deported at least 32 and jailed 39 more for imminent removal.

Under the anti-terrorism effort, Somalis and people from other Muslim countries
are considered a priority in efforts to round up foreigners who have defied
deportation orders.

Most of the Somalis facing deportation were in the United States legally, either
as refugees or through a government program known as "temporary protected
status," which allows Somalis here without visas to apply for work permits on
the ground that it is too dangerous for them to return home. However, immigrants
can be stripped of their legal residency if they commit an aggravated felony.

That's the case with most of the Somali deportees.

"You can't expect to be an abuser of American law and get protection at the same
time," said Strassberger, the INS spokesman.

Immigrant advocates say the law is unduly harsh. Some of the Somalis were
convicted of violent acts, such as rape and assault, but others had to give up
their American lives because of shoplifting, drunken driving or possessing small
amounts of drugs. A 1996 law limited the ability of judges to waive deportations
due to special circumstances.

For some Somalis, deportation means returning to a land they barely know.

Fuad Hassan Ismail, for example, isn't even fluent in the local language. He
grew up in Yemen, the son of Somali parents, and had lived in the United States
since he arrived on a student visa in 1984. He eventually entered the temporary
protected status program.

In the mid-'90s, he began to get into trouble, and he was convicted of
possessing drug paraphernalia and cocaine.

In 1998, after he was released from detention, Ismail completed a Salvation Army
drug and alcohol rehabilitation program.

"He was saving to buy a house and get married," said Samuel Southard,
administrator of the Salvation Army Adult Rehabilitation Center in Seattle. "I'd
trust him with my grandkids."

Ismail said he reported periodically to the INS, as required. But the cocaine
charge meant he was eligible for deportation.

Earlier this year, he was picked up at his maintenance job at the Seattle Yacht
Club and whisked out of the United States with other deportees. INS officials
declined to comment on his case.

"Mogadishu was crazy, wild -- there was gunfire" when he arrived, Ismail said in
a telephone interview. He had only $ 60 in his pocket, since he hadn't had time
to go to a U.S. bank before his departure, he said.

Ismail managed to get to Hargeisa, on the other side of the country, where he
has relatives. But it has been impossible to find a job in the poverty-stricken
area, he said, especially since he can't write Somali.

"You never know when something will erupt. There are different warlords," Ismail
said. "I'm just living day by day, hoping nothing happens."

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              263 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 29, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Deported for Shoplifting?

BYLINE: Bill Ong Hing

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B07

LENGTH: 634 words


Would we deport Winona Ryder for shoplifting? Of course not. In fact, for her
felony conviction, Ryder will pay restitution, engage in community service and
face no jail time. Yet, every day, the United States deports lawful immigrants
and refugees who have been convicted of minor offenses such as shoplifting and
writing bad checks. Yes, some have committed more serious crimes involving
violence or narcotics, but all have been incarcerated, then deported on top of
that.

The planned deportation of almost 1,400 Cambodian refugees back to a country
with one of the world's worst human rights records should make us rethink our
deportation laws. For years Cambodia would not accept deportable refugees, but
last March, enticed by further economic aid from the United States, it signed a
repatriation agreement. Since then, 36 Cambodian nationals have been sent back,
while others await processing by U.S. immigration officials. Those deported have
been detained by the Cambodian government for weeks at a time awaiting further
"processing," while they and their U.S. families have been pressured with
extortion demands. Money is requested for every little privilege, such as $ 50
for the use of towels.

The real tragedy of the deportation of Cambodian refugees is who they are. Most
of those being deported have little connection to contemporary Cambodia, their
only memories being of the cruelty and starvation under the Khmer Rouge and the
"Killing Fields" massacre of more than 2 million of their countrymen. Some do
not speak Khmer, and many do not read or write the language. Some were born in
refugee camps in Thailand and have never set foot in Cambodia. Others entered
the United States as infants. Most have resided in the United States for more
than 20 years and for all intents and purposes are Americans, having grown up
here. Like it or not, they are products of the American environment.

Who are the Cambodian deportees? Lundy See of Philadelphia entered as a refugee
at age 8; he was convicted of assault at 16 and served 14 months in prison.
Sokha Sun of Seattle, who possessed a gun illegally, came to the United States
as a three-week-old refugee. Borom Chea, who grew up near Sacramento, entered at
the age of 3. At 17 he was convicted of robbery and served 71/2 years in state
prison. Other Cambodian deportees, who wish to remain anonymous, include a young
man whose offense was public urination; another was convicted of drunken
driving; one was convicted of two petty thefts. A recent group of deportees who
arrived in Phnom Penh included an 80-year-old man. Left behind are their
spouses, children, parents and friends. In years past, deportation relief might
have been afforded to many of these people if certain hardships or
rehabilitation could be established, but an overhaul of the immigration laws in
1996 closed this avenue for a second chance to most "alien criminals."

As a sovereign nation, we certainly have the technical authority to punish and
remove these people from our country. But even though we have this power, how,
when and on what basis should we exercise it? Are we really proud of deporting
people who entered the country as infants to a land where they have no real
ties? People who have served their criminal sentences? People who may have
convincing evidence of rehabilitation? People who have stable families and
communities ready to help get them back on their feet? Many of these deportees
deserved a second chance, but our system provided them with no opportunity to
present their cases.

Winona Ryder is lucky she did not enter the country as a toddler from a Thai
refugee camp. If she had, she might be faced with an armed escort to Phnom Penh.

The writer is a professor of law and Asian American studies at the University of
California at Davis.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              264 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 29, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

The Wrong Way

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 428 words


NOTHING IS WRONG, in principle, with the Immigration and Naturalization
Service's plan to register and fingerprint temporary visa holders in this
country who hail from countries with a history of sponsoring terrorism or
exporting terrorists. It makes sense for the government to have as precise an
idea as possible of who is here and where those people are living. The
assumption by some civil liberties groups that it is illegitimate racial
profiling to attach stricter conditions for visas for nationals of some
countries than for others seems wrong. Yet a basic sympathy with the INS's
"special registration" project does not redeem the counterproductive manner in
which the INS handled the first wave of registrations. The initial deadline for
registration -- for those from Iran, Iraq, Libya, Syria and Sudan -- was Dec.
16. Hundreds of people who showed up to comply, many of them in Southern
California, were handcuffed and detained on minor immigration charges. Some of
these people seem to have had merely technical problems and had already
submitted paperwork to fix them. Somehow, a program intended to keep track of
who was in the United States turned into another dragnet for trivial immigration
matters unrelated to terrorism.

The bait and switch, which punishes and humiliates those who tried to follow the
rules, can only undermine the purpose of the registration program. It's hard to
imagine that this action will not discourage those with technical visa problems
from showing up on Jan. 10, the registration deadline for people from
Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, Eritrea, Lebanon, Morocco, North Korea, Oman,
Qatar, Somalia, Tunisia, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen. If the government
plays "gotcha" with the immigration laws, it might score a few deportations, but
it risks guaranteeing that the database it is assembling remains woefully
incomplete. That's a bad trade.

It also promises to further alienate the very communities whose aid in the
domestic war on terrorism is most essential. Complaints about the roundup came
not only from Arab American groups that have long been critical of American
counterterrorism policy, but also from fiercely pro-American Iranian exile
groups; the son of the former shah of Iran, in a full-page ad in The Post last
week, decried the "unfair targeting" of Iranian immigrants. Legitimate law
enforcement activity creates more than enough friction with Muslim communities,
which understandably feel vulnerable in America after 9/11. Law enforcement
simply can't afford to exacerbate this problem gratuitously.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              265 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 29, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Harsh Reward for Hard Labor;
For Many Hispanic Immigrants, Work Injuries End Dreams of a New Life

BYLINE: Nurith C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 1747 words


One moment, Pedro Velazquez was standing on the roof of the partially built
townhouse, preparing to anchor his harness to the top. The next, he was
careening downward, grasping in panic for a handhold as he sailed over the edge
toward the frozen ground four stories below.

At the Maryland Shock Trauma Center, doctors surveyed the damage: Smashed wrist.
Broken leg. Fractured spine. Shattered dream.

"All I could think of was my wife and my children in Mexico," the 43-year-old
roofer recalled in Spanish recently, blinking back tears as he sat in a sterile
nursing home room in Manassas. "What will they live on without me to support
them?"

Like many of the Latino immigrants who have swelled the nation's workforce over
the past decade, Velazquez was drawn by the prospect of a booming economy and
plentiful jobs, settling illegally in Dale City less than a year before his
accident in February.

Now, paralyzed from the chest down and unable to use his lower arms and hands,
he has joined the growing ranks of a different class of newcomer: one of the
thousands of immigrant Latino men -- both documented and undocumented -- who are
injured or killed while working in the United States each year.

According to authors of a study to be released soon by the National Academy of
Sciences, foreign-born Latino men are now nearly 2 1/2 times more likely to be
killed on the job than the average U.S. worker.

Government statistics on nonfatal injuries are less revealing because they lump
immigrants together with American-born Hispanics, who tend to have more
education and better language skills. Yet here, too, the news is grim, with
Hispanic men about 50 percent more likely to be injured than the average worker.

And under the laws of many states, employees who are in the country illegally
are ineligible for full medical coverage or monetary compensation for their
injuries. Instead, they must depend on emergency rooms or simply forgo medical
care.

"Our nation is being built on the backs of these guys," said Daniel P. Barrera,
a lawyer who has helped Velazquez and other injured Latinos in the area navigate
the workers' compensation system. "It's really unfair that they're being treated
this way when they're hurt."

Researchers are trying to determine all the reasons behind the rise in injuries,
but one is clear: Often minimally educated and desperately poor, Latino
immigrants have flocked to some of the nation's most dangerous industries in
record numbers, eagerly snapping up nonunion construction, manufacturing and
agricultural jobs that are too low-paying and high-risk to attract enough
U.S.-born workers.

Largely as a result, the number of fatally injured Latino workers rose by more
than 50 percent -- from 533 in 1992 to 815 in 2000 -- even as the nation's
non-Hispanic fatality rate dropped.

Among the latest to be added to the tally were two Hispanic steelworkers from
North Carolina who were killed in Rockville last month when a concrete parking
garage they were building collapsed on top of them. A non-Hispanic worker was
also killed, and another Hispanic worker was seriously injured.

In the greater Washington area, where Latinos make up 8 percent of approximately
5.4 million residents, the walking wounded increasingly fill the waiting rooms
of rehabilitation clinics. Prompted by an explosion in its Hispanic clientele
three years ago, one of the region's largest injury-treatment centers, Rehab at
Work, opened an office in Alexandria with four Spanish-speaking therapists.

And at the Shady Grove offices of another group, Rehabilitation Services of
Greater Washington, occupational therapist Rich Shegogue said he spends much of
his day speaking Spanish.

A recent visit to that clinic amounted to a tour of the underside of the
American Dream.

At one table, Mexican-born Mario Perez -- whose right pinkie tendon was sliced
by a falling piece of plasterboard -- winced in pain as a therapist massaged his
hand.

Nearby, Peruvian-born Luis Enrique Bonta waited his turn, distractedly rubbing
the stumps of three fingers he lost in a printing press accident.

The psychological damage to such workers can be tougher to cure than their
physical disabilities, Shegogue said.

"Because of the machismo ideal in Hispanic culture, it's a very heavy blow for
our Latino clients to be told they can't work," he said. "I see a lot of
frustration and depression stemming from that."

Bonta said he has struggled with both. "My family is really feeling the change
in my character," said the 46-year-old, who lives with his wife and two of his
children in Gaithersburg. "I'm in pain all the time and bothered by everything.
And I don't want to do anything anymore. I just feel so impotent."

Yet for all their difficulties, Shegogue's clients are at least getting medical
care and financial assistance for their injuries. That can be a challenge when
an injured worker is one of the nation's estimated 7 million to 8 million
illegal immigrants.

While many states do not distinguish between documented and undocumented
immigrants when it comes to workers' compensation, plenty do. The most extreme
is Wyoming, where undocumented immigrants are excluded from all compensation.
Virginia's Supreme Court held the same in a 1999 decision, prompting the state
legislature to pass a law extending most medical and wage benefits to illegal
immigrants the following year.

Even so, in Virginia, Maryland and the District, undocumented workers are not
eligible for vocational retraining if their injuries prevent them from doing
their original jobs.

And while Virginia and Maryland do allow undocumented workers financial
compensation for permanent disabilities, such workers cannot receive
compensation from employers for a temporary loss in wages they experience if
they can only do light work while recovering.

That was devastating news to a Bolivian-born construction worker living in
Virginia whose hand was crushed by a plummeting scaffolding plank last year.

The worker, who asked that his name be withheld because he is undocumented,
received no compensation during the roughly six months he was recuperating from
the accident. As a result, he said, he was forced to exhaust his savings to pay
his share of the apartment he rents with five other laborers.

Worst of all, he said, was the knowledge that his wife and three children back
in Bolivia -- to whom he used to send about $ 1,000 a month -- were having to
get by on much less.

"They used to eat meat once a week. Now they can't afford it," he said.

Steven Camarota, director of research at the Center for Immigration Studies,
said he has some sympathy for such immigrants.

Nonetheless, he noted, "these folks are in the country knowingly and willingly
violating our immigration laws. . . . And the more you extend benefits to them,
the more you normalize their presence and convey to them, to their employer and
to people thinking about coming here illegally that the United States simply
isn't serious about its immigration laws."

Lawyers for such workers counter that illegal employees should not have to
suffer while the companies that employ them -- often at lower wages than legal
workers -- get a free pass.

Immigrant advocates also speculate that undocumented workers face greater chance
of injury because the companies that are willing to risk hiring them may be more
likely to reduce costs by cutting corners on safety.

"The employer's calculus is that these are workers who won't raise issues of
health and safety because they either don't know they can, or will be afraid of
losing their job and getting deported," said Brian Christopher, executive
director of the Alice Hamilton Center, a nonprofit work-safety training center
in Silver Spring.

Unscrupulous employers also may fail to inform immigrant workers of their rights
under the compensation system or neglect to obtain legally required workers'
compensation insurance, immigrant advocates said.

The latter can be a particularly thorny problem for workers in the District,
where it can take a year or more to get compensation from a special fund for
workers at uninsured companies.

Eric May, a lawyer based in the District, said he recently had to turn down a
house cleaner seeking compensation from a janitorial company for injuries she
suffered in an accident while driving from one job to another in the firm's
vehicle.

"From what I could tell, the employer wasn't insured, so it would have been too
long and arduous a process to come to the woman's rescue," May said.

Even when employers are insured, they may contest an employee's claim in court,
causing long delays during which immigrant workers who cannot afford to pay for
treatment out of pocket must simply go without.

Such was the case with another one of Barrera's clients, a construction worker
who suffered massive head injuries when he fell off a 25-foot-high roof, then
had to wait nearly a year to get speech and cognitive therapy until a judge
ruled in his favor.

Velazquez, the roofer who was paralyzed in the fall from a townhouse in
February, was luckier in that regard. His employer was insured and did not
contest Velazquez's claim that he slipped on a piece of tar sheeting that had
not been properly nailed to the roof. He is now getting $ 373 a week in
compensation benefits, plus medical care.

But that is small consolation for a man who once reveled in his speed on the
soccer field. Still too fragile to return to his wife and children in the
central Mexican city of Morelia, he has as yet been unable to persuade
immigration authorities to allow relatives to come to him.

So he has had few visitors to lighten his mood as he soldiers through a
succession of bedsores, excruciating nerve spasms and other complications of
paralysis.

At first, Velazquez said, he spent the hours of isolation staring blankly
through his nursing home window, sliding ever deeper into what seemed an
unfathomable despair.

But in the past two months, he has begun to search for more active ways to pass
the time.

Perhaps, he wonders, he can catch up on some of the schooling he missed when his
father set him to work selling vegetables on the street at age 8. As a start,
he's borrowed a book of Spanish love poems by Latin American authors. And he's
even learning a little English from an instruction video.

On a recent afternoon, he rolled his wheelchair up to a nurse and tried out one
of his newest phrases: "Medicine for pain, please?"

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


                              266 of 266 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 29, 2002 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Harsh Reward for Hard Labor;
For Many Hispanic Immigrants, Work Injuries End Dreams of a New Life

BYLINE: Nurith C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 1747 words


One moment, Pedro Velazquez was standing on the roof of the partially built
townhouse, preparing to anchor his harness to the top. The next, he was
careening downward, grasping in panic for a handhold as he sailed over the edge
toward the frozen ground four stories below.

At the Maryland Shock Trauma Center, doctors surveyed the damage: Smashed wrist.
Broken leg. Fractured spine. Shattered dream.

"All I could think of was my wife and my children in Mexico," the 43-year-old
roofer recalled in Spanish recently, blinking back tears as he sat in a sterile
nursing home room in Manassas. "What will they live on without me to support
them?"

Like many of the Latino immigrants who have swelled the nation's workforce over
the past decade, Velazquez was drawn by the prospect of a booming economy and
plentiful jobs, settling illegally in Dale City less than a year before his
accident in February.

Now, paralyzed from the chest down and unable to use his lower arms and hands,
he has joined the growing ranks of a different class of newcomer: one of the
thousands of immigrant Latino men -- both documented and undocumented -- who are
injured or killed while working in the United States each year.

According to authors of a study to be released soon by the National Academy of
Sciences, foreign-born Latino men are now nearly 2 1/2 times more likely to be
killed on the job than the average U.S. worker.

Government statistics on nonfatal injuries are less revealing because they lump
immigrants together with American-born Hispanics, who tend to have more
education and better language skills. Yet here, too, the news is grim, with
Hispanic men about 50 percent more likely to be injured than the average worker.

And under the laws of many states, employees who are in the country illegally
are ineligible for full medical coverage or monetary compensation for their
injuries. Instead, they must depend on emergency rooms or simply forgo medical
care.

"Our nation is being built on the backs of these guys," said Daniel P. Barrera,
a lawyer who has helped Velazquez and other injured Latinos in the area navigate
the workers' compensation system. "It's really unfair that they're being treated
this way when they're hurt."

Researchers are trying to determine all the reasons behind the rise in injuries,
but one is clear: Often minimally educated and desperately poor, Latino
immigrants have flocked to some of the nation's most dangerous industries in
record numbers, eagerly snapping up nonunion construction, manufacturing and
agricultural jobs that are too low-paying and high-risk to attract enough
U.S.-born workers.

Largely as a result, the number of fatally injured Latino workers rose by more
than 50 percent -- from 533 in 1992 to 815 in 2000 -- even as the nation's
non-Hispanic fatality rate dropped.

Among the latest to be added to the tally were two Hispanic steelworkers from
North Carolina who were killed in Rockville last month when a concrete parking
garage they were building collapsed on top of them. A non-Hispanic worker was
also killed, and another Hispanic worker was seriously injured.

In the greater Washington area, where Latinos make up 8 percent of approximately
5.4 million residents, the walking wounded increasingly fill the waiting rooms
of rehabilitation clinics. Prompted by an explosion in its Hispanic clientele
three years ago, one of the region's largest injury-treatment centers, Rehab at
Work, opened an office in Alexandria with four Spanish-speaking therapists.

And at the Shady Grove offices of another group, Rehabilitation Services of
Greater Washington, occupational therapist Rich Shegogue said he spends much of
his day speaking Spanish.

A recent visit to that clinic amounted to a tour of the underside of the
American Dream.

At one table, Mexican-born Mario Perez -- whose right pinkie tendon was sliced
by a falling piece of plasterboard -- winced in pain as a therapist massaged his
hand.

Nearby, Peruvian-born Luis Enrique Bonta waited his turn, distractedly rubbing
the stumps of three fingers he lost in a printing press accident.

The psychological damage to such workers can be tougher to cure than their
physical disabilities, Shegogue said.

"Because of the machismo ideal in Hispanic culture, it's a very heavy blow for
our Latino clients to be told they can't work," he said. "I see a lot of
frustration and depression stemming from that."

Bonta said he has struggled with both. "My family is really feeling the change
in my character," said the 46-year-old, who lives with his wife and two of his
children in Gaithersburg. "I'm in pain all the time and bothered by everything.
And I don't want to do anything anymore. I just feel so impotent."

Yet for all their difficulties, Shegogue's clients are at least getting medical
care and financial assistance for their injuries. That can be a challenge when
an injured worker is one of the nation's estimated 7 million to 8 million
illegal immigrants.

While many states do not distinguish between documented and undocumented
immigrants when it comes to workers' compensation, plenty do. The most extreme
is Wyoming, where undocumented immigrants are excluded from all compensation.
Virginia's Supreme Court held the same in a 1999 decision, prompting the state
legislature to pass a law extending most medical and wage benefits to illegal
immigrants the following year.

Even so, in Virginia, Maryland and the District, undocumented workers are not
eligible for vocational retraining if their injuries prevent them from doing
their original jobs.

And while Virginia and Maryland do allow undocumented workers financial
compensation for permanent disabilities, such workers cannot receive
compensation from employers for a temporary loss in wages they experience if
they can only do light work while recovering.

That was devastating news to a Bolivian-born construction worker living in
Virginia whose hand was crushed by a plummeting scaffolding plank last year.

The worker, who asked that his name be withheld because he is undocumented,
received no compensation during the roughly six months he was recuperating from
the accident. As a result, he said, he was forced to exhaust his savings to pay
his share of the apartment he rents with five other laborers.

Worst of all, he said, was the knowledge that his wife and three children back
in Bolivia -- to whom he used to send about $ 1,000 a month -- were having to
get by on much less.

"They used to eat meat once a week. Now they can't afford it," he said.

Steven Camarota, director of research at the Center for Immigration Studies,
said he has some sympathy for such immigrants.

Nonetheless, he noted, "these folks are in the country knowingly and willingly
violating our immigration laws. . . . And the more you extend benefits to them,
the more you normalize their presence and convey to them, to their employer and
to people thinking about coming here illegally that the United States simply
isn't serious about its immigration laws."

Lawyers for such workers counter that illegal employees should not have to
suffer while the companies that employ them -- often at lower wages than legal
workers -- get a free pass.

Immigrant advocates also speculate that undocumented workers face greater chance
of injury because the companies that are willing to risk hiring them may be more
likely to reduce costs by cutting corners on safety.

"The employer's calculus is that these are workers who won't raise issues of
health and safety because they either don't know they can, or will be afraid of
losing their job and getting deported," said Brian Christopher, executive
director of the Alice Hamilton Center, a nonprofit work-safety training center
in Silver Spring.

Unscrupulous employers also may fail to inform immigrant workers of their rights
under the compensation system or neglect to obtain legally required workers'
compensation insurance, immigrant advocates said.

The latter can be a particularly thorny problem for workers in the District,
where it can take a year or more to get compensation from a special fund for
workers at uninsured companies.

Eric May, a lawyer based in the District, said he recently had to turn down a
house cleaner seeking compensation from a janitorial company for injuries she
suffered in an accident while driving from one job to another in the firm's
vehicle.

"From what I could tell, the employer wasn't insured, so it would have been too
long and arduous a process to come to the woman's rescue," May said.

Even when employers are insured, they may contest an employee's claim in court,
causing long delays during which immigrant workers who cannot afford to pay for
treatment out of pocket must simply go without.

Such was the case with another one of Barrera's clients, a construction worker
who suffered massive head injuries when he fell off a 25-foot-high roof, then
had to wait nearly a year to get speech and cognitive therapy until a judge
ruled in his favor.

Velazquez, the roofer who was paralyzed in the fall from a townhouse in
February, was luckier in that regard. His employer was insured and did not
contest Velazquez's claim that he slipped on a piece of tar sheeting that had
not been properly nailed to the roof. He is now getting $ 373 a week in
compensation benefits, plus medical care.

But that is small consolation for a man who once reveled in his speed on the
soccer field. Still too fragile to return to his wife and children in the
central Mexican city of Morelia, he has as yet been unable to persuade
immigration authorities to allow relatives to come to him.

So he has had few visitors to lighten his mood as he soldiers through a
succession of bedsores, excruciating nerve spasms and other complications of
paralysis.

At first, Velazquez said, he spent the hours of isolation staring blankly
through his nursing home window, sliding ever deeper into what seemed an
unfathomable despair.

But in the past two months, he has begun to search for more active ways to pass
the time.

Perhaps, he wonders, he can catch up on some of the schooling he missed when his
father set him to work selling vegetables on the street at age 8. As a start,
he's borrowed a book of Spanish love poems by Latin American authors. And he's
even learning a little English from an instruction video.

On a recent afternoon, he rolled his wheelchair up to a nurse and tried out one
of his newest phrases: "Medicine for pain, please?"

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post
