
                                1 of 8 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      December 28, 2012 Friday 8:12 PM EST

SECTION: A section; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 567 words


massachusetts                 arizona          Mexico challenges immigration law

The Mexican government has urged a U.S. court to stop Arizona from enforcing a
minor section of the state's 2010 immigration law that prohibits the harboring
of illegal immigrants.

Lawyers representing Mexico asked the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit
in a friend-of-the-court filing Wednesday to uphold a lower-court ruling that
blocked police from enforcing the ban. Mexico argued the ban harms diplomatic
relations between Mexico and the United States, and undermines the Unites
States' ability to speak to a foreign country with one voice.

The harboring ban was in effect from late July 2010 until Sept. 5, when U.S.
District Judge Susan Bolton blocked its enforcement. Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer (R)
has asked the appeals court to reverse that ruling.

The U.S. Supreme Court earlier this year upheld a more contentious part of the
law that allowed officers, while enforcing other laws, to question the
immigration status of those suspected of being in the country illegally, but
also struck down most other sections of the law. It did not consider the
harboring ban.

- Associated Press

michigan          Governor authorizes emergency managers

Gov. Rick Snyder (R) put a new emergency-manager law on the books Thursday,
weeks after voters repealed a version that gave sweeping powers to a single
person to overhaul financially distressed communities.

The new law will give local governments and ailing school districts the
opportunity to choose their own remedy.

The law will not kick in until late March. Under the old law, the power to send
an emergency manager rested solely with the governor. The new law includes a
$770,000 state appropriation to cover managers' salaries, a provision that would
shield it from another statewide vote because spending bills are immune to
referendums.

- Associated Press

california          Whales to get more protection from ships

Ship traffic off the California coast will be rerouted under new rules designed
to protect slow-moving endangered whales from ship collisions.

The International Maritime Organization has approved vessel lane changes on
approaches to San Francisco Bay and the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach, and
in the Santa Barbara Channel. The changes take effect next year.

Migrating blue, fin and humpback whales are prone to ship strikes because they
are often lured to the California shoreline by plentiful krill. All three
species are endangered.

- Associated Press

Man pleads guilty to smuggling dinosaur fossils:A Gainesville, Fla., man pleaded
guilty in New York on Thursday to smuggling dinosaur fossils into the United
States. The plea deal requires Eric Prokopi, 38, to give up claims to several
dinosaur skeletons, including a 70-million-year-old Tyrannosaurus bataar
skeleton the government seized earlier this year. In return, prosecutors say
they will recommend leniency. The charges carry a potential penalty of up to 17
years in prison.

Homeless woman set on fire: A homeless woman was in critical condition in a Los
Angeles hospital after a man doused her with liquid accelerant and set her on
fire as she slept on a bus bench, police said Thursday. Dennis Petillo, 24, has
been arrested in connection with the early-morning attack, police said.

- From news services

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                                2 of 8 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 28, 2012 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 545 words

massachusetts

arizona

Mexico challenges immigration law

The Mexican government has urged a U.S. court to stop Arizona from enforcing a
minor section of the state's 2010 immigration law that prohibits the harboring
of illegal immigrants.

Lawyers representing Mexico asked the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit
in a friend-of-the-court filing Wednesday to uphold a lower-court ruling that
blocked police from enforcing the ban. Mexico argued the ban harms diplomatic
relations between Mexico and the United States, and undermines the Unites
States' ability to speak to a foreign country with one voice.

The harboring ban was in effect from late July 2010 until Sept. 5, when U.S.
District Judge Susan Bolton blocked its enforcement. Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer (R)
has asked the appeals court to reverse that ruling.

The U.S. Supreme Court earlier this year upheld a more contentious part of the
law that allowed officers, while enforcing other laws, to question the
immigration status of those suspected of being in the country illegally, but
also struck down most other sections of the law. It did not consider the
harboring ban.

- Associated Press

michigan

Governor authorizes emergency managers

Gov. Rick Snyder (R) put a new emergency-manager law on the books Thursday,
weeks after voters repealed a version that gave sweeping powers to a single
person to overhaul financially distressed communities.

The new law will give local governments and ailing school districts the
opportunity to choose their own remedy.

The law will not kick in until late March. Under the old law, the power to send
an emergency manager rested solely with the governor. The new law includes a
$770,000 state appropriation to cover managers' salaries, a provision that would
shield it from another statewide vote because spending bills are immune to
referendums.

- Associated Press

california

Whales to get more protection from ships

Ship traffic off the California coast will be rerouted under new rules designed
to protect slow-moving endangered whales from ship collisions.

The International Maritime Organization has approved vessel lane changes on
approaches to San Francisco Bay and the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach, and
in the Santa Barbara Channel. The changes take effect next year.

Migrating blue, fin and humpback whales are prone to ship strikes because they
are often lured to the California shoreline by plentiful krill. All three
species are endangered.

- Associated Press

Man pleads guilty to smuggling dinosaur fossils: A Gainesville, Fla., man
pleaded guilty in New York on Thursday to smuggling dinosaur fossils into the
United States. The plea deal requires Eric Prokopi, 38, to give up claims to
several dinosaur skeletons, including a 70-million-year-old Tyrannosaurus bataar
skeleton the government seized earlier this year. In return, prosecutors say
they will recommend leniency. The charges carry a potential penalty of up to 17
years in prison.

Homeless woman set on fire:  A homeless woman was in critical condition in a Los
Angeles hospital after a man doused her with liquid accelerant and set her on
fire as she slept on a bus bench, police said Thursday. Dennis Petillo, 24, has
been arrested in connection with the early-morning attack, police said.

- From news services

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                                3 of 8 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     December 27, 2012 Thursday 8:12 PM EST

A nation settled by immigrants

BYLINE: George F. Will

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 779 words


At the end of this year in which election results reinserted immigration into
the political conversation, remember that 2012 is the 150th anniversary of "the
first comprehensive immigration law." This is how the Homestead Act of 1862 is
described by Blake Bell, historian at the Homestead National Monument of America
near Beatrice, Neb., one of the National Park Service's many educational jewels
that make the NPS one of just two government institutions (the other is the U.S.
Marine Band) that should be exempt from any budget cuts, for all eternity.

In 1862, the grim year of Shiloh and Fredericksburg, Congress would have been
forgiven for concentrating only on preventing national dismemberment. Instead,
while defiantly continuing construction of the Capitol dome, Congress continued
nation-building. It passed the Pacific Railway Act to provide for the movement
of people and goods to and from the new lands in the West, the Morrill Act to
build land-grant colleges emphasizing agriculture, and, most important, the
Homestead Act, whose provisions were as simple as the problem it addressed was
stark.

What today is called the Great Plains was at that time identified on maps as the
Great American Desert. Under the act, $18 in fees entitled homesteaders to farm
160 acres to which they would acquire title for no further cost after five
years. Or after six months, if they paid $1.25 an acre. (Union soldiers could
deduct their time in uniform from the residency requirement.) The act was
intended to attract immigrants from abroad - immigrants who would put down
roots. For this purpose it provided all requirements for citizenship.

Until then, Bell writes, the states had been "the primary overseers of
immigration." And as an immigration commissioner of New York later testified to
Congress, large numbers of immigrants would "come regularly to this country
every spring" but would take themselves and their earnings back to Europe in the
autumn, not paying taxes and depressing American wages.

The Naturalization Law of 1802 required immigrants to receive certificates
("first papers") proving that they had declared upon arrival their intention to
become citizens. After five years, an immigrant could take the certificate and
two witnesses to a courthouse and be naturalized. This law addressed the worry
that Europe was deliberately exporting the wretched refuse of its teeming shores
- people of (in a Kentucky congressman's words) "the most turbulent and factious
tempers," accustomed to monarchies and sorely in need of Americanization.

By 1850, the United States had acquired, by hook or by crook (including Indian
"removal" and the morally dubious but indubitably beneficial war with Mexico),
vast quantities of land. Most of it was uninhabited, unless you counted, as few
did, Indians. In 1862, with many citizens fighting, noncitizens were needed to
(in an Illinois congressman's words) "go upon these wild lands" to increase the
nation's wealth.

Bell calls the Homestead Act "an accommodating immigration law" because its
requirement that the land be farmed for five years was the amount of time
required to become a citizen, and because it began the assimilation of
immigrants into American law.

The spirit of the act was optimistic. As the New York Times said, it would
attract "the common people of Europe" who are free from the prejudices of "the
aristocratic and snobocratic classes."

Under the Homestead Act, which continued in effect in Alaska until 1986, more
than 270 million acres - approximately 422,000 square miles or 2.5 Californias -
were privatized. The truth-tellers at the National Archives say that most
homesteaders came from near their homesteads - Iowans moved to Nebraska,
Minnesotans to South Dakota, etc. Furthermore, speculators, railroads and other
sharpies snapped up most of the land: Of 500 million acres dispersed by 1904,
only 80 million went to homesteaders. Small farmers settled more land under the
act in the 20th century than in the 19th.

Still, Bell rightly notes that the act was an immigration law in effect as well
as intent. By 1870, the foreign-born population of Wyoming and Montana was 39
percent; of Dakota Territory, 34 percent; of Nebraska, 25 percent. And the peak
years of national immigration, 1905-14, were the peak years of homestead claims.

Skeptics will say that the Homestead Act, which welcomed immigrants to a
sparsely populated continent, is irrelevant to today. Skeptics should consider
not only that immigration is still an entrepreneurial act but also that as the
entitlement state buckles beneath the weight of an aging population, America's
workforce needs replenishing.

georgewill@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                                4 of 8 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 27, 2012 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

A nation settled by immigrants

BYLINE: George F. Will

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 779 words


At the end of this year in which election results reinserted immigration into
the political conversation, remember that 2012 is the 150th anniversary of "the
first comprehensive immigration law." This is how the Homestead Act of 1862 is
described by Blake Bell, historian at the Homestead National Monument of America
near Beatrice, Neb., one of the National Park Service's many educational jewels
that make the NPS one of just two government institutions (the other is the U.S.
Marine Band) that should be exempt from any budget cuts, for all eternity.

In 1862, the grim year of Shiloh and Fredericksburg, Congress would have been
forgiven for concentrating only on preventing national dismemberment. Instead,
while defiantly continuing construction of the Capitol dome, Congress continued
nation-building. It passed the Pacific Railway Act to provide for the movement
of people and goods to and from the new lands in the West, the Morrill Act to
build land-grant colleges emphasizing agriculture, and, most important, the
Homestead Act, whose provisions were as simple as the problem it addressed was
stark.

What today is called the Great Plains was at that time identified on maps as the
Great American Desert. Under the act, $18 in fees entitled homesteaders to farm
160 acres to which they would acquire title for no further cost after five
years. Or after six months, if they paid $1.25 an acre. (Union soldiers could
deduct their time in uniform from the residency requirement.) The act was
intended to attract immigrants from abroad - immigrants who would put down
roots. For this purpose it provided all requirements for citizenship.

Until then, Bell writes, the states had been "the primary overseers of
immigration." And as an immigration commissioner of New York later testified to
Congress, large numbers of immigrants would "come regularly to this country
every spring" but would take themselves and their earnings back to Europe in the
autumn, not paying taxes and depressing American wages.

The Naturalization Law of 1802 required immigrants to receive certificates
("first papers") proving that they had declared upon arrival their intention to
become citizens. After five years, an immigrant could take the certificate and
two witnesses to a courthouse and be naturalized. This law addressed the worry
that Europe was deliberately exporting the wretched refuse of its teeming shores
- people of (in a Kentucky congressman's words) "the most turbulent and factious
tempers," accustomed to monarchies and sorely in need of Americanization.

By 1850, the United States had acquired, by hook or by crook (including Indian
"removal" and the morally dubious but indubitably beneficial war with Mexico),
vast quantities of land. Most of it was uninhabited, unless you counted, as few
did, Indians. In 1862, with many citizens fighting, noncitizens were needed to
(in an Illinois congressman's words) "go upon these wild lands" to increase the
nation's wealth.

Bell calls the Homestead Act "an accommodating immigration law" because its
requirement that the land be farmed for five years was the amount of time
required to become a citizen, and because it began the assimilation of
immigrants into American law.

The spirit of the act was optimistic. As the New York Times said, it would
attract "the common people of Europe" who are free from the prejudices of "the
aristocratic and snobocratic classes."

Under the Homestead Act, which continued in effect in Alaska until 1986, more
than 270 million acres - approximately 422,000 square miles or 2.5 Californias -
were privatized. The truth-tellers at the National Archives say that most
homesteaders came from near their homesteads - Iowans moved to Nebraska,
Minnesotans to South Dakota, etc. Furthermore, speculators, railroads and other
sharpies snapped up most of the land: Of 500 million acres dispersed by 1904,
only 80 million went to homesteaders. Small farmers settled more land under the
act in the 20th century than in the 19th.

Still, Bell rightly notes that the act was an immigration law in effect as well
as intent. By 1870, the foreign-born population of Wyoming and Montana was 39
percent; of Dakota Territory, 34 percent; of Nebraska, 25 percent. And the peak
years of national immigration, 1905-14, were the peak years of homestead claims.

Skeptics will say that the Homestead Act, which welcomed immigrants to a
sparsely populated continent, is irrelevant to today. Skeptics should consider
not only that immigration is still an entrepreneurial act but also that as the
entitlement state buckles beneath the weight of an aging population, America's
workforce needs replenishing.

georgewill@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                                5 of 8 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      December 23, 2012 Sunday 8:12 PM EST

Immigration advocates fear other issues will distract Obama

BYLINE: David Nakamura

SECTION: A section; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 815 words


President Obama's pledge to pursue a package of gun-control measures next month
has immigration advocates concerned whether the effort could delay or distract
the White House from moving quickly to fulfill another of his second-term
priorities.

Latino leaders, disappointed by Obama's inability to achieve comprehensive
immigration reform in his first term, say they understand and support the
urgency of Obama's push to reduce gun violence in the wake of the Newtown,
Conn., shooting rampage.

But they said they expect him to make good on his promise to "seize the moment"
on immigration following an election in which Hispanic voters overwhelmingly
supported him and other Democrats. Republicans, stung by the losses, have
suggested they are open to new immigration reforms as they seek to broaden their
own base of support.

"There is clear momentum for it, so it's really important to get to it
immediately because it will not happen overnight," said Eliseo Medina, the
secretary-treasurer of the Service Employees International Union, which spent
millions recruiting new Hispanic voters this year. "Our belief is that 2013 is
the window of opportunity. We'd like to see it happen in the first part of year,
whether it's three months or six months, but in order to start the clock running
we have to start quickly."

Medina and other advocates said the White House told them to be ready as early
as next month to help lobby Congress and rally the public over reforms that
could help provide a path to citizenship for the nation's 11 million
undocumented workers. Obama, who won 71 percent of the Latino vote, said during
his first news conference after winning reelection that he expected to have a
comprehensive legislative bill introduced in Congress "very soon after my
inauguration" on Jan. 20.

But that was before a gunman killed 26 people, including 20 children, at Sandy
Hook Elementary School on Dec. 14, prompting Obama to declare that he will use
all the powers of his office to reduce gun violence. Last week, the president
appointed Vice President Biden to head a commission to develop new proposals
that Obama will "push without delay" in January.

Adding further complications to the timetable over the White House's immigration
strategy are the deadlocked negotiations over the looming "fiscal cliff" that
could drag into the new year. Asked last week about Obama's increasingly bloated
agenda, White House press secretary Jay Carney declined to rank priorities.

"We need to do all of it," Carney said. "And this president is committed to just
that."

Immigration advocates say they intend to keep the pressure on. Last week, Latino
leaders announced they will keep a scorecard on lawmakers over immigration and
mobilize voters in the 2014 election against those who score poorly.

The advocates said they are encouraged that Senate Republicans, led by Marco
Rubio (Fla.) and John McCain (Ariz.), have had private discussions about their
immigration strategy in recent weeks.

But in the House, where Speaker John A. Boehner (R-Ohio) said last month the
time is right to pursue immigration reform, the GOP named Rep. Trey Gowdy
(S.C.), viewed as a hardliner on immigration, as chairman of the immigration
subcommittee. Another hard-liner, Rep. Bob Goodlatte (Va.), was named chairman
of the House Judiciary Committee, which oversees immigration. Both have been
skeptical of immigration proposals such as the Dream Act.

"As we line up a path to gun control and the response to Connecticut, everybody
expects Congress, just like the rest of the American people, will be able to
take on more than one thing," said Clarissa Martinez de Castro, director of
civic engagement and immigration for the National Council of La Raza. "There is
a real premium for Republicans moving forward on immigration. It's less about
their position with Democrats than with making inroads with a section of the
electorate that they will not see the inside of the White House without. That's
their biggest motivation."

Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.) was so frustrated with the Obama
administration's record of deporting more than 1 million undocumented
immigrants that he was arrested after staging a protest outside the White House
gates in July 2011.

Gutierrez also has been active in  attempts to push stronger gun-control
measures. He said he hopes that on both issues, growing public pressure will
help break long-standing inaction on Capitol Hill.

"Would I like the White House to be more public and demonstrative about what
they're doing on immigration? Sure," Guiterrez said. "Do I believe in the end
they will be in the forefront of the fight, spearheading the fight? Yes. Might
we have to wait a little longer and be patient as the White House grapples with
so many different issues? Yes, but in the end I have every expectation I will be
standing next to the president on this."

nakamurad@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                                6 of 8 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     December 25, 2012 Tuesday 8:12 PM EST

Fought in courts in '80s for same-sex marriage

BYLINE: Elaine Woo

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 752 words


Richard Adams made history when he and his partner of four years, Anthony
Sullivan, became one of the first gay couples in the country to be granted a
marriage license. It happened in Boulder, Colo., where a county clerk issued
licenses to six same-sex couples in the spring of 1975.

Mr. Adams hoped to use his marriage to secure permanent residency in the United
States for Sullivan, an Australian who had been in the country on a limited visa
and was facing deportation.

But Colorado's attorney general declared the Boulder marriages invalid. Several
months later, Mr. Adams and Sullivan received a letter from the U.S. Immigration
and Naturalization Service that denied Sullivan's petition for resident status
in terms that left no doubt about the reason:

"You have failed to establish that a bona fide marital relationship can exist
between two faggots," the notification read.

Mr. Adams, who later filed the first federal lawsuit demanding recognition of
same-sex marriages, died Dec. 17 at his home in Hollywood, Calif., said his
attorney, Lavi Soloway. He was 65. The cause of death was not disclosed.

Soloway described Mr. Adams and Sullivan as "pioneers who stood up and fought
for something nobody at that time conceived of as a right: the right of gay
couples to be married."

"Attitudes at the time were not supportive, to put it mildly," Soloway said.
"They went on the [Phil] Donahue show, and people in the audience said some
pretty nasty things. But they withstood it all because they felt it was
important to speak out."

Born in Manila on March 9, 1947, Mr. Adams immigrated to the United States with
his family when he was 12. He grew up in Long Prairie, Minn., studied liberal
arts at the University of Minnesota and became a naturalized U.S. citizen in
1968.

By 1971, he was working in Los Angeles, where he met Sullivan. Four years later,
the two men heard about Boulder County Clerk Clela Rorex, who had decided to
issue marriage licenses to gay couples after the Boulder district attorney's
office told her that nothing in state law explicitly prohibited it.

On April 21, 1975, Mr. Adams and Sullivan obtained their license and exchanged
marriage vows at a Unitarian church.

The Boulder marriages attracted national media attention. Rorex received obscene
phone calls and even a visit from a cowboy who protested by demanding to marry
his horse. (Rorex said she turned him down because the mare, 8 years old, was
under age.)

After their marriage, Mr. Adams and Sullivan filed a petition with the INS
seeking permanent residency for Sullivan as the spouse of a U.S. citizen. In
November 1975, they received the immigration agency's derogatory letter and
lodged a formal protest. Officials reissued the denial notice without the
derisive language.

Mr. Adams and Sullivan took the agency to court in 1979, challenging the
constitutionality of the denial. A federal district judge in Los Angeles upheld
the INS decision, and Mr. Adams and Sullivan lost subsequent appeals.

In a second lawsuit, the couple argued that Sullivan's deportation after an
eight-year relationship with Mr. Adams would constitute an "extreme hardship."
In 1985, a three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit
rejected the hardship argument and opened the way for Sullivan to be sent back
to Australia.

Because Australia had already turned down Mr. Adams's request for residency, the
couple decided the only way they could stay together was to leave the United
States. They flew to Britain in 1985 and drifted through Europe.

"It was the most difficult period because I had to leave my family as well as
give up my job of 181 / 2 years," Mr. Adams said in "Limited Partnership," a
documentary scheduled for release next year.

They ended their self-imposed exile after a year and lived quietly in Los
Angeles to avoid drawing the attention of immigration officials, but in recent
years they began to appear at rallies supporting same-sex marriage, Soloway
said.

They were encouraged by new guidelines issued by the Obama administration this
fall that instructed immigration officials to stop deporting foreigners in
long-standing same-sex relationships with U.S. citizens.

Although the policy change came more than three decades after Mr. Adams and
Sullivan raised the issue, it gave Mr. Adams "a sense of vindication," Soloway
said.

Mr. Adams, who was an administrator for a law firm until his retirement in 2010,
is survived by Sullivan; his mother; four sisters; and a brother.

- Los Angeles Times

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                                7 of 8 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 23, 2012 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigration advocates fear other issues will distract Obama

BYLINE: David Nakamura

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 815 words


President Obama's pledge to pursue a package of gun-control measures next month
has immigration advocates concerned whether the effort could delay or distract
the White House from moving quickly to fulfill another of his second-term
priorities.

Latino leaders, disappointed by Obama's inability to achieve comprehensive
immigration reform in his first term, say they understand and support the
urgency of Obama's push to reduce gun violence in the wake of the Newtown,
Conn., shooting rampage.

But they said they expect him to make good on his promise to "seize the moment"
on immigration following an election in which Hispanic voters overwhelmingly
supported him and other Democrats. Republicans, stung by the losses, have
suggested they are open to new immigration reforms as they seek to broaden their
own base of support.

"There is clear momentum for it, so it's really important to get to it
immediately because it will not happen overnight," said Eliseo Medina, the
secretary-treasurer of the Service Employees International Union, which spent
millions recruiting new Hispanic voters this year. "Our belief is that 2013 is
the window of opportunity. We'd like to see it happen in the first part of year,
whether it's three months or six months, but in order to start the clock running
we have to start quickly."

Medina and other advocates said the White House told them to be ready as early
as next month to help lobby Congress and rally the public over reforms that
could help provide a path to citizenship for the nation's 11 million
undocumented workers. Obama, who won 71 percent of the Latino vote, said during
his first news conference after winning reelection that he expected to have a
comprehensive legislative bill introduced in Congress "very soon after my
inauguration" on Jan. 20.

But that was before a gunman killed 26 people, including 20 children, at Sandy
Hook Elementary School on Dec. 14, prompting Obama to declare that he will use
all the powers of his office to reduce gun violence. Last week, the president
appointed Vice President Biden to head a commission to develop new proposals
that Obama will "push without delay" in January.

Adding further complications to the timetable over the White House's immigration
strategy are the deadlocked negotiations over the looming "fiscal cliff" that
could drag into the new year. Asked last week about Obama's increasingly bloated
agenda, White House press secretary Jay Carney declined to rank priorities.

"We need to do all of it," Carney said. "And this president is committed to just
that."

Immigration advocates say they intend to keep the pressure on. Last week, Latino
leaders announced they will keep a scorecard on lawmakers over immigration and
mobilize voters in the 2014 election against those who score poorly.

The advocates said they are encouraged that Senate Republicans, led by Marco
Rubio (Fla.) and John McCain (Ariz.), have had private discussions about their
immigration strategy in recent weeks.

But in the House, where Speaker John A. Boehner (R-Ohio) said last month the
time is right to pursue immigration reform, the GOP named Rep. Trey Gowdy
(S.C.), viewed as a hardliner on immigration, as chairman of the immigration
subcommittee. Another hard-liner, Rep. Bob Goodlatte (Va.), was named chairman
of the House Judiciary Committee, which oversees immigration. Both have been
skeptical of immigration proposals such as the Dream Act.

"As we line up a path to gun control and the response to Connecticut, everybody
expects Congress, just like the rest of the American people, will be able to
take on more than one thing," said Clarissa Martinez de Castro, director of
civic engagement and immigration for the National Council of La Raza. "There is
a real premium for Republicans moving forward on immigration. It's less about
their position with Democrats than with making inroads with a section of the
electorate that they will not see the inside of the White House without. That's
their biggest motivation."

Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.) was so frustrated with the Obama
administration's record of deporting more than 1 million undocumented
immigrants that he was arrested after staging a protest outside the White House
gates in July 2011.

Gutierrez also has been active in  attempts to push stronger gun-control
measures. He said he hopes that on both issues, growing public pressure will
help break long-standing inaction on Capitol Hill.

"Would I like the White House to be more public and demonstrative about what
they're doing on immigration? Sure," Guiterrez said. "Do I believe in the end
they will be in the forefront of the fight, spearheading the fight? Yes. Might
we have to wait a little longer and be patient as the White House grapples with
so many different issues? Yes, but in the end I have every expectation I will be
standing next to the president on this."

nakamurad@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                                8 of 8 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 25, 2012 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Fought in courts in '80s for same-sex marriage

BYLINE: Elaine Woo

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 748 words


Richard Adams made history when he and his partner of four years, Anthony
Sullivan, became one of the first gay couples in the country to be granted a
marriage license. It happened in Boulder, Colo., where a county clerk issued
licenses to six same-sex couples in the spring of 1975.

Mr. Adams hoped to use his marriage to secure permanent residency in the United
States for Sullivan, an Australian who had been in the country on a limited visa
and was facing deportation.

But Colorado's attorney general declared the Boulder marriages invalid. Several
months later, Mr. Adams and Sullivan received a letter from the U.S. Immigration
and Naturalization Service that denied Sullivan's petition for resident status
in terms that left no doubt about the reason:

"You have failed to establish that a bona fide marital relationship can exist
between two faggots," the notification read.

Mr. Adams, who later filed the first federal lawsuit demanding recognition of
same-sex marriages, died Dec. 17 at his home in Hollywood, Calif., said his
attorney, Lavi Soloway. He was 65. The cause of death was not disclosed.

Soloway described Mr. Adams and Sullivan as "pioneers who stood up and fought
for something nobody at that time conceived of as a right: the right of gay
couples to be married."

"Attitudes at the time were not supportive, to put it mildly," Soloway said.
"They went on the [Phil] Donahue show, and people in the audience said some
pretty nasty things. But they withstood it all because they felt it was
important to speak out."

Born in Manila on March 9, 1947, Mr. Adams immigrated to the United States with
his family when he was 12. He grew up in Long Prairie, Minn., studied liberal
arts at the University of Minnesota and became a naturalized U.S. citizen in
1968.

By 1971, he was working in Los Angeles, where he met Sullivan. Four years later,
the two men heard about Boulder County Clerk Clela Rorex, who had decided to
issue marriage licenses to gay couples after the Boulder district attorney's
office told her that nothing in state law explicitly prohibited it.

On April 21, 1975, Mr. Adams and Sullivan obtained their license and exchanged
marriage vows at a Unitarian church.

The Boulder marriages attracted national media attention. Rorex received obscene
phone calls and even a visit from a cowboy who protested by demanding to marry
his horse. (Rorex said she turned him down because the mare, 8 years old, was
under age.)

After their marriage, Mr. Adams and Sullivan filed a petition with the INS
seeking permanent residency for Sullivan as the spouse of a U.S. citizen. In
November 1975, they received the immigration agency's derogatory letter and
lodged a formal protest. Officials reissued the denial notice without the
derisive language.

Mr. Adams and Sullivan took the agency to court in 1979, challenging the
constitutionality of the denial. A federal district judge in Los Angeles upheld
the INS decision, and Mr. Adams and Sullivan lost subsequent appeals.

In a second lawsuit, the couple argued that Sullivan's deportation after an
eight-year relationship with Mr. Adams would constitute an "extreme hardship."
In 1985, a three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit
rejected the hardship argument and opened the way for Sullivan to be sent back
to Australia.

Because Australia had already turned down Mr. Adams's request for residency, the
couple decided the only way they could stay together was to leave the United
States. They flew to Britain in 1985 and drifted through Europe.

"It was the most difficult period because I had to leave my family as well as
give up my job of 181 / 2 years," Mr. Adams said in "Limited Partnership," a
documentary scheduled for release next year.

They ended their self-imposed exile after a year and lived quietly in Los
Angeles to avoid drawing the attention of immigration officials, but in recent
years they began to appear at rallies supporting same-sex marriage, Soloway
said.

They were encouraged by new guidelines issued by the Obama administration this
fall that instructed immigration officials to stop deporting foreigners in
long-standing same-sex relationships with U.S. citizens.

Although the policy change came more than three decades after Mr. Adams and
Sullivan raised the issue, it gave Mr. Adams "a sense of vindication," Soloway
said.

Mr. Adams, who was an administrator for a law firm until his retirement in 2010,
is survived by Sullivan; his mother; four sisters; and a brother.

- Los Angeles Times

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved
