
                               1 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 25, 2007 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Illegal Immigrants Targeted By States;
Impasse on Hill Spurs New Laws

BYLINE: Darryl Fears; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1173 words


Frustrated with Congress's inability to pass an immigration overhaul bill, state
legislatures are considering or enacting a record number of strongly worded
proposals targeting illegal immigrants.

By the time most legislatures adjourned in May, at least 1,100 immigration bills
had been submitted by lawmakers, more than double last year's record total,
according to the National Conference of State Legislatures. This year's total is
expected to grow as the issue continues to dominate debate in statehouses still
in session.

These laws limit illegal immigrants' ability to obtain jobs, find housing, get
driver's licenses and receive many government services. They also empower state
law enforcement agencies to inquire into an immigrant's legal status and hold
for deportation those deemed to be here illegally. The idea is to make life so
difficult for illegal immigrants that they will leave the state -- if not the
country.

"Illegal immigrants will not come to Oklahoma if there are no jobs waiting for
them," said state Rep. Randy Terrill (R), who wrote his state's law, one of the
most sweeping in the country. "They will not stay here if there are no
government subsidies, and they certainly will not stay here if they know that if
they come in contact with one of our officers, they will be physically detained
until they are deported."

At least 18 states have enacted laws concerning illegal immigrants. Most of the
legislation is seen as punitive, and it reflects legislators' anger at the
federal government's inability to seal the southern border and at provisions in
the Senate bill that would allow the 12 million illegal immigrants already here
a path to citizenship.

Those provisions have raised the prospect that the Senate bill will not get past
a series of procedural votes this week. After President Bush urged lawmakers to
"summon the political courage" to pass a bill, the Senate is expected to take up
the bipartisan legislation as early as Tuesday. A similar proposal was sidelined
two weeks ago, and many state legislators and other opponents are lobbying
against the new proposal.

Supporters of the Senate measure have added tougher enforcement provisions to
try to woo more lawmakers to their side. In the House, Speaker Nancy Pelosi
(D-Calif.) has yet to introduce immigration legislation. Her point person on the
issue, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), chairman of the Judiciary subcommittee on
immigration, continues to hold hearings in the hope of putting together a bill.

As the federal government ponders without taking action, many states are
increasingly frustrated at having to provide expensive services for illegal
immigrants. "The federal government has authority over who comes in this country
. . . but the people who are responsible for helping them integrate and
acclimate are state and local governments," Ann Morse, a policy analyst for the
National Conference of State Legislatures, said in a statement on the group's
Web site.

The Oklahoma Taxpayer and Citizen Protection Act, signed by Gov. Brad Henry (D)
last month, restricts illegal immigrants' access to all forms of official
identification, bars them from receiving public assistance and metes out stiff
fines to employers who hire them.

The law allows local officers to train with federal authorities so they can
apprehend illegal immigrants. It does not allow those immigrants to post bail,
calling them a flight risk. Anti-illegal-immigration groups such as the
Federation for American Immigration Reform say the law is a model for the
nation.

Similar measures are being considered in Nebraska and Idaho. In Michigan,
lawmakers considered stripping health and welfare benefits from undocumented
immigrants. An Arizona proposal would let police ask people they arrest about
their citizenship status and seize them if they cannot produce proper documents.

In January, the Virginia House of Delegates approved a far-reaching proposal to
strip charities and other organizations of state and local funding if any of the
money is used to provide services to immigrants who are in the country
illegally.

Before they adjourned, Maryland lawmakers defeated a proposal that would have
let illegal immigrants pay in-state college tuition. Lawmakers are still
considering a measure that would place a 5 percent surcharge on wire transfers
to Mexico.

"The view here in the hinterland is that Washington has abrogated its
responsibility to deal with this issue," said North Carolina Rep. Bill Faison
(D), who chairs the Agribusiness Committee.

Faison said North Carolina growers need immigrant workers in order to thrive,
but passing legislation friendly to illegal immigrants is difficult.

"There are a lot of people here who would like to take every immigrant here and
ship them home. But those same people are buying the houses that they build and
taking their services. It's a schizophrenic view," Faison said.

In Pennsylvania, Rep. Angel Cruz, a Democrat and the only Hispanic member of the
legislature, submitted a proposal calling on the state to study the lives of
immigrants, legal and illegal, "so that we can learn about their contributions
before we act," he said. The bill is scheduled for a vote next week.

He admitted that his proposal faces an uphill climb. It is competing with other
measures -- "so many, like seven," he said -- that go after employers who hire
illegal immigrants and deny the immigrants themselves benefits and other
services.

Republicans are pushing the bulk of the laws in most states, but a significant
number of Democrats have signed on, feeling pressure from public opinion. In
many states, the GOP has taken a strong stance against illegal immigration,
while several state Democratic Party officials declined to discuss the issue.

A spokesman for the Democratic Party of Oregon, whose members control the
legislature, said it has  not taken an official position; the North Carolina
Democratic Party made a similar comment.

By contrast, the Republican Party in Oregon, where a House bill would prohibit
the state from hiring undocumented workers, said its core supporters are upset
by the U.S. Senate bill. "We don't support amnesty," said spokesman Shawn
Cleave, echoing the position of the North Carolina Republican Party, which
proudly said it broke with Bush on the issue.

Arizona Rep. Russell Pearce (R) said Bush's support of the guest-worker
provision in the Senate bill "made me sick." He called it "a sellout of America"
and said: "I'm more than frustrated. I will do everything I can to unelect folks
who sell out America."

Not all conservative lawmakers are so strident on immigration. Missouri Sen.
Chris Koster, a Republican, said that when he tried to push a law through the
GOP-controlled chamber that would force employers to verify the status of
workers, his colleagues defeated it handily, expressing concern about its impact
on business.

Koster said he will try again in the next session. "This is a response to 20
years of inaction by the federal government," he said. "I think more and more
states are fed up."

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 25, 2007 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Bill Would Link Funds, Verification by Localities

BYLINE: Sandhya Somashekhar; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 555 words


A delegate from Prince William County said this week that he will introduce a
bill that would cut off state funding to local governments that fail to check
the immigration status of residents who get public assistance.

Del. Jeffrey M. Frederick (R) said the legislation would toughen a 2005 Virginia
law that forbids local governments to provide some social services to illegal
immigrants. He plans to call for every county, city and town to prove its
compliance with the law by adopting policies similar to those proposed in Prince
William and Loudoun County, which voted this summer to deny services to illegal
immigrants and step up law enforcement efforts against them.

Those who don't comply should lose all their state funding, including allotments
for transportation and economic development, he said.

"Illegal aliens should not have a sanctuary in the commonwealth of Virginia,"
said Frederick, whose mother is from Colombia and who says he is the first
Latino elected to state office in Virginia. "We don't need to provide them with
an incentive to cut the line and break the rules."

The legislation is aimed primarily at such counties as Arlington and Fairfax,
where officials have said they would prefer to leave immigration enforcement to
federal authorities. Leaders in both counties also have said they do not support
increasing cooperation between local police and immigration authorities for fear
that even legal immigrants will be afraid to report crimes and help with
investigations.

Frederick's effort heightens the tensions prompted recently over the differing
approaches to what has become a key local issue. Last week, Corey A. Stewart
(R-At Large), Prince William Board of County Supervisors chairman, publicly
denounced his Fairfax counterpart for declining to participate in a training
program that allows police officers to gain access to federal immigration
databases and quickly deport criminals.

Gerald E. Connolly, chairman of the Fairfax Board of Supervisors, accused
Stewart this week of "political posturing." In an interview on WMAL radio,
Connolly (D) said many of the county's social and housing programs require proof
of legal status. However, he has said his approach has been to deal with the
complaints often associated with illegal immigration, such as gangs and
residential crowding, not illegal immigration itself.

"We are trying to focus on the nature of the problem in the neighborhood rather
than on status because that's not our mission," he said in a separate interview
with The Washington Post last month. "That's a federal mission. We've got our
hands full at the local level."

Connolly did not return phone calls yesterday afternoon.

In his announcement Thursday, Frederick was harshest about Arlington, accusing
the county government of knowingly providing housing subsidies to illegal
immigrants. Arlington Board Chairman Paul Ferguson (D) denied the charge. He
said the county does not actively seek information about residents' immigration
status unless required by law.

That's not proactive enough, said Stewart, who praised Frederick. "I think that
most counties are very happy to participate and try to crack down on illegal
immigration," Stewart said. "But there are a couple of laggards, and if [a new
state law is] required to protect the residents of Northern Virginia, so be it."

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 15, 2007 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

States' Immigrant Policies Diverge;
In Differences, Some See Obstacles For a National Law

BYLINE: Anthony Faiola; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1515 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


In New York, state officials are about to offer driver's licenses to illegal
immigrants and already have extended limited medical coverage to those battling
cancer. In Illinois, the state legislature just passed a law forbidding
businesses there from using a federal database to check the legal status of
employees.

Oklahoma, meanwhile, recently passed some of the toughest immigration laws in
the nation, including one making it a felony to "transport" or "harbor" an
illegal immigrant -- leading some to fear that people such as school bus drivers
and church pastors may be at risk of doing time. Tennessee's legislature this
year revoked laws granting illegal immigrants "driving certificates" and voted
to allow law enforcement officers to effectively act as a state immigration
police.

As the Bush administration and Congress sit gridlocked on an immigration
overhaul, states are jumping into the debate as never before. In the process,
they are creating a national patchwork of incongruous immigration laws that some
observers fear will make it far more difficult to enact any comprehensive,
federally mandated bill down the line.

The number of states passing immigration-related bills has skyrocketed this
year. No fewer than 1,404 pieces of immigration-related legislation were
introduced in legislatures during the first half of 2007, with 182 bills
becoming law in 43 states. That is more than double the number of
immigration-related state laws enacted during all of 2006, according to the
National Conference of State Legislatures.

Some observers are alarmed by the trend, calling the widely divergent laws
further evidence of America's cultural divide and saying they could pose new
hurdles in reaching a national consensus on immigration. Piecemeal policymaking
is opening the door to a flurry of legal battles -- the Department of Homeland
Security, for instance, is suing Illinois for banning businesses there from
confirming an employee's legal status through the federal E-Verify database,
which state officials have called flawed and unreliable.

Others argue that the inability to reach a national solution has left states no
choice. Governors are grappling with cities and towns that, in the absence of a
national or state policy, have taken it upon themselves to pass local
immigration laws either protecting or cracking down on illegal immigrants. This
has occasionally lead to radically different regulations within individual
states.

Still others assert that the rush of state activism has created an unforeseen
opportunity. By viewing states as laboratories and studying the successes and
failures of their various policies, Americans may find useful information, even
a road map, for developing a national strategy.

Perhaps the most compelling current example is Oklahoma, where a package of
tough new laws will not only make it a crime to transport or harbor illegal
immigrants, but will also strip such immigrants of any right to receive most
health care, welfare, scholarships or other government assistance; penalize
employers who hire illegal workers; and force businesses to verify the legal
status of new hires.

That "comports with my philosophy that illegal aliens will not come to Oklahoma
or any other state if there are no jobs waiting for them," said Randy Terrill, a
Republican state legislator and the author of the bill. "They will not stay here
if they know they will get no taxpayer subsidy, and they will not stay here if
they know if they ever come into contact with one of our fine law enforcement
officers, they will stay in custody until they are physically deported."

Hispanic business groups, citing school enrollment losses and church parish
figures, say the laws, which start going into effect later this year, have
caused as many as 25,000 undocumented workers to flee the state in recent
months. The loss is being decried by the Oklahoma State Home Builders
Association.

"In major metro areas we are seeing people leave based on the perception that
things are going to get bad for them and that this state doesn't want them
here," said Mike Means, executive vice president of the association. "Now we're
looking at a labor shortage. I've got builders who are being forced to slow down
jobs because they don't have the crews. And it's not like these people are going
back to Mexico. They're going to Texas, New Mexico, Kansas, Arkansas, anywhere
where the laws aren't against them."

Means said that while construction wages haven't yet gone up in Oklahoma, they
are likely to do so if the shortage worsens. Advocates of such laws say that is
precisely how strict regulations on illegal immigration can help American
workers -- by forcing wages higher. But construction industry leaders counter
that a wage increase in Oklahoma, where builders are already paying $15 to $20
an hour for labor in a state with low unemployment, would lead to a net loss of
jobs as some businesses are forced to close, particularly if other states allow
less stringent hiring practices.

"This is what happens when you don't have a national policy," Means continued.
"If I'm an Oklahoma builder on the border with Texas, you're going to face
unfair competition because they don't have the laws we do. This needs to be
standardized."

While local governments have been enacting a growing number of pro- and
anti-immigration ordinances, states, with notable exceptions such as California,
have until recently been more cautious. Experts say that is partly because
achieving consensus on a state level is far harder than in smaller communities,
but also because many states have awaited guidance from the federal government.

But as state officials have concluded that they can no longer afford not to act,
they are often finding that doing so is an invitation for discord.

That is particularly true in New York, where Gov. Eliot L. Spitzer (D), the
former attorney general who championed labor rights for immigrants, touched off
a firestorm after announcing last month that he was reversing pre-Sept. 11 rules
that had made it virtually impossible for illegal immigrants in the state to
obtain a driver's license.

"The federal government has failed to establish a coherent or rational policy,
and as a consequence, we are left to deal with this on a state level," Spitzer
said in an interview with The Washington Post last week. "We're left dealing
with the reality of up to 1 million [illegal] immigrants in New York. . . . I
would prefer to have [them] carrying a legitimate form of identification, a
driver's license that allows them to get insurance, allows our law enforcement
to track their driving records and brings these drivers out of the shadows."

The ruckus over the policy change has been particularly heated because several
of the Sept. 11, 2001, hijackers used illegally obtained driver's licenses as
identification when renting vehicles or boarding flights. Spitzer argues that
his plan will make it harder to get a license illegally, by requiring new
electronic equipment in motor vehicles offices across New York to verify foreign
passports and other documents used to obtain a license.

But many here counter that no matter what equipment is used, granting driver's
licenses with a foreign passport as a primary proof of identity constitutes a
significant security threat. Still others argue against the notion that illegal
immigrants should be awarded any kind of government-issued identification.

Opposition is so fierce, particularly among state Republicans, that a handful of
county clerks have publicly rebelled. Several have said they will instruct their
driver's license offices -- many of which are staffed by county, not state,
employees -- to disregard the new guidelines. And the Monroe County government,
near Rochester, has gone as far as voting to continue making a valid Social
Security number a requirement for a driver's license, setting up a potential
legal showdown with the state.

"The government is trying to bring them into the fold, but how can you extend a
privilege to drive legally in the United States to someone who is here
illegally?" asked Frank J. Merola, the Republican clerk of Rensselaer County,
near the state capital, Albany. "I'm not saying, 'Let's go out there and round
them up,' but I am saying that it's wrong to reward them for breaking the law."

Not surprisingly, the plan, to go into effect in phases within eight months, is
being hailed by New York's thriving immigrant community. A 33-year-old Manhattan
lounge singer who would provide only his first name, Amilcar, because he arrived
in the United States illegally from Mexico, said he has had to turn down
numerous offers for work in New Jersey and elsewhere because he could not drive
himself and was unable to afford the cost of transporting his equipment.

"But this is going to open new doors for me now," he said excitedly, noting that
he has already made plans to buy a car. "I feel like having a driver's license
is a going to be a great new freedom. It's why I came to America in the first
place."

Staff writer Robin Shulman in New York contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Associated Press; State Rep. Randy Terrill wrote strict new laws
for illegal immigrants in Oklahoma. "Illegal aliens will not come to Oklahoma .
. . if there are no jobs waiting for them," he said.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 23, 2007 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Met 2 Edition

The Dividing Line on Illegal Immigrants;
Fairfax's Connolly Scorns Crackdown; Baise Open to Police Action

BYLINE: Bill Turque; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 936 words


Fairfax County Board of Supervisors Chairman Gerald E. Connolly (D) said
yesterday that under no circumstances would he follow the lead of Prince William
County and push for legislation to cut off services to illegal immigrants or
authorize police to check the immigration status of suspects, measures he
described as election season demagoguery.

"I can just tell you Fairfax County is not going to go the route of some of our
neighbors," Connolly, who is seeking a second term as chairman Nov. 6, said
during a meeting with Washington Post reporters and editors. "We're not going to
demagogue. We're not going to essentially roll back the welcome mat. . . .
That's not why I ran for office and that isn't who we are, and we're not going
to do that."

Connolly's Republican challenger, Gary H. Baise, said at the joint meeting that
if elected he would push to enroll Fairfax police in a program run by the U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency that gives selected officers instant
access to federal immigration data.

Fairfax Sheriff Stan G. Barry announced this month that his deputies will enter
the federal immigration program to screen suspects already in custody. The
Prince William Board of County Supervisors voted last week to allow police to
check the immigration status of someone during a routine traffic stop if there
is probable cause to believe that person is an illegal resident.

"We do need to look very carefully at expanding the 287 (g) program," said
Baise, referring to a section of the Immigration and Nationality Act.

Connolly cautioned that such an expansion would drive a dangerous wedge between
police and immigrants -- making them reluctant to cooperate with investigations
-- and heighten the danger of racial profiling by officers. He said Fairfax
Police Chief David M. Rohrer would be reluctant to involve his officers.

"We need their cooperation for public safety and health," Connolly said of
immigrants.

Connolly declined to specify who he believed was exploiting the illegal
immigration issue for political gain. But it seemed clear he was referring to
Prince William Board Chairman Corey A. Stewart (R), who has made the
illegal-immigrant crackdown a centerpiece of his reelection campaign. Stewart
has frequently accused the Fairfax board of being lax on the immigration issue.

Baise, who has taken an understated approach to the issue in his own campaign,
defended Stewart.

"I don't think Corey Stewart is demagoguing the issue," he said. "Corey Stewart
is trying to act responsibly and trying to figure out what is the situation in
Prince William County."

Connolly said the county's approach would not change despite Fairfax County
Executive Anthony H. Griffin's announcement last week that his staff will study
which services can and cannot be denied to illegal immigrants. This mirrors
initial actions taken by Loudoun and Prince William.

Connolly said that Griffin undertook the study expressly at the request of
Supervisor Michael R. Frey (R-Sully) and that it would have no impact on the
current policy of policing illegal behavior -- in the form of residential
overcrowding or other violations -- instead of determining immigration status.

The two candidates also debated the value of mass transit, with Baise repeating
his contention that the Connolly-led board has not done enough to alleviate
traffic congestion, in particular failing to use its full capacity to sell
revenue bonds to fund road and intersection improvements. Nor has the county
been aggressive, Baise said, in extracting transportation "proffers,"  or cash
or in-kind contributions of land from developers,  to pay for roads.

Connolly said state law limits the county in what it can require from builders.
Previous attempts by a Virginia county to impose an "adequate public facilities"
requirement on developers did not survive a court challenge.

Connolly also criticized Baise for relying on "The Road More Traveled," a book
he described as a "right-wing screed" against mass transit, as the basis for
some of his transportation positions. The book, written by two scholars of the
Reason Foundation, a nonprofit group dedicated to free markets and limited
government, emphasizes adding lanes to existing roads, eliminating parking
subsidies and increasing the efficiency of traffic signals to check congestion.

Connolly said big, new road projects are not practical because available land in
the county is scarce. "Where, pray tell, are we going to do that?" he asked.
"The middle of Reston?"

Both were vague on the issue of growth in Tysons Corner, where a land-use task
force has been deliberating on the density of future development along the
planned rail extension to Dulles International Airport.

Baise said that additional density was likely but wasn't sure how much was
appropriate. Connolly promised that whatever the increase, it would create
urban-size density in Tysons.

Baise, a Falls Church trial lawyer running his first race for elective office,
seemed at times uncertain about or unfamiliar with certain basic aspects of
county government, at one point confusing sales and income taxes.

The meeting continued the string of largely civil exchanges between the two
contenders, who during about two-dozen joint appearances have honed a certain
good-humored camaraderie.

Baise praised Connolly's leadership, saying that he "represents the best of the
good old tax-and-spend liberal." At which point he gave Connolly a brotherly pat
on the back and added: "Now don't have a heart attack."

Connolly praised Baise for a "civil civic debate and dialogue."

Staff writer Amy Gardner contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

CORRECTION-DATE: October 24, 2007



CORRECTION: Â· An Oct. 23 Page One article about a joint meeting between Gerald
E. Connolly (D) and Gary H. Baise (R), candidates for chairman of the Fairfax
County Board of Supervisors, incorrectly reported a statement by Connolly, the
incumbent. Connolly said Tysons Corner would not have urban-size density in the
future.

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Susan Biddle -- The Washington Post; Fairfax County Board of
Supervisors Chairman Gerald E. Connolly, left, and challenger Gary H. Baise
debate the proper approaches to illegal immigration and transportation, among
other topics, at a meeting of Washington Post reporters and editors.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 16, 2007 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Latino Groups Play Key Role on Hill;
Virtual Veto Power in Immigration Debate

BYLINE: Krissah Williams and Jonathan Weisman; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 855 words


When Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) declared last week that unnamed
"stakeholders" would decide whether Congress overhauls immigration law this
year, Latino organizations in Washington understood exactly what he meant.

After laboring in obscurity for decades, groups such as the National Council of
La Raza, the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, and the
National Immigration Forum are virtually being granted veto power over perhaps
the biggest domestic issue coming before Congress this year. Organizations that
represent what is now the nation's largest minority group are beginning to
achieve power commensurate with their numbers.

"There's a real sense that the Latino community is key to the solution in this
debate, so now they are reaching out to us more than ever," said Eric Gutierrez,
lead lobbyist for the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, or
MALDEF. "Neither party wants to make a misstep politically."

Such groups were practically in the room yesterday, maintaining contact as
Democratic and Republican senators tried to hammer out a new immigration bill
before a deadline set by Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.) for today
before he moved it last night to Monday. The contours began to emerge for a bill
that would couple a tightening of border controls with a guest-worker program
and new avenues for an estimated 12 million undocumented workers to work
legally.

Negotiators agreed yesterday that illegal immigrants would be granted a new Z
Visa, allowing legal residency for eight years. During that time, the head of an
undocumented household would have to temporarily go back to the home country to
apply for permanent U.S. legal status for his or her family. Holders of Z Visas
would then have to pay a fine and back taxes, undergo a criminal background
check, and begin to work toward citizenship.

But Republicans and Democrats were still trying to bridge a deep divide over two
remaining issues: Whether 400,000 foreigners entering the country as temporary
workers would have to leave the country after three years or be granted a chance
to stay permanently, and how extended family ties should be weighed in granting
visas to those seeking to enter the country.

A deal on those tough issues could depend on the assent of Kennedy's
"stakeholders," Democratic negotiators agreed. Democratic leaders, who are
fighting for the loyalty of the fast-growing Latino electorate, have no desire
to embrace legislation that could end up alienating the voters they are trying
to woo.

The early word from the groups is not promising.

"Some of the proposals that are coming from the negotiations in the Senate and
White House are measures that the immigrant community advocates are wholly
against, particularly the elimination of some aspects of family reunification,"
said William Ramos, a spokesman for the National Association of Latino Elected
and Appointed Officials.

The groups also oppose a policy that would force immigrants to return to their
home countries for an extended period and to petition for reentry.

Latino organizations know well that they have muscle to flex. A bill passed by
the House last year that would have made illegal immigration a felony drove
millions of Latinos into the streets in cities across the country last spring.

When the current immigration law was written 21 years ago, the League of United
Latin American Citizens, or LULAC, tacitly approved the legislation, even though
it provided no direct path to citizenship for most temporary workers. But the
Latino community was much smaller then, and illegal immigration was a regional
issue, confined mostly to California, Texas and New York.

Today, U.S. citizens of Latino descent, having eclipsed African Americans as the
nation's largest minority, are far more organized and politically active. "We're
not going to let them screw it up," said Brent A. Wilkes, LULAC's national
executive director.

LULAC, MALDEF, La Raza and the National Immigration Forum are part of a broad
network of immigrant rights groups that hold nightly conference calls and
strategy sessions on the legislation. The groups speak daily with top aides in
Reid's and Kennedy's offices.

The White House, well aware that immigration may offer President Bush his last
best chance at a major domestic achievement for his second term, has worked hard
to keep the groups on board, even as Bush has shifted to the right with a new
plan that is tougher than the proposals he embraced last year.

The White House held a meeting 2 1/2  weeks ago with Latino advocates, labor
unions and civil rights organizations in which an adviser outlined an
administration's policy based on increased border security and a
temporary-worker program. Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff and
Commerce Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez have also met with some of the groups.

"At least they are paying attention to us," said MALDEF President John Trasvi?a.

The groups have also made it clear to Republicans that they are willing to press
hard this year.

"Power is not handed over. To get your place at the table, you have to fight for
it," Wilkes said.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Mario Tama -- Getty Images; Fidelina Cortez of Mexico joins a
rally on immigration outside the New York office of Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 17, 2007 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigration Overhaul Is Closer to Senate Floor;
Proposal Would Offer Route to Legal Status, Shift Preferences to Skilled Workers

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 743 words


Senate negotiators reached a tentative agreement yesterday on a broad overhaul
of the nation's immigration laws that would offer virtually all of the nation's
12 million undocumented workers a route to legal status while shifting migration
preferences away from the extended families of citizens toward more skilled and
educated workers.

Under the tentative deal, undocumented workers who crossed into the country
before Jan. 1 would be offered a temporary-residency permit while they await a
new "Z Visa" that would allow them to live and work lawfully here. The head of
an illegal-immigrant household would have eight years to return to his or her
home country to apply for permanent legal residence for members of the
household, but each Z Visa itself would be renewable indefinitely, as long as
the holder passes a criminal background check, remains fully employed and pays a
$5,000 fine, plus a paperwork-processing fee.

A separate, temporary-worker program would be established for 400,000 migrants a
year. Each temporary work visa would be good for two years and could be renewed
up to three times, as long as the worker leaves the country for a year between
renewals.

To satisfy Republicans, those provisions would come in force only after the
federal government implements tough new border controls and a crackdown on
employers that hire illegal immigrants. Republicans are demanding 18,000 new
Border Patrol agents, 370 miles of additional border fencing and an effective,
electronic employee-verification system for the workplace.

"This is not the architecture of an immigration bill that I would have initially
liked to see," conceded Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (Mass.), the Democrats' chief
negotiator, "but we're not dealing with that. This is a legislative process."

The agreement would effectively bring an immigration overhaul to the Senate
floor next week, but its passage is far from assured. The framework has the
support of the White House and the chief negotiators, Kennedy and Sen. Jon Kyl
(R-Ariz.). But immigration rights groups and some key Senate Democrats remain
leery, especially of changing a preference system that has favored family
members for more than 40 years.

"When they say, 'We're all in agreement, we have a deal,' certainly I don't feel
that way," said Sen. Robert Menendez (D-N.J.).

Since 1965, migrants have needed a sponsor in the United States, meaning that
virtually all immigrants have had family members or employers already here. The
new proposal would augment that system with a merit-based program that would
award points based on education levels, work experience and English proficiency,
as well as family ties. Automatic family unifications would remain but would be
limited to spouses and children under 21. The adult children and siblings of
U.S. residents would probably need other credentials, such as skills and
education, to qualify for an immigrant visa. A number of unskilled parents would
be allowed in, but that flow would be capped.

To Republicans, the new system would make the nation more economically
competitive while opening access to a wider array of migrants. "I think you'll
find the point system to be pretty well balanced," said Sen. Arlen Specter
(Pa.).

But to immigration groups, the proposal is a radical break from existing U.S.
law, and without changes, they could withhold their support from the final bill.

"We want to see an immigration reform debate on the Senate floor. We want to see
this move forward. But we are wildly uncomfortable with a lot of what we're
hearing," said Cecilia Mu?oz, chief lobbyist for the National Council of La
Raza.

The other hurdle will come from the temporary-worker program. The immigration
bill that passed the Senate last year with bipartisan support would have allowed
laborers entering the country as temporary workers to stay and work toward
citizenship. But Republicans said this year that they could support such a
program only if the workers would be truly temporary.

Immigration groups say such a program would only spur a new wave of illegal
migration, as temporary workers go underground once their work permits expire.
Perhaps more importantly, two powerful service unions -- the Service Employees
International Union and Unite Here -- have threatened to pull their support from
any immigration bill that would not give temporary workers a way to remain in
the country, fearing that a truly temporary program would drive down wages for
low-skill work.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; The tentative deal was negotiated by Sens. Edward M. Kennedy
(D-Mass.), left, and Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.).
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 3, 2007 Sunday
                                 Met 1 Edition

Employers Oppose Hiring Provisions in Immigration Bill

BYLINE: Krissah Williams; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 717 words


As Congress reconvenes this week, businesses and their lobbyists are gearing up
to fight a series of proposed changes to immigration law that they say will
complicate hiring.

Their target is Senate legislation that would legalize an estimated 12 million
undocumented immigrants but also significantly change employment law. Among
employers' top concerns is a provision imposing criminal liability for employers
if their subcontractors hire illegal workers. The legislation would also
increase civil penalties for employers caught hiring illegal workers.

The maximum criminal penalty for a pattern of hiring illegal workers would
increase to $75,000 per illegal worker from $3,000.

Under the bill, a business might have to vet the employment files of its
subcontractors, which lawyers said would be an onerous task.

"They are not your people, [and] it is much more difficult to ensure there are
controls in place at another company," said Daniel Brown, a lawyer at Paul
Hastings in the District and a former general counsel for the Department of
Homeland Security. "That's a huge burden on a huge number of employers."

Businesses say the legislation, which senators are to resume debating this week,
could result in a hiring nightmare because of a provision calling for an
expansion of a sometimes faulty worker database.

"We've got grave concerns," said Susan R. Meisinger, chief executive of the
Society for Human Resource Management, which has 200,000 members.

The bill would require that the nation's 7.5 million businesses begin within 18
months to use a screening system run by the Department of Homeland Security
called Basic Pilot to vet new hires. Within three years, businesses would have
to verify every worker.

The businesses, working under an umbrella organization called the HR Initiative
for a Legal Workforce, have run advertisements in Capitol Hill publications
decrying the federal database. They have also been making the rounds of
congressional offices, hoping to sway legislators and find a champion for their
cause.

The database question is a "huge sleeper issue," said Heath Weems, director of
education and workforce policy for the National Association of Manufacturers.
Employers like to point out that meatpacker Swift & Co. was voluntarily using
the Basic Pilot screening program when a Department of Homeland Security raid
last year discovered that hundreds of workers were illegal. Employers have
complained that Basic Pilot's data is often out of date, particularly when
people have changed their names or immigration status. If the database doesn't
recognize the new name, the employee cannot be legally hired.

The White House and the senators who are shepherding the immigration legislation
have said tougher employment verification requirements are essential to stem
illegal immigration. The Bush administration released a statement last week
saying that Basic Pilot will be up to speed for the task and that it verifies 92
percent of workers as eligible for employment within three seconds. It flags
potential problems with the others at the same speed.

Business groups are also battling provisions that restrict their ability to hire
foreign workers. Employers of skilled workers worry that changes to the visa
distribution program proposed by the bill would limit their ability to recruit
internationally. They also say the legislation does not substantially increase
visas available to skilled workers under existing law.

Robert Hoffman, the top lobbyist at Oracle, plans to send a letter to every
senator on Monday asking for support of an amendment by Sens. Maria Cantwell
(D-Wash.) and John Cornyn (R-Tex.). The amendment would remove restrictions that
force employers to recruit foreign workers only from a government-approved pool
and exempt from visa limits foreigners who have earned advanced degrees in the
United States.

Employers of unskilled workers approve of the Senate's proposal to give the
nation's 12 million illegal workers employment papers but say a guest-worker
program that offers business 200,000 visas to fill specific holes in the U.S.
economy is too small.

"If there is no economic rationale for the number, then people will continue to
come illegally," said Craig Silvertooth, director of federal affairs at the
National Roofing Contractors Association.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 11, 2007 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

In Texas, Frustration Over Senate Impasse;
Collapse of Immigration Bill Concerns Region That Relies on Foreign Workers

BYLINE: Sylvia Moreno; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FOREIGN; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 847 words

DATELINE: WESLACO, Tex.


On the front line of securing the nation's borders, the day after the collapse
of a major overhaul of the nation's immigration laws was business as usual --
but better.

For the first time in four years, this  Border Patrol station near the southern
tip of Texas had an infusion of agents. Eleven freshly graduated officers from
the agency's training academy had arrived as the U.S. Senate, 1,800 miles away,
debated the immigration bill that ultimately stalled. The new agents were the
first of 100 allocated to this station, just north of the Rio Grande. They are
one small -- but to this outpost, key -- piece of the Bush administration's
multiyear plan to hire 6,000 new patrol agents, tighten border security and step
up enforcement against illegal immigration.

"This is absolutely good news for us," said Patrol Agent in Charge J.R.
Villarreal, as he watched the rookies take apart and clean M4 rifles. As for the
comprehensive immigration legislation:

"That's a mess; that's politics," he said.

"You're talking to somebody who heard Ronald Reagan talk about immigration
reform when I was starting as a young buck," said Villarreal, 43, who began his
career in 1986, the year Congress passed the Immigration Reform and Control Act,
which granted amnesty to some 3 million illegal immigrants, created sanctions
for employers who hired undocumented workers, established a temporary visa
program for agricultural workers and provided funding  for more border agents.

"They were going to clear the clutter to allow the agents to have more time to
patrol the border. The border was going to be more secure, and we weren't going
to be as tied up dealing with illegal aliens," he said. "I'm just glad to have
more manpower. The rest takes time."

The bipartisan Senate measure that stalled late last week would have, once
again, tightened border security, cracked down on the hiring of illegal
immigrants and provided a  path for such immigrants to stay and work legally in
the United States. The legislation died when the Senate voted to end a new
guest-worker program after five years.

The bill, and in particular the proposal for the guest-worker program, were
watched closely by South Texans. Many of them  are worried about labor shortages
in the service industry and in the region's multibillion-dollar produce
industry.

"If we cannot get labor in this country because Congress is incapable of passing
intelligent legislation, some people will struggle along, some will go out of
business, and many will move production to Mexico," said Texas Produce
Association President John McClung of Alamo, in South Texas.

Already, 50 percent of Texas fruit and vegetable distributors contract with
Mexican farmers across the border to plant and harvest produce that is then
shipped across the United States, he said.

"People have to understand that a significant amount of fruits and vegetables is
going to be planted and tended and harvested by Mexicans," McClung said. "The
question is only what side of the border is that going to happen on."

J Allen Carnes, whose family has farmed fruit and vegetables on 3,000 acres for
more than half a century in Uvalde, in southwest Texas, said the company has
traditionally depended on Mexican fieldworkers with various forms of legal work
visas.

But recent security crackdowns have made it more difficult for those workers to
cross the border or travel within the region. And fewer migrant workers from
South Texas are coming up, for fear of immigration enforcement raids, Carnes
said.

Last year the Carnes farm had to leave produce unpicked in the field for the
first time because of a 20 to 30 percent shortage of farmhands. This year, the
labor shortage is  40 to  50 percent, Carnes said.

"Everybody would agree we have a problem with illegal immigration," he said.
"There are 12 million illegals, employers that need employees, law enforcement
agencies screaming for help -- but still the political posturing back and
forth."

The bill's collapse in the Senate "was pretty disheartening," Carnes said. "This
country has a real problem when it can't fix its problem."

The Texas Border Coalition, created by government and business officials  from
El Paso to Brownsville (with 1,200 miles of border in between), has also been
lobbying for a guest-worker program, a path to legalization for undocumented
immigrants, and more personnel and technology at ports of entry to make the
crossing process for legal immigrants more efficient.

"An enforcement-only policy just doesn't work," said Eddie Aldrete, a senior
vice president of International Bank of Commerce in San Antonio and vice
chairman of the border coalition.

"The biggest issue in a post-9/11 world has been a rush to seal the borders and
close off this country. But you can't have homeland security without economic
security," Aldrete said. "You have to also protect the ability to grow. The
issue is having enough visas for the amount of workers that we need. By doing
that, you take the pressure off the Border Patrol. A fence and militarizing the
border is only dealing with the symptom to the problem."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photos By Sylvia Moreno -- The Washington Post; New Border
Patrol agents clean their rifles at the Weslaco, Tex., station. They are part of
the federal plan to hire 6,000 new agents and tighten border security.
IMAGE; J.R. Villarreal, the patrol agent in charge in Weslaco, welcomed the new
officers. They were the first additions to the station's force in four years.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 1, 2007 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Immigration Implosion

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. F03

LENGTH: 554 words

Immigration Implosion

The collapse of Congress's attempt to overhaul the nation's immigration laws
dealt a political defeat to the White House and a financial blow to businesses
hoping to hire more foreign workers.

The bill would have boosted the number of visas granted to skilled workers and
created a guest-worker program for low-skilled workers -- features sought by
employers in both the high-technology and agriculture industries.

The legislation also would have tightened border security and created a path to
citizenship for an estimated 12 million illegal immigrants already here. But it
was opposed by foes of illegal immigration, labor unions and civil rights
groups.

Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said his department would continue
conducting raids on employers suspected of hiring illegal immigrants.

And Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.) warned of a growing legal nightmare for both
immigrants and employers as states and local governments adopt their own
measures aimed at curbing illegal immigration.

China Inc. Stumbles

The Food and Drug Administration last week barred the import of five types of
farm-raised fish and shrimp from China that contain potentially harmful drugs.

The order follows several months of concerns over food and drug imports from
China that emerged after numerous pet deaths resulting from tainted pet food.

The latest food scare came after a New Jersey tire importer's announcement that
it would comply with a government order to recall all 450,000 potentially
defective Chinese-made tires the company had sold to distributors. Some of the
tires had lost their treads on the road.

That followed other recalls of Chinese-made toy trains covered with lead paint
and Chinese-made toothpaste containing chemicals used in antifreeze. The FDA has
blocked the import from China of several types of food, including mushrooms,
plums and scallops.

Lawmakers on Capitol Hill responded by criticizing China's production standards.
"There is no question that too many Chinese manufacturers and food producers put
the bottom line ahead of safety," Sen. Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) said in a
statement. "We need stricter standards, more thorough inspections and harsher
penalties for Chinese companies and American shippers that turn a blind eye to
safety."

Consumer groups added that Congress should give the FDA more resources and
authority to prevent such problems from arising.

Ch?vez Reshuffles the Oil Deck

Venezuela President Hugo Ch?vez's drive to nationalize his country's natural
resources pushed U.S. oil producers Exxon Mobil and ConocoPhillips out of the
South American country Tuesday.

The two energy giants walked away from their multimillion-dollar investments in
Venezuela rather than agree to sign over majority stakes in the project to a
state oil company.

Four other oil companies had signed deals to significantly reduce their stakes
in other projects.

Meanwhile, China Petrochemical, that nation's second-largest oil producer, is
talking to the Venezuelan government about drilling in the region left by Exxon
Mobil and ConocoPhillips.

The uncertainty about energy supplies added to jitters in the oil markets over
rising gasoline demand during the summer driving season. The price of crude oil
closed Friday at $70.68 a barrel, after climbing as high as $71.06 earlier in
the day.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 6, 2007 Monday
                                Regional Edition

A Less Ambitious Approach to Immigration

BYLINE: Arlen Specter

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 554 words


The charge of amnesty defeated comprehensive immigration reform in the Senate
this summer. It is too important, and there has been too much legislative
investment, not to try again. The time to do so is now.

Certainly the government should implement the provisions it has already enacted
to improve border security and crack down on employers who knowingly hire
illegal immigrants. But the important additions on those subjects contained in
the bill defeated in June will not be enacted without also dealing with the 12
million-plus undocumented immigrants and the guest worker program.

So let's take a fresh look and try a narrower approach.

There is a consensus in Congress on most objectives and many remedies for
immigration reform: more border patrols, additional fencing, drones and some
form of a guest worker program. Modern technological advances provide foolproof
identification so employers can -- justifiably -- be severely sanctioned if they
don't verify IDs and act to eliminate the magnet attracting illegals to
penetrate the border. Yet Congress is unlikely to appropriate $3 billion for
border security without dealing simultaneously with the illegal immigrants
already here.

The main objective in legalizing the 12 million was to eliminate their fugitive
status, allowing them to live in the United States without fear of being
detected and deported or being abused by unscrupulous employers. We should
consider a revised status for those 12 million people. Let them hold the status
of those with green cards -- without the automatic path to citizenship that was
the core component of critics' argument that reform efforts were really amnesty.
Give these people the company of their spouses and minor children and consider
other indicators of citizenship short of the right to vote (which was always the
dealbreaker).

This approach may be attacked as creating an "underclass" inconsistent with
American values, which have always been to give refuge to the "huddled masses."
But such a compromise is clearly better than leaving these people a fugitive
class. People with a lesser status are frequently referred to as second-class
citizens. Congress has adamantly refused to make the 12 million people already
here full citizens, but isn't it better for them to at least be secure aliens
than hunted and exploited?

Giving these people green-card status leaves open the opportunity for them to
return to their native lands and seek citizenship through regular channels. Or,
after our borders are secured and tough employer sanctions have been put in
place, Congress can revisit the issue and possibly find a more hospitable
America.

Some of the other refinements of the defeated bill can await another day and the
regular process of Judiciary Committee hearings and markups. Changing the law on
family unification with a point system can also be considered later. Now,
perhaps, we could add green cards for highly skilled workers and tinker at the
edges of immigration law, providing we don't get bogged down in endless debate
and defeated cloture motions.

It would be refreshing if Congress, and the country, could come together in a
bipartisan way to at least partially solve one of the big domestic issues of the
day.

The writer, a senator from Pennsylvania, is the ranking Republican on the Senate
Judiciary Committee.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 11, 2007 Saturday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Bush Moves To Step Up Immigration Enforcement

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1129 words


A month after immigration restructuring failed in Congress, the Bush
administration yesterday mapped a broad campaign to tighten border security and
to pressure employers to fire illegal immigrant workers.

The 26 measures -- most of which continue or expand on current policies --
include raising fines for knowingly hiring illegal workers, streamlining current
guest-worker programs, bolstering an electronic system employers can use to
verify workers' legal status, and adding 370 miles of border fencing, 300 miles
of vehicle barriers and 1,700 Border Patrol agents.

"These reforms represent steps my administration can take within the boundaries
of existing law," President Bush said in a statement released shortly after
Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff and Commerce Secretary Carlos M.
Gutierrez presented the plan at a news conference. "Although the Congress has
not addressed our broken immigration system by passing comprehensive reform
legislation, my administration will continue to take every possible step to
build upon the progress already made in strengthening our borders, enforcing our
worksite laws, keeping our economy well-supplied with vital workers, and helping
new Americans learn English."

Republicans offered a mixed reaction to the move -- just as they had to the
failed legislation.

"It's a huge political issue, and a huge chunk of the population and a big part
of the Republican Party base is demanding something be done," said GOP
strategist Ed Rogers. "I hope the point is to establish credibility so maybe the
next president has a better opportunity to really fix the problem."

By contrast, many Democrats, immigrant advocates and business representatives
expressed skepticism and alarm.

"Sadly, the administration's proposal would make our immigration crisis worse,"
said Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), one of the key negotiators of the
compromise immigration bill that failed in the Senate. "[It] will only
exacerbate the already serious problems of our immigration system by causing
even more confusion about who can be hired, resulting in the unjust firings of
legal workers who look foreign and driving more hardworking people into the
shadows."

The impact on immigrant-dependent industries such as construction and
agriculture -- whose workforce is at least two-thirds illegal -- would be
"devastating," predicted Craig Regelbrugge, government relations director for
the American Nursery & Landscape Association.

"There's no replacement workforce," he said. "This will give people a set of bad
choices: Either they terminate their workers, or they take a deep breath and
duck and hope the law doesn't catch up with them. Or, for a lot of people,
they're just going to make the decision to get out of the business."

Particularly controversial are new guidelines for employers who receive a
"no-match" letter from the Social Security Administration informing them that 10
or more of their employees have Social Security numbers that do not correspond
with government records.

The administration issues about 130,000 no-match letters a year. Many are the
result of innocent mistakes -- a worker miswrote his Social Security number on a
form, for example, or failed to notify the government of her new, married name.

But a no-match often is an indicator that the worker is among the estimated 8
million illegal immigrants working in the United States.

Federal prosecutors have occasionally used an employer's disregard of no-match
letters as evidence that he or she knowingly hired illegal immigrants -- a
violation of federal law. But until now, employers were given few guidelines as
to how to respond to the notices and have frequently ignored them.

The new regulations -- which will take effect next month -- offer employers
"safe harbor" from prosecution if they require their employee to resolve the
no-match discrepancy within 90 days -- for instance, by contacting the
appropriate government agency to correct mistaken records. If the worker is
unable to do so, the employer must terminate the worker or face criminal
liability.

The Social Security Administration does not alert immigration authorities when
it sends out no-match letters, so the new regulations are unlikely to trigger a
sudden wave of prosecutions.

But Randel Johnson of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce said most employers are
unlikely to consider such nuances -- particularly in light of the increased
civil penalties and recently stepped-up enforcement of immigration law.

Immigration authorities have increased criminal arrests of both employers and
employees from 24 in fiscal 1999 to 716 in 2006. And they appear on track to
double that number this year.

"Look, employers are going to want to protect themselves, so, de facto nearly
all employers are going to follow the new rules," Johnson said. "And that is
going to have a serious impact in certain industries."

Kathleen Walker, president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association, said
she is worried that employers may open themselves to civil rights lawsuits when
they fire a legal worker who is unable to resolve his case within 90 days.

"Even if you're a legal worker, good luck trying to get an appointment with the
Social Security Administration in time, let alone resolving your case," she
said. "And then the employer gets put between the proverbial rock and the hard
place."

She and others also questioned the effectiveness of an existing computer program
to check employment eligibility that the administration will expand and give a
new name, E-Verify.

The program -- which matches information for employees with more than 425
million Social Security records and 60 million homeland security records -- now
is used by 19,000 employers.

Under the new plan announced by Chertoff, the government would initiate a
rulemaking process to require federal contractors and vendors -- about 200,000
companies -- to use it.

Walker said E-Verify does not include a complete array of immigration records
and has a substantial error rate.

Others criticized the administration's attempt to eliminate delays in obtaining
approval for seasonal agricultural and low-skilled non-agricultural workers
under two existing guest-worker programs.

"There is not an administrative solution, and tinkering with the regulations is
not going to solve the problem," said Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.),
co-sponsor with Sen. Larry E. Craig (R-Idaho) of a bill that would overhaul the
nation's agricultural jobs sector. "The administration's approach is a Band-Aid
that will not stop the looming crisis American agriculture will face this fall.
The crisis is that crops will not be harvested."

Staff writers Anne E. Kornblut, Karin Brulliard and Spencer S. Hsu and political
researcher Zachary A. Goldfarb contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE
IMAGE; By Brendan Smialowski -- Getty Images; Commerce Secretary Carlos M.
Gutierrez, left, and Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff outlined new
immigration policies yesterday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 23, 2007 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Anne Arundel County Is Latest To Challenge Illegal Workers;
Businesses to Certify Immigration Status of Employees

BYLINE: Raymond McCaffrey; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. HO07

LENGTH: 529 words


Anne Arundel County, the latest Washington area jurisdiction to take a new and
public position against illegal immigration,  has announced that businesses with
county contracts  will be required to sign affidavits attesting that they do not
employ workers who are in the country illegally.

County contracts have long required businesses to comply with federal law, but
aides to County Executive John R. Leopold (R) -- who issued the executive order
last week -- said the new language will allow the county to more easily cancel
contracts with violators.

"It gives the county a better opportunity and a stronger means of terminating
the contract because of the breach of the condition," said David A. Plymyer, a
deputy county attorney. "They're not only violating the federal law, they're
also violating the certification to the county."

Leopold, who as a state delegate voted against measures granting driver's
licenses and in-state tuition to illegal immigrants, said his "actions should
come as no surprise" to anyone. As part of his overall effort to reduce
expenditures in the county's 2008 fiscal plan, Leopold cut about $115,000 for El
Centro de Ayuda and the Organization for Hispanic and Latin Americans, which
provide job referrals, legal assistance and other services to Hispanic
immigrants.

"My first obligation to the taxpayers of the county is to make sure their
resources are used prudently," he said in an interview.

Leopold said his order is similar to initiatives by state governments in
Arizona, Colorado, Georgia, Missouri and Oklahoma. Loudoun and Prince William
counties have passed resolutions to address concerns over illegal immigration.

Gigi Guzman, former chairman of the Maryland Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, said
Anne Arundel's move was not surprising. "Everybody is doing it," she said.

She said the movement to crack down on illegal immigrants and businesses that
employ them risks leaving working families unable to support themselves. "It is
going to create a hardship for them," she said. "Many of those families have
American-born children."

Leopold said that he issued the order after receiving complaints from
"legitimate contractors." He did not specify the contractors, and aides reached
later said they did not know the names of the companies.

"I weigh the cries of discrimination against the legitimate concerns of
businesses who feel that they will be placed at a competitive disadvantage
against businesses who hire illegal immigrants," Leopold said.

He said that obligation is especially strong as the county and the state face
"enormous financial challenges," particularly the need to provide the
infrastructure related to an influx of workers to Fort Meade as part of the
Pentagon's base realignment plan. The county can't "overburden taxpayers with
the demands of illegal immigrants," he said.

"Clearly, the challenges are more daunting today and require adherence to the
law," Leopold said.

Leopold said the county would not expend resources "to look over the shoulder of
businesses." Instead, the county will respond to complaints it receives about
businesses not complying with the law.

Staff writer William Wan contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Howard County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 12, 2007 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Questions Remain On Illegal Immigrants;
Prince William To Curb Services

BYLINE: Nick Miroff; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 864 words


Should illegal immigrants be allowed to borrow the latest Harry Potter book from
the neighborhood library? Can the teenager working at the local pool check
swimmers' residency status before allowing them into the water? Where should an
illegal immigrant with a stomach virus go if he can't pay for a doctor?

These are among the questions and scenarios that Prince William County staff
members will have to sort through in the coming months because of a resolution
approved unanimously Tuesday by the Board of County Supervisors that aims to
deny county services to illegal immigrants. The resolution gives agencies 60
days to decide what services can be lawfully restricted and to devise a system
for county employees to verify residency status.

With Tuesday's vote, Prince William joined Tulsa; Riverside, N.J.; Hazleton,
Pa.; and other jurisdictions that have recently enacted measures targeting
illegal immigrants. More than 1,000 bills and resolutions related to immigration
were introduced by state governments this year, according to the National
Conference of State Legislatures -- twice the number as last year. Failed
congressional efforts to change immigration law are widely cited for the surge.

Yet local efforts to block services have had limited success elsewhere, and many
public benefits, such as food stamps, welfare and Medicaid, are already
unavailable to illegal immigrants. It is not clear how far Prince William
officials are willing to push legal boundaries to achieve their stated goal of
purging the county of illegal immigrants.

"There's a lot of unfinished business," said board Chairman Corey A. Stewart
(R-Occoquan).

"We have to figure out how to sculpt this thing, what services we will deny to
illegal immigrants and what procedures to put in place for our police department
to determine when they should be checking immigration status and what documents
will be used to prove it," he said, noting the resolution's revision of police
procedures.

That portion directs police officers to inquire about the residency status of
anyone in custody if they have probable cause to doubt that the person is
legally in the country. The county's police department has 60 days to create
standards for determining probable cause, as well as the methods for residency
verification. No other jurisdiction in Virginia has tried to play such a large
role in immigration enforcement, and it is not clear whether federal authorities
will be able to retrieve every illegal immigrant arrested in the Prince William.

Measures to limit or deny public services will be far trickier to implement,
legal experts say. Supervisors have said they do not want to create undue
burdens for county staff members or push costly, impractical policies. County
park employees do not have access to federal immigration databases, for example.

"When you try to infiltrate federal immigration law into a state and local
context, you're setting yourself up for lawsuits," said Kathleen Walker,
national president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association. "There is no
'easy button' to figure out immigration status."

Other jurisdictions have sought to limit access to housing and jobs by
pressuring landlords and employers, tactics Prince William has not attempted.
"If businesses can't hire and landlords can't rent, most will leave," Hazleton
Mayor Louis J. Barletta said of illegal immigrants. "That will help hospitals,
help school districts and other services burdened by the cost of illegal
immigration." A ruling on the legality of Hazleton's measures is expected soon
in U.S. District Court.

Some Prince William supervisors, emboldened by recent U.S. Supreme Court
decisions suggesting that the court has moved in a more conservative direction,
say they would not shrink from legal battles.

For example, a 1982 decision in Plyler v. Doe protects the right of illegal
immigrant children to attend public schools, and supervisors have regularly
blamed illegal immigrants for rising education costs in the county. The
percentage of Hispanic students -- many of whom are not illegal immigrants --
enrolled in Prince William schools has nearly quadrupled in the past decade,
from 6.6 to 24.2 percent.

"With this new Supreme Court, we have a real opportunity to overturn Plyler
versus Doe,"  Supervisor W.S. Covington III (R-Brentsville) said before
Tuesday's vote. "I'm not saying we should be the jurisdiction to do it. But the
federal government ties our hands and doesn't look at what the costs are."

Other supervisors are not as comfortable with measures that would affect minors,
regardless of their residency status. "You want children off the streets. You
want them in a safe environment,"  Supervisor Hilda M. Barg (D-Woodbridge) said.
"Will they have to prove they're legal citizens before they use the Boys and
Girls Club?"

Legal scholars who have reviewed the Prince William resolution say its cautious
language leaves little room for court challenges, and controversy probably will
come later, depending on which public services the county tries to curtail.

"We'll just have to wait and see until there's something more concrete," said
Carl Tobias, a University of Richmond law professor.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Tracy A. Woodward -- The Washington Post; The Prince William
Board of County Supervisors draws a full chamber as it debates a resolution
targeting illegal immigrants.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 15, 2007 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Immigrants' Access to Schools Is Discussed;
Supervisors' Say Would Be Limited

BYLINE: Ian Shapira; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW01

LENGTH: 523 words


As Prince William County supervisors debated a measure last week to restrict
government services for illegal immigrants, questions were raised about possible
limits on access to public schools. But the county School Board's attorney said
the supervisors face significant constraints on their power to intervene in the
educational arena.

First, attorney Mary McGowan said, is the U.S. Supreme Court decision in Plyler
v. Doe. That 1982 ruling protects the right of children to attend public schools
regardless of their immigration status.

Second, McGowan said, the county School Board is separate from the Prince
William Board of County Supervisors under the Virginia Constitution. That gives
the School Board power over school system policy, she said, even though the
schools depend on the county government for much of their annual revenue.

The measure the supervisors passed Tuesday authorizes county staff to examine
what public services may be denied to illegal immigrants. It does not include
any provision specifically targeting public schools.

But some supervisors may discuss access to public education over the next
several weeks as they consider implementation of the resolution. Supervisor W.S.
Covington III (R-Brentsville) said that he believes the school system is "part
of Prince William County" and that it's difficult to say it is "a separate
agency when they still have ties to the government."

Covington said that he does not want to attract lawsuits but that the
supervisors could consider taking steps that would bring a "test case" on
education and illegal immigration to the nation's highest court. He also said he
hopes the federal government will provide more money for the staffing and
resources needed to educate illegal immigrants. It is unknown how many such
students are in the county. The school system is prohibited from asking students
about their immigration status.

Some School Board members expressed ambivalence about any move to deny public
education to illegal immigrants, but others seemed open to the idea if there
were no legal hurdles. School Board member Grant Lattin (Occoquan) said the
board asked McGowan within the past year whether the school system was obligated
to provide services to illegal immigrants. The query, Lattin said, surfaced
about the same time the School Board was dealing with crowding issues and
seeking ways to save.

"Board members asked the question, 'Just who are we required to provide services
to? Can we provide services to citizens and noncitizens?' " Lattin said. "I have
grave concerns about the impact that undocumented aliens have on the services,
including school services, and I wonder what can be done about it."

School Board member Donald P. Richardson (Gainesville) said he believes local
governments should wait for the issue to be resolved at the federal or state
level. "I think it's very difficult to figure out who's illegal and who's not
illegal," he said. "I have a real hard time punishing children for sins their
parents may have committed. But the bottom line is that Prince William is not in
control. We're going to follow the law whatever it is right now."

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 26, 2007 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Budget Cutbacks Affect Hispanics;
Advocates Cite Immigration Fears

BYLINE: William Wan; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. AA03

LENGTH: 489 words


Tension has been growing between Hispanic leaders and Anne Arundel County
Executive John R. Leopold (R) since he cut funding for two nonprofit
organizations that serve immigrants, some of whom may be illegal.

As part of his overall effort to reduce expenditures in the county's 2008 fiscal
plan, Leopold cut about $115,000 for Centro de Ayudaand the Organization for
Hispanic and Latin Americans, which provide job referrals, legal assistance and
other services to Hispanic immigrants.

"My budget reflected my philosophy," Leopold said recently. "And it reflected
the values of residents who oppose providing services to illegal immigrants.
With limited resources in the county, we can't sufficiently provide services to
the legal residents, let alone the illegal ones."

In Anne Arundel, where Hispanics make up less than 4 percent of the population,
immigration issues have not prompted as much debate among county leaders as in
some areas. But Leopold's budget cuts coincide with growing concerns about
illegal immigrants elsewhere in the Washington area, including two Northern
Virginia counties that recently passed resolutions to limit county services to
illegal immigrants and penalize their employers.

"We do so much in this county, and Leopold cut us right at the knees," Mary
Schumaker, founder and past president of Centro de Ayuda, said in an interview
last week. The $100,000 that the agency received from the county last year made
up the bulk of its budget, she said.

In all, Leopold cut nearly $3.2 million for nonprofit groups, though he
eventually restored $815,000. None of that, however, went to either of the
Hispanic organizations.

The two groups said the cuts threatened to close them down.  Earlier this month,
the state Department of Labor, Licensing and Regulation gave Centro de Ayuda
$50,000. The organization also received another $50,000 from the local owner of
an ezStorage facility and a few smaller grants.

Still, resentment toward the county continued to fester. During a meeting last
week with Hispanic leaders, Leopold sent Sheryl Banks,  special assistant for
minority affairs, who heard sharp criticism from minority groups.

"We don't ask the people we help if they're legal because regardless they're
human beings and need our help," Schumaker said.

County officials emphasized that while no money has been earmarked specifically
for the two Hispanic groups, immigrants are served through other county-funded
organizations, such as Habitat for Humanity and the Office on Aging.

"There aren't really places where you see large numbers of Latino immigrants
waiting conspicuously to get picked up for jobs," said Dan Nataf, a political
scientist at Anne Arundel Community College.

Although illegalimmigration has not been a prominent issue in the county, it has
stirred controversy below the surface, Nataf said. "It's kind of an
under-the-cover kind of issue, in the public arena only in a latent kind of
way."

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Anne Arundel County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 18, 2007 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Wrong Response;
Frustration with the federal government's failure to manage immigration provokes
bad decisions.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 456 words


THE PRINCE William County Board of Supervisors voted unanimously at 2:30 a.m.
yesterday to deny some county services to undocumented residents and to try to
make them feel unwelcome in other ways. The board didn't come up with the funds
that its new policy will require, and some of the measures may well be thrown
out in court. But never mind: The supervisors fulfilled one goal they had
cynically set for themselves, which was to look tough on illegal immigration
before  Election Day.

Prince William is not alone in this region as it struggles to come to terms with
an unprecedented wave of immigration, both legal and illegal. The newcomers in
many cases bring a willingness to work hard and a faith in the American dream
that enrich their new communities. They also impose fiscal and social costs that
arouse understandable anxiety, and those who have come illegally inspire
resentment among many of those, both native-born and immigrant, who have played
by the rules.

Unfortunately, those who should be providing a solution have failed to do so.
Congress had a chance this year to pass sensible, desperately needed reforms and
did not. President Bush, having pushed admirably for a comprehensive overhaul,
then rolled out draconian and unworkable rules meant to prove his seriousness
about enforcement. He may want to ratchet up the pain felt by businesses so that
they will renew their lobbying for change. One provision, challenged by
businesses and unions, called for the use of government data to identify
undocumented workers who have used fake Social Security numbers; employers would
be fined unless they fired those with "no-match" numbers within 90 days of being
notified of a problem. A federal judge in California put this rule on hold after
concluding that thousands, if not millions, of innocent citizens and legal
residents could be caught up in immigration stings because of typographical
errors and other mistakes that pervade the Social Security database.

Likewise, crackdowns  such as Prince William's will accomplish little while
harming many legal immigrants, as the outpouring of opposition at the board
meeting Tuesday and yesterday suggested. The wiser, if politically riskier,
course is what  Montgomery County is pursuing: providing services to help the
undocumented learn English and find work so that they may be self-sufficient and
contribute to the community. Frederick County commissioners put the onus in the
right place when they voted recently not to pursue punitive measures, even while
imploring Washington to act. And if Congress continues to abdicate its
responsibility, voters should remember a year from now which senators and
representatives favored constructive change and which stood in the way.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 19, 2007 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Prince William's Stance on Illegal Immigrants

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 253 words


As a lifelong resident of Virginia, I take exception to Marc Fisher's reference
to the decision by Prince William's  Board of County Supervisors to limit county
services to illegal immigrants as "unanimous cowardice" ["Pr. William Hearing
Mixes Passion, Political Claptrap," Metro, Oct. 18].

An open board meeting with a citizens forum seems like clear-cut democracy to
me. I have lived in Prince William for  more than 40 years, and my immediate
neighborhood  has native-born American families and families from El Salvador,
Mexico, Pakistan and Ireland. All are here legally, and I do not object to the
county extending services to any of them. But if you are here illegally and
commit a crime you should be deported. You should not expect any services from
the county if you are not here legally. Try to move to any of these countries
and try to get any services from  their governments.

I object to the misuse of taxpayers' funds, no matter where it occurs.

ALAN WEAVER

Manassas

Â·

Here in Prince William County, we don't have enough money for schools, roads,
parks and senior centers, but the Board of County Supervisors has voted to spend
$2.8 million a year to enforce laws that are the responsibility of the federal
government. Next month, will supervisors vote to take another  $2.8 million from
the county budget to help the Internal Revenue Service catch all those folks in
the county who cheat on their taxes? After all, in Prince William, there is zero
tolerance for people who break the law.

JEANNE MITCHO

Dumfries

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 7, 2007 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Immigrant Measure Survives Challenges;
Senate Vote Could Come Tomorrow

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1255 words


The plan to overhaul the nation's immigration system survived its most serious
challenges yesterday, when the Senate defeated amendments to disqualify hundreds
of thousands of illegal immigrants from legalization and to extend visas to
hundreds of thousands more relatives of U.S. citizens and green-card holders.

But just after midnight, the Senate approved by a single vote an amendment to
shut down the bill's proposed guest-worker program after five years. The 49 to
48 vote, coming just days after the Senate cut the size of the guest-worker
program in half, could upset the delicate bipartisan balance behind the deal.

Before that early-morning vote, the fragile coalition behind the "grand bargain"
appeared to be holding together as the legislation nears final passage -- but
barely.

Still, the bill took a decidedly conservative turn last night with the adoption
of amendments that would at once declare English the national language and
designate English the "common language" of the United States. The Senate also
blocked the bill's newly legalized undocumented workers  from receiving the
earned-income tax credit, while denying legalized undocumented workers any
Social Security benefits they may have earned after overstaying their visa.

Senators also undid a provision that would keep information from visa
applications confidential.

But those changes were not immediately hailed as deal-breakers. The vote to
sunset the guest-worker program came so late that its impact was not clear. The
known challenges to the bargain were defeated, however. One such proposal, by
Sen. John Cornyn (R-Tex.), would have blocked legalization for a broad array of
legal infractions, including scrapes with immigration courts.

Another, by Sens. Robert Menendez (D-N.J.) and Chuck Hagel (R-Neb.), would have
included more recent applicants to the pool of backlogged family-based
applications for green cards that must be cleared under the bill. The
Menendez-Hagel amendment would have granted as many as 833,000 more visas than
the bill now offers. Still another, offered by Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton
(D-N.Y.), would have expedited visas for the spouses and minor children of legal
permanent residents, or green card holders.

The Senate will vote as early as tonight on whether to cut off debate on the
bill and move to a final vote, possibly tomorrow night. For now, the bipartisan
coalition appears to have the muscle to push it through.

"It's holding fast," said Sen. Mel Martinez (R-Fla.), one of the chief
architects of the legislation, which would couple a crackdown on future illegal
immigration with generous new paths for illegal immigrants and legal migrants to
stay and work in the country. "It's as good as we could hope for right now."

But the coalition  shows  signs of fraying. Georgia's  senators, Republicans
Johnny Isakson and Saxby Chambliss, had helped forge the immigration deal, but
they bolted from the coalition to back Cornyn's amendment. Chambliss, who was
booed recently at his state's Republican convention, hinted that he could oppose
the bill on its final vote.

"I'm committed to the concepts" of the agreement, he said. "To say I support the
bill, I've never said that."

Republican leaders of the coalition had pledged to withdraw from the deal if the
family-unification amendments had passed, but in the end they defeated them only
through procedural moves that forced the measures' proponents to muster 60
votes. The 53 to 44 vote on the Menendez-Hagel measure fell short of that
threshold. Clinton's amendment garnered only 44 votes. But Menendez's majority
vote could strengthen the hand of immigration advocates if the House and Senate
ever sit down to work out a final bill.

Conservative opponents vowed yesterday that will never happen. Two conservative
pressure groups unveiled television and radio advertisements aimed at peeling
Republicans from the coalition. And Senate  GOP and Democratic leaders remained
locked in a standoff over the demand of Majority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.)
that debate be cut off tonight. "Enthusiasm is waning," said Sen. Jeff Sessions
(R-Ala.), one of the bill's most ardent foes.

An analysis by the Congressional Budget Office -- Congress's influential
scorekeeper -- complicated the calculations even further yesterday.

The CBO concluded that the cost of the bill in immigration-law enforcement,
border controls and federal benefits to immigrants would be more than offset by
tax payments -- especially Social Security tax payments -- from newly legalized
workers. White House officials latched on to that finding as they continued to
seek GOP support for the bill.

But the CBO also raised questions about whether the legislation would work to
bring undocumented workers out of the shadows and to stem the flow of illegal
immigrants. A proposed guest-worker program would bring hundreds of thousands of
migrants who would stay illegally once their visas expired, the CBO said.

Of the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants now in the country, nearly a
third -- 3.6 million -- would probably not attain legal status under the bill,
the analysis said. And, it said, even if the bill's law enforcement and
employee-verification provisions are implemented, the annual flow of illegal
immigrants into the country would be reduced by only a quarter.

Those findings were troubling both to conservatives pushing a tougher crackdown
on illegal immigration and to pro-immigration groups wanting a more generous
bill. Brent Wilkes, national executive director of the League of United Latin
American Citizens, is concerned that if the bill does not work to stem illegal
immigration and provide lawful work, opponents will have far more political
ammunition for a crackdown in the future.

"They'll wait 10 to 15 years until we have another 12 million undocumented
workers. Then they'll complain like heck," Wilkes said. "That's why we're trying
to put out the word. The way this bill is currently configured, it's not going
to work."

Groups against illegal immigration unveiled separate advertising campaigns to
ratchet up the pressure, especially on Republicans such as Isakson and
Chambliss, but also on freshman Sen. James Webb (D-Va.). Grassfire.org's cable
advertisement features three elderly women, supposedly on the border with
Mexico, shouting "Where's the fence?" as three Mexican caricatures scurry across
a road. The Minuteman Civil Defense Corps unveiled a radio ad urging opponents
of the bill to contact their senators.

"As far as beating this bill, that's going to be up to the American people,"
said Rep. Steve King (R-Iowa), who helped unveil the "Where's The Fence" ad.

Pro-immigrant groups were also growing nervous. The defeat of the
family-unification amendments may have preserved the coalition, but they could
also raise pressure on some Democrats to vote against the bill. Under the
current deal, the Department of Homeland Security would have to quickly clear
family-based immigration applications that were filed before May 2005. Menendez
had hoped to push that deadline up to January 2007, effectively securing
family-unification visas for 833,000 more families. Clinton had hoped to extend
to green-card holders the same preference the bill gives to U.S. citizens for
expedited family-unification visas.

Their defeat left immigration rights activists convinced that the Senate will
pass the bill largely intact -- without the improvements they wanted but with
changes sought by conservatives.

"It just feels like we've been outmaneuvered here," Wilkes lamented.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Lauren Victoria Burke -- Associated Press; Sen John Cornyn
(R-Tex.) tried to limit who could apply for a visa.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            June 13, 2007 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

The Immigration Debate

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 429 words


In the June 10 editorial "Getting to No," about the immigration bill, The Post
claimed I "ducked the hard vote"  and stated that I had offered a "phony
compromise proposal that had no chance" for success. To the contrary, the
amendment I offered is a vital adjustment that would save the bill. It is also
fair to both sides of the debate and consistent with my long-held positions on
immigration reform.

I have long argued that immigration reform rests on four basic premises: tighter
border security, strict enforcement of penalties for companies that knowingly
hire undocumented workers, very limited guest worker programs, and an earned
path toward citizenship for immigrants who have put down roots in this country.

My amendment addresses the last premise. Under the bill we are debating,
virtually all undocumented immigrants living in the United States -- an
estimated 12 million to 20 million -- would be eligible for the path to U.S.
citizenship.

My amendment would allow a smaller percentage to legalize their status based on
objective criteria that measure their roots in the community. It also would
eliminate the bill's unworkable "touch back" provision, which requires
immigrants to return to their native countries in order to apply for permanent
residence in the United States.

The bill's floor managers allowed only one amendment that even discussed the
legalization program. That amendment, a proposal to eliminate the program,
indeed had no chance. But my amendment is a common-sense compromise that could
receive wide support if it were allowed a vote on the floor.

This is not about ducking a hard vote. This is about offering a responsible
solution that might bring the country together.

JAMES WEBB

U.S. Senator (D-Va.)

Washington

Has anybody done the math on the implications of Republican presidential
candidate Mitt Romney's plan, as reported in the June 7 Politics column, to
expel all undocumented immigrants "gradually and humanely"?

If Mr. Romney is serious about this plan, it means rounding up and expelling an
average of 8,220 people every day, or nearly a quarter of a million people every
month. That's the figure you get if you divide the number of illegal immigrants
(12 million) by the number of days in a hypothetical four-year Romney
administration.

Mr. Romney is offering a campaign of mass detentions and expulsions on a scale
without precedent in American history. It would probably lead to  violence and
severe economic dislocation in much of the country, strain police resources, and
trample on everyone's civil liberties.

ROGER ATWOOD

Washington

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 13, 2007 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Restaurateurs Arrested for Illegal Workers;
Federal Investigation Targets Employment Practices at Wheaton's El Pollo Rico

BYLINE: Ernesto Londo?o and Mariana Minaya; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 930 words


Four members of a family that owns popular chicken restaurants in the Washington
area were arrested by federal agents yesterday for knowingly employing illegal
immigrants and laundering the money earned from that business, according to
immigration officials.

Francisco Carlos Solano, 55, and his his wife, In?s Solano, 59, of Germantown;
Consuelo Solano, 69, of Arlington County; and Juan Faustino Solano, 57, of
Kensington were charged with employing and harboring illegal immigrants, money
laundering and structuring deposits to avoid financial reporting requirements,
according to a criminal complaint unsealed yesterday. Nine employees of their El
Pollo Rico restaurant in Wheaton were taken into custody and will be placed in
deportation proceedings, authorities said.

According to an affidavit filed with the complaint, the Solanos housed many of
their workers, some of whom were in the county illegally, at houses in
Kensington and Wheaton.

The restaurant, at 2541 Ennalls Ave., accepted only cash. The Solanos paid
employees who were in the county illegally in cash and wrote checks to those who
were here legally, prosecutors said.

Federal agents say the Solanos deposited more than $6.6 million into a business
account between June 2002 and September 2006 in increments of $7,000 to $9,000,
which authorities say was done to avoid filing currency transaction reports that
must be submitted with deposits that exceed $10,000.

The Solanos deposited checks from the business account into their personal
accounts and used the proceeds to purchase residences, vehicles, loan and life
insurance policies, and retirement accounts, according to the affidavit. Federal
agents seized more than $2 million in cash and jewelry from the Solanos'
residences and vehicles, authorities said.

James Dinkins, the special agent in charge of the Immigration and Customs
Enforcement field office in Baltimore, said the investigation began a year and a
half ago, when suspicious bank deposits were brought to the agency's attention.

Court-appointed attorneys who represented Francisco and In?s Solano during brief
arraignments in U.S. District Court in Greenbelt declined to comment on the
allegations. Francisco Solano and his wife were released after being arraigned.

Consuelo Solano and Juan Faustino Solano were taken into custody by immigration
agents in Las Vegas and are expected to return to Maryland to be arraigned in
Greenbelt on Monday.

Francisco, Consuelo and Juan Solano are siblings. They were born in Peru but
became U.S. citizens. Consuelo is a former employee of the World Bank, according
to the affidavit. In?s, who is originally from Colombia, is also a U.S. citizen.

El Pollo Rico opened in 1988 and became hugely successful among Peruvian
immigrants. Its popularity soon spread.

The original restaurant was in Arlington, and the family owns at least two in
the Washington area. The only target of the investigation was the Wheaton
franchise, law enforcement officials said.

"They have been pioneers for as long as I've known," said Martin Cuzzi, a
Peruvian immigrant who owns a real estate firm in Gaithersburg. "My gosh. We
stopped by to eat their pollo al brasa so many times when we were undocumented."

A Guatemalan who works at El Pollo Rico -- which means "the tasty chicken" --
said in a phone interview that Francisco Solano knew many of his employees were
in the country illegally.

"He just didn't ask you for papers," said the employee, who spoke on condition
of anonymity to avoid legal problems. She described Solano as "a good boss" who
did not exploit his workers. She said she was devastated to learn that one of
her cousins was taken into custody. "He had already built half of a house in
Guatemala. Now none of his dreams will come to pass."

Word of the arrests spread throughout the community yesterday, with callers on
local Spanish-language radio stations warning listeners to stay away from
Maryland.

Sergio Antonio Martinez, 52, of Rockville, a legal immigrant from Nicaragua,
said he was coming to the restaurant to buy chicken when he saw a group of
restaurant employees being taken from the restaurant in handcuffs.

"What occurred here was not right," he said. "We work; we pay taxes. They took
those poor guys as if they were criminals. It's not right."

At least four Montgomery County police officers helped federal agents conduct
the investigation, according to the affidavit written by ICE special agent Brian
Smeltzer. The officers' role was to interview El Pollo Rico employees to gather
information about their identity and employment, according to the affidavit.

The workers provided the officers -- some of whom speak Spanish -- their names,
dates of birth and other information that was later used by federal agents to
establish that many were illegal immigrants.

The extent to which Montgomery officers get involved in immigration matters has
become a hotly debated issue in the county.

Police officials in the county have said officers generally don't inquire about
people's immigration status unless they are targets of a criminal investigation,
have been arrested or have an outstanding administrative immigration warrant.

"We were interviewing witnesses to a crime," said Lt. Ron Hardy of the
Montgomery County police special investigations division.

"No action was taken against any of these people when we interviewed them. I
don't know if any of those who were interviewed were eventually arrested" by
immigration agents, he said.

Staff writers N.C. Aizenman, Ruben Castaneda and Krissah Williams and staff
researcher Meg Smith contributed to this story.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 4, 2007 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                                Suburban Edition

Loudoun Awaits Fate of Herndon Center;
County Might Open Facility if Town Bans Illegal Immigrants From Seeking Work

BYLINE: Sandhya Somashekhar; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 621 words


Loudoun County might open a job center for day laborers if a controversial one
in nearby Herndon bans illegal immigrants, officials said yesterday.

Herndon's day-laborer center, one of a handful in the Washington area, is across
the Loudoun line. Loudoun officials say they fear that if the Herndon Town
Council decides this month to keep the center open but check workers'
immigration status, dozens of illegal workers could flood across the border and
gather on public streets to look for work.

Loudoun doesn't want to attract the workers rejected by the Herndon center;
rather, two Loudoun officials considering the proposal for a job center say it
would be a way to protect the county from legal challenges to its efforts to
crack down on undocumented immigrants.

Supervisors Scott K. York (I) and Stephen J. Snow (R-Dulles) said they want the
county board to approve anti-solicitation laws that would ban illegal workers
from gathering in public areas in Loudoun. But because such laws have been
challenged in court, an official day-laborer center in Loudoun could give
workers an alternative place to gather, which could protect the county from such
challenges, they said.

"If we're going to go forward and solve what we believe will be a problem
created by Herndon, to solve that problem we would have to pass an ordinance,"
York said. "To have the ordinance stand up in court, we'd have to have a site."

York and Snow said they are not advocating a center but think it could be a tool
in their efforts to make Loudoun inhospitable to illegal immigrants. Last month,
Loudoun joined Prince William County in passing a resolution promising to cut
off public services where possible and increase cooperation between law
enforcement and federal immigration authorities.

The two supervisors said they would only support a Loudoun center if the Herndon
council votes Aug. 14 to change or close its center, if the site does not
require taxpayer money and if it is open only to legal residents.

The Herndon Official Workers Center has been controversial since it opened in
2005. Reston Interfaith, a group of religious institutions that operates the
center, does not check the legal status of people who go there to connect with
employers needing short-term labor.

About 120 workers gather each morning to find work at the center. Although no
one is sure how many are illegal, a 2003 Fairfax County survey found that about
85 percent of day laborers there were undocumented.

Herndon has been searching for months for an operator that would be willing to
make sure the clients are legal, which Reston Interfaith says is not part of its
mission. The town is in talks with a possible operator, Vice Mayor Dennis D.
Husch said.

Some Loudoun officials were stunned yesterday to learn that some of their
colleagues would consider such a controversial type of facility.

"I'm not thrilled with the idea, and I think the best way to deal with this
problem would be to crack down on the businesses that are hiring these people in
the first place," Supervisor Mick Staton Jr. (R-Sugarland Run) said.

Some immigrant advocates said the idea of creating a day-laborer site to crack
down on illegal immigrants seems underhanded.

"If the county wants to be an immigration officer, just come out and say it.
Just be clear," said Laura Valle, executive director of La Voz of Loudoun, a
Hispanic advocacy group. "Why do they have to set up a day-labor site as an
excuse to do that?"

Last night, about 200 activists and immigrants gathered at Alabama Drive Park in
Herndon in support of the town's day-laborer site. A march and vigil were held
in conjunction with a national conference of the National Day Laborer Organizing
Network this weekend in Silver Spring.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

CORRECTION-DATE: August 7, 2007



CORRECTION: An Aug. 4 Metro article incorrectly said that a vigil in support of
Herndon's day-laborer site was held at Alabama Drive Park. The vigil began at
Herndon Middle School and ended at the town square.

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Carol Guzy -- The Washington Post; Lis Conde and Carlos
Canales rally in support of the day-laborer center in Herndon. Town officials
could decide this month to close or alter the facility.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 17, 2007 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Herndon Wrestles With Where Day Laborers Will Go

BYLINE: Sandhya Somashekhar and Nick Miroff; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 929 words


By keeping a campaign promise to curb illegal immigration at its day-labor
center, the Herndon Town Council now faces a new, troubling question:

Where will the illegal workers go?

Some say they'll be right back on the streets of the four-square-mile town in
western Fairfax County, flagging down employers for work. Others say the illegal
workers may simply return to the job center with forged papers. Many worry that
the illegal immigrants, who probably make up the majority of the workers, will
head across the border to Loudoun County.

"Herndon's problem just became my problem," Loudoun Supervisor Stephen J. Snow
(R-Dulles), whose district borders the day-labor center, said yesterday.

On Wednesday, the council voted to oust the manager of the Herndon Official
Workers Center because the faith-based nonprofit group, which connects employers
with short-term labor, will not check the workers' immigration status. The
council promised to find another manager for the center who will confirm that
the men are authorized to work and to crack down on the illegal immigrants who
search for work in public.

The action by Virginia's third-largest town is the latest in a flurry of local
actions aimed at getting tough on illegal immigrants. Several Northern Virginia
jurisdictions, including Herndon, are stepping up collaboration between local
police and federal immigration authorities to deport those who commit crimes.
Some counties, including Loudoun, are seeking to cut off social services to
those without legal status.

But much is uncertain about the impact of the closely watched Herndon vote,
which came after two long nights of public hearings.

Herndon officials said they are committed to finding a new operator for the
center who will confirm that the laborers are legal. But after months of
searching, only one prospective manager has turned up. If the council does not
hire him, council members say the town government may run the center.

Officials with Project Hope and Harmony, which runs the site, have said they
would consider remaining in charge until the town finds a permanent manager. But
last week, Fairfax County withdrew its $175,000 contribution toward operating
the center after Herndon officials criticized the county's involvement. Without
that money, Project Hope and Harmony says it cannot operate the center.

Then there is the question of whether the site even has a purpose if the manager
is required to check clients' legal status. No one is sure exactly how many of
the roughly 120 day laborers who use the center weekdays are illegal immigrants,
but supporters and critics of the center and at least one survey agree it is
likely they make up a majority of the workers.

Nik Theodore, director of the Center for Urban Economic Development at the
University of Illinois at Chicago, said of the scores of day-labor centers
around the country, he is not aware of any that check immigration status. That's
not part of the operators' mission, he said.

"They are trying to maximize participation by the local workforce and reinforce
standards in the labor market," he said. "They want to be as welcoming as
possible, as efficient as possible, and their expertise does not lie in
evaluating the veracity of immigration documents."

Some of the Herndon center's supporters worry the illegal workers will flood the
town's streets, the very problem for which the center was established in 2005 to
solve.

Town officials said their actions could disperse workers around town but said
the police will respond swiftly, fining and breaking up groups of workers under
an anti-solicitation ordinance the town approved to keep job-seeking laborers
confined to the center.

"The police will be very busy for a while, and in time that too will pass," Vice
Mayor Dennis D. Husch said.

But it's unclear whether the anti-solicitation ordinance will hold up under the
town's new policy. Officials believe the town is protected from constitutional
challenge because the day-labor center offers workers an alternative forum to
ask for jobs, an activity which is considered protected free speech. The new
policy could be construed as curbing the free speech of the workers who are
illegal immigrants.

Council members, many of whom campaigned on pledge to shut the center down, have
said they want to keep the center open in one way or another to receive the
legal protection.

Some say the council's actions turn the center into a sham for the ordinance,
which is currently being challenged in court.

"It's pretty clear they want to lend legitimacy to their unconstitutional
ordinance, otherwise they would have shut the center down altogether," said
Chris Newman, legal programs director for the National Day Labor Organizing
Network.

Yesterday, Mayor Stephen J. DeBenedittis said he would not be surprised if the
legal challenges mounted. "I'm willing to fight that fight," he said. "It's
something we have to do."

Loudoun officials, meanwhile, say Herndon's crackdown could push the illegal
immigrants into their community. Some supervisors have said it is worth
considering whether to build their own day laborer center -- but only so they
can pass stringent anti-solicitation rules.

When the workers showed up yesterday morning at the center, Bill Threlkeld of
Project Hope and Harmony was there to greet them. The good news, he told the
workers, was that the hiring center would probably stay open.

However, Threlkeld said he "also told them it's not going to be like it was
before, that it's clear now that this is a different environment."

Researcher Meg Smith contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Sarah L. Voisin -- The Washington Post; Supporters of the
Herndon day-labor center stand in a packed public hearing room Tuesday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 11, 2007 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Met 2 Edition

Effort to Curb Illegal Workers' Hiring Blocked

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1264 words


A federal judge barred the Bush administration yesterday from launching a
planned crackdown on U.S. companies that employ illegal immigrants, warning of
its potentially "staggering" impact on law-abiding workers and companies.

In a firm rebuke of the White House, U.S. District Judge Charles R. Breyer of
San Francisco granted a preliminary injunction against the president's plan to
press employers to fire as many as 8.7 million workers with suspect Social
Security numbers, starting this fall.

President Bush made the effort the centerpiece of a re-energized enforcement
drive against illegal immigration in August after the Senate rejected his
proposal to overhaul immigration laws. But the court ruling -- sought by major
American labor, business and farm organizations -- highlighted the chasm that
the issue has opened between the Republican Party and its traditional business
allies.

The case also called attention to the gulf between Washington rhetoric about the
need to curtail illegal immigration and the economic reality that many U.S.
employers rely on illegal labor, as well as to the government's inability for
nearly three decades to develop adequate tools for identifying undocumented
workers.

In a 22-page ruling, Breyer said the plaintiffs -- an unusual coalition that
included the AFL-CIO, the American Civil Liberties Union and the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce -- had raised serious questions about the legality of the
administration's plan to mail Social Security "no-match" letters to 140,000 U.S.
employers.

"There can be no doubt that the effects of the rule's implementation will be
severe," Breyer wrote, resulting in "irreparable harm to innocent workers and
employers."

The government letters are intended to warn employers for the first time that
they must resolve questions about their employees' identities or fire them
within 90 days. If they do not, employers could face "stiff penalties,"
including fines and even criminal prosecution, for violating a federal law that
bars knowingly employing illegal workers, Homeland Security Secretary Michael
Chertoff said when he announced the plan Aug. 10.

The plaintiffs convinced the judge that the Social Security Administration
database includes so many errors -- incorporated in the records of about 9.5
million people in 2003 alone -- that its use in firings would unfairly
discriminate against tens of thousands of legal workers, including native-born
and naturalized U.S. citizens, and cause major workforce disruptions that would
burden companies.

"The government's proposal to disseminate no-match letters affecting more than
eight million workers will, under the mandated time line, result in the
termination of employment to lawfully employed workers," the judge wrote.
"Moreover the threat of criminal prosecution . . . reflects a major change in
DHS policy."

Breyer also said that the government may have ignored a 1980 law, the Regulatory
Flexibility Act, that requires it to weigh the cost of imposing new regulations
that would significantly burden small-business owners. Randel K. Johnson, a vice
president of the Chamber of Commerce, said the ruling shows that "the government
cannot do anything it wants simply in the name of enforcement. They've got to be
careful about building their record and complying with the law."

In a statement, AFL-CIO President John J. Sweeney said: "This is a significant
step towards overturning this unlawful rule, which would give employers an even
stronger way to keep workers from freely forming unions. . . . More than 70% of
SSA discrepancies refer to U.S. citizens."

Chertoff expressed disappointment with the decision and said the administration
will continue to aggressively enforce immigration laws while considering an
appeal, which  plaintiffs' attorneys said could take at least nine months.

"Today's ruling is yet another reminder of why we need Congress to enact
comprehensive immigration reform," Chertoff said. "The American people have been
loud and clear about their desire to see our nation's immigration laws
enforced."

Several analysts said the Bush administration's plan appeared to be designed to
push business interests back into the debate by demonstrating that the failure
of legislative reform efforts would carry costs, and to reassure  conservative
lawmakers who oppose illegal immigration that the White House is able and
willing to crack down on offenders.

Doris Meissner, former commissioner of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service and now a senior fellow at the nonpartisan Migration Policy Institute in
Washington, said the ruling "shows how ineffective the current laws are."

"It reinforces the opinion that many of us hold that until you have a better
legal framework -- which requires new legislation -- we're stuck very much with
the status quo," Meissner said.

In a statement, Rep. Brian P. Bilbray (R-Calif.), an opponent of Bush's approach
who won election to the House last year on the issue, criticized the court.
"What part of 'illegal' does Judge Breyer not understand?" he said. "At a time
when the federal government is finally trying to enforce current immigration
law, we cannot have activist judges stand in the way of doing what is right."

The scope of the problem is uncontested. A three-year government audit ending in
2001 found "widespread" misuse of Social Security numbers by illegal immigrants,
who often present fake or fraudulent documents to obtain jobs. Overall, 7.2
million illegal immigrants account for at least 10 percent of low-skilled U.S.
workers and 5 percent of the total U.S. workforce, according to a Pew Hispanic
Center analysis of 2005 census data.

Illegal immigrants make up even greater portions of workers in specific
industries,  including 24 percent in farming, 17 percent in cleaning, 14 percent
in construction and 12 percent in food preparation. But the government's record
in developing tools to screen such workers is spotty, largely because of
successful efforts by employers, labor unions and civil rights groups to water
them down.

A government program to verify the validity of new hires' Social Security
numbers, proposed in concept in 1981 and launched in 1996, remains voluntary and
covers only about 23,000 of 8 million U.S. employers. It is also hampered by a
high false-alarm rate and the limited ability to detect identity theft involving
stolen or fraudulent numbers. Between June 2004 and May 2006, it erroneously
rejected 11 percent of foreign-born U.S. citizens and 1.3 percent of authorized
foreign-born noncitizens, according to a report provided to Congress.

In protest, Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich (D) signed legislation in August that
bars companies in his state from participating in the program until it is 99
percent accurate.

The federal government has mailed Social Security no-match letters to employers
since 1994, but such notices were generally silent about workers' immigration
status and employers did not face liability. In June 2006, the Department of
Homeland Security proposed using the letters to combat immigration fraud
involving existing employees, and it finalized its plans this summer. The
AFL-CIO and the ACLU filed suit to halt the Sept. 4 start of the mailings, and
they were joined  by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the trade associations for
the agriculture, restaurant and construction industries.

On Aug. 31, U.S. District Judge Maxine M. Chesney issued a temporary restraining
order pending an Oct. 1 hearing before Breyer, who was appointed by President
Bill Clinton in 1997 and is the sister of Supreme Court Justice Stephen G.
Breyer.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

CORRECTION-DATE: October 13, 2007



CORRECTION: Â· An Oct. 11 Page One article on a ruling by U.S. District Judge
Charles R. Breyer, whose brother is Supreme Court Justice Stephen G. Breyer,
incorrectly referred to the judge as a sister of the justice. Also, an
accompanying chart listing 10 states most affected by a pending Bush
administration immigration enforcement plan should have attributed the
information to the Migration Policy Institute.

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      October 16, 2007 Tuesday 9:06 PM EST

Va. Immigrant Detention Center Plan Rejected

BYLINE: Anita Kumar, Washington Post Staff Writer, washingtonpost.com

LENGTH: 235 words



HIGHLIGHT: RICHMOND, Oct. 16 -- Virginia officials rejected a controversial
proposal Tuesday to build a 1,000-bed detention center where illegal immigrants
arrested for certain crimes could be held until federal officials deport them.


RICHMOND, Oct. 16 -- Virginia officials rejected a controversial proposal
Tuesday to build a 1,000-bed detention center where illegal immigrants arrested
for certain crimes could be held until federal officials deport them.

Instead, the Virginia Crime Commission's immigration task force voted to approve
a proposal to give more money to localities to house arrested illegal immigrants
and to expand or build new jails.

"I don't think there is support in the General Assembly or with the public for
building a standalone facility,'' said Sen. Kenneth W. Stolle (R-Virginia
Beach), chairman of the task force.

The detention center would have been the country's first state-run facility
built to hold only illegal immigrants accused of crimes. Currently, illegal
immigrants who are arrested are held in local jails, federal facilities and
private prisons.

Under the new proposal, localities will be allowed to keep all of the money the
federal government sends them to house federal inmates, including illegal
immigrants, instead of giving a share to the state. Sheriffs also would start to
receive 50 percent -- instead of 25 percent -- of the cost of expanding or
building new jails.

"It was easier to let the sheriffs do it,'' said Del. David B. Albo (R-Fairfax),
who chairs the full Crime Commission.

The 22-member task force approved 18 other proposals that will be consider by
the full Crime Commission next month.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2007 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 28, 2007 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

ACLU Settles Suit on Illegal-Immigrant Holding Facility

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 449 words


The federal government yesterday announced the settlement of a lawsuit brought
by the American Civil Liberties Union against conditions at a government
detention center for illegal immigrant children and families in Taylor, Tex.

The deal averted a trial set to open in U.S. District Court in Austin, and it
was made after  U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE)  began improving
education, recreation, medical care and privacy standards at its first large
holding facility for illegal immigrant families, the 512-bed T. Don Hutto Family
Residential Facility, which opened in May 2006.

The  Bush administration has continued to emphasize tougher enforcement efforts
after this summer's collapse of immigration legislation in Congress, but unions
and other liberal activist groups are stepping up pressure on behalf of
immigrants.

For instance, the Service Employees International Union plans today to file a
lawsuit in U.S. District Court in Portland, Ore., against another federal
immigration agency, charging that U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services
exceeded its authority by raising fees significantly July 30, including
increasing charges for citizenship applicants from $400 to $675.

The increase "presents a huge barrier to thousands of immigrants" anxious to
vote in the 2008 presidential primary and general elections, said Eliseo Medina,
the union's executive vice president. "This lawsuit is about accountability."

Under the ACLU detention agreement, Immigration and Customs Enforcement agreed
to place families who have a legal basis to contest deportation -- such as
asylum claims -- in Hutto only if no other space is available. Families facing
expedited removal proceedings, where no hearing is required, may be detained but
their cases must be reviewed every 30 days to see if they can be transferred or
released.

The agency also agreed to allow children older than 12 to move freely about the
facility, to provide a full-time pediatrician, to end a requirement that
families stay in their cells 12 hours a day, and to offer field trips, toys,
books and more nutritional food to children.

"The fact remains that our government should not be locking up innocent children
-- period. That is not what America is about," said Lisa Graybill, legal
director of the ACLU of Texas.

ICE said in a statement that it "continues to improve Hutto," has implemented
many settlement terms and welcomes periodic reviews by a U.S. magistrate judge.

"The Hutto facility is a safe and healthy environment for children and adults,"
the agency said, adding that it will continue to enforce immigration laws "in a
humane and responsible manner."

Research editor Alice Crites contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 26, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Va. Considers Detention Center for Immigrants;
Crime Suspects Would Be Held

BYLINE: Tim Craig; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 884 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND, Sept. 25


Virginia officials said Tuesday that they are considering a proposal to build a
1,000-bed detention center where illegal immigrants arrested for certain crimes
could be held until federal officials deport them.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officials said Tuesday night that
such a center would be the country's first state-run facility built to hold only
illegal immigrants accused of crimes. Currently, illegal immigrants who are
arrested are held in local jails, federal facilities and private prisons.

Under the proposal, announced at a meeting of the State Crime Commission,
Virginia would finance construction of the center through bond sales and use it
to detain illegal immigrants charged with crimes that usually do not trigger
long prison terms.

State officials are not sure where the center would be located, how much it
would cost or how long it would take to build.

"What we are trying to do here is have enough bed space so every sheriff knows
if they arrest an illegal immigrant on some of these charges, there is space for
them until someone can pick them up," said Sen. Kenneth W. Stolle (R-Virginia
Beach), chairman of the crime commission, which is developing the proposal. The
legislative commission studies and makes recommendations on public safety.

Before the detention center could be built, the state would have to reach an
agreement with ICE on who would be detained there. ICE officials declined to
comment Tuesday, saying they had not seen Virginia's proposal.

The federal agency also would have to agree to pay the state a daily fee for
illegal immigrants housed in the center until they are deported. The state would
use that money to operate the center and pay off the bonds.

Mukit Hossain, a founder of Project Hope and Harmony, a nonprofit group that
established a day-laborer hiring center in Herndon that recently closed, called
the detention center a "very, very scary proposal."

"If they need more detention centers, then by all means build more detention
centers. But to categorically set aside something which is going to be a
detention center for ICE and immigrants, it opens up a very problematic notion,
including possibilities of human rights violations. And it will create fear in
all immigrant communities," Hossain said.

In 2006, police and sheriff's departments in Virginia notified ICE of about
12,000 illegal immigrants in their jails, but ICE picked up only 690, Stolle
said. ICE officials could not independently confirm the numbers.

"It is not ICE's fault. They are dealing with the resources they have," Stolle
said. "But if Virginia wants ICE to be effective, we've got to find creative
ways for them to be effective."

Gov. Timothy M. Kaine (D) said through a spokeswoman that he plans to study the
idea, which would need formal approval by the crime commission as well as the
General Assembly and ICE. On past issues involving ICE, Kaine has adopted a
go-slow approach. Despite political pressure, he has been hesitant to sign an
agreement with the agency empowering state police to enforce federal immigration
laws.

Stolle stressed that the center would not be used to house immigrants whose only
crime is being in the country illegally, nor would it house those convicted of
serious crimes such as homicide.

Instead, it would house illegal immigrants arrested and charged with less
serious offenses -- such as driving under the influence -- who state officials
and ICE agree should be forced to leave the United States.

The crime commission plans to formally take up the proposal at a public hearing
in two weeks. Several local governments in Virginia are also moving forward with
proposals to address illegal immigration.

Kaine, in a radio interview Tuesday, warned of "all kinds of unintended
consequences" of having a "patchwork of cities and towns" with different
policies related to illegal immigration.

Instead of enacting new local laws, Kaine said, the state should step up the
pressure on the federal government.

"It's not the border between West Virginia and Virginia that is the problem,"
Kaine said. "It is outrageous this issue keeps getting pushed off to the cities
and counties and states."

In another immigration matter Tuesday, Kaine administration officials and
moderate Senate Republicans teamed to select a chairman for the new Virginia
Commission on Immigration. The commission will advise Kaine and the General
Assembly on what, if any, state policies should be adopted to address illegal
immigration.

The 20-member panel was established this year through legislation sponsored by
Del. Robert G. Marshall (R-Prince William). Because he sponsored the bill,
Marshall said he should head the committee. But because Marshall has a
reputation for being conservative and combative, Kaine administration officials
and Senate GOP leaders persuaded Sen. John C. Watkins (R-Chesterfield) to
challenge Marshall for the chairman's position.

Watkins, a moderate who owns a nursery that employs legal migrant workers, won
on a 16 to 3 vote. Marshall accused Kaine of trying to "manipulate" the
commission's work.

Delacey Skinner, Kaine's communication director, responded: "The important thing
is we have an illegal immigration commission that should make recommendations
that will hopefully give the governor and General Assembly some guidance."

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             October 5, 2007 Friday
                                Regional Edition

The Detention Non-Solution;
A lockup for illegal immigrant lawbreakers sounds good in an election year. But
is it smart policy?

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 483 words


VIRGINIA prides itself on being a well-governed state. So why would it get into
the business of building what would be the nation's first state-run, dedicated
detention center for illegal immigrants -- especially when the federal
government, which has primary responsibility for immigration matters, isn't
asking for such a facility and may not want one?

On its face, the answer has to do with the absence of any workable national
immigration policy, a state of affairs that has resulted in the presence of 12
million undocumented immigrants in states and localities that are increasingly
trying to fill in the holes that the federal government's failure has left. One
such hole is the inability of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to
deal with the thousands of illegal immigrants who are charged with or convicted
of crimes by state authorities every year. Of about  12,000 such individuals
incarcerated in Virginia last year, ICE picked up just 690 of them, according to
state officials; most others, having been charged with or convicted of  crimes
that do not carry long prison sentences, were released.

According to state Sen. Kenneth W. Stolle, a Virginia Beach Republican, that is
the impetus behind a proposal before the State Crime Commission, which he
chairs, to build a detention center of up to 1,000 beds specifically for illegal
immigrants. Since the feds, who have bed space for just 27,500 such detainees
across the country, lack the resources to hold illegal immigrants who have
committed crimes, Virginia could help by supplying more capacity, says Mr.
Stolle.

There is a real problem here. States, including Virginia, have been frustrated
by ICE's policies regarding illegal immigrants  charged with crimes. Sometimes
the agency will seek a detention order for an immigrant charged with driving
under the influence, sometimes not. But the idea of a state-run detention
facility is somewhat fanciful. It has the look of playing into the Virginia
Republicans' electoral strategy for this fall's legislative and local races,
which is to seize on illegal immigration as a wedge issue.

For one thing, there is little chance that ICE would be able to furnish the
state with a definitive list of the offenses for which it would seek a detention
order, without which, Mr. Stolle says, a state-run center is a non-starter. In
addition, the financing notion floated by Virginia officials -- that ICE would
assume both the construction and operating costs of a detention center by means
of a daily payment per detainee -- is doubtful at best.  In the case of illegal
immigrants who commit serious crimes, the state can and should try, convict and
sentence them to long terms in prison. But it makes no sense to lock up every
illegal immigrant who commits a garden-variety violation, even in states where
politicians are feeling the heat on what has become a hot-button political
issue.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           August 29, 2007 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Job Security for Employers;
Temp Firm Specializes in Vetting Immigrants' Work Status

BYLINE: Krissah Williams; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 898 words


Once, staffing agencies prided themselves on providing companies with fast
typers who had cheery phone voices.

Today, against the backdrop of a recent flurry of federal workplace raids in
search of illegal immigrants, a Bethesda staffing agency is finding more demand
for a different kind of service -- providing local companies with temps who have
bona fide work papers.

Members of MicroManos's office staff, most of whom are first- or
second-generation Americans, scrutinize each potential laborer's work documents.
At a client's request, they will vet the workers' documents through software
linked to the Social Security Administration and the Department of Homeland
Security. They ask the workers directly whether they are in the country legally.

"When we take the initial employment application, we discuss eligibility to work
in the U.S. right away, whether or not we have a job available," said Daniel A.
Weiss, director of MicroManos, which means "small hands" in Spanish. "Recruiting
immigrants and handling payroll for companies that have immigrants is our only
focus, so we are twice as mindful of these issues than the typical
human-resources generalist."

Identifying legal and illegal workers has become a major dilemma for several
local industries, according to a study released last year by the Pew Hispanic
Center. About 35 percent of the local construction workforce and 21 percent of
the food service workforce are working illegally, the study says.

Employers say they are stuck in a hiring quandary. If they don't carefully study
an immigrant's identification and work authorization, they could be raided and
fined for hiring someone illegally. If they push workers too hard or refuse to
hire foreigners, they could be accused of discrimination by the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission.

Human-resources managers representing thousands of small and large U.S.
employers have complained that immigration law makes it too easy for illegal
immigrants to subvert the system, leaving employers vulnerable to raids. HR
Initiative for a Legal Workforce, which includes the National Association of
Manufacturers and the Food Marketing Institute, has lobbied Congress to give
employers access to fingerprint records so they can verify applicants'
identities.

MicroManos was founded four years ago by Atsumasa Tochisako, a native of Japan
who worked for 12 years in branches of Japanese banks in Latin America and is
fluent in Spanish. He said employers would eventually consider it essential that
workers be legal after seeing companies like Wal-Mart get caught up in
illegal-immigrant scandals. Wal-Mart paid the federal government $11 million to
settle allegations that it subcontracted with a cleaning company that employed
illegal immigrants.

At first, MicroManos had a hard time attracting customers. "We found that some
employers don't care about legal status," Tochisako said. "They are paying
workers under the table."

One landscaper called MicroManos and asked for help replacing his firm's illegal
workforce with a legal one, with no disruption in business. When MicroManos
staffers explained how much the changeover would raise the landscaper's expenses
because of the higher salaries, corporate taxes and other fees, the landscaper
said, "no, thanks," Tochisako said.

But business has picked up considerably after the increase in federal workplace
raids over the past year and, more recently, after the Department of Homeland
Security's announcement that it planned to target employers who receive
government letters that some of their workers' names and Social Security numbers
do not match a federal database.

Last year, MicroManos placed 3,200 workers with local companies, including
Marriott and Aramark, as dishwashers, janitors, movers and low-level
construction workers.

The staffing firm usually signs a co-employment agreement with the workers it
places. The temporary workers generally get $7 to $11 per hour, and after three
months with MicroManos they are eligible for a benefit that covers half the cost
of medical services. MicroManos charges employers $8.50 to $12 per hour for each
worker it places. That's more than the $7 per hour employers would generally pay
for those kinds of jobs.

MicroManos turns away 10 to 20 applicants each month because they can't provide
documents showing they have legal authorization to work in the United States,
said Mary Saba, the staffing firm's workforce manager. If she were to place an
illegal worker, MicroManos and the primary employer would both be liable, she
said.

MicroManos is still losing $5,000 a month, company officials said, but they
estimated that they are close to breaking even this year. Meanwhile, Tochisako,
who also owns a money-transfer business with outlets in the District and its
suburbs, has continued to bankroll MicroManos, along with a grant from the
Friedman Family Foundation in San Francisco, which supports social
entrepreneurship.

Chris Settimo, an events manager at the Bethesda North Marriott, contracts with
Saba to hire three or four workers a month who lug around tables and chairs to
set up conference rooms. The workers are almost always immigrants, and he is
happy to leave the hassle of verifying their work eligibility to the staffing
agency.

"We take their for word for it," Settimo said. "It allows us to get by when the
hiring process is slow or to cover when we are shorthanded."

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Lois Raimondo -- The Washington Post; Mayra Rondon, left, of
MicroManos, follows up on a placement interview with Maria Espinoza.
IMAGE; By Lois Raimondo -- The Washington Post; MicroManos staff members, from
left, Mayra Rondon, Alan Symonds, Mary Saba, Ralph Luts and Elizabeth Mercado.
Seated is Joan Lu.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 2, 2007 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Judge Delays Ruling on Illegal Workers

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 194 words


A federal judge in San Francisco yesterday delayed for 10 days a ruling on the
legality of the Bush administration's enforcement drive targeting U.S. firms
that  hire illegal immigrants.

The order by U.S. District Judge Charles R. Breyer came after he listened to two
hours of arguments over whether the federal government's effort will unfairly
burden small businesses and ensnare tens of thousands of legal U.S. workers. The
AFL-CIO and the American Civil Liberties Union sued the government in August,
and they were later joined by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and several business
trade associations.

Breyer's action keeps in place a temporary restraining order preventing the
Department of Homeland Security and the Social Security Administration from
beginning to mail notices to 140,000 U.S. employers about suspect Social
Security numbers used by more than 8 million workers.

The "no match" letters warn employers to resolve questions about their
employees' identities or fire them within 90 days. If employers do nothing, the
letters warn, they may face fines and  criminal penalties for violating a
federal law that bars knowingly employing illegal workers.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       April 23, 2007 Monday 10:00 AM EST

Opposition to Immigration

BYLINE: Pam Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 2103 words



HIGHLIGHT: The battle over immigration reform pits a very large and visible
immigrant population against an equally powerful but far less visible
opposition. Post staff writer Pam Constable was online Monday, April 23 at 10
a.m. ET to discusses her story about undercurrent of anger against illegal
immigrants among area residents.


The battle over immigration reform pits a very large and visible immigrant
population against an equally powerful but far less visible opposition. Post
staff writer Pam Constable was online Monday, April 23 at 10 a.m. ET to
discusses her story about undercurrent of anger against illegal immigrants among
area residents.

A transcript follows.

____________________

Clinton, Md.: Why has the media been so silent about this event? When the
illegals march, you are inundated with reports of their gatherings from all over
the country.

The first I heard of this one was in The Post Saturday.

Only one local station Web site that I've seen even mentioned it, that was
yesterday. Today, it was off the main page and out of sight. It's no wonder
those of us against illegal immigration aren't heard from.

Pam Constable: I do not know about other media coverage. We were made aware of
the event about a week in advance and spent several days preparing a report on
it which was published on Sunday. We also covered the event itself.

_______________________

Carnegie, Pa.: I find all over the newspapers and news web sites indications
that the American people really want immigration reform, and soon. Why in the
Congress to deaf to this? Why is there no political will to any meaningful
action? Is it because of competing interests? What do you think?

Pam Constable: I think there is fairly strong consensus on the need for more
security at the border, but there is great disagreement on what to do about
illegal immigrants who already live and work here. There are indeed competing
interests, since many areas of the economy do depend on their labor. There is
also concern about a full blown amnesty. A number of members of Congress have
expressed they are eager to find a solution, but the difficult area of
compromise is the hot-button issue of amnesty/legalization/guest worker
programs. I think the devil is very much in the details of that issue.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: That rally seemed emblematic of the anti-immigration movement.
They can flood Internet chat rooms with vitriol but they can't generate big
numbers in rallies and judging from last fall's results don't win many
elections. Judging from polling results, most voters don't agree with their
draconian solutions, why doesn't Congress move forward on a bill that would that
would grant earned legalization for the millions of illegal immigrants.

Pam Constable: I think there is a lot of sentiment in the public against illegal
immigration, but that it is not very organized. It has become a very emotional
issue and I think it makes many politicians nervous. Everyone seems to agree
there needs to be a solution, but no one can agree on what exactly to do. Some
proposals are quite extreme but others seem workable if a political compromise
can be managed.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: Do you distinguish between Illegal Immigration, people who have
committed felonies to enter and remain in our country, and Legal Immigration,
those who have followed our laws? Do you recognize that the opposition to one
can be very different than the opposition to the other?

Pam Constable: Absolutely. We often stress that distinction in our articles.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: The anti-immigration crowd is pretty much immune to any sort
of persuasion; they just demand massive deportation or claim draconian
crackdowns on employers will cause illegals to self-deport (presumably after
some starve first). Is either "solution" at all realistic? Is there any
precedent for a democratic government deporting 12 million people or making them
miserable enough so they leave "voluntarily"?

As to the comment from Clinton, Md. Only 400 people compared to maybe 150,000 at
an event in support of immigrant rights last year. Of course 400 people is not
going to be front page news.

Pam Constable: I agree it would not be realistic to deport 10 million people. I
also think that employer sanctions would not force most of them to self-deport.
I think eventually Congress will pass some form of bill with a guest worker
provision and some process of fines and procedures for some illegal immigrants
to apply for residency, but it may not be this year because the issue is so
volatile with a national election coming up.

_______________________

Brooklyn, N.Y.: My impression is that many anti-immigrant groups focus primarily
on Hispanics. My neighborhood is full of undocumented Irishmen and women who
overstayed student visas, and no one seems to care. I believe England and
Ireland are among the top five countries from which illegals emigrate. If we
could start deporting them, that would do much to dispel the racial element of
your opposition.

Pam Constable: You are right. I have also heard about the issue of Irish illegal
immigration and it is a topic we intend to explore in the near future. I also
think it is true that Irish immigrants tend to blend in better in terms of
language, etc., so perhaps people who oppose illegal immigration do not focus on
them.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: It was great to see 400 people from across the country join
together Sunday at a rally north of the White House seeking for our government
to enforce the existing immigration laws. Those 400 speak for many millions of
American citizens who are tired of being overrun by the masses from other
nations. They are tired of a growing and limitless welfare-society spurred by
politicians. These good citizens are speaking with their senators and
representatives this week on Capital Hill. Let's all pray the "leaders" of this
great nation under God will listen to its courageous citizens.

Pam Constable: Thanks for your comment. I think you are right that the people at
the rally represented a point of view shared by larger numbers than the turnout
suggested.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: As an anthropologist, familiar with the socio-economic forces
and historical events driving migration, I fully understand the intractable
poverty, gross inequalities and role of the US in exacerbating conditions in
Latin America and, especially in Mexico and Central America. I am the daughter
of immigrants, who never completed high school. My grandmother was illiterate
but I achieved a Ph.D. I am currently working with an outreach center, serving
immigrants in Arlington. I am aware of the complexities of immigration reform
but wonder if the opposition took the trouble to learn the languages or read the
well-documented books on the histories of these countries and US intervention,
if they would be more sympathetic to the plight of these immigrants. None would
choose to risk their lives to cross the border. Most don't make it safely.
Studies have shown that they are not taking away the jobs of citizens but
filling niches and demand for low wage, unskilled and semi-skilled laborers.

Pam Constable: I think most people who have strong opinions against illegal
immigration are concerned primarily about their own communities and not about
conditions abroad. They often feel their services such as schools and clinics
are being used by people who do not deserve to use them, and they feel a sense
of losing control of their communities. I have spent a great deal of time in
Latin America and I am very familiar with the conditions that drive people
north, but many Americans are either unfamiliar with those conditions or focused
far more closely on issues that concern their own lives and communities.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Earlier you said you note people make a distinction between
legal and illegal immigration. Do you ask the people who oppose illegal
immigration if they favor increasing quotas on legal immigration? If the answer
is "no," aren't these people really opposed to immigration in general?

Pam Constable: I have not heard anyone in the organizations that oppose illegal
immigration also say they oppose legal immigration. In fact, many of them stress
their support for legal immigration. I do not know how they feel about
increasing those quotas, but it is a good question to raise.

_______________________

Canton, Ohio: I've seen estimates that there are over 12 million illegal
immigrants in the United States. Assuming we can't find and deport all of them,
which would in any event cost about as much as the Iraq war, how do you pick and
choose which should be the ones to go?

Pam Constable: That is a good point. in the past the government put its priority
on criminal and fugitive aliens, those who had committed crimes while here. Now
they are reaching out more broadly, raiding job sites, etc., and detention
centers are filling up. Taken to extremes, at some point this could indeed
become a very unwieldy and impractical effort.

_______________________

Winston-Salem, N.C.: I find it fascinating that the so-called Anti-Illegal
Immigration advocacy groups like FAIR also oppose reforms to the system of legal
immigration.

For instance, waiting times for Employment Based Green Cards now exceed 5-7
years for people from countries like India (which supply bulk of the skilled
immigrants to this country). Ironically, President Bush set a 6-month processing
time frame in 2001. So its clear how much out of whack the legal skilled
immigration system is in.

Yet these advocacy groups oppose any relief measures for such legal, skilled
immigrants. As an example, they opposed Sen. Cornyn's SKIL Bill last year.

My question is, is the opposition is illegal immigration just a facade? To me,
the true intent seems to be to impede ALL immigration.

Pam Constable: You may be right, but again most of the people we have spoken to
who oppose illegal immigration make a strong distinction between legal and
illegal immigration. I agree we should follow up on the issue you raise.

_______________________

Falls Church, Va.: Why do you think massive deportation is not likely? We can do
it; if we don't do it, are we not telling the whole world that you can come to
the U.S. illegally and break all the laws and nothing will happen to you?

Pam Constable: I think massive deportation is very difficult and problematic
when you are talking about settled long term residents with families here, as
opposed to people who have just crossed the border. It sounds like a simpler
solution than it may actually be.

_______________________

Falls Church, Va.: Your article said that the marchers demanded English as an
official language, but then the article didn't report on that point any further.
Was this an official demand? Did speakers refer to it? Or was it just something
mentioned by those in the crowd?

Pam Constable: Several speakers referred to it and some participants had banners
and signs about it. But there was no detailed discussion of it. The focus was
more on amnesty issues.

_______________________

Potomac, Md.: For more than seven years I worked diligently to find a capable,
reliable U.S. citizen to care for my two children, now ages 9 and 6. I have a
lovely home, easy children, and pay well above the going rate. Finally I gave up
and am now sponsoring an illegal immigrant for a green card. As you know, to do
this you must show that you have made a "good faith" effort to find a suitable
U.S. citizen. My effort consisted of 11 pages of notes, phone calls, classified
ads and the like. Several of my neighbors are now taking the same approach.
Without the illegals, I don't know what we would do. Sure I don't like what they
did, but the end result is best for all of us.

Pam Constable: Thanks for your comment. This is a complicated issue. People who
oppose illegal immigration say U.S.-born Americans would do the same jobs, but
that illegal immigration drives down the wages. Others say U.S.-born Americans
will not do these low-level jobs, as your comment suggests. The issue of job
displacement is one on which we are doing our own research and reporting now,
and it is a very important one.

_______________________

Dallas, Ga.: Do you think that the average American doesn't differentiate
between illegal aliens and immigrants? And if they do, why do newspeople keep
calling these pro-LEGAL immigration folks "anti-immigrant"?

Pam Constable: Many people do not make the distinction right away, so we are
very careful to make the distinction in our published reporting. Unfortunately,
I have to leave now.

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over Live
Online discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts;
guests and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not
responsible for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2007 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       April 23, 2007 Monday 10:00 AM EST

Opposition to Immigration

BYLINE: Pam Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 2103 words



HIGHLIGHT: The battle over immigration reform pits a very large and visible
immigrant population against an equally powerful but far less visible
opposition. Post staff writer Pam Constable was online Monday, April 23 at 10
a.m. ET to discusses her story about undercurrent of anger against illegal
immigrants among area residents.


The battle over immigration reform pits a very large and visible immigrant
population against an equally powerful but far less visible opposition. Post
staff writer Pam Constable was online Monday, April 23 at 10 a.m. ET to
discusses her story about undercurrent of anger against illegal immigrants among
area residents.

A transcript follows.

____________________

Clinton, Md.: Why has the media been so silent about this event? When the
illegals march, you are inundated with reports of their gatherings from all over
the country.

The first I heard of this one was in The Post Saturday.

Only one local station Web site that I've seen even mentioned it, that was
yesterday. Today, it was off the main page and out of sight. It's no wonder
those of us against illegal immigration aren't heard from.

Pam Constable: I do not know about other media coverage. We were made aware of
the event about a week in advance and spent several days preparing a report on
it which was published on Sunday. We also covered the event itself.

_______________________

Carnegie, Pa.: I find all over the newspapers and news web sites indications
that the American people really want immigration reform, and soon. Why in the
Congress to deaf to this? Why is there no political will to any meaningful
action? Is it because of competing interests? What do you think?

Pam Constable: I think there is fairly strong consensus on the need for more
security at the border, but there is great disagreement on what to do about
illegal immigrants who already live and work here. There are indeed competing
interests, since many areas of the economy do depend on their labor. There is
also concern about a full blown amnesty. A number of members of Congress have
expressed they are eager to find a solution, but the difficult area of
compromise is the hot-button issue of amnesty/legalization/guest worker
programs. I think the devil is very much in the details of that issue.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: That rally seemed emblematic of the anti-immigration movement.
They can flood Internet chat rooms with vitriol but they can't generate big
numbers in rallies and judging from last fall's results don't win many
elections. Judging from polling results, most voters don't agree with their
draconian solutions, why doesn't Congress move forward on a bill that would that
would grant earned legalization for the millions of illegal immigrants.

Pam Constable: I think there is a lot of sentiment in the public against illegal
immigration, but that it is not very organized. It has become a very emotional
issue and I think it makes many politicians nervous. Everyone seems to agree
there needs to be a solution, but no one can agree on what exactly to do. Some
proposals are quite extreme but others seem workable if a political compromise
can be managed.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: Do you distinguish between Illegal Immigration, people who have
committed felonies to enter and remain in our country, and Legal Immigration,
those who have followed our laws? Do you recognize that the opposition to one
can be very different than the opposition to the other?

Pam Constable: Absolutely. We often stress that distinction in our articles.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: The anti-immigration crowd is pretty much immune to any sort
of persuasion; they just demand massive deportation or claim draconian
crackdowns on employers will cause illegals to self-deport (presumably after
some starve first). Is either "solution" at all realistic? Is there any
precedent for a democratic government deporting 12 million people or making them
miserable enough so they leave "voluntarily"?

As to the comment from Clinton, Md. Only 400 people compared to maybe 150,000 at
an event in support of immigrant rights last year. Of course 400 people is not
going to be front page news.

Pam Constable: I agree it would not be realistic to deport 10 million people. I
also think that employer sanctions would not force most of them to self-deport.
I think eventually Congress will pass some form of bill with a guest worker
provision and some process of fines and procedures for some illegal immigrants
to apply for residency, but it may not be this year because the issue is so
volatile with a national election coming up.

_______________________

Brooklyn, N.Y.: My impression is that many anti-immigrant groups focus primarily
on Hispanics. My neighborhood is full of undocumented Irishmen and women who
overstayed student visas, and no one seems to care. I believe England and
Ireland are among the top five countries from which illegals emigrate. If we
could start deporting them, that would do much to dispel the racial element of
your opposition.

Pam Constable: You are right. I have also heard about the issue of Irish illegal
immigration and it is a topic we intend to explore in the near future. I also
think it is true that Irish immigrants tend to blend in better in terms of
language, etc., so perhaps people who oppose illegal immigration do not focus on
them.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: It was great to see 400 people from across the country join
together Sunday at a rally north of the White House seeking for our government
to enforce the existing immigration laws. Those 400 speak for many millions of
American citizens who are tired of being overrun by the masses from other
nations. They are tired of a growing and limitless welfare-society spurred by
politicians. These good citizens are speaking with their senators and
representatives this week on Capital Hill. Let's all pray the "leaders" of this
great nation under God will listen to its courageous citizens.

Pam Constable: Thanks for your comment. I think you are right that the people at
the rally represented a point of view shared by larger numbers than the turnout
suggested.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: As an anthropologist, familiar with the socio-economic forces
and historical events driving migration, I fully understand the intractable
poverty, gross inequalities and role of the US in exacerbating conditions in
Latin America and, especially in Mexico and Central America. I am the daughter
of immigrants, who never completed high school. My grandmother was illiterate
but I achieved a Ph.D. I am currently working with an outreach center, serving
immigrants in Arlington. I am aware of the complexities of immigration reform
but wonder if the opposition took the trouble to learn the languages or read the
well-documented books on the histories of these countries and US intervention,
if they would be more sympathetic to the plight of these immigrants. None would
choose to risk their lives to cross the border. Most don't make it safely.
Studies have shown that they are not taking away the jobs of citizens but
filling niches and demand for low wage, unskilled and semi-skilled laborers.

Pam Constable: I think most people who have strong opinions against illegal
immigration are concerned primarily about their own communities and not about
conditions abroad. They often feel their services such as schools and clinics
are being used by people who do not deserve to use them, and they feel a sense
of losing control of their communities. I have spent a great deal of time in
Latin America and I am very familiar with the conditions that drive people
north, but many Americans are either unfamiliar with those conditions or focused
far more closely on issues that concern their own lives and communities.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Earlier you said you note people make a distinction between
legal and illegal immigration. Do you ask the people who oppose illegal
immigration if they favor increasing quotas on legal immigration? If the answer
is "no," aren't these people really opposed to immigration in general?

Pam Constable: I have not heard anyone in the organizations that oppose illegal
immigration also say they oppose legal immigration. In fact, many of them stress
their support for legal immigration. I do not know how they feel about
increasing those quotas, but it is a good question to raise.

_______________________

Canton, Ohio: I've seen estimates that there are over 12 million illegal
immigrants in the United States. Assuming we can't find and deport all of them,
which would in any event cost about as much as the Iraq war, how do you pick and
choose which should be the ones to go?

Pam Constable: That is a good point. in the past the government put its priority
on criminal and fugitive aliens, those who had committed crimes while here. Now
they are reaching out more broadly, raiding job sites, etc., and detention
centers are filling up. Taken to extremes, at some point this could indeed
become a very unwieldy and impractical effort.

_______________________

Winston-Salem, N.C.: I find it fascinating that the so-called Anti-Illegal
Immigration advocacy groups like FAIR also oppose reforms to the system of legal
immigration.

For instance, waiting times for Employment Based Green Cards now exceed 5-7
years for people from countries like India (which supply bulk of the skilled
immigrants to this country). Ironically, President Bush set a 6-month processing
time frame in 2001. So its clear how much out of whack the legal skilled
immigration system is in.

Yet these advocacy groups oppose any relief measures for such legal, skilled
immigrants. As an example, they opposed Sen. Cornyn's SKIL Bill last year.

My question is, is the opposition is illegal immigration just a facade? To me,
the true intent seems to be to impede ALL immigration.

Pam Constable: You may be right, but again most of the people we have spoken to
who oppose illegal immigration make a strong distinction between legal and
illegal immigration. I agree we should follow up on the issue you raise.

_______________________

Falls Church, Va.: Why do you think massive deportation is not likely? We can do
it; if we don't do it, are we not telling the whole world that you can come to
the U.S. illegally and break all the laws and nothing will happen to you?

Pam Constable: I think massive deportation is very difficult and problematic
when you are talking about settled long term residents with families here, as
opposed to people who have just crossed the border. It sounds like a simpler
solution than it may actually be.

_______________________

Falls Church, Va.: Your article said that the marchers demanded English as an
official language, but then the article didn't report on that point any further.
Was this an official demand? Did speakers refer to it? Or was it just something
mentioned by those in the crowd?

Pam Constable: Several speakers referred to it and some participants had banners
and signs about it. But there was no detailed discussion of it. The focus was
more on amnesty issues.

_______________________

Potomac, Md.: For more than seven years I worked diligently to find a capable,
reliable U.S. citizen to care for my two children, now ages 9 and 6. I have a
lovely home, easy children, and pay well above the going rate. Finally I gave up
and am now sponsoring an illegal immigrant for a green card. As you know, to do
this you must show that you have made a "good faith" effort to find a suitable
U.S. citizen. My effort consisted of 11 pages of notes, phone calls, classified
ads and the like. Several of my neighbors are now taking the same approach.
Without the illegals, I don't know what we would do. Sure I don't like what they
did, but the end result is best for all of us.

Pam Constable: Thanks for your comment. This is a complicated issue. People who
oppose illegal immigration say U.S.-born Americans would do the same jobs, but
that illegal immigration drives down the wages. Others say U.S.-born Americans
will not do these low-level jobs, as your comment suggests. The issue of job
displacement is one on which we are doing our own research and reporting now,
and it is a very important one.

_______________________

Dallas, Ga.: Do you think that the average American doesn't differentiate
between illegal aliens and immigrants? And if they do, why do newspeople keep
calling these pro-LEGAL immigration folks "anti-immigrant"?

Pam Constable: Many people do not make the distinction right away, so we are
very careful to make the distinction in our published reporting. Unfortunately,
I have to leave now.

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over Live
Online discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts;
guests and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not
responsible for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2007 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     October 18, 2007 Thursday 3:30 PM EST

Immigration: Prince William County

BYLINE: Corey A. Stewart, Chairman, Prince William County Board of Supervisors,
washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 3623 words



HIGHLIGHT: Within months, traffic stops in Prince William County may carry
serious consequences for thousands of residents, as police officers begin
checking the immigration status of anyone who breaks the law, whether for
speeding or shoplifting, if they believe that person is in the country
illegally.


Within months, traffic stops in Prince William County may carry serious
consequences for thousands of residents, as police officers begin checking the
immigration status of anyone who breaks the law, whether for speeding or
shoplifting, if they believe that person is in the country illegally.

With their unanimous vote early yesterday, the county supervisors also cut off
certain services to illegal immigrants who are homeless, elderly or addicted to
drugs. A similar debate is playing out in communities across the country, where
an increasing number of jurisdictions have been taking steps to clamp down on
illegal immigrants after Congress failed to pass immigration overhaul measures.

Corey A. Stewart, chairman of the Prince William County Board of Supervisors,
will be online Thursday, Oct. 18, at 3:30 p.m. ET to discuss the board's
decision.

A transcript follows.

____________________

Wheaton, Md.: Bravo to your community. I only hope Montgomery County, Md.,
follows your lead and stops draining taxpayer's dollars for lawbreakers.

Keep up the good work!

Corey A. Stewart: Thank you.

_______________________

Woodbridge, Va.: For months, we've been told that illegals are somehow acting as
a financial drain on us -- they use up services that cost us all money. Now,
according to the Post (Jump in Tax Rate Looms as Home Values Plunge, 14 Oct 07,
PW01) you're working to raise our tax rates an average of $257 extra, partly to
pay for the PWPD's illegal crackdown and to defray lawsuits. So it looks to me
that it isn't illegals that are costing me, but rather the crackdown. Do you
think that's fair? I don't normally vote for Republicans, but you promised lower
taxes, and now you've reneged. Guess I learned my lesson!

Corey A. Stewart: For the first time in several years, we've been able to keep
average Prince William resident tax bills flat. I do not anticipate a
significant increase in average tax bills next year either. Nearly all
communities in the U.S. are now facing fiscal challenges, and Prince William is
no exception. The cost of our crackdown on illegal immigration will not
significantly affect that situation.

_______________________

Alexandria, Va.: First of all, my family came here from Afghanistan in
1981...LEGALLY. I am very passionate about immigration. If it is done under the
rule of law, welcome. I'm very happy that PW County is looking out for the
residents who are paying taxes.

My question is, why did this take so long to become an issue?

Corey A. Stewart: That is a good question. As soon as I was elected Chairman
last fall, the Baord initiated the 287(g) program in our jail to allow us to
intiate deportations of illegal immigrants who are arrested. That program is now
working successfully and we have identified 150 inmates who are illegal aliens
-- and we have just started. I hope that other localities follow our lead on
this.

_______________________

Clarendon, Va: Hello Mr Stewart,

If I'm stopped by a cop in Prince William Co, how can I prove that I'm not an
illegal alien?

A valid drivers license doesn't count as proof. You can get one while on a
temporary visa and then keep renewing after the visa has expired.

Do I need to carry my UK passport with its valid visa when I visit Prince
William?

Corey A. Stewart: No. Our police will be trained to do this properly over the
next several weeks. If you are legally resident in the United States, you have
nothing to worry about.

_______________________

Loudoun County, Va.: I've just completed a study that shows crime, per capita,
has actually gone down in areas that have the largest immigrant populations --
both legal and illegal --in the last five years. Eight of 10 these cities saw
significant decreases in crime, especially violent crime. One city experienced a
big increase in violent crime, Houston, but that crime was directly the result
of influx of native-born criminals, namely criminals who fled New Orleans after
Hurricane Katrina. What empirical evidence does Prince William County have that
illegal aliens are the cause of increased crime, welfare dependency, or any of
the other ills you and your fellow commissioners are so willing to blame them
for?

Corey A. Stewart: Fully 21% of our jail population are illegal aliens. Up to 1/3
of gang members in Northern Virginia are illegal aliens. It is my responsibility
as a public official to protect the lives and property of County residents.

_______________________

Woodbridge, Va.: Does that mean the $257/tax bill figure is incorrect?

Corey A. Stewart: I am not sure where that figure comes from.

_______________________

Woodbridge, Va.: Mr. Stewart,

As a resident of Prince William County I am extraordinarily displeased and
ashamed of your "leadership" in regards to the issue of immigration. You have
mounted a campaign based on fear and alienation. You have also displayed your
ignorance on the matter on several occasions -- the most notable the misuse of
the Constitution. I believe you were using a section that related to
transportation, not immigration. Given the fact that your hate tactics have only
caused greater tension within the county, do you plan to offer any useful
solutions through the remainder of your term?

Corey A. Stewart: You have a right to your opinion. But yes, I am and will
continue to reach into the Latino community to assure them that this resolution
is aimed at illegal immigrants only -- not Latinos or legal residents.

_______________________

Manassas, Va.: How much has this brouhaha cost the taxpayers to date in terms of
staff time which could have been spent on other projects? Projected legal fees
to defend us in court? What has the Board determined to be the savings to
taxpayers once this is put in force? Details have been sorely lacking in what
this means to the taxpayers of the county monetarily.

Corey A. Stewart: First and foremost, this is a public safety initiative to
remove illegal aliens who violate the law. This is money well spent to improve
the safety of the public.

_______________________

Centreville, Va.: I am a naturalized US Citizen, but still have an accent. If I
happen to be stopped by the police in your county what documents should I have
to prove my status? Remind you that there are no requirements for a U..S citizen
to carry any such documents with him/her at all times... As well how long you
anticipate it will take for the officer to confirm my status, based only on my
driver's license? Does this infringe on my right against unreasonable search?

Corey A. Stewart: Please see previous reply.

_______________________

Woodbridge, Va.: Mr. Stewart, have you and/or your Board members thought about
the ramifications of your stupid resolution? What is the County going to do with
the U.S. born children whose mothers will be deported due to the regulation? I
guess the county will have to pay to support those motherless children right? At
what cost? Raising our taxes?

Corey A. Stewart: That is an issue for the immigration judge. Please keep in
mind that Prince William County does not ultimately decide whether someone
should be deported or not.

_______________________

Alexandria, Va.: What steps are you taking to ensure constitutional rights are
protected for people subject to these types of stops. As a constitutional
attorney, your new procedures/policies seem ripe for numerous Constitutional
challenges in court. For example: racial profiling, privacy rights, Fourth
Amendment stops, the list goes on.

Corey A. Stewart: We are working very carefully to implement procedures to guard
against racial profiling or other discriminatory behavior.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Where are your ancestors from, Mr. Stewart? Did any of your
great-grandparents come to the U.S. as immigrants, as mine did?

As long as the county institutes policies that are so uncaring and unfeeling, I
will no longer go to Potomac Mills for shopping. Certainly the mall gives the
county money, and I will no longer support any venture that leads to PW County
making money. This is the only way I can make an impact. Arundel Mills, prepare
for my Christmas shopping dollars!

Corey A. Stewart: Sorry to hear that.

_______________________

Manassas, Va.: Who will do the jobs the at $6 and $8 an hour that immigrants
currenlty do?

Corey A. Stewart: My sole focus as a local official is the impact of illegal
immigration on County services and public safety.

_______________________

Manassas, Va.: Mr. Stewart,

Why is this topic an uproar? Legal citizens are expected to obey the laws of
this country and pay taxes. Is it a big deal that illegal immigrants are
expected to do the same.

I don't understand why the illegals think they have a right to live here without
being part of the tax base.

I am not a fan of my supervisor or of the government in this county but I
appreciate what you are doing in regard to illegal immigration.

Corey A. Stewart: Thank you. We appreciate your support.

_______________________

Woodbridge, Va.: I am a legal Hispanic and have been a resident of Prince
William County for a long time. I am proud of you, Mr. Stewart for upholding the
National Law while the Federal Government fails us. I came here legally, yes it
took time but it was worth it. I am disapointed in my fellow Hispanic brothers
and sisters who come sneaking into a country and then pick and choose which laws
to follow. By the way -- everyone is asked for ID and proof of residency when
doing many different things here. I applaud the police and Mr. Stewart for
standing their ground and working to better me and my children's lives.

Corey A. Stewart: Thank you. My own wife is a legal immigrant. On a personsal
level, I believe it is unfair that the Federal Government should turn a blind
eye to illegal immigration when those who wish to enter our country legally must
wait years to do so. As a local government official, my sole focus is the impact
of illegal immigration on County services and public safety.

_______________________

Manassas, Va.: As a resident of Prince William County, you have my vote.
Stopping illegal immigration is the first thing our country needs to address.

Corey A. Stewart: Thank you.

_______________________

Chantilly, Va.: How do you justify spending $14 million on a measure to block
illegal immigrants from using services that you don't even know if they are
using (i.e. substance abuse counseling, homeless assistance, and in-home care
for the elderly)? Will it cost more to implement this plan than money saved by
denying these services?

Corey A. Stewart: In the long run, I believe these measures will save money and
reduce stress on County services. There is no question that the resolution will
also improve public safety by removing illegal aliens who violate the law. It is
a small price to pay for increased public safety.

_______________________

Re: Clarendon's Question: Your answer to Clarendon was too facile. (Glib, if you
need a translation.) I am a middle-aged white woman. It will be presumed that I
am an American citizen, even though I could be an illegal Canadian. I will not
have to carry a birth certificate or passport to prove my citizenship, illegal
or not. My Hispanic naturalized citizen neighbor (who speaks fluent English with
a Spanish accent) will be hassled by the PW police and be required to show some
sort of documentation that he is in fact a citizen. How will you forestall cops
stopping people for being "not American" looking? We come in all shapes, sizes,
colors, and accents.

Corey A. Stewart: Due to a pending litigation, I cannot answer this question in
greater detail.

_______________________

Springfield, Va: I comment the PW board for making this tough decision. How can
I, as a Fairfax County resident, convince my county board to do the same? With
my real estate taxes continuing to rise I would like to see the drain on county
resources stopped they should only be for legal residents. Why should I have to
continue to pay for law breakers?

Corey A. Stewart: Please encourage the Fairfax Board to cooperate with us on the
287(g) program, which allows localities to initiate deporation proceedings for
illegal aliens who commit crimes.

_______________________

Stafford, Va.: Mr. Stewart, thank you and your colleagues for doing something
our State and Federal officials have failed to do for its citizens. I hope that
these measures only serve as a beginning to the long needed crackdown on illegal
immigrants.

Corey A. Stewart: Thank you.

_______________________

San Jose, Calif.: I am always happy to hear there are actual consequences to
immigrating illegally. As a legal immigrant and green card holder I went though
a lot of trouble, scrutiny and paid thousands of dollars in fees to be here
legally. It angers me that people come here illegally and are given more
protections and less trouble than I got while trying to do it. I congratulate
you on your effort. I know many of my legal immigrant friends do as well.

Corey A. Stewart: Thank you. I hear that a lot from people who obeyed the law
and entered our country legally.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Mr. Stewart, if your focus was on public safety as you have
stated a couple of times, why the effort to identify any possible county service
you could to strip from illegals? Is stripping services for the illegal
immigrant elderly to help "public safety"? I understand your focus on criminals
in the jails, get rid of them, but why all this other nonsense?

Corey A. Stewart: The purpose is improved public safety AND reducing strain on
County services. The main purpose, however, is increasing public safety.

_______________________

Vienna, Va.: With this new regulation being passed, are you afraid and possibly
prepared for the backlash from the community? All of this Immigration talk from
the federal government to state and local could also bring along racist feelings
to the forefront and people feeling that they can take their frustration out on
different ethnic groups, whether they are legally here or not.

Corey A. Stewart: I disagree. Although the dialogue has been tense and
controversial, I believe that, in the long run, an open dialogue is good for any
community.

_______________________

Woodbridge, Va: I support the supervisors' decision. I just hope it will be
applied equally to European nannies as well as Latino day laborers. Statistics
indicate the majority of illegals are visa overstays and many of these are
better able to "fit in" than border crossers. I don't care which one shows up at
the public health clinic. I want both of them turned over to INS.

Corey A. Stewart: The law must be applied evenly and fairly, without
discrimination or racial profiling.

_______________________

Central Virginia: Legal immigrant here, absolutely supporting the decision. When
we lived in PW, it hurt me everytime I passed 7-11 on corner of Jeff Davis Dr to
see those people just hang out there in clear view of everyone, waiting for
someone like me or my husband (U.S. born) to give them job! I am also glad to
hear prisons are doing their part to send those people back where they came from
-- less waste of taxpayer money and no additional criminals on this side of the
border. A better border patrol would help too, instead of prosecuting border
patrol agents who do their job.

My question is what about the majority people born in the U.S. -- what do they
supposed to do if pulled out for speeding? Carry birth certificate?

Corey A. Stewart: Thank you. I cannot reply to your second question in any
specificity due to ongoing litigation.

_______________________

Determining legal status: Please stop side-stepping the issue of how you are
going to determine who is a U.S. citizen or legal or illegal immigrant. I am a
legal immigrant who is very aware of just how complicated the immigration rules
are -- my status in this country is valid but my visa isn't and I have had three
types of visa so far.

How are you going to determine who is legal and who isn't?

Corey A. Stewart: I cannot reply to this question in any specificity due to
ongonig litigation.

_______________________

Greenbelt, Md.: A comment and a question:

As the granddaughter of "anchor babies" born to French Canadian immigrants in
the late 19th century, I deplore the policies you have put into place in your
county. I remember how my late mother felt like a second-class citizen even in a
nearly-all-Caucasian community when she was growing up, because "those Canucks"
were looked down upon for "taking all the factory jobs away." I cannot in good
conscience subject another generation to that kind of racial/ethnic
stereotyping.

Since I cannot prove that my great-grandparents entered the United States
legally, do you believe that I should be forced to surrender my U.S. passport
and leave this country?

Corey A. Stewart: These measures are aimed solely at illegal immigrants, not
Latinos or legal immigrants. Our County does not decide whether anyone will
ultimately be deported -- that is left up to an immigration judge.

_______________________

Waldorf, Md.: It is apparent that you and your board are only interested in
serving one portion of the PW population. Are there any diversity initiatives or
task forces in your county that can ensure the public safety and general
well-being of the immigrants being targeted? There seems to be a lot of unspoken
agendas behind this decision.

Corey A. Stewart: Yes. We will be working internally and with an independent
third party -- probably a university -- in reviewing the program on an ongoing
basis to help guard against racial profiling.

_______________________

Loudoun County: You say that 21 percent of inmates in P.W.'s jail are illegal
aliens. I am curious how you know this. Are you already obtaining information of
immigration status of all prisoners? Most jurisdictions don't collect this
information and most assertions such as yours turn out to be false once they're
checked. I'd be pleased to be proved wrong. Can you provide me with the specific
empirical basis for your claim.

Corey A. Stewart: We have already implemented the 287(g) authority in our jail.
The data is solid.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Have you done a comprehensive cost-benefit analysis on how
this tactic is going to affect your economy? I don't see how this could possibly
be a net benefit. Seems like the politics of hate to me. I guess that's to be
expected of politicians nowadays.

Corey A. Stewart: I disagree. It is incorrect to dismiss these measures as the
politics of hate. Illegal immigration has deteriorated the quality of life in
the community, and residents have asked us to address it.

_______________________

Manassas, Va..: My heartfelt thanks for listening to your constituents, and
having the courage to do the right thing!

Corey A. Stewart: Thank you.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: If you are re-elected, what will you do to address the discord
in your county that has come about as a result of the battle over immigration?

Corey A. Stewart: Please see previous reply. I will continue efforts to reach
into the Latino and legal immigrant communities to correct any misconceptions
about these measures.

_______________________

Bel Air, Md.: You didn't answer a prior question directly.

I am a naturalized citizen, from India, and probably would be mistaken for
someone from middle east.

If I am stopped for any reason in your county, how do they determine that I am
legally entitled to be here, and not an illegal immigrant? I don't carry a
passport or naturalization papers whenever I leave home.

Corey A. Stewart: No one will be stopped unless they have committed an
underlying violation of law. I cannot repond to your second question due to
pending litigation.

_______________________

Germantown, Md.: During any traffic stop, how will the police officer decide
whether or not to check one's immigration status? Accent? Looks? Unless they
check everyone equally, or use some random pattern, how will they avoid
racial/ethnic profiling? Does this mean that as a U.S. citizen I will be subject
to immigration background checks, even though I was born in the U.S. and do not
speak with a foreign accent? Should I carry my birth certificate with me?

Corey A. Stewart: I cannot respond to your question due to pending litigation.

_______________________

Manassas, Va.: So when this law goes into effect? All Hispanics that are pull
over for whatever reasons will have their legal status checked? What criteria or
guideline will the police use to determine whether they're to run immigration
status check?

If I'm Hispanic I need to carry around my green card or paperwork to prove my
legal status? I hate to admit it but this is a really bad time to be a Hispanic
in America.

A few years ago we were profiling blacks for the high crime rates in our cities.
Then we shifted over to Arabs after the 9/11 attacks. And now Hispanics for
coming here legally or illegally to work in low paying jobs to sustain our
economy.

I'm of Asian descent and I'm starting to wonder if I'm going to be next.

Corey A. Stewart: Clear police procedures and comprehensive training will be
implemented to prevent racial profiling. I cannot answer your second question
due to pending litigation.

_______________________

Anonymous: I am a legal resident but in future I will try to avoid traveling to
PW county if i can. It's not worth the hassle.

Corey A. Stewart: Sorry to hear that. The County is a great place.

_______________________

Corey A. Stewart: Thank you all. I respect all of your opinions, even where we
disagree.

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over
Discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts; guests
and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not responsible
for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2007 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 12, 2007 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigrant Law Goes to Voters in Texas Town;
Contentious Ordinance Would Prohibit Renting To Illegal Residents

BYLINE: Sylvia Moreno; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 990 words

DATELINE: FARMERS BRANCH, Tex.


On Saturday, voters in this Dallas suburb will decide whether to keep a local
ordinance designed to do what city leaders believe the federal government has
forsaken: control the number of illegal immigrants.

It will be the first time that such a law will be subjected to a popular vote
instead of merely the scrutiny of a government body.

The local law, already the subject of four lawsuits, emotional community debate
and scholarly reports, would prohibit landlords from renting to most
undocumented immigrants.  The fine for noncompliance would be $500 a day.

When passed, the law was billed as essential to the well-being and safety of the
city and a key to "revitalizing and reinvigorating" this bedroom community,
whose population has remained  28,000 since 1970 but whose demographics have
changed dramatically. In 1970, the city was 100 percent white; today  40 percent
of its residents are minority, mostly Hispanic. Entire strip malls are  lined
with mom-and-pop shops catering to Mexican, Salvadoran and Guatemalan
immigrants; large, older apartment complexes on one end of the city, the targets
of the local ordinance, are filled with Spanish-speaking renters.

"I don't believe that if every illegal alien moves out of Farmers Branch, every
problem in Farmers Branch is solved," said Tim O'Hare, a 37-year-old member of
the City Council who was born and raised here and who sponsored the rental
ordinance. "But it is one of the things that needs to be done. . . . If the
federal government enforced its own laws, it would be easier on the city of
Farmers Branch."

Opponents, including apartment building owners, contend the ordinance is not
only discriminatory, but would force landlords to act as federal immigration
officers and would put the job of regulating immigration, a federal
responsibility, in local hands.

"This has also given people, for some reason, the right to voice their bigotry
in a very public way," said Ana Reyes, 33, who was born in Indiana but has lived
most of her life in Farmers Branch and is working with the group, Let the Voters
Decide, to defeat the ordinance at the polls. "I've been called a wetback and
yelled at to 'go back to Mexico.' "

Almost 90 cities or counties nationwide have proposed, passed or rejected laws
with similar landlord prohibitions or penalties for businesses that employ
undocumented workers. Officials in Hazleton, Pa., the first city in the country
to adopt such laws, are awaiting a federal judge's decision in a lawsuit that
challenged the constitutionality of its ordinance. Hazleton proposed fining
landlords $1,000 per day for every illegal immigrant living on their property
and revoking the licenses of businesses that hire undocumented workers. In
Escondido, Calif., officials abandoned a similar rental ordinance after spending
$200,000 defending it and projecting another $800,000 in bills to continue the
legal battle.

Last November, the Farmers Branch City Council passed its rental prohibition,
the first such ordinance in Texas, and said it would go into effect in January.
The council also declared English the official language of the city and passed a
resolution to allow jail officials to attend a federal training program on
enforcing immigration law.

Under pressure, the council revamped the ordinance in January. And when
opponents gathered enough signatures to force Saturday's referendum, they agreed
to await the results. Four separate lawsuits have been filed against the city by
apartment owners, a resident and civil rights and immigrant advocacy
organizations. If approved, the rental law will take effect May 22, but
opponents have said they would seek a court order barring its enforcement.

Reyes and volunteers with Let the Voters Decide, the League of United Latin
American Citizens, and other opponents of the law are hoping the enthusiasm
shown last spring by supporters of the big pro-immigrant march in Dallas will
carry over into Saturday's election. More than a million people -- hundreds of
thousands of them in Dallas, including some Farmers Branch residents -- marched
in dozens of cities nationwide to protest a U.S. House bill that would, among
other things, have made  illegal immigrant status a felony rather than a civil
violation.

By the end of early voting here, which concluded Tuesday, election officials
said that more than 3,000 residents, or almost 21.5 percent of registered
voters, had cast ballots. The past two municipal elections have drawn only about
700 votes, officials said, indicating a high level of interest in the
referendum. About 1,200 of the registered voters are Latino.

Both sides have recently brought out local public officials, current and past,
to support their positions. The opponents talk about the futility of passing a
law that will keep the city fighting lawsuits for months at a cost of hundreds
of thousands of dollars in taxpayer-funded legal fees. The supporters call such
proclamations "scare tactics."

Two City Council seats are also on the ballot, and the five candidates vying for
them built their campaigns on their pro- or anti-ordinance positions.

"I want to be a part of what makes Farmers Branch move forward and to be part of
the Farmers Branch revitalization program," said candidate Tim Scott at a recent
"meet and greet" in a neighborhood of residents who largely supported the
ordinance prohibiting renting to illegal immigrants. "I don't want to live in a
city that has to deal with gang violence."

Jennifer Maddux, who hosted the gathering, agreed. "Why wait for the federal
government while we go under? They let it get this way."

But across town, 20-year resident Jeff Rotundo disagreed. "I have more problems
with the fire ants in Farmers Branch than I do with the Hispanics or illegal
immigrants," he said. "When I first got here, it was open arms to everybody. Now
the town is divided. I think it's a racial issue. . . . I'm a little embarrassed
to be a resident here at this point."

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By L.m. Otero -- Associated Press; Natalie Villafranca, 6, and
her mother, Elizabeth Villafranca, were among protesters last year against a
city council attempt to control illegal immigration.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 15, 2007 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Top GOP Hopefuls Keep Distance on Immigration;
Bipartisan Plan in Danger as McCain Pulls Away, Romney Shifts Stance and
Giuliani Is Silent

BYLINE: Michael D. Shear; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 1455 words


Less than a year ago, Sen. John McCain of Arizona was the most visible
Republican in the fight for immigration reform, having joined forces with
Democratic Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (Mass.) in an ultimately unsuccessful bid to
clamp down on border security and create a guest-worker program for the nation's
12 million illegal immigrants.

Now, a renewed effort is underway, but this time without McCain as Kennedy's
co-star. As he stumps in Iowa and New Hampshire, McCain has handed off
day-to-day negotiations on immigration to his staff and to fellow Senate
Republicans Jon Kyl (Ariz.) and Lindsey O. Graham (S.C.). In his formal
presidential announcement speech in New Hampshire last month, he made no mention
of the issue.

"The fact that he's not in the room helping to build a bipartisan consensus . .
. it's going to be far more difficult to get a bipartisan bill," said Frank
Sharry, a pro-immigrant lobbyist. "This guy is my hero on this issue. I am
heartbroken that he's not in the room. Heartbroken."

Senators from both parties and senior White House officials are hurrying to
negotiate a deal that would give illegal immigrants a path to legal status after
clearing criminal checks and paying fines. The plan would beef up border
security and put new emphasis on enforcing workplace rules. Democratic leaders
have given them until tomorrow to produce legislation before forcing another
vote on the McCain-Kennedy bill that failed last year.

In the meantime, the leading Republican candidates for president are distancing
themselves from the plan.

Former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney, who just a year ago characterized the
bipartisan efforts as "reasonable proposals," now derides the plans being
negotiated in Congress as "amnesty" for illegal immigration.

Former New York mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, whose record is filled with
pro-immigrant speeches and actions, has been largely silent on the debate. And
Sen. Sam Brownback of Kansas, another GOP contender, was a key McCain ally on
immigration a year ago but recently renounced his support for the approach.

"When the public opinion matters most is during elections," said Steven
Camarota, the research director for the Center for Immigration Studies, whose
group advocates a harder line on illegal immigration. "That's why all the
candidates tend to move toward enforcement and not talk so much about
legalization."

Activists on both sides of the debate say the presidential candidates are
becoming more conservative on the issue, believing that GOP primary voters who
will decide the Republican nomination want tougher positions on how to deal with
illegal immigrants.

More than one-third of Republicans said in exit polls after the 2006 election
that illegal immigration was extremely important to their vote. More than
two-thirds of conservative Republicans surveyed by Pew Research in March said
that newcomers from other countries threaten "customs and values" of America.

McCain's closest advisers say he is still a behind-the-scenes force in
attempting to reach compromise on a bill that would secure the border and create
a new guest-worker program. "There isn't a scintilla of difference between the
way he talks about immigration" today and a year ago, said McCain strategist
Mark Salter.

McCain said Sunday on NBC's "Meet the Press" that he is "heavily engaged" in the
negotiations and makes calls on the immigration issue every day. He cited a
recent meeting with Kennedy and others as evidence that he is still involved and
predicted the group is "very close" to a deal.

But a top Senate Democrat said last week that McCain's absence from the
negotiations is hurting efforts to reach an agreement. And activists on both
sides of the debate say the change in the senator's profile on the issue is
striking.

"Why is his name not on it now? Why isn't he leading the negotiations right now?
Because he knows it's killing him in the primary," Camarota said. "It's an issue
that he could be out front on. He has in the past. He ain't anymore."

A Different Focus

Sharry remembers watching in awe as Giuliani faced the cameras in 1994 to defend
illegal immigrants, declaring: "If you come here and you work hard and you
happen to be in an undocumented status, you're one of the people who we want in
this city."

It was a remarkable rebuke to some in his party, recalls Sharry, executive
director of the National Immigration Forum. In California that year,
conservative activists pushed through Proposition 187, a sweeping referendum
that stripped illegal immigrants and their children of the right to state
government services and helped Republican Gov. Pete Wilson win reelection.

Giuliani "was a god in the mid-1990s on this issue," Sharry said this week.

Surveys almost a decade later show that the debate continues. Two-thirds of
Americans say that illegal immigrants should not receive social services from
state and local governments, according to a 2006 Pew study. But more than 70
percent say the children of illegal immigrants should be allowed to attend
public schools.

As mayor of New York, Giuliani filed suit against the federal government,
challenging what he said were unconstitutional provisions aimed at immigrants.
And he ordered his police not to divert time and resources from other crimes to
process immigration violations.

"He was constantly extolling the glory of illegal immigration," said Roy Beck,
president of Numbers USA, a group that advocates limits on immigration and
penalties for undocumented workers. "He's backing away from some of it now."

Aides to Giuliani said he has not changed his positions on immigration and
supports efforts to increase border security and find a way to deal with illegal
immigrants.

But Giuliani now rarely emphasizes immigration, preferring to focus on his
leadership after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, his success at lowering city taxes
"23 times," and his reputation for reducing crime.

When he talks about immigration, he usually focuses on the need for a new,
tamper-proof ID card for illegal immigrants and the importance of finding and
deporting criminals or terrorists who enter the country illegally.

"We need to know everyone who's in the United States that comes in here from a
foreign country. And we have to separate the ones who are dangerous from the
ones who aren't," Giuliani said on "Fox News Sunday." "We need people to come
forward who are working so they'll get identified, get fingerprinted, get
photographed. And then we should focus our attention on the people who don't
come forward."

A Change in Feelings

In an interview with reporters and editors at the Boston Globe in November 2005,
Romney spoke favorably of President Bush's immigration proposals, saying the
ideas under consideration should not be thought of as amnesty.

"What the president has proposed, and what Senators McCain and Cornyn have
proposed, are quite different than that," he told the Globe at the time,
referring to John Cornyn (R-Tex.).

But Romney never endorsed the idea, and as he began to run for president, his
rhetoric changed. At the annual meeting of the Conservative Political Action
Committee in March, Romney said: "McCain-Kennedy gives benefits to illegals that
would cost taxpayers millions. And more importantly: Amnesty didn't work 20
years ago, and it won't work today."

GOP voters are split evenly over whether illegal immigrants should be given a
chance to apply for legal citizenship. But the same surveys show that two-thirds
of Democrats favor giving such a chance to immigrants here illegally.

Romney's change, his top aides said, was the result of the legislation morphing
on the Senate floor last year. "When the bill finally came out of committee,
there were a number of provisions out there which the governor found
objectionable," said spokesman Kevin Madden.

On the stump, Romney now talks about building a fence along the border, issuing
high-tech identification cards to immigrant workers and increasing the amount of
legal immigration.

His advisers point to actions he took as governor as evidence that he has not
had a conversion on the issue. In 2005, he vetoed a bill that would have granted
in-state tuition rates to illegal immigrants. And as one of his final acts in
office, he signed an agreement with federal immigration officials to give state
police the authority to pursue immigration violations.

Beck, who favors such proposals, said that Romney "has never extolled the
virtues of illegal immigration. In a very hostile environment, he has stood
against rewarding illegal immigration."

But Sharry sees it differently, focusing on Romney's initial praise of the
McCain-Kennedy bill and the change since then. "He was pro-immigrant until he
had that conversion on the road to Iowa," Sharry said.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Melina Mara -- The Washington Post; GOP Sen. John McCain,
right, worked on border security and immigration changes last year alongside
Democratic colleagues Barack Obama and Edward Kennedy. This year, the Arizonan
has delegated work on the issues to staff members and two fellow Republicans.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 15, 2007 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Fix Immigration Now;
More dithering in Congress equals more chaos.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 688 words


AMAKE-OR-BREAK point has arrived in this country's effort to enact meaningful
immigration reform. After failing last year to devise a way out of the deadlock
that has left 12 million illegal immigrants in legal limbo, and the likely
future influx of several hundred thousand new workers annually in equally dire
straits, Congress is faced with the political calendar's hard reality. If
lawmakers fail to hash out a compromise now, the presidential cycle probably
will dash any hope for progress until at least 2009. Americans overwhelmingly
prefer a workable solution now, and lawmakers owe it to them.

The components of that fix do not lend themselves to the usual horse-trading on
Capitol Hill; expediency could produce more laws that won't work, and an artless
compromise may invite more law-breaking. But an array of stakeholders --
employers, unions, immigrants' rights groups and others -- agree on the outlines
of an approach that would replace chaos with an orderly regime that coaxes
illegal workers out of the shadows, satisfies the labor market's demands and
fashions a realistic, enforceable legal framework while protecting the interests
of newcomers. Here are the main ingredients of such a system:

For the 12 million immigrants already here illegally, a fair route to legal
status and citizenship. Almost no one seriously advocates mass deportation of
illegal immigrants, who comprise perhaps 5 percent of the labor force. For
workers who satisfy clear and reasonable requirements -- a modest fine, a
law-abiding record, steady employment, competent English, payment of back taxes
-- there should be a pathway to eventual citizenship. Onerous, open-ended fines,
as the Bush administration has proposed, or a requirement that immigrants leave
the country and then reenter in order to "reboot" and supposedly legitimize
their status here, will only dissuade many from compliance.

A realistic system for future immigrants. Any workable law needs to reckon with
the demand for 400,000 immigrant workers annually, most of them in relatively
unskilled jobs. The current slogan that "temporary means temporary," in fashion
among some conservative Republicans, is reality-blind: If the law creates a
revolving door of future immigrants, it will frustrate the needs of employers
while encouraging some so-called guest workers to overstay their visas and break
the law. This country long has welcomed foreign workers and in time made
Americans of them; there must also be a legislative mechanism for that to happen
with those future immigrants who want and deserve to stay.

A humane approach to immigrant categories. Proposals to scrap the long-standing
system of preferences based on family or employer sponsors, and replace it with
a merit-based regime, pose a false either-or choice. Much of the demand for
immigrant labor is for farmhands, landscapers, drywallers and other low-wage
workers, and denying them the chance to reunite here with their families is
inhumane. A sensible strategy needs to recognize both a globalized economy's
demand for employees with fluent English and advanced academic degrees and the
continuing need for lower-end workers.

The debates over these and other parts of an immigration bill tend to obscure
the broad agreement on many points, including the need for tougher border
enforcement; sanctions for firms that hire illegal immigrants; and a system for
employers to verify that job applicants are here legally. Many of those points
of agreement are reflected in a bipartisan House bill introduced in March.

But the House is waiting for the Senate; if a bipartisan deal can be struck
there, the House will probably follow suit. A starting point for any debate
should be that this country needs immigrants -- those already here and those yet
to come. Immigration hawks who seem more intent on punishing illegal workers
than incorporating them into America's social fabric won't solve the problem.
And the longer Congress dithers, the more states and localities will attempt to
deal with the matter on their own -- and the more anarchy will become the rule
when it comes to immigration enforcement.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 18, 2007 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Deal on Immigration Reached;
Bush Supports Senate's Bipartisan Compromise, but Hurdles Remain

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1227 words


The Bush administration and a bipartisan group of senators reached agreement
yesterday on a sprawling overhaul of the nation's immigration laws that would
bring an estimated 12 million illegal immigrants out of society's shadows while
stiffening border protections and cracking down on employers of undocumented
workers.

The delicate compromise, 380 pages long and three months in the making,
represents perhaps the last opportunity for President Bush to win a major
legislative accomplishment for his second term, and it could become the most
significant revision of the nation's immigration system in 41 years. Bush hailed
the agreement as "one that will help enforce our borders, but equally
importantly, it will treat people with respect."

But though immigration proponents and opponents lauded the work done to reach a
deal, both sides -- including Democratic leaders in the House and the Senate --
said they could torpedo the legislation in the end, after the Senate begins
debate on the bill next week and after the House considers its version in July.

The Senate deal would grant temporary legal status to virtually all illegal
immigrants in the country, while allowing them to apply for residence visas and
eventual citizenship. A temporary-worker program would allow as many as 400,000
migrants into the country each year, but they would have to leave after two
years. And the current visa system, which stresses family ties, would be
augmented by a complex point system that would favor skilled, educated workers.
Most of those changes would take effect only after the implementation of tough
new border controls and a crackdown on the employment of undocumented workers.

"The question is, 'Do you want to solve the problem, or do you want to complain
about it?' " said Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff. "There will be
people who want to complain and will miss the problem if they can't complain
about it. This is about solving it."

Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) pleaded: "Don't let the perfect be the enemy of
the good."

But the compromises needed to win the support of a liberal lion such as Sen.
Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) and a conservative illegal-immigration foe such as
Sen. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) have made the bill extremely complex and have opened it
to attacks from all sides.

Democratic leaders were leery of three pivotal concessions to the conservatives.
The first would make illegal immigrants' access to long-term visas and the new
guest-worker program contingent upon the implementation of the border crackdown.
Before those immigrant-rights measures could go into effect, the government must
deploy 18,000 new Border Patrol agents and four unmanned aerial vehicles; build
200 miles of vehicle barriers, 370 miles of fencing, and 70 ground-based radar
and camera towers; provide funds for the detention of 27,500 illegal immigrants
a day; and complete new identification tools to help employers screen out
illegal job applicants.

Skeptics say those would take years, but Chertoff stressed yesterday that they
could be done in 18 months.

Another sticking point came from the proposed replacement of an immigration
system primarily designed to reunify families with a point system that would
give new emphasis to skills and education. Automatic family-reunification visas
would no longer apply to the adult siblings and children of U.S. citizens, and
visas for parents would be capped. Instead, points would be granted to migrants
with work experience in high-demand occupations and who have worked for a
U.S.-based firm. Additional points would be awarded based on education levels,
English proficiency and family ties.

"We need to find a system that values and honors the work of all," said Rep.
Luis V. Gutierrez (Ill.), who is one of the Democrats entrusted by House Speaker
Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) with developing a House bill. "The landscaper is just as
important as the computer scientist."

Finally, immigrants coming into the country under the temporary work program
would have to leave when their permits expire, with no chance to appeal for
permanent residence. Labor unions say such a system would depress wages and
create an underclass.

Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.) expressed serious concerns about
the temporary-worker provision and the family migration structure in a tepid
response to the deal. Sen. Robert Menendez (N.J.), a key Democrat on the issue,
refused to sign the deal he had helped negotiate for months.

And Sen. Barack Obama (D-Ill.), a White House hopeful, warned that "the proposed
bill could devalue the importance of family reunification, replace the current
group of undocumented immigrants with a new undocumented population consisting
of guest workers who will overstay their visas, and potentially drive down wages
of American workers."

Conservatives were no less skeptical. The immigration overhaul that passed the
Senate last year identified three categories of illegal immigrants, based on the
length of time they had been in the country, and would have granted immediate
legal status only to those who had been here the longest. Others would have had
to return home or would have faced deportation.

This year's legislation would grant undocumented workers who came into the
country before January a permit to remain. They could then apply for a new,
four-year "Z Visa," renewable indefinitely, as long as they pay a $5,000 fine, a
$1,500 processing fee, show a clean work record and pass a criminal background
check.

The new bill's authors "seem to think that they can dupe the American public
into accepting a blanket amnesty if they just call it 'comprehensive' or 'earned
legalization' or 'regularization,' " said Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.), a
presidential candidate who is a strong opponent of illegal immigration. "The
president is so desperate for a legacy and a domestic policy win that he is
willing to sell out the American people and our national security."

Bush has wanted to include immigration changes to his legacy since he was
governor of Texas. And it is one of a few issues in which he has been willing to
buck key factions in his party to achieve a compromise. At one point, Bush had
been hopeful that the issue would lead to a realignment of American politics,
with more Hispanics joining the Republican Party.

White House officials viewed yesterday's breakthrough as a sign that the
president can still have an impact on domestic policy despite the poisoned
relations between the administration and congressional Democrats over Iraq. It
was the second major bipartisan deal struck by Bush in the past week, following
a deal with House Democrats last Friday to move ahead with several free-trade
pacts.

But the deal is far from done. The compromise's authors asked both sides to
consider the alternative. With an election year approaching, Democrats and
Republicans said the coming weeks offer the last window of opportunity for
Congress to act. If the bill fails, an immigration system that both sides see as
hopelessly broken would go unremedied for years.

"Year after year, we've heard talk about reforming our system. We've heard the
bumper-sticker solutions, the campaign ads, and we know how divisive it is,"
Kennedy said. "Well, now, it is time for action. 2007 is the year we must fix
our broken system."

Staff writer Michael Abramowitz contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Chip Somodevilla -- Getty Images; In a light moment before a
news conference on the immigration overhaul compromise reached by the White
House and the Senate are, from left, Sens. Mel Martinez (R-Fla.), Lindsey Graham
(R-S.C.) and Edward Kennedy (D-Mass.).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 20, 2007 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

No Easy Path to Immigration Reform;
Senate's Comprehensive Proposal Raises Concerns About Implementation

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 957 words


In vowing not to repeat the mistakes of the country's 1986 amnesty, Homeland
Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said late last week that the Senate
immigration overhaul "put workability front and center," promising to secure
U.S. borders and workplaces and making the economy more competitive.

But many aspects of the proposal pose enormous implementation challenges, whose
consequences would be felt not just by an estimated 12 million illegal
immigrants but by every U.S. employer, worker and new legal immigrant in coming
years.

Changes would require careful calibration to meet changing labor market needs
and human responses, all on a scale never before attempted, said immigration
lawyers, business lobbyists, former U.S. officials and policy analysts.

In some ways, border security improvements that would have to be made by a
December 2008 deadline are the easy part, according to Dawn M. Lurie, bar
liaison for the American Immigration Lawyers Association. The U.S. Citizenship
and Immigration Services agency (USCIS) has been "overburdened and pretty much
dysfunctional," she said.

"I read this [bill] and say this is hysterical. How is it going to be
implemented? It's crazy," said Lurie, who praised the bill's general intent.

The Senate measure requires that DHS in 18 months expand nationwide to all 7
million U.S. employers an improved version of a program  used voluntarily by
6,000 companies to check Social Security numbers against government databases,
to weed out illegal workers.

However, a pilot program was prone to false alarms, with as many as 20 percent
of noncitizens and 13 percent of citizens sent for follow-up visits to
immigration offices. A new version is supposed to help employers verify that
document holders are who they say they are by letting them download digital
photographs, but it may not be entirely workable in a massive deployment, said
Laura Foote Reiff, a lawyer with Greenberg Traurig who represents the Essential
Worker Immigration Coalition of service industries.

"It's huge," Reiff said. "It's not just a matter of them having the capacity to
do it and the staff to handle this. It's also employers having the notice they
need to train their people to get whatever equipment they need to use the new
system, and to work out the kinks."

What's more, in three years all companies would have to recheck identification
and Social Security documents for all 140 million U.S. workers, including
citizens.

Security mix-ups that keep travelers from boarding airplanes could pale in
comparison with database problems that block Americans from their work.

"If you tell me you can get this right 99 percent, from a policy perspective,
that's fantastic," said Deborah W. Meyers, senior analyst at the Migration
Policy Institute. "The challenge is that 1 percent is an awful lot of people."

Meanwhile, DHS would be gearing up to launch the biggest pieces of the plan -- a
"Y visa" for 400,000 temporary workers and a "Z visa" for up to 12 million
illegal immigrants who entered the United States before the start of this year.

The Y visa for guest workers would be good for two years and could be renewed
three times, as long as the worker leaves the country for a year between
renewals.

Under the four-year renewable Z visa program, employed illegal immigrants could
apply for a temporary permit, then stay in the United States after paying a
$5,000 fine and a $1,500 processing fee and passing a criminal background check.
Heads of illegal-immigrant households would have eight years to return to their
home countries for a chance to apply for permanent residency for household
members.

Both programs have some unknowns, and size is one of them. In 1986, only about 3
million immigrants applied for legal status.

"How do you register 10 million people in 18 months?" Meyers asked.

Also, before the proposed eight-year deadline for the Z visa program arrived,
Congress would require that DHS clear its waiting list of 4 million applications
by legal immigrants for visas to reunite relatives, dating to January 2005.

To do that, the government projects having to ramp up the issuance of
family-preference visas by 440,000 a year. By comparison, USCIS now processes
about 1.1 million green-card requests a year.

Requiring workers to come and go also would disrupt companies and burden
immigrant families, said David W. Leopold, an officer of the immigration lawyers
group.

"What's the incentive for somebody to leave and come back?" he said. "The more
complex it is, the more difficult it will be for people to qualify, which will
lead to the same sort of unsolvable illegal population problem that we have
now."

Performing security checks also would be difficult. Of 2.7 million names of
pending USCIS applicants resubmitted for checks against FBI databases at the end
of 2002, 440,000 remain unresolved, the FBI has said.

In one of its most significant proposed changes, the Senate plan mandates a move
-- after the family waiting list is cleared -- to awarding visas using a
point-based merit system based on education, English proficiency and job skills
rather than family relations.

While the change is politically contentious, it also could pose "a crapshoot for
employers," said Carl W. Hampe, a Washington lawyer and former Senate Judiciary
counsel who helped draft the 1986 law. Hampe said lawmakers rejected a point
system back then, concerned that it would be too rigid for Congress and
immigration agencies to adjust to market changes.

William Yates, former head of operations for USCIS, said the task would be made
more difficult by growing pains in DHS.

"Can it be implemented? Yes. . . . Is it going to be difficult? Yes," Yates
said. "And is it going to be more difficult because it's such a new department?
Yes."

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 24, 2007 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

A Bill That Earned Its Doubters

BYLINE: George F. Will

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A31

LENGTH: 839 words


Compromise is incessantly praised, and it has produced the proposed immigration
legislation. But compromise is the mother of complexity, which, regarding
immigration, virtually guarantees -- as the public understands -- weak
enforcement and noncompliance.

Although the compromise was announced the day the Census Bureau reported that
there now are 100 million nonwhites in America, Americans are skeptical about
the legislation, but not because they have suddenly succumbed to nativism.
Rather, the public has slowly come to the conclusion that the government cannot
be trusted to mean what it says about immigration.

In 1986, when there probably were 3 million to 5 million illegal immigrants,
Americans accepted an amnesty because they were promised that border control
would promptly follow. Today the 12 million illegal immigrants, 60 percent of
whom have been here five or more years, are as numerous as Pennsylvanians; 44
states have populations smaller than 12 million. Deporting the 12 million would
require police resources and methods from which the nation would rightly flinch.
So, why not leave bad enough alone?

Concentrate on border control and on workplace enforcement facilitated by a
biometric identification card issued to immigrants who are or will arrive here
legally. Treat the problem of the 12 million with benign neglect. Their children
born here are American citizens; the parents of these children will pass away.

Under current immigration policies, America is importing another underclass, one
"with the potential to expand indefinitely," according to Heather Mac Donald of
the Manhattan Institute for Policy Research. To sentimentalists who cling to
"the myth of the redeeming power of Hispanic family values, the Hispanic work
ethic, and Hispanic virtue," she says:

From 1990 to 2004, Hispanics accounted for 92 percent of the increase in poor
people. Only 53 percent of Hispanics earn high school diplomas, the lowest among
American ethnic groups. Half of all children born to Hispanic Americans in 2005
were born out of wedlock -- a reliable predictor of social pathologies.

The legislation supposedly would shift policy from emphasizing family
unification to emphasizing economic criteria (skills) when setting eligibility
for immigrants. Critics  say this will sunder families. But the sundering has
happened; it was done by illegal immigrants who left family members behind and
are free to reunite with their families where they left them.

Anyway, the supposed shift from emphasizing family relations -- the emphasis
that results in "chain migration" -- to economic merit may be diluted to
nothingness. It is highly suspicious that there was a rush -- fortunately
stymied -- to pass this legislation through both houses and get it to
conference, where the majority of participants will be Democrats eager to court
Hispanic votes.

Some Democrats argue that liberalism's teetering achievement, the welfare state,
requires liberal immigration policies. The argument is: Today there are only 3.3
workers for every retiree. In January, the first of 77 million baby boomers
begin to retire. By the time they have retired, in 2030, there will be 2.2
workers for every retiree -- but only if the workforce is replenished by 900,000
immigrants a year.

On Monday, however, Robert Rector of the Heritage Foundation stunned some
senators who heard his argument that continuing, under family-based immigration,
to import a low-skilled population will cost the welfare state far more than the
immigrants' contributions to the economy and government. He argued that
low-skilled immigrants are costly to the welfare state at every point in their
life cycle and are very costly when elderly. Just the 9 million to 10 million
adults already here illegally will, if given amnesty, cost an average of
$300,000 -- cumulatively, more than $2.5 trillion -- in various entitlements
(Social Security, food stamps, Medicaid, housing, etc.) over 30 years.

To those who say border control is impossible -- often these are the same people
who said better policing could not substantially reduce crime, until it did --
one answer is: It took just 34 months for the Manhattan Project to progress from
the creation of the town of Oak Ridge in the Tennessee wilderness to the atomic
explosion at Alamogordo, N.M. That is what America accomplishes when it is
serious.

In an attempt to anesthetize people who sensibly say "border control and
workplace enforcement first," important provisions of the legislation would
supposedly be "triggered" only when control of the border is "certified" by the
president. But in what looks like a parody of the Washington mentality,
certification would be triggered not by border control but by the hiring of
border control agents and other spending. So, the supposedly hardheaded aspects
of the legislation actually rest on the delusion that spending equals the
achievement of the intention behind the spending. By that assumption, we have
long since tranquilized and democratized Iraq.

georgewill@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 26, 2007 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Getting a Handle on Immigration

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 308 words


As a U.S. citizen and a child of a legal immigrant, I am outraged over the
arrogance of elected representatives who do not seem to care what their
constituents want in regard to illegal immigration [news story, May 20].

We've had immigration laws on the books for years that our government has
refused to enforce. Now we're expected to believe yet another, 300-plus-page
Rube Goldberg-ian document is going to solve the immigration woes, with a point
system and reliance on the federal government to monitor the borders.

Our elected officials choose to make this issue much more difficult than it is.
If you enforce border security and crack down on companies that hire illegal
immigrants, it will stem the flow of illegal immigrants, and the ones who are
here will go home. No work equals no money equals no reason to stay. It's that
simple.

If I hear one more politician say that we can't round up all 12 million illegal
immigrants and deport them, my head will explode. Certainly no rational person
is suggesting this as a realistic option. Our legislators don't seem to see
attrition by enforcement as an option,   but it's the only viable one out there.
That is what the American people want.

RON FERRARO

Purcellville

I was disappointed in the definition of the sides as "supporters and opponents
of illegal immigration" in "Discord on the Immigration Accord" [news story, May
21].

Groups that support comprehensive immigration reform are not in favor of illegal
immigration. They are working to fix a broken system and end illegal
immigration.

Pro-immigrant groups simply realize that supporting immigrants and supporting
the United States are not mutually exclusive.  The United States must fix its
broken system

so that immigrants can continue to be an integral part of our growth and
prosperity.

DREW SEMAN

Executive Director

Immigrants' List

Washington

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 28, 2007 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Immigration Agency Mired In Inefficiency

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1316 words


Last June, U.S. immigration officials were presented a plan that supporters said
could help slash waiting times for green cards from nearly three years to three
months and save 1 million applicants more than a third of the 45 hours they
could expect to spend in government lines.

It would also save about $350 million.

The response? No thanks.

Leaders of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services rejected key changes
because ending huge immigration backlogs nationwide would rob the agency of
application and renewal fees that cover 20 percent of its $1.8 billion budget,
according to the plan's author, agency ombudsman Prakash Khatri.

Current and former immigration officials dispute that, saying Khatri's plan,
based on a successful pilot program in Dallas, would be unmanageable if expanded
nationwide. Still, they acknowledge financial problems and say that
modernization efforts have been delayed since 1999 by money shortages, inertia,
increased security demands after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks and the disruptive
launch of the Homeland Security Department.

As the nation debates whether, and how, to legalize as many as 12 million
illegal immigrants living here, the agency that would spearhead the effort is
confronting its reputation as a broken bureaucracy whose inefficiency encourages
more illegal immigration and paradoxical disincentives to change.

Under the Senate's proposed immigration legislation, Citizenship and Immigration
Services would vet applications and perform security checks for those illegal
immigrants -- a surge that would be almost triple the agency's annual caseload
of 5 million applications.

Each application could generate fines and fees of $1,000 to $5,000, a windfall
of $10 billion to $15 billion over eight years, Homeland Security officials
said. The money would dwarf revenue from a previously announced agency plan to
increase fees on immigration and employment applications by 50 percent as early
as next week, to raise $1 billion a year.

Former U.S. officials, watchdog groups and immigrant advocates warn that
Citizenship and Immigration is ill-positioned to make the best use of the money.
Instead, they say, Congress must change how it funds the 16,000-worker agency
and provide tough oversight if the agency is to move past its legacy of shoddy
service, years-long delays and susceptibility to fraud. Liberals and
conservatives say relying on user fees to upgrade the agency is a recipe for
disaster.

"If the USCIS fails once again to meet the challenge, the laws of supply and
demand will overtake U.S. immigration laws," driving workers and employers to
bypass the law, said James Jay Carafano, a senior fellow at the conservative
Heritage Foundation.

Given the nation's history of weak enforcement at the border and against
companies that hire illegal workers, Citizenship and Immigration's record as
gatekeeper for legal immigrants often goes overlooked. Each year the agency,
once known as the Immigration and Naturalization Service, awards 1 million green
cards, 700,000 naturalizations and 1 million temporary work permits.

Delays have plagued its efforts, however. After peaking at more than 5 million
applications in 2003, the agency's backlog stood at 1.1 million last summer
after a five-year, $500 million reduction effort. That includes 140,000 cases
not awaiting action by another agency.

Citizenship and Immigration's troubles stem from the nation's 1986 amnesty.
Acting on the principle that citizenship is a benefit that immigrants, not
taxpayers, should pay for, Congress required immigrants to cover the cost of
citizenship examinations, then about a tenth of INS's budget.

But what started as a reform became an addiction. Hooked on fees, Congress
allowed the growth of a Turkish bazaar of levies, through which immigrants now
pay for 90 percent of the agency's budget. They subsidize even non-paying
applicants such as refugees, asylum seekers and U.S. military members.

As workloads grew, fees, last revised in 1998, did not keep up. Without money to
invest in technology and management improvements, the agency continued to rely
on a paper-based filing system from the pre-computer age. That carried $100
million a year in costs for archiving, retrieval, storage and shipping, as well
as lost paperwork and delays. The 2001 attacks prompted costly new mandates for
background checks, security upgrades at more than 100 offices and subsidies to
strapped enforcement operations and the new Homeland Security Department.

By 2004, Citizenship and Immigration was "looking at maybe $500 million or more
in the hole," said William Yates, then head of domestic operations.

As backlogs and deficits grew, the agency ratcheted up charges to cover its
budget. The longer applicants waited, the more they paid.

"We were really operating a Ponzi scheme," said Yates, who retired last year
after 31 years at the agency. "The money that current applicants were paying, we
were using to adjudicate older cases.

For example, Citizenship and Immigration set up a Chicago office strictly to
accept signed applications and checks, even though most applications are not
approved. Officials said they created the system because the Treasury Department
offered to set it up at no cost, and the agency doesn't like to process
applications before being paid to do so.

In 2005, it raised $230 million by charging green-card applicants for about 1
million temporary work and travel permits they needed while waiting for their
cases to be processed. About 325,000 interim permits went to people whose
applications were later denied, creating a security risk, Khatri said.

The agency raised another $139 million by charging a separate "premium
processing" fee of $1,000 -- three times the normal fee -- that is now used by a
majority of applicants to speed up the process.

"If you're a good-government agency, why are you trying to cheat or fool the
public into thinking they have to go into first class?" Khatri asked.

Yates said he proposed the premium charge in 1999 to pay for modernization
efforts, but the money was tapped after the 2001 attacks for operations.

Under a proposal issued Jan. 31 and to be made final as early as this week,
Citizenship and Immigration seeks to boost fees by more than 50 percent on
average and to dedicate $139 million in premium fees to modernization. The cost
of applying for legal permanent residency, for example, would nearly triple,
from $325 to $905.

The plan has drawn 39,000 comments, including criticism from a wide range of
interests. Critics say it proposes punishingly big fee increases on immigrants
and their employers but promises just a 20 percent improvement in services.

Khatri's proposal to slash green-card waiting times was to assign staffers to
weed out ineligible applicants and to ensure that others' forms are complete at
the time of filing, cutting down caseloads and processing delays. However,
officials determined that while "up-front" processing improved customer service
at small offices, it would cost more and worsen service in busy offices because
managers cannot anticipate how many people will show up, nor predict political
or other circumstances that drive surges in applications.

Agency spokesman Chris Bentley declined to comment specifically on proposals
pending before Congress and cited Yates as an authority on Khatri's past
reports.

Business transformation is "not something that can be done overnight," he added.
"We're building an immigration system to last 30 years."

The Senate proposal would allow Congress to appropriate money in advance to
Citizenship and Immigration. The funds would be repaid by legalization fines and
fees, and would not be counted toward the federal deficit.

Yates said the clock is ticking. "If they do not start to modernize, they're
going to be at a really severe disadvantage when the impact of this comes in,"
he said. "It means they should have already started."

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 3, 2007 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Watching Our Welcome Mat

BYLINE: Jim Hoagland

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. B07

LENGTH: 772 words

DATELINE: SINGAPORE


The rancorous American debate over changing U.S. immigration law does not end at
the water's edge. The choices that Congress will soon make are being watched and
judged abroad for what they will say about the future that Americans want for
themselves and for the world.

Immigration -- along with climate change and protectionism -- now heads the list
of the most urgent and divisive global issues in country after country. How the
United States handles the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants inside its
borders while establishing new gates or barriers for those yet to come has
significant global implications that are too rarely examined on Capitol Hill.

U.S. success in absorbing and assimilating waves of immigrants throughout its
history is still seen overseas as a great American strength. The new chance that
the American way of life represents for so many is a defining characteristic of
the nation.

So it is jarring to hear American politicians talk full throttle of nothing but
the hopelessness of having to cope with new tides of foreigners and the need to
punish and expel masses of undocumented workers who are already in the country,
no matter how they have conducted themselves.

The critics' wrath has been triggered by a good-faith effort by Sens. Edward M.
Kennedy (D-Mass.) and Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) to bring immigration laws more into line
with reality and justice. Their proposed legislation would establish paths to
legal status and eventual citizenship, along with fines for having entered the
United States illegally and at least nominally tighter border security.

President Bush has pledged to sign the bipartisan bill if it survives the
withering crossfire that has erupted from Republicans who falsely denounce it as
a reckless "amnesty" measure and from Democrats who brand as "heartless" the
bill's intent to grant more visas to those with skills the economy needs than to
families seeking to reunite.

The critics should be working with Kennedy and Kyl to fix the bill's manifest
imperfections rather than attacking the legislation in terms so broad and
damning as to cast doubt on the United States' ability to absorb immigrants as
well as the future vitality of the world's biggest economy.

Isn't the dream of so many foreigners to be American worth nurturing and, where
possible, eventually rewarding -- rather than preemptively treating it with
suspicion and rejection? Wouldn't a more generous tone toward aspiring Americans
make more sense at a time when the reputation of the United States is under
sustained attack and heavy suspicion overseas?

In any event, our compositeness -- mine is that of a Norwegian-Irish
perspective, by way of South Carolina -- sets the United States apart from most
other societies I have observed in nearly half a century of traveling and living
abroad. Class, caste, bloodlines, history or demands of social conformity
elsewhere restrict the mobility and the serendipitous character of life that
Americans take for granted.

It must be said that our forefathers were so impressed with immigration that
they forced it on millions of Africans brought as slaves to American shores.
That grim chapter occurred in the earliest phase of globalization, just as today
criminal and terrorist networks exploit the surging movements of people, goods,
capital and technology across borders for their own purposes.

Informed by the grapevine, television and the Internet about the affluent lives
of others in foreign lands, the poor, unemployed and dispossessed of the Third
World are increasingly ready to risk everything in desperate attempts to flee
failing states and seek better lives in the industrially developed countries of
North America, Europe and Asia.

One of the first acts of newly elected French President Nicolas Sarkozy was to
create a Ministry of Immigration and National Identity, which will delineate new
government powers and responsibilities in an area French politicians have
treated as taboo for decades. Germany and Britain have also launched intensive
dialogues to spell out the rights and duties of immigrants.

Immigration reform is only part of the answer. Developed nations must
concentrate foreign aid on making it viable for would-be immigrants to work and
stay where they are.

Americans must protect the physical and economic security of their country from
the malignant forces of globalization. But we must also recognize the enormous
influence of U.S. actions on immigration after two centuries of leadership and
relative success in this area. It is a heritage that Americans should not
abandon out of inordinate fear or simple prejudice.

jimhoagland@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Brian Albert Broom -- Associated Press; A protest rally
against immigration reform legislation in Jackson, Miss., on Thursday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 11, 2007 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

An insider's guide to the upcoming week

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 484 words

Immigration, Round 2

Supporters of the immigration overhaul package, which failed to come up for a
vote in the Senate last week, will try to resurrect the legislation.

President Bush will make a rare visit to the Senate on Tuesday to urge
Republicans to get behind the bill. The measure would beef up border security,
increase penalties for companies that hire illegal laborers, create a
temporary-worker program and offer a path to citizenship for many of the
estimated 12 million illegal immigrants already here.

A move to end debate and vote on the bill garnered 45 senators Thursday, 15
short of the number needed to prevent a filibuster.

Before a decision on whether the bill can come up again, conservative
Republicans, who decry the legislation as "amnesty," will want a guarantee that
they can offer several amendments. Democrats don't want to spend too much time
working through GOP-backed amendments.

The president will be returning today from a trip to the Group of Eight summit
in Germany, by way of a visit to Bulgaria, a U.S. ally.

"No" to "Fredo"?: Also on the agenda this afternoon: a no-confidence resolution,
organized by Sen. Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.), against Attorney General Alberto
R. Gonzales for his handling of the matter of the fired U.S. attorneys. Such a
resolution would have no practical impact, and word is that it is doomed.

The Senate is to take up a less polarizing issue this week in the form of an
energy bill.

Hidden earmarks: Over in the House, it's appropriations, all the time. The
chamber is taking up four spending bills: homeland security ($37.4 billion);
energy and water ($31.6 billion); military construction and veterans spending
($109.2 billion), a measure that Democrats say provides the largest increase in
Veterans Affairs spending ever; and interior and environment ($27.6 billion).
There's some controversy because Appropriations Committee Chairman Rep. David R.
Obey (D-Wis.) is not disclosing the size and number of lawmaker-inserted
earmarks in the bills, saying he will wait until Senate and House negotiators
meet about 2008 spending in the fall.

Money, money, money: Not much happening in public, but it's a big week for
fundraising on the 2008 campaign trail, with the June 30 second-quarter deadline
approaching. Big questions include whether Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) can
improve on his take in the first quarter, and whether Sen. Barack Obama (D-Ill.)
will raise more than Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-N.Y.).

On the congressional side, Bush will attend the annual dinner of the Republican
House and Senate campaign committees on Wednesday. Last year, the event
collected $27 million.

On Leno's stage: Former senator Fred D. Thompson of Tennessee, exploring whether
to run for the GOP presidential nomination, will appear on "The Tonight Show
With Jay Leno" tomorrow, an appropriate venue for the former "Law and Order"
actor to tease his candidacy.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE
IMAGE
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 11, 2007 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

A weekly roundup of the buzz from the Sunday talk shows

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 295 words


The White House and Republican allies were optimistic that the immigration
overhaul bill will come back to life and pass the Senate, as they hinted they
will pitch the bill as necessary to securing the border and enforcing the law,
appealing to conservatives wary that illegal immigrants will continue to stream
into the country.

"It is the largest investment ever in border security," White House press
secretary Tony Snow said on "Fox News Sunday." "We have a mechanism now for
knowing who the illegals are, where they are, whether they're working, whether
they're breaking the law."

Commerce Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez said the White House will emphasize that
the immigration proposal "is first and foremost a national security bill."
People might say, "Just go ahead and enforce the law," said Gutierrez, speaking
on CNN's "Late Edition." But, he added, "our laws are insufficient." The keys in
the bill include requiring workers to carry a tamper-proof, biometric
identification card and mandating that employers use a worker
eligibility-verification system, he said.

Sen. Richard J. Durbin (Ill.), the Democratic whip, suggested that Democrats
will allow debate to resume if Republicans promise to limit the number of
amendments they try to debate.

MCCAIN'S TIMELINE: Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), who said he is going to support
the U.S. troop increase in Iraq even "if I'm the last man standing,"
acknowledged that time is running out for substantial signs of progress there.

"I read the polls and I know what American public opinion is, and I regret that
now September seems to be a magic moment," McCain said on ABC's "This Week." He
said the government of Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki has to show "fairly soon"
that it can govern effectively.

By Zachary A. Goldfarb

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 17, 2007 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Protesters Denounce Immigration Bill;
D.C. March Is Part of 14-State Event

BYLINE: Mariana Minaya; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 335 words


More than 100 people gathered at the Washington Monument yesterday to protest
immigration legislation that they reject as amnesty for the nation's estimated
12 million illegal immigrants.

Carrying signs with slogans such as "Reform Mexico Not the USA," and T-shirts
that read "Stop illegal immigration. Ask me how," the demonstrators cheered,
clapped and shouted as more than a dozen speakers from different organizations
took the stage.

March for America, a group that opposes President Bush's immigration reforms,
organized three days of marches and speakers across 14 states to urge tighter
border protection and denounce opportunities to afford illegal immigrants a path
to citizenship.

"It's an insult to the three million people who are already in line to come to
America," said Jeff Lewis, deputy director of the Federal Immigration Reform and
Enforcement Coalition, one of the speakers who said the recent wave of
immigration was "the largest invasion in the history of the world."

The demonstration came as the U.S. Senate plans to discuss a revised bipartisan
immigration bill that would revamp border protection, punish employers of
illegal immigrants and provide citizenship opportunities for illegal immigrants.

Some at yesterday's event said they feared that terrorists would slip through
improperly protected borders or that legal workers would increasingly lose jobs
to an illegal workforce.

"The demand for legal American labor is no longer there," shouted another
speaker, Miguel Cruz of the organization, You Don't Speak for Me, a group of
American Hispanics opposed to illegal immigration.

"We have to change that!" replied a woman in the crowd.

While opposing amnesty for illegal immigrants, protesters said they support
legal immigration.

"We need them here in reasonable numbers that allow time for them to become
Americans," Lewis said.

About six counter-protesters in attendance said such demonstrations mask racism.
One man carried a sign that read in Spanish: "Nadie es Ilegal" (No one is
illegal).

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Pouya Dianat -- The Washington Post; Scott Dibenedetto of
Pahrump, Nev., videotapes one of the speakers at the March for America
demonstration at the Washington Monument.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 18, 2007 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Enforce the Immigration Laws

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 270 words


In her June 10 op-ed, "The Myth of Amnesty," Arizona Gov. Janet Napolitano
correctly noted that "our country has done basically nothing to enforce the 1986
legislation against either the employers who hired illegal immigrants or those
who crossed our borders illegally to work for them." But then she said that the
1986 law is unenforceable. How can she know this? We have never tried. What
opponents of the current immigration legislation want is enforcement of the laws
that we have. Creating more unenforced laws will do no good.

Ms. Napolitano also said of the latest immigration bill:  "It is not 'amnesty'
to require these individuals to earn the privilege of citizenship." The illegal
immigrants who would get legal status by the bill being considered in the Senate
would not be required to apply for citizenship; they would have to apply for a
visa, pay fees and meet other requirements, but they would face no penalties.
The businesses that have employed them and that have put out of business
competitors who followed the

law would face neither prosecution nor penalties. What is that, if not

amnesty?

Ms. Napolitano brought up a sob story of the 12-year-old girl who was left here
when her parents and brother, illegal immigrants, were deported. Crime breaks up
families when the criminal is sent to jail. But in this case, her family could
have taken her with them. Coming here illegally was their choice. Leaving her
here was their choice, too.

The governor's penultimate sentence was the best in the piece: Amnesty, she
said, is " not a solution." She is right. Enforcement is the solution.

JACK SCHEIBLE

Springfield

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 21, 2007 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Immigration Lifts Wages, Report Says;
White House Asserts Only Least-Skilled Native Workers Are Hurt

BYLINE: Lori Montgomery; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. D03

LENGTH: 745 words


Immigration has a positive impact on the U.S. economy and boosts wages for the
vast majority of native workers, though there are "small negative effects" on
the earnings of the least-skilled Americans, according to a report the White
House issued yesterday.

The report, a review of economic research prepared by the president's Council of
Economic Advisers, concludes that foreign-born workers have accounted for about
half of labor force growth in the past decade, fueling overall economic output,
creating jobs and increasing earnings for native-born workers by as much as $80
billion a year.

Immigrants and their children also have a "modest positive influence" on
government spending, the report says, contributing about $80,000 more per person
in tax dollars over the long run than they claim in government benefits and
services.

The report directly challenges attacks on President Bush's proposal to overhaul
immigration laws. His measure would link beefed-up border security and a
crackdown on employers who hire illegal immigrants to provisions granting legal
status to the 12 million illegal immigrants already in the country. It would
also create a guest-worker program sought by business and shift the emphasis of
immigration policy from family ties to job skills and education.

Nearly defeated in the Senate two weeks ago, the bill was given new life late
last week and is now the focus of intense lobbying campaigns by the White House
and business groups, as well as by immigration opponents from across the
political spectrum.

Democratic opponents argue that the measure would hurt American workers. It
would "flood the U.S. job market with millions of workers who will compete, at
low wages, for jobs Americans are now doing," driving "down American wages and
living standards," Sen. Byron L. Dorgan (D-N.D.) wrote this month in the
National Review.

Conservative opponents argue that the bill would amount to amnesty for
undeserving lawbreakers who they say tend to be low-skilled, uneducated and a
drain on government resources. In a report published last month, Heritage
Foundation senior research fellow Robert Rector argues that, far from
contributing to public coffers, low-skilled immigrant households cost taxpayers
$89 billion more each year than they pay in taxes.

The rosier scenario in the White House report averages the cost of immigrants
and their descendants over 300 years, Rector said. "It takes 300 years of
subsequent earnings to make up for the first and second generation," he said.

Edward P. Lazear, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, acknowledged
that the estimate covers several generations but said the bulk of the cost is
recovered quickly. He said Rector's research is flawed because it lacks a
"multi-year context" and focuses solely on low-skilled households that would be
barred from receiving "the vast majority of welfare benefits" under the
president's proposal.

"The report is pointing out what we think is obvious and standard economics,"
Lazear said. "But what is mainstream and standard and accepted by the economics
community doesn't necessarily mean policymakers or the general public
understands it."

Foreign-born workers make up 15 percent of the U.S. labor force, with large
concentrations at the top and bottom of the education scale, the report says.
For example, immigrants make up 36 percent of workers who lack a high-school
diploma and 41 percent of scientists with doctoral degrees.

As a group, immigrants earn 77 cents on the dollar compared with native workers,
though that gap largely disappears among college graduates.

More than 90 percent of native workers benefit from the influx of low-wage labor
because immigrants take jobs that complement higher-paid native workers rather
than competing with them, according to the report. For example, Lazear said,
immigrant roofers lower costs for contractors and home-builders, creating jobs
for plumbers and electricians and lowering the price of houses for consumers.

The losers are native workers who compete directly with immigrants in certain
job categories, though the impact on their earnings is small compared with other
factors, such as technological advances, globalization and minimum wage levels,
said Giovanni Peri, an economics professor at the University of California at
Davis.

"There's this aversion to immigration, but people should be much more averse to
computers," Peri said. "They are much more responsible for the bad effects" on
U.S. workers.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 24, 2007 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

Cross Purposes: Christians Confront Immigration Issue

BYLINE: Daniel Burke; Religion News Service

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 842 words


Lifelong Roman Catholic Raymond Ross and his church agree on one thing: The
United States needs to change its immigration policies. From that point, their
views sharply diverge.

Strapped with a pistol and binoculars, Ross, 69, and a posse of fellow Minutemen
spent four days last month patrolling an Arizona valley they say is heavily
trafficked by illegal border-crossers from Mexico. When they spied a group of
suspected undocumented immigrants, they called the U.S. Border Patrol, Ross
says.

"We're just people who got tired of our government not doing anything," Ross
says of the Minutemen Civil Defense Corps.

Arizona's Catholic leaders -- as well as Catholics nationwide -- are also
pushing hard for changes to U.S. immigration laws. But whereas Ross and other
Minutemen want to see a bulked-up border, the Catholic Church advocates a more
welcoming approach to undocumented workers, including an earned path to
citizenship.

A number of prominent religious leaders -- from all shades of the theological
spectrum -- have called for a "comprehensive and compassionate" reform of
existing laws. It's part of what they see as their biblical mandate to care for
the stranger.

But it's unclear if their flocks in the pews agree. More than 60 percent of
white evangelicals say immigrants are a "burden" to the United States because
they take jobs, housing and health care, according to a 2006 poll conducted by
the nonpartisan Pew Forum on Religion & Public Life. Fifty-six percent of white
Catholics and 51 percent of white mainline Protestants agree, according to the
survey.

John Green, a senior fellow at the Pew Center, says religious leaders --
particularly evangelicals and Southern Baptists -- are sometimes caught between
the law-and-order conservatives who fill their pews and the Latino immigrants
who populate their mission fields.

"There really is a tension there. They know that many of their parishioners are
skeptical -- if not actively opposed -- to [immigration reform]. On the other
hand, this is a group that puts an imperative on evangelization," Green says.

Ross, who considers himself a faithful Catholic and attends Mass six days a
week, reflects that tension. He says his church is "kind of confused" on the
immigration question.

"There is compassion," he says, "but there is also misguided compassion as far
as I can see it."

But Cardinal Roger Mahony of Los Angeles, an outspoken supporter of immigrants,
says the issue is clear.

"As a Christian, there are no prior commitments that can overrule, or trump,
this biblical tradition of compassion for the stranger, the alien and the
worker," Mahony said at a lecture last month in Philadelphia.

The Rev. Jim Wallis, a best-selling author and head of Sojourners/Call to
Renewal, a progressive Washington-based social justice group, agrees, arguing
that clergy sometimes need to be ahead of their churches.

"Pastors and preachers aren't pollsters," Wallis says. "You've got to love your
congregation enough to preach the gospel."

Wallis and others recently launched the group Christians for Comprehensive
Immigration Reform, a coalition of mainline and evangelical Christians,
including the National Hispanic Christian Leadership Conference, the United
Methodist Church's General Board of Church and Society, and Church World
Service.

Around the same time, a consortium of 12 faith traditions launched a "New
Sanctuary Movement" to protect illegal immigrants in danger of deportation.

The U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops is lobbying lawmakers behind the scenes,
as well as pushing grass-roots efforts in about 100 dioceses, according to J.
Kevin Appleby, the conference's director of migration and refugee services.

Appleby says the debate on Capitol Hill "may be best chance in a generation for
legalizing" the estimated 12 million undocumented immigrants in the United
States. But he acknowledges there are some Catholics who disagree with the
bishops on this issue.

"There is a feeling that, you know, why are the bishops putting so much at stake
in newcomers outside the law and they're not standing up for me?" Appleby says.

Like the Catholic Church, Ross, the Minuteman, thinks a guest-worker program may
help prevent the exploitation of undocumented workers by unscrupulous employers.
But he disagrees with his church's advocacy of an earned path to citizenship.

"You can't do that with 12 million people," he says.

A retired utilities operator who now lives with his wife in Prescott, Ariz., the
soft-spoken Ross says he ran a food pantry at his former church in Northern
California for eight years. A healthy dollop of the food went to Latino migrants
who worked the farms there, he says.

And while he isn't sure his local parish priest would approve of his Minuteman
work, in a "roundabout way" Ross thinks he and his church are on the same
mission, he says.

"We're actually working for [illegal immigrants]," Ross says, stressing that the
Minutemen are not the heartless vigilantes they are sometimes made out to be.
"We want them to have a legal way of coming into this country to work."

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Stefano Paltera -- Associated Press; Cardinal Roger Mahony of
L.A. believes that "[nothing] can overrule . . . this biblical tradition of
compassion for the stranger."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 26, 2007 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

GOP Backers Offer Immigration Bill Change;
Provision Would Require Illegal Residents to Return Home to Gain Legal Status

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 854 words


With a crucial test vote scheduled for today, Republican supporters of a
sweeping immigration bill threw their weight yesterday behind a significant
change to the legislation that would force illegal immigrants to return to their
home countries to apply for legal status.

The change could rattle the delicate bipartisan coalition that forged the
Senate's immigration overhaul, but supporters say it may be necessary to pull in
enough Republican votes to secure passage by week's end. The bill's authors will
have to muster 60 votes today to bring it back up for consideration. The
legislation would then have to clear potential amendments before a showdown
Thursday over whether to cut off debate and vote on final passage Friday.

Opponents declared yesterday that momentum and public opinion were on their side
-- that if they cannot kill the legislation tomorrow, they will stop it by the
end of the week.

"The longer this bill hangs out there, the more opposition grows," said Sen. Jim
DeMint (R-S.C.). "Every day that goes by, more and more senators realize this is
not the right immigration bill for America. It cannot be adequately fixed, and
it must be stopped."

But the bill's proponents were pressing hard to bolster support from business
lobbyists and immigrant rights groups. Administration officials summoned
business leaders to the White House yesterday to demand that they put aside
efforts to fine-tune the bill and begin lobbying hard for its passage. President
Bush will hold this morning a hastily scheduled event with supporters of the
bill.

"Immigration reform is too important to our national security, and to our
economic competitiveness and growth in this country, to let this opportunity
pass," Joel Kaplan, deputy White House chief of staff for policy, said in a
conference call with reporters.

Perhaps the most significant shift came from three of the bill's Republican
architects: Sens. Jon Kyl (Ariz.), Lindsey O. Graham (S.C.) and Mel Martinez
(Fla.). Under the current legislation, virtually all of the estimated 12 million
illegal immigrants would be granted provisional legal status immediately,
provided that within 18 months they pay a fine, cover processing fees and submit
to a criminal background check to get a new five-year "Z Visa." If they wanted
legal permanent residence, heads of illegal-immigrant households would have to
return to their home countries to apply for a green card.

Kyl, Graham and Martinez had already put together an amendment to secure $4.4
billion for border enforcement, create a tracking system to keep tabs on guest
workers and permanently bar workers who overstay their visas from returning.
Those measures would augment provisions already in the bill to tighten border
security and clamp down on employers of illegal immigrants.

Yesterday, the three senators added a provision that would force illegal
immigrants to return to their home countries to apply for Z Visas, not just
their green cards. With the architects of the bill behind it, supporters
predicted that the amendment would pass easily.

The bill "continues to tilt to the right," said Sen. Robert Menendez (D-N.J.),
who has become increasingly concerned about additions to the legislation since
debate began.

Even some Republicans backing the bill were hesitant about the change. "I am not
enthusiastic about putting people through punitive steps like this for no
substantive reason," said Sen. Arlen Specter (R-Pa.).

Last week, in the first-ever poll of illegal immigrants, 83 percent of the 1,600
undocumented Latinos surveyed told the polling firm Bendixen & Associates that
they would pay the thousands of dollars in fines and fees, produce the work
documents and submit to the background check needed for a Z Visa. But if they
also had to return to their home countries, participation rates would drop to 63
percent, according to the poll commissioned by New America Media, a consortium
of ethnic news media.

Indeed, it was the Department of Homeland Security that wanted legalization not
to be contingent on leaving the country, because DHS officials wanted to bring
illegal immigrants out of the shadows and into the legal system, Specter said.
With the "touchback" requirement, millions may stay underground.

"It would be a huge blow, an enormous bill, if this happens," said Cecilia
Mu?oz, vice president for policy at the National Council for La Raza, the
largest Latino rights group.

But Mu?oz and members of other immigrant rights groups said they will still
support the bill's passage, while pressing for changes in the House or in
eventual House-Senate negotiations.

"If this was the final bill, if this was going straight from the Senate floor to
the Rose Garden signing ceremony, there would be full-throated opposition, but
it's not. We still have another chamber to go through," said Angela Kelley,
deputy director of the National Immigration Forum, which supports the bill.

And aides involved in the change said making legalization dependent on a return
home could dampen charges that the bill is "amnesty" for illegal immigrants,
adding that without it, the bill may never get to the House.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Carol T. Powers -- Bloomberg News; Sen. Jon Kyl (Ariz.), at
lectern, and, from left, fellow Republicans Mel Martinez (Fla.) and Lindsey O.
Graham (S.C.) say their plan may help the bill get passed.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 28, 2007 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Residency Status Might Be Checked;
County Asked to Enforce Immigration Law

BYLINE: Amy Orndorff; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW01

LENGTH: 502 words


Supervisor John T. Stirrup Jr. (R-Gainesville) proposed Tuesday that the county
crack down on illegal immigrants by authorizing police to check the residency
status of any person detained who is accused of violating a state law or
municipal ordinance.

Currently, Prince William County police inquire about the legal status of
suspects only in felony investigations.

In the past few weeks, dozens of residents have come before the Board of County
Supervisors urging the members to change the police department policy. Many have
told the board that the county is becoming a "sanctuary" for illegal immigrants
and have said that the presence of illegal immigrants in neighborhoods is having
a negative impact on their quality of life.

The board, which appeared to be divided on the proposal, voted to consider it in
two weeks.

"I think the message will be clear that Prince William is indeed closed to
illegal immigration," Stirrup said at Tuesday's board meeting.

Stirrup said that illegal immigration may be encouraged by public agencies that
do not check legal status. He added that illegal immigration is "destroying the
fabric" of the county and that illegal immigration has caused "economic hardship
and lawlessness in this county."

Supervisor Hilda M. Barg (D-Woodbridge) was the first to voice concern about the
proposal. She asked Stirrup whether he had consulted Prince William County
Police Chief Charlie T. Deane. Deane briefed the board earlier this month on the
subject, saying that officers investigating felonies check residency status. He
added that immigration enforcement is the federal government's responsibility.

Stirrup didn't directly answer Barg's question about whether he had consulted
Deane.

"I think we might need a work session," Barg said. "It looks so intense."

Stirrup was not in favor of planning a work session on the proposal. He said two
weeks would be ample time for the board to review the resolution.

Supervisor John D. Jenkins (D-Neabsco) also was apprehensive about the
resolution.

"There is so much here that touches on state and federal laws," Jenkins said,
adding that he believes the resolution "runs contrary" to what the board can do.

Stirrup disagreed. "We are only talking about reaffirming state and federal
law," he said after the meeting.

The proposal also would require county police to enter into an agreement with
the Department of Homeland Security to establish a protocol for transferring
illegal immigrants into federal custody.

The two-page resolution doesn't address how the county would fund the change in
policy. Supervisor W.S. Wally Covington III (R-Brentsville) suggested that a way
to offset costs of the additional enforcement would be imposing fines on illegal
immigrants.

Earlier this year, the board approved a measure to draw up an agreement with
Immigration and Customs Enforcement to train employees at the county jail to
check the residency status of inmates. The agreement is still being worked on.

Chairman Corey A. Stewart was absent from Tuesday's meeting.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 29, 2007 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Immigration Bill Dies in Senate;
Bipartisan Compromise Fails To Satisfy the Right or the Left

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1184 words


The most dramatic overhaul of the nation's immigration laws in a generation was
crushed yesterday in the Senate, with the forces of the political right and left
overwhelming a bipartisan compromise on one of the most difficult issues facing
the country.

With 53 senators against moving on to a final vote and 46 in favor, supporters
fell dramatically short of the 60 votes needed to overcome the delaying tactics
and parliamentary maneuvers that have dogged the bill for weeks. With no way to
cut off debate, Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.) pulled the bill
from the Senate floor for the second time this month, and this time it is not
likely to come up again before a new president comes to power.

The bill would have coupled tough border enforcement measures and a crackdown on
employers of illegal immigrants with a pathway to citizenship for 12 million
illegal immigrants, a new guest-worker system for foreigners seeking entry and
dramatic changes to the system of legal migration. A dozen senators spent nearly
six months hammering out a bill that stretched for 761 pages with Homeland
Security Secretary Michael Chertoff and Commerce Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez.

Chertoff said the administration will continue trying to enforce existing
immigration laws, building border fences and beefing up border patrols. But, he
said, without the additional resources in the bill and its much more stringent
system to verify the legality of job applicants, the flood of illegal
immigration is not likely to recede. Employers will still have no real way to
unmask undocumented job applicants. Texas ranchers will continue to protest
efforts to build fences on their land, and Arizonans will continue to try to
block radar towers, he warned.

Chertoff angrily dismissed critics, especially conservatives, who said they
could not support the bill until the administration shows it can enforce the
laws on the books, accusing them of saying, "We need better weapons, but we'll
give you the weapons after you win the war."

"The American people don't have faith in their government's ability to win a
war, enforce border security or even process passport requests," said Sen. Jon
Kyl (R-Ariz.), one of the bill's sponsors.

"Legal immigration is one of the top concerns of the American people, and
Congress's failure to act on it is a disappointment," said President Bush, who
has pushed a comprehensive reworking of immigration laws since he came to
Washington. "A lot of us worked hard to see if we couldn't find a common ground
-- it didn't work."

Rarely does a legislative fight get as emotional as the battle over immigration.
A flood of angry phone calls from opponents of the overhaul shut down the
Capitol switchboard before the vote, overwhelming the message from a small
klatch of immigrant-rights demonstrators urging passage outside the Capitol.
Latino lawmakers from the House flooded onto the Senate floor to encourage
senators to keep the legislation alive and let the House have a turn.

The bill's opponents painted the fight as a battle between U.S. citizens and a
government that has grown insensitive to an illegal-immigrant invasion that
threatens the nation's fabric. Proponents said the Senate had succumbed to the
angry voices of hate, venom and racism.

Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), one of the bill's architects, compared the
fight to the Senate's long struggle for civil rights legislation against
segregationist opponents.

"You cannot stop the march for progress in the United States," he said.

To that, Sen. David Vitter (R-La.), among the bill's most aggressive foes,
snapped: "To suggest this was about racism is the height of ugliness and
arrogance."

In truth, opposition to the bill was far more complex than proponents were
letting on. In crafting a delicate compromise, the bill's 12 architects created
a measure that was reviled by foes of illegal immigration, opposed by most labor
unions and unloved by immigration advocates. Opposition came not only from radio
hosts such as Rush Limbaugh and Michael Savage but also from the American Civil
Liberties Union and the AFL-CIO.

The outcome was a major blow to Bush, dealt largely by members of his own party.
The president made a last-ditch round of phone calls in the morning to try to
rescue the bill, but with his poll numbers at record lows, his appeals proved
fruitless. Thirty-seven Republicans voted to sustain the filibuster, including
Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), along with 15 Democrats and
liberal Sen. Bernard Sanders (I-Vt.). Thirty-three Democrats, 12 Republicans and
Sen. Joseph I. Lieberman (I-Conn.) voted to cut off debate and move to a final
vote.

With such a resounding defeat, Bush lost what is likely to be the last, best
chance at a major domestic accomplishment for his second term.

Maryland's senators, both Democrats, voted to keep the bill alive. Democrat
James Webb and Republican John W. Warner of Virginia voted to kill it.

"You get up to the plate. You take a whiff, and you strike out. What happened
today was pretty final," said Sen. Mel Martinez (R-Fla.), one of the bill's
architects.

Republicans on both sides acknowledged the immigration fight had riven the GOP.
Republican Senate aides, speaking on the condition of anonymity because they
were divulging internal deliberations, said Senate Minority Whip Trent Lott
(R-Miss.) was furious with McConnell over the leader's refusal to confront the
bill's most implacable opponents, who had virtually commandeered the Senate
floor, blocking the introduction of amendments, refusing to offer amendments of
their own and then complaining that an unfair process was preventing them from
improving the bill.

Lott told McConnell that Sens. Vitter, Jim DeMint (S.C.) and Jeff Sessions
(Ala.) were becoming the uncompromising faces of the Republican Party, a
prospect that could set it back for years as the Latino vote grows in power.

McConnell went along with Reid's novel attempt at an end run around the
triumvirate, collapsing 26 amendments into one giant "clay pigeon" and then
splitting it apart into 26 distinct pieces to vote on. But when DeMint, Vitter
and Sessions assailed Reid as unfair, McConnell stayed silent. Indeed, he
virtually disappeared from the Senate floor, until he came to vote against the
bill.

"I had hoped for a bipartisan accomplishment, and what we got was a bipartisan
defeat," he said several hours later. The tally was expected to come in on a
knife's edge, but when Alaska's fence-straddling senators, Republicans Ted
Stevens and Lisa Murkowski, filed their votes against ending debate together,
GOP support collapsed. Sen. Sam Brownback (R-Kan.), a presidential candidate who
last year was a standard-bearer for a similar bill, switched his vote.

Ultimately, the GOP leadership split in half, with Lott and Republican
Conference Chairman Kyl voting for the bill, and McConnell and Republican Policy
Committee Chairman Kay Bailey Hutchison (Tex.) voting against.

"I do think this has created real divisions within the party, within our Senate
caucus, within the Republican Party more generally," DeMint said.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Michel Du Cille -- The Washington Post; Democratic Sens.
Richard J. Durbin, left, Patty Murray and Edward M. Kennedy discuss their defeat
on the issue.
IMAGE
IMAGE; Photos By Michel Du Cille -- The Washington Post; Sens. David Vitter
(R-La.), left, Elizabeth Dole (R-N.C.) and Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.), among the
opponents of the immigration overhaul supported by President Bush, talk to
reporters after the vote that killed the proposal.
IMAGE; Sen. Edward Kennedy (D-Mass.), one of the pact's 12 architects, compared
the immigration fight to the Senate's struggle for civil rights legislation.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 30, 2007 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Bill's Failure Has Immigrants Down, Not Leaving;
Many Say They Will Remain -- and Keep Working -- in the United States Illegally

BYLINE: Pamela Constable and N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1065 words


Although angered and alarmed by the Senate rejection of immigration reform,
illegal immigrants in the Washington area said yesterday that they would risk
staying here rather than return to impoverished countries with harsh conditions
or low wages.

"This is a very big blow to all of us," said Roberto Villaroel, 47, a day
laborer from Bolivia and a leader of illegal immigrants in Northern Virginia.
"The bill would have brought stability to our community and stopped the
persecution of workers. It would have transformed the world of immigrants.
Instead, we are left in a very bad and fearful place, and all because of
politics."

The Senate measure failed under an onslaught of pressure from people who were
incensed by provisions that would offer the country's estimated 12 million
illegal immigrants the chance to live and work in the United States legally and
eventually to become permanent U.S. residents. Opponents branded the bill as a
form of amnesty for law-breaking foreigners and lauded its defeat Thursday.

"The Senate surrendered to the will of the vast majority of the American people,
who wanted our laws enforced and our borders secured," said D. A. King, an
activist in Georgia who organized several rallies in Washington against the
legislation. "The first sentence of the bill clearly made illegal aliens legal,
and it would have forgiven the crimes of both the aliens and their employers.
That's what made people so upset."

But many illegal immigrants in the region said yesterday that they had viewed
legalization as a fair reward for years of hard work at wages they said few
Americans would accept.

Alex, a 26-year-old haircutter who sneaked into the United States from El
Salvador five years ago, said he was at work in a District salon Thursday
morning when news of the bill's defeat was announced on the Spanish language TV
news channel.

"I just closed my eyes, and said, 'My God. What are we going to do now?' "
recalled Alex, who spoke on condition that his last name not be used for fear of
losing his job. "I felt such a sense of disillusionment and impotence and also
frustration with this country that seems to want to keep us Latinos in a modern
form of slavery."

At a strip mall in Fairfax County, where day laborers gather each morning in
hopes of finding work painting apartments or cutting grass, illegal immigrants
from across Latin America huddled worriedly yesterday, grumbling about the
bill's defeat while keeping one eye out for contractors' pickups.

Many said it had become much more difficult to find work in recent months
because of a wide crackdown on job sites by federal immigration agents. They
said they feared that legal pressure and public hostility against them would
increase -- but not enough to force them to leave the United States.

"We all want to be legal. None of us would be here on the corner if we had
papers. We would have decent, regular jobs," said Juan Carlos Miguel, 50, who
was laid off from his job as a cashier in Peru two years ago and now competes
with younger men for day-labor jobs.

"I went from a necktie to this. I have done every kind of job people asked," he
said angrily. "And now they are telling us to pack our bags and go home."

Although  most illegal immigrants in the Washington region and across the United
States are Hispanics who walked or waded across the U.S. border without
permission, some are migrants from Asia and Africa who overstayed legal visas or
were smuggled into the country in flight from distant conflicts. For them, the
failure of the Senate bill was equally devastating.

Susan, a 52-year-old teacher from the Philippines who  spoke on condition that
her last name not be used, came to Gaithersburg with her three young children on
a temporary work visa eight years ago. She said the private school that hired
her offered to sponsor her for permanent legal status, but then the director
changed his mind.

Suddenly illegal, Susan survived on babysitting and restaurant jobs that paid
cash. At times, she said, she considered returning to the Philippines, but her
children begged her to stay.

"They've been here since they were so young that they speak English the same as
any American. And plus, there's no future for them in the Philippines," she
said.

When she learned from her father, a legal immigrant, that the Senate bill had
failed, she said, "I just felt so sorry. . . . I really don't know what I'm
going to do."

Since entering the United States, some illegal immigrants have  attended school
and  learned professions but remained stymied by their lack of legal status.
They had placed special hopes on the Senate bill and felt especially devastated
by its failure.

Eduardo Tapia, 20, a native of Mexico, said he sneaked across the border at 14
and made his way to Maryland. In 2005, he graduated from Bladensburg High School
with high marks and a dream of attending college, but he was dismayed to learn
that he could not qualify for in-state tuition or financial aid.

This spring, he has been working at a seafood restaurant for $7.50 an hour,
hoping for passage of the Senate bill because it would have granted residency to
thousands of U.S. high school graduates who arrived illegally as children.

"I was praying to God that maybe they're going to pass it and I can become a
citizen, or resident, and go to college like everybody," Tapia said. Despite his
disappointment, he said he only briefly considered returning to Mexico.

"After all this, going back is like" starting again, he said. "I have to hope. I
have a dream that they're going to pass it."

Saba Someon, 34, said she fled Ethiopia in 2001, leaving behind her husband and
five children, because the government threatened to deport her to neighboring
Eritrea. She said she paid a smuggler $3,700 to sneak her into the United States
by plane, applied for asylum and was rejected. Since then, Someon said, she has
spent six years living "like an animal," surviving on help from other local
Ethiopians.

"I think . . . this bill, it [will] help me. Now, no hope," Someon said
yesterday through tears. "It broke my heart." Once, she said, she thought of the
United States as a country with "more humanity," a country that would help
people like her. Now, she said, she feels at sea. "I cannot go back. . . . I
don't have [a] country now," Someon said. "I believe my country is here."

Staff writer Karin Brulliard contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 2, 2007 Monday
                                Regional Edition

The Immigration Solution: Enforcement

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 149 words


The Post's June 29 editorial lamenting the spiking of the Senate immigration
bill could convince only someone born yesterday. Our "bankrupt and busted
immigration laws" are actually pristine, since they've hardly been used.

For example, systematic enforcement of the laws against hiring illegal aliens
has been assiduously avoided going back to 1986. Unsurprisingly, the problem of
3 million illegal aliens back then metastasized to 12 million plus today. But if
we routinely enforce our laws, jobs will dry up for illegal aliens, and they'll
deport themselves, the strategy known as "attrition through enforcement."

The Ernestos of the world will have to make their futures in their own
countries. The United States can't possibly welcome the equally worthy billions
around the globe who are poorer than the average Mexican. It would quickly
destroy itself if it tried.

PAUL NACHMAN

Bozeman, Mont.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 6, 2007 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Resolution on Illegal Immigration

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 272 words


Here are excerpts from the resolution that the Prince William Board of County
Supervisors is scheduled to consider Tuesday:

The board "has determined that illegal immigration is causing economic hardship
and lawlessness" and that "illegal immigration may be encouraged by public
agencies within the county by failing to verify immigration status as a
condition of providing public services."

Under the resolution, "county police officers shall inquire into the citizenship
or immigration status of any person detained for a violation of a state law or
municipal ordinance, regardless of the person's national origin, ethnicity or
race where such inquiry does not expand the duration of the detention."

"In all such cases where a person indicates that he or she is not a citizen or
national of the United States, the police department shall verify whether or not
the person is lawfully present in the United States. . . .

"If the person is verified to be unlawfully present in the United States, the
police department shall cooperate with any request by federal immigration
authorities to detain the alien or transfer the alien to the custody of the
federal government."

No county employee may be prohibited from "sending, receiving or maintaining"
information about the immigration status of any person or exchanging such
information with any federal, state or local government for the purpose of
determining eligibility for "any federal, state or local public benefit, service
or license which is restricted . . . to persons who are not United States
citizens or non-qualified aliens."

SOURCE: Supervisor John T. Stirrup Jr. (R-Gainesville)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 6, 2007 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Residency Rules May Tighten in Pr. William;
Police Would Have Wider Scope Over Immigrant Checks

BYLINE: Nick Miroff; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1160 words


Prince William County is moving to enact what legal specialists say are some of
the toughest measures in the nation targeting illegal immigrants, including a
provision that would direct police to check the residency status of anyone
detained for breaking the law -- whether shoplifting, speeding or riding a
bicycle without a helmet.

The measures would also compel county schools and agencies -- including
libraries, medical clinics, swimming pools and summer camps -- to verify the
immigration status of anyone who wants to use services in Virginia's
second-largest county. Courts have upheld the right of undocumented immigrants
to a public education, raising the possibility of a legal challenge.

Although similar efforts to create inhospitable conditions for illegal
immigrants have been attempted recently in Hazleton, Pa., Farmers Branch, Tex.,
and Valley Park, Mo., the Prince William resolution appears to be unique,
specialists say. And with federal immigration reform stalled in Congress,
officials across the country are increasingly likely to experiment with
restrictions that test legal boundaries and push for a greater role for local
police in immigration enforcement.

Other Virginia towns such as Manassas, Herndon and Culpeper have considered or
adopted laws aimed at illegal immigrants, but none have been as extensive as the
Prince William proposals. The county Board of Supervisors blames illegal
immigrants for crime, spiraling school costs, overcrowded housing and cultural
behaviors that they say undermine their constituents' quality of life.

"Citizens will no longer accept that our hands are tied and that responsibility
lies with the federal government," said Supervisor John T. Stirrup Jr.
(R-Gainesville), who proposed the resolution last month. "They want action."

Drawn by relatively affordable housing and abundant construction jobs, thousands
of undocumented migrants from Mexico and Central America have moved to Prince
William in the past decade. Stirrup's resolution says that their presence is
"causing economic hardship and lawlessness" and that county agencies might be
fueling the problem "by failing to verify immigration status as a condition of
providing public services."

Outside a county health clinic yesterday, Millie, who spoke on the condition of
anonymity because she is undocumented, started to tremble when told of the
resolution. She moved to Prince William 15 years ago and overstayed her visa. "I
don't know how people will live in this country," she said. "Your house will be
like a prison. People will be dying of fear."

The resolution is scheduled for a vote Tuesday, and most of the eight
supervisors -- who are up for election this fall -- said they plan to support
it, although changes could be made.

The resolution does not address how county authorities would verify residency
status, but supervisors said they wouldn't want residents to carry passports in
Prince William; a valid driver's license or state-issued identification would
suffice. If a police officer determined that a person was in the country
illegally, the officer would contact federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement
officials.

The resolution also would remove any restrictions on county employees to send,
receive or maintain information on a person's residency status in determining
eligibility for county services.

"We don't get into [immigration status] for a library card. All we require is
proof of address," said a county librarian who spoke on the condition of
anonymity because she isn't authorized to speak to reporters. Checking a user's
immigration status would be possible, she said, "but it would seem to be going a
little too far into privacy."

Stirrup said the resolution's goal is to deny services to illegal immigrants --
including most forms of medical care and public education. "If they're here
illegally, we have no responsibility to educate them," he said. In the case of
emergency medical care, he said patients would be treated but promptly reported
to the federal immigration agency.

Kathleen Walker, president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association, said
such measures would be "extremely harsh" and at odds with the 1982 Supreme Court
decision Plyler v. Doe, which prohibits states from denying education to
undocumented immigrants. "You can't prevent a child from going to school," she
said.

Other immigration scholars said most of the measures reaffirm federal laws
already in place that are seldom enforced by local governments. The resolution
is not "extraordinary," said Kris Kobach, a law professor at the University of
Missouri-Kansas City and a former immigration adviser to former U.S. Attorney
General John D. Ashcroft. "What is unusual is that they are packaging all of
these measures into one resolution."

But there is one exceptional item in the resolution, Kobach said -- a provision
that would give legal residents "writ of mandamus" powers, which would allow
them to sue Prince William if they suspect that a county agency has failed to
comply with the resolution's aim of denying services and reporting violators.
Muzaffar Chishti, director of the nonpartisan Migration Policy Institute's
office at the New York University law school, said that particular measure is
"as close to encouraging vigilante action as I have ever seen on paper."

"Clearly, this is inciting people," he said.

But Chishti said the proposal he finds most "extreme" is the one that would
require county police officers to check the residency status of everyone they
stop -- regardless of "national origin, ethnicity or race."

"No one has ever given any police the authority to ask, 'Are you a citizen?' "
Chishti said. "That is clearly unconstitutional and problematic."

Stirrup's resolution would address constitutional concerns by specifying that an
officer's inquiry about residency status cannot extend the duration of a
person's police detention.

In drafting the resolution, Stirrup worked with the Washington-based Immigration
Reform Law Institute, the law firm of the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, which advocates tougher immigration laws. Stirrup said he did not
consult with county Police Chief Charlie T. Deane, who, in an earlier letter to
the supervisors about a similar measure, warned of "a potential chilling effect
on witness cooperation and victim-witness cooperation."

Supervisors said their constituents have been flooding their offices with phone
calls and e-mails in support of Stirrup's resolution. "Illegal immigration is
consuming everyone's constituents," said Supervisor Maureen S. Caddigan
(R-Dumfries).

For Hispanic immigrants in Prince William, the resolution could portend
heightened cultural and ethnic tensions.

"There's a lot of hate in this county," said Tulio Diaz, a native of Puerto Rico
who has lived in Prince William since 1972. He also suspects another motive
behind the measures.

"It's an election year, and it's a great wedge issue," he said. "So who do you
pick on?"

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 8, 2007 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Arizona's Border Burden

BYLINE: David S. Broder

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. B07

LENGTH: 720 words


Hours after the immigration reform bill he had championed went down to defeat,
Sen. John McCain told me what he thought would happen next. "You will see the
states and cities scrambling to pass their own laws and regulations," he said,
"and you're going to get a completely contradictory set of policies."

It did not take long for McCain's prediction to be confirmed -- right in his
home state of Arizona. Four days after the Senate killed the comprehensive
immigration bill supported by President Bush, Arizona Gov. Janet Napolitano, a
Democrat, signed a bill that the state's Republican Legislature had passed
imposing extremely tough sanctions on employers who hire illegal immigrants.

Napolitano, who had vetoed somewhat similar legislation a year earlier, said in
a statement that she decided to approve "the most aggressive action in the
country" against such employers "because it is now abundantly clear that
Congress finds itself incapable of coping with the comprehensive immigration
reforms our country needs."

She signed the bill, despite finding it so flawed that she called on legislative
leaders to plan a special session this fall to amend the measure before it is
scheduled to go into effect Jan. 1.

Arizona has been swamped with illegal immigrants crossing the border from
Mexico. Napolitano declared a border emergency in 2005 and moved in additional
law enforcement resources, as federal border patrols reported that half their
arrests nationally were taking place in Arizona.

I know Napolitano to be a conscientious and committed executive. As a former
U.S. attorney for Arizona and state attorney general, she is serious about law
enforcement. But she is also a compassionate person, and she has joined McCain
in unsuccessfully opposing voter initiatives to deny public benefits to the
children of illegal immigrants. And she vetoed other immigration bills.

But with the failure of Congress, she found herself in a position of having to
leave the problem to fester or to sign a seriously flawed bill.

The state legislation requires every Arizona business to verify the legal status
of each new employee. That's also a requirement of long-established federal law,
but the feds rarely enforce it. Under the new Arizona statute, a first violation
can result in a suspension of the business license. A second offense can mean
permanent revocation -- in effect, an order to go out of business.

Napolitano warned the Legislature that it may have gone too far. Without any
exclusion for vital public services, she said, a hospital or power plant could
be shut down for hiring undocumented workers.

She also found the financing in the bill "woefully inadequate" for the task of
enforcing the law, and she worried about the absence of any statutory protection
against discrimination by race or national origin.

But she said, "Because of Congress' failure to act, states like Arizona have no
choice but to take strong action to discourage the further flow of illegal
immigration through our borders."

In a separate letter to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader
Harry Reid, her fellow Democrats, Napolitano chided Congress for having "once
again failed to take action on comprehensive immigration reform."

She pointed to one of the other practical consequences of that failure. The
Arizona bill requires employers to use the federal government's Basic Pilot
Program, a computer database that lets businesses check legal residences against
Social Security numbers to verify the employment status of new workers.
Currently, Napolitano noted, the program serves fewer than 15,000 businesses
nationwide. Arizona alone will add 130,000 to 150,000 businesses to its
clientele. Napolitano pointedly asked if the feds are prepared to finance a
tenfold increase in demands on that system.

She concluded her letter: "For years now, I have spoken out on the desperate
need for comprehensive immigration reform. Today, I renew my call on Congress to
enact such legislation. The United States Congress has a responsibility to act
swiftly and definitively to solve this problem on the national level."

When Congress fails that responsibility, it imposes an unfair burden on its
partners in state and local government -- and on the people they serve. That
failure has become chronic and crippling.

davidbroder@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            July 11, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Pr. William Passes Resolution Targeting Illegal Immigration;
Stricter Aspects of Original Plan Are Softened

BYLINE: Nick Miroff; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 873 words


Prince William County supervisors voted unanimously last night to approve a
resolution that targets illegal immigrants by attempting to curb their access to
public services and increasing immigration enforcement by local police.

But the resolution approved last night significantly weakens a previous
proposal, removing or altering several of its toughest measures but asking
county employees to look for ways to lawfully deny services to illegal
immigrants.

The largest board meeting crowd in 20 years showed up for the vote at the county
government complex, turning Prince William into a microcosm of a debate playing
out in communities across the country in the wake of Congress's failure to
reform immigration laws.

"How are we supposed to survive here?" asked Gregorio Calder?n, a legal U.S.
resident from El Salvador who said he worries that police will harass him
because of his ethnicity. "They're going to pull me over just for being
Hispanic."

The previous resolution would have required officers to check the residency
status of anyone who breaks a law, no matter how minor. The measure approved
yesterday directs officers to check the status of anyone in police custody who
they suspect is an illegal immigrant.

The changes were made after county attorneys, police and supervisors expressed
concerns about the legality of some of the measures. The new resolution would
not deny access to schools and other legally mandated services. Another measure
that would have allowed residents to sue the county for providing services to
illegal immigrants was also stripped out.

But the measures still place Prince William at the forefront of Virginia
jurisdictions that are trying to check illegal immigration.

"This resolution does have teeth and changes county policy immediately," said
board Chairman Corey A. Stewart (R-Occoquan).

Protests before and after the vote and the unusually large crowd outside the
board chambers created a charged atmosphere. More than 100 people addressed
board members, delaying the vote. Hundreds of others watched on big-screen TVs
in the lobby and were reminded to refrain from applauding or booing. One speaker
was removed.

When Supervisor John T. Stirrup Jr. (R-Gainesville) introduced the resolution
last month, he said its goal was to deny all public services to illegal
immigrants and order local police to check the residency status of anyone caught
breaking the law. The altered version charts a more cautious course.

Stirrup's resolution had said that illegal immigration is causing "economic
hardship and lawlessness" in Prince William and that county agencies may be
encouraging illegal immigration by failing to verify immigration status as a
condition of providing public services.

The measure "is the first step towards taking back our community," he said.

The new version gives county workers 60 days to help board members determine
which public services can be lawfully denied to illegal immigrants. Unlike the
previous resolution, it specifies that services such as emergency medical care
and other benefits mandated by law cannot be restricted. At the request of the
county's attorneys, language was added to several sections to avoid violating
federal and state laws.

A roughly equal number of speakers appeared to support and oppose the
resolution. One was removed after berating Stirrup for a joke he made to Stewart
at a previous meeting in which Stirrup suggested a "Hispanic flag" could be
flown in Woodbridge, which has a relatively large Hispanic community.

Many speakers said they were Hispanic immigrants.

Immigrants "have built our homes; they have built our roads," said Hank Azais,
who owns a tax preparation service catering to Hispanics in Manassas.

Others said they were worried about damage to the county's reputation. "Prince
William County does not have to become the racist capital of America," said
Harry Wiggins, a Lake Ridge resident.

Many Stirrup supporters told the board they applauded the measures and saw the
effort as a last stand against rising crime, overcrowding and the failure of
Hispanic newcomers to adapt to American culture.

"If we turn our heads and permit illegal entry into our county without making
any effort or identification, we are saying our language, our culture, our
Constitution, our neighborhoods and our flag are inconsequential," said Sue
Fleming, a member of the group Help Save Manassas. "It is a price I do not care
to pay."

Others decried rapid cultural changes in their communities. "I'm tired of
pressing '1' for English" on the phone, Woodbridge resident Chris King said.

One element of Stirrup's resolution was noticeably absent from the amended
version. It would have given residents the ability to sue county agencies if
they suspected them of providing services to illegal immigrants. County staffers
and supervisors expressed concern about the time and expense the county would
potentially spend to fend off litigation.

Privately, though, several supervisors had expressed doubts about the
implications of denying public services to immigrants. But given the political
climate surrounding the issue, they said they felt compelled to back Stirrup.

"It's a start, and Mr. Stirrup was very gutsy," Supervisor Maureen S. Caddigan
(R-Dumfries) said.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Tracy A. Woodward -- The Washington Post; An overflow crowd
at the Prince William government complex watches the board meeting on the
immigration measure on TVs in the lobby.
IMAGE; By Jacquelyn Martin -- Associated Press; Prince William Supervisor John
T. Stirrup Jr. (R-Gainesville) had introduced a resolution last month to deny
all public services to illegal immigrants. The approved version is less
stringent.
IMAGE; By Tracy A. Woodward -- The Washington Post; Rocio Martinez, left, and
Jackeline Martinez, holding a sign reading "Stop the Racist Politics," were
among protesters who gathered for the meeting.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 15, 2007 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Manassas to Study County Immigration Measures;
Resolution May Affect City, Which Shares Services, Police Enforcement Powers
With Prince William

BYLINE: Christy Goodman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW04

LENGTH: 634 words


Manassas officials say they are watching how Prince William County implements
its new resolution cracking down on illegal immigrants.

In a vote watched nationally, the Prince William Board of County Supervisors
unanimously approved a resolution Tuesday denying county services to illegal
immigrants and ordering police to take a more vigorous approach in checking
immigration status. County staff members have 90 days to fill in the details by
determining which services will be denied and how and when to determine legal
status.

Depending on the county's staff assessment, many services could affect residents
in the city. The court system, libraries and health care are just a few services
the jurisdictions share.

"We are going to follow what they are going to do," City Manager Lawrence D.
Hughes said. "As a practical matter, we are right in the middle of where they
are."

Hughes and several City Council members were quick to mention that Manassas was
first to request, in October, that its police officers be trained by federal
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents to initiate deportation proceedings
for illegal immigrants who have committed serious crimes.

The county is "taking a more aggressive posture now, as is Manassas and the
jail," City Council member Jonathan L. Way (R) said.

The adult detention center, which houses inmates from the county, Manassas and
Manassas Park, recently trained several officers in the federal immigration
enforcement program. Officers are actively working with federal immigration
agents to start the deportation process for "the worst of the worst" offenders
at the jail, Superintendent Charles "Skip" Land said.

"As a small jurisdiction in Northern Virginia, the City of Manassas is doing as
much or more than any other locality, including working closely with Prince
William County, in trying to effectively combat illegal immigration by utilizing
all existing local, state and federal resources available," Manassas Police
Chief John J. Skinner said.

Police chiefs in the cities and county have partnered with the Prince William
Sheriff's Office and Land "to develop a criminal illegal alien initiative" in
which all local agencies would seek to be part of a single agreement with
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Skinner said. The master agreement would
create a standard across the jurisdictions on deportation criteria, he said.

Manassas representatives have proposed to go beyond "the worst of the worst" to
include "some serious misdemeanors, habitual misdemeanants, as well as
felonies," Way said.

Manassas City Council member Marc T. Aveni (R) said he preferred letting the
city move forward with its agreement with the federal immigration agency.

"Let's be the first one out of the box with the strongest Immigration and
Customs Enforcement agreement and then everyone adopt ours, rather than we wait
and we get stuck with somebody else's watered-down" agreement, he said.

Prince William and Manassas have the only police forces in Northern Virginia
with an agreement in which officers have the power to enforce laws in either
jurisdiction, Skinner said.

"Since we do share services, there may be issues that need to be resolved,"
council member Andrew L. Harrover (R) said.

Member J. Steven Randolph (I) said the council is an "obviously interested
observer" but has no specific actions to limit city services at this time.

"I think it is imperative we wait and see what the final draft is before we take
any action. It also will be interesting to see if they are on solid legal
ground. If they are, I think the City of Manassas would implement similar
programs," he said.

The Manassas City Council is under investigation by the Justice Department for
passing a short-lived ordinance that attempted to define a family, which many
said targeted Hispanics.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 15, 2007 Sunday
                                 Met 1 Edition

WEEK IN REVIEW;
July 8-14

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C04

LENGTH: 420 words

Resolution on Illegal Immigration Passes Pr. William Measure Curbs Access to
Services

Prince William County supervisors unanimously approved a resolution targeting
illegal immigrants by attempting to curb their access to public services and
increasing immigration enforcement by police.

The resolution weakens a previous proposal, removing or altering several of its
toughest measures but asking county employees to look for ways to lawfully deny
services to illegal immigrants.

The resolution places Prince William at the forefront of Virginia jurisdictions
that are trying to check illegal immigration.

Board Approves Spending Increase Boost in Regional Taxes Will Fund
Transportation

The Northern Virginia Transportation Authority approved $300 million a year for
road and mass transit projects financed by regional tax increases.

The increases apply to the grantor's tax on the sale of a home, the value of new
vehicles, local registration fees, safety inspection fees and a tax on auto
repairs. Area hotel taxes and car-rental fees also will go up.

'Abusive Driver' Fees to Be Reassessed GOP Considers Scrapping Them for Minor
Offenses

Virginia GOP leaders, faced with growing opposition to "abusive driver" fees
that went into effect July 1, said they will consider scrapping some of them
when the General Assembly convenes in January.

The fees, some of which exceed $1,000 for each infraction, were part of a
transportation plan that lawmakers approved this year. They were designed to
raise millions of dollars each year for road and transit projects by imposing
surcharges onto the fines for Virginia motorists convicted of serious traffic
offenses, such as driving under the influence.

Lawmakers said they made a mistake because the fees also can be assessed on
motorists who are convicted of less serious offenses.

Across the Region Bomb Squads Underequipped; Rhee Confirmed

Many bomb squads in the Washington area are under-equipped to respond to the
kind of simultaneous attacks being attempted by terrorists around the world,
officials say. None of the eight local and state bomb squads in the region is
top-rated under the classification of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
The region has asked the Department of Homeland Security for $8 million to bring
them to the highest level.

The D.C. Council unanimously confirmed Michelle A. Rhee as chancellor of the
D.C. public schools despite concerns about her lack of experience and the
$275,000 salary that will make her the region's highest-paid school leader.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Nikki Kahn -- The Washington Post; Lady Bird's Legacy Rodney
Johnson signs a condolence book for Lady Bird Johnson, who died Wednesday, at
the park on the Potomac River that's named for her.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 22, 2007 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Critics Doubt Savings From Stricter Immigration Policy;
Groups Question Official's Estimate

BYLINE: Delphine Schrank; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. LZ01

LENGTH: 629 words


As Loudoun supervisors took the first step last week toward limiting illegal
immigrants' access to county services, advocates and critics of the move
disagreed on whether such a policy would be mostly symbolic or would mean
significant savings for taxpayers.

The resolution, which the Board of Supervisors passed unanimously Tuesday,
instructs the county's staff members to study what kinds of services could
legally be denied to undocumented residents and how Loudoun could penalize
employers who hire them. Staff  are to report their findings in September.

The supervisors did not ask staff  to determine what services illegal immigrants
might be receiving or to estimate how much their use costs the county
government.

Supervisor Eugene A. Delgaudio (R-Sterling), the resolution's chief sponsor,
offered his estimate last week: $20 million a year. He called it a "generic
ballpark figure" representing the amount that Loudoun taxpayers would save if
county officials adopted a stricter policy toward illegal immigrants.

Delgaudio said the number was based in part on a rough calculation of what the
county is paying for court and police services because of the increase in crime
caused by undocumented immigrants. He also cited the cost of housing inmates who
are illegally in the country. Last year, the Loudoun Sheriff's Office arrested
about 50 people who were later deported. Delgaudio said each, during his or her
incarceration, cost the county about $100 a day in salaries to law enforcement
workers.

"We don't have to service all the illegal immigrant criminals here. We can
dispatch some of them, and they can go home," he said. "There is no room for
illegal immigrants in our jails."

Officials at nonprofit groups in Loudoun that work with low-income and Hispanic
residents said they doubted the cost to county government was nearly that high.

"It's a really creative use of numbers," Laura Valle, executive director of La
Voz of Loudoun, a Hispanic advocacy group, said of Delgaudio's estimate. "For
every number produced in one study that demonstrates one thing, there's at least
three or four others. The fact is nobody has the exact numbers, so it's very
hard to make those sorts of calculations."

Valle said most forms of assistance offered by the county, such as housing aid
and treatment at emergency health clinics, require official proof of residency
in Loudoun. So undocumented residents are ineligible to receive such services,
she said.

Valle also said that school services are not at issue, noting that the U.S.
Supreme Court has ruled that local school systems cannot deny education services
to the children of illegal immigrants.

Valle said she agreed with Loudoun supervisors about the need to send a message
to the federal government that it should take steps to reform the immigration
system. But deporting every illegal immigrant without stronger border controls
will not work and will not address such problems as the need for more affordable
housing for people who are here legally, she said.

Andy Johnston, executive director of Loudoun Cares, a nonprofit organization
that runs a referral help line for health and human services, said he supported
the call for a county staff study and agreed with Board of Supervisors Chairman
Scott K. York (I) about the need for local jurisdictions to take action in the
face of federal government paralysis.

"However, I pray that we never arrive at the point where shelters will have to
turn people away because they have no papers," Johnston said.

He said he would be stunned if the county administration's study concluded that
taxpayers were paying $20 million toward services used by illegal immigrants.

"The very nature of this population is that they don't seek services," Johnston
said. "They fly under the radar."

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Loudoun County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 22, 2007 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Nativism's Toxic Cloud;
In Northern Virginia, immigrant-bashing could get ugly.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 556 words


TOXIC FALLOUT from the Senate's failure to enact immigration reform is drifting
over the Northern Virginia suburbs. This month, Prince William County approved a
resolution whose purpose is to make life unpleasant for illegal immigrants by
denying them services and using local police to hound them. Now neighboring
Loudoun County is moving in the same direction, spurred by a member of the Board
of Supervisors who contends that immigrant "hordes" are ruining the county. In
both cases, the favorite fantasy of elected politicians is that the pressure on
undocumented residents will drive them out of the county and into the waiting
arms of the feds. Not likely.

Illegal immigrants are in Northern Virginia for the same reason that they are in
so many other parts of the country: Their labor is in demand. That's not going
to change, unless the powers that be in Prince William and Loudoun have
discovered a way to defeat market forces.

In both places supervisors have been quoted as saying that local law enforcement
will work with federal officials to deport immigrants who lack the proper
papers, including immigrants who might be stopped for traffic violations and
other routine offenses. Here's a reality check: U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement has a finite number (27,500) of detention beds nationwide. They are
apportioned among asylum seekers, fugitives awaiting removal, border-crossers,
ex-cons, those who have committed violent crimes and others. Given limited
resources, ICE's priority is to detain people who are threats to national
security and public safety, which leaves little room for the undocumented
gardeners, home builders and restaurant workers whose presence in Northern
Virginia has so annoyed local politicians.

The truth is, ICE simply does not have the time, personnel or capacity to do
what local politicians want: return vast numbers of illegal immigrants to their
country of origin. The fact that supervisors in Prince William and Loudoun say
they are forcing the immigrants out will not make it so. Prince William's police
chief has said publicly that ICE will accept the handover of a very limited
number of undocumented aliens from the county each month. An educated guess is
that more undocumented immigrants -- possibly a lot more -- will arrive each
month than can realistically be removed.

Local politicians are under growing pressure from constituents whose
neighborhoods are afflicted by flophouses, poor sanitation, cars parked on front
yards, loiterers and other ills they associate with illegal immigrants. The
complaints are understandable -- nobody wants to see their neighborhood go to
seed -- and counties are within their rights to urge tougher enforcement if laws
are broken. But by singling out illegal immigrants, local politicians are
contributing to what is becoming a poisonous, increasingly nativist atmosphere
that will infect relations with Hispanics generally. After all, no one can
distinguish between legal and illegal immigrants at a glance.

American history has had its ugly episodes of foreigner-bashing, and the
rhetoric this time is reminiscent of the xenophobia that greeted previous waves
of Jewish, Italian, Irish and Chinese immigration. The legitimate cause of
safeguarding neighborhoods must not be twisted into a justification for
implanting new roots of nativism.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 27, 2007 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Doing Right Is Nativist?

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 232 words


Perhaps the most toxic aspect of the immigration debate is the double standard
that exists ["Nativism's Toxic Cloud," editorial, July 22].

When illegal aliens act out of self-interest and break our immigration laws,
apologists for illegal immigration portray that as being noble.

When employers act out of self-interest and illegally hire low-wage illegal
aliens, that's just the free market at work. But if ordinary Americans,
motivated by self-interest, demand that laws against illegal immigration be
enforced, that's called "toxic nativism."

Local jurisdictions  such as Prince William and Loudoun counties have a right
and a responsibility to institute and enforce laws that protect the interests of
law-abiding residents and property owners. The impact of illegal immigration on
education, health care and law enforcement is felt at the local level. There is
nothing toxic or nativist about local governments deciding not to provide
nonessential benefits and services to people who have no right to be in the
community in the first place, or to crack down on employers who hire them.

These counties, like a growing number of local governments, are doing what the
federal government should be doing. They are removing the incentives for illegal
immigration, which is the only realistic approach to dealing with  the problem.

DAN STEIN

President

Federation for American Immigration Reform

Washington

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 12, 2007 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Enforcement Only;
All that's left of immigration reform

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 452 words


SITUATIONS SOMETIMES need to get worse before they get better. That's the best
that can be said about the Bush administration's crackdown on illegal
immigration, announced Friday.

To its credit, the administration has long pushed for comprehensive immigration
reform that would tighten border security, discourage businesses from hiring
illegal workers, create a pathway to citizenship for many of the nation's 12
million illegal aliens and open the way to more legal immigration. Congress
scuttled such reform this summer, amid outcries from conservatives that it
amounted to amnesty for those here illegally and from liberals that it was too
timid. In response, President Bush has decided to launch an enforcement-heavy
initiative that will probably be as ineffectual as it is painful.

The most disruptive of 26 provisions is likely to be the one that puts teeth
into "no match" violations. "No match" occurs when the Social Security number
provided by a worker fails to match a number in the Social Security
Administration database. Until now, employers were alerted when an employee
triggered a "no match," but there were no consequences. A new regulation gives
employers about three months to either dismiss the worker or verify his legal
status. No one should be surprised when this approach yields thousands, if not
millions, of "no matches" that force employers to cycle furiously through
workers, at a cost of time and money.

The administration is right to try to streamline the visa program for seasonal
agricultural workers to help provide growers with a reliable stream of legal
workers; the changes would also increase protections for laborers. The
Department of Homeland Security is right to extend to three years the terms of
visas for professional workers from Canada and Mexico, who currently have to
renew those visas annually. The administration's plan also includes common-sense
measures such as requiring government contractors to submit information about
their employees to a federal electronic verification database to ensure the
legality of their workforce.

No administration can be faulted for seeking to enforce the law, but the nation
is saddled with a law that cannot work. The economy, as long as it continues to
grow, will continue to attract immigrants, and they will come illegally if there
is no other way. The administration acknowledges that an enforcement-only
approach cannot possibly address the most significant immigration problems
facing the country and is likely to exacerbate the problems already experienced
by businesses and workers alike. It's a sad commentary on politics in Washington
that, by increasing the pressure for change, such problems may be reform's best
hope.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 21, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Border Crackdown Has El Paso Caught in Middle

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1608 words

DATELINE: EL PASO


Leaders of this sunny desert city peppered Homeland Security Secretary Michael
Chertoff during a recent visit with complaints about trade-crimping
border-crossing delays, unwanted calls to enlist local police in enforcing
immigration laws and recent deaths of immigrants at the hands of U.S. Border
Patrol agents.

"Second-guessers and hindsighters," Chertoff retorted, defending such agents
against critics who he said "have no idea how difficult it is here at the
border."

But to many in El Paso, it is Washington's understanding of what it means to be
on the border that is increasingly in question. As the political stalemate
continues on how to revamp immigration laws, the Bush administration has taken
aggressive new measures to tighten border security and deal more harshly with
illegal immigrants.

And that has El Paso, just a stone's throw across the Rio Grande from the
Mexican boomtown of Ciudad Juarez, feeling even more caught in the middle. "Most
people in Washington really don't understand life on the border," said El Paso
Mayor John Cook. "They don't understand our philosophy here that the border
joins us together, it doesn't separate us."

Although many residents here are as staunchly opposed to illegal immigration as
those elsewhere in the country, El Paso's deep ties to its sister city across
the river generally make most of them leery of calls to wall off the 2,000-mile
frontier with Mexico and of crackdowns that might complicate border crossings
and harm a mutually beneficial way of life.

As the largest U.S. city on the border, El Paso has long had a front-row seat to
the complexities and trade-offs of the nation's immigration laws. Founded by the
Spanish before the English settlement of Jamestown and Plymouth, and with claims
to creating both the margarita and Thanksgiving, El Paso-Juarez is an easygoing
but hardworking region that has grown into a "borderplex" of 2 million
residents.

Now North America's fourth-largest manufacturing hub -- after Los Angeles,
Chicago and Dallas-Fort Worth -- El Paso and Juarez's surrounding state of
Chihuahua have 270,000 manufacturing jobs, three times as many as Detroit, in
400 maquiladoras, or duty-free factories, economic development officials said.
About 78 percent of residents are Hispanic, and 25 percent are foreign-born.
Families send breadwinners across the bridge daily to work, and children to
study.

But that deep web of connections between the two cities has been tested in
recent weeks -- not only by the anxieties of the unresolved political debate
over how to rewrite immigration laws, but also by the complicated daily reality
of Washington's new effort to crack down on those violating existing laws. Many
local officials interviewed recently expressed little enthusiasm for the
increased security measures, and civil liberties groups and Mexican authorities
have said that the harsher enforcement approach might have contributed to recent
fatal Border Patrol shootings here.

On Aug. 8, a Border Patrol agent shot and killed a suspected smuggler who
allegedly threatened him with a rock and bolt cutters at a border fence just
east of downtown. The death of Jose Alejandro Ortiz Castillo, 23, was the fifth
fatal Border Patrol shooting this year and the third in El Paso since June.
Before this year, the last such local shooting happened in 2004.

The same day, U.S. authorities reported the deaths of two immigrants in custody,
including that of a pregnant woman who died of a blood clot Aug. 7 at a U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement detention center in El Paso. Rosa Isela
Contreras-Dominguez, 36, a legal U.S. resident and convicted marijuana smuggler,
was the sixth ICE detainee to die this year, out of a detention population that
has tripled over five years to more than 283,000.

Mexico's foreign affairs secretary condemned what he called an "excessive use of
force" in the shooting of Ortiz, and the state prosecutor in Chihuahua began a
homicide investigation.

"When there is an isolated event, you might understand it," said Fernando
Garcia, executive director of the Border Network for Human Rights in El Paso.
"But when you have two or three  . . . then that becomes symptomatic that
something is not right."

Advocates for immigrants here are asking whether agents have been given
permission to shoot first and ask questions later, and whether the increase in
the number of Border Patrol agents and the detention of more immigrants have
overwhelmed the government's ability to train and oversee officers. If so, there
could be "a very disturbing trend starting," said Kathleen Walker, an El Paso
lawyer serving as national president of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association.

ICE spokeswoman Kelly Nantel said that detention officials have acted
appropriately and that detention deaths this year are running far below the 29
fatalities reported in 2004, 15 in 2005 and 16 in 2006. U.S. Border Patrol
spokesman Doug Mosier said that Ortiz had been caught crossing the border 28
times since 1999 and that Mexican police said he had a criminal history related
to narcotics and immigrant smuggling.

Asked about the shooting in El Paso, Chertoff said that it is under
investigation but added that increased violence is a sign that smugglers are
becoming desperate and that enforcement efforts are succeeding. The Border
Patrol reported 753 assaults against officers between October and July, up 18
percent from the same period a year ago.

But amid the security crackdown, city officials said the construction of
security facilities and the time-consuming screening of containers, shippers and
passengers have only worsened hours-long traffic jams at border checkpoints. A
DHS requirement that by 2009 those crossing the border by land must show
passports or similar identification documents is expected to further stall
traffic.

"Every major auto manufacturer in the world gets the parts to their cars
manufactured in Juarez or Chihuahua, from the wire harness in the dash to the
lights in the overhead, the headlights, stereo system, you name it. Just about
every component is manufactured here," said Richard Dayoub, president of the El
Paso Chamber of Commerce.

"If we take it to a point where the application of these laws in order to more
secure our borders slows down commerce from Mexico into the U.S. . . . we'll all
feel it throughout our economy," he said.

El Paso area law enforcement officials are divided about the role that local
authorities should play in helping overstretched federal agents.

Although they say they take seriously the obligation to fight drug smugglers,
human traffickers and criminals who prey on immigrants, El Paso's police chief,
Richard Wiles, and the El Paso County sheriff, Lee Samaniego -- like many in the
United States -- disagree about whether police should divert scarce resources to
track down immigration violators.

"I'm a law enforcement officer. I think people need to follow the rules and the
laws," said Wiles, 46, a spokesman for the Major Cities Chiefs Association,
whose members lead 63 U.S. police departments. But, he added, "the federal
government is responsible to control the borders, to control immigration, and so
it needs to step up to the plate and fulfill its responsibility that it's
neglected for years and years."

Wiles said city leaders fear that police enforcement of immigration laws will
discourage crime victims and witnesses from coming forward and will expose
taxpayers to greater legal liability if inadequately trained police officers
violate the civil rights of legal U.S. residents.

Samaniego, 70, the dean of a group of 27 county sheriffs along the border from
California to Texas, disagrees. Since 2005, he has championed Operation
Linebacker, a $10 million, state-funded effort that in his 1,054-square-mile
county has paid about 10 deputies to support Border Patrol officers.

"There are no advocates for regular citizens who live in fear, who are prisoners
on their own farms and ranches because of an insecure border," said Samaniego's
chief deputy, Jimmy Apodaca, who added that a third of the 45,000 people
arrested on state crimes and booked into the county jail in 2004 were illegal
immigrants.

Still, Samaniego retreated last year, halting the use of vehicle checkpoints and
the practice of referring illegal immigrants accused of no crimes directly to
Border Patrol agents. The changes came after the American Civil Liberties Union
filed suit, saying citizens' rights were violated, and after 3,000 residents
signed a petition calling for the sheriff to resign.

During his two-day trip to El Paso last week, Chertoff acknowledged that he is
pushing a new way to get things done at the border, while insisting that he
knows that a "one-size-fits-all blanket approach" will not work. "Piling on
security by just putting a lot more things on the border" won't resolve the
situation unless the United States also cuts down demand for illegal workers in
the interior and creates a legal channel of temporary workers, he said.

"We don't want to destroy the border in order to save it," he added.

Still, Chertoff said, steps that will cause unhappiness or serious economic
consequences are needed to reestablish Washington's credibility after decades of
inaction. Doing nothing about enforcement, he said, "is the approach that bred
cynicism" among the American public.

"I recognize we have a situation where we allowed circumstances to develop over
30 years -- frankly with the complicity of the American people, who have been
complacent," Chertoff said. Now, he said, "we have to do something about it."

News researchers Aruna Jain and Bob Lyford contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Victor Calzada -- El Paso Times Via Associated Press; Sgt.
Tony Briscoe of the Texas National Guard repairs a fence along the Rio Grande.
Officials in El Paso are worried that the city's economic ties to Mexico will be
cut.
IMAGE; By Victor Calzada -- El Paso Times Via Associated Press; A fence lies
east of downtown El Paso, where leaders say policymakers in Washington do not
understand the city's many cross-border connections.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           August 22, 2007 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

Democrats Alter Attack On Fees for Bad Drivers;
Republicans in Va. Accused of Exempting Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: Tim Craig; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 757 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND, Aug. 21


Democratic lawmakers launched a new front in the battle over abusive-driver fees
Tuesday,  accusing Republicans of exempting illegal immigrants from having to
pay them. The effort drew rebukes from immigrant rights groups and Gov. Timothy
M. Kaine, whose spokesman called it "absolutely silly."

House Democrats targeted Del. Daniel W. Marshall III (R), who supported the fees
and represents the southern district of Danville, where immigration has become a
major issue.

In a statement Tuesday, Mark Bergman, a spokesman for the House Democratic
Caucus, said the fees provide "immunity for out-of-state drivers and illegal
immigrants."

Immigrant rights activists were outraged by the Democrats' accusation because,
they say, Virginia's law applies to most illegal immigrants.

The Democratic attack on Marshall underscores how the fees -- which can reach
$3,000 -- and illegal immigration are shaping up to be two top issues in the
fall elections, when all 140 seats in the House of Delegates and Senate are
open.

Marshall is no different from many other Republicans who have backed away from
the fees, but Democrats targeted him because they think he could be vulnerable
in his contest Nov. 6 against Democrat Adam Tomer.

"We are going to use the abuser fee issue district by district," said Bergman,
who dubbed Marshall "flip-flop Danny." Democrats need 11 seats to regain control
of the House.

But immigrant groups, including many that tend to support Democrats, said the
effort against Marshall would backfire.

"The Democrats do not know what they are talking about, and it is unfortunate
they seek to inflame the issue by using a bogus argument," said Claire
Gastanaga, a former chief deputy attorney general who is a lobbyist for the
Virginia Coalition for Latino Organizations. Gastanaga said she is "deeply
disappointed the Democrats would pile on the immigrants and think it would get
them somewhere."

Several Democrats were also uncomfortable to learn Tuesday that their party was
trying to use the illegal immigration issue for political advantage.

"It is something I wouldn't engage in but I suppose is factually correct," Del.
Adam P. Ebbin (D-Alexandria) said. "In the past, Virginia Republicans have shown
no restraint in how far overboard they will go to use immigrants as a political
wedge."

Kevin Hall, spokesman for Kaine (D), said, "Trying to link the two issues is
absolutely silly."

Marshall did not return calls seeking comment.

By trying to connect the issues, Democrats are fanning a misconception that many
illegal immigrants don't have to pay the fees.

According to the legislation, the fees are assessed on motorists who have
Virginia licenses and on "persons operating motor vehicles without licenses or
whose license has been revoked or suspended."

Illegal immigrants have been barred since 2004 from obtaining driver's licenses
in Virginia.

Del. David B. Albo (R-Fairfax), who wrote the abusive-driver law, said illegal
immigrants convicted of an offense that triggers a fee would have to pay the
charge because they would not have a license or would have a revoked license.

"If he doesn't have a license, he pays," Albo said.

An illegal immigrant with a valid driver's license from another state would
probably be exempt from the fees, Albo said.

Bergman said, "There are a lot of illegal immigrants in [Marshall's] district
with North Carolina tags."

Marshall was also a co-sponsor of a separate abusive-driver fee bill that failed
in 2005. Albo said that bill probably would have exempted illegal immigrants.
The bill applied only to motorists with a Virginia driver's license and didn't
include those who either did not have a license or had one that was revoked.

The release did not mention Kaine's role in amending the bill to exempt
out-of-state drivers.

Democrats also seek to take advantage of a hostile political environment toward
immigrants in economically depressed Danville.

Rep. Virgil H. Goode Jr. (R-Va.), whose district includes Danville, became a
leading voice against immigration last year when he criticized the election of
the first Muslim to Congress, saying that "if American citizens don't wake up
and adopt the Virgil Goode position on immigration, there will likely be many
more Muslims elected to office and demanding the use of the Koran."

Marshall also caused a stir in 2005 when he unsuccessfully pushed for a bill to
prohibit anyone who can can't read and write or speak English from obtaining a
Virginia driver's license.

At the time, Democrats denounced Goode's comments and Marshall's bill as
xenophobic.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Del. Daniel W. Marshall III (R-Danville) was targeted.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 25, 2007 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Newark Slayings Stoke Immigration Debate

BYLINE: Robin Shulman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 783 words

DATELINE: NEWARK


Since two illegal immigrants were named among the suspects in the
execution-style killings of three college students here, Republican presidential
candidates Mitt Romney, Rudolph W. Giuliani and Tom Tancredo have suggested that
the deaths show the consequences of failures in immigration policy.

But those closest to the killings say they  are less concerned about the
suspects' immigration status than their history of violence, noting that alleged
ringleader Jose Lachira Carranza  was released on bail after three previous
felony arrests, including two in connection with the rape of a 5-year-old.

"Whether he was a citizen of our country or not, he was prone to violence and he
should not have been released," said James Harvey, whose son was one of the
students killed. "The state had him in custody and let him out on bail --
that's more important than that they didn't check their immigration status," he
said.

On Wednesday, New Jersey Attorney General Anne Milgram ordered all local
authorities in the state to ask about immigration status after arrests on
offenses including robbery, assault, rape, murder and drunken driving, and to
notify federal officials if a suspect  is in the country illegally.

Newark Mayor Cory Booker (D) said he supports the directive -- which also
prohibits law enforcement officers from investigating the immigration status of
any witness or victim of a crime. But there was a feeling here that debate
stemming from the local killings had wandered far from the city's concerns.

The Newark city council  last October passed a nonbinding resolution promising
that local officials would not share immigration status information when
immigrants enroll their children in school, seek medical care or cooperate with
police. The regulations made an exception for suspected criminals.

Yet earlier this week, Tancredo, a Colorado congressman, traveled to Newark and
stood on the steps of City Hall blaming the city's protective immigration
policies for the killings. "If the suspects are found guilty, Newark and its
political leadership share a degree of responsibility," he said. "I encourage
the family of the victims to pursue a lawsuit against the city."

Booker responded immediately. "We do not want people coming into our community
and exploiting our pain for political advantage," he said.

On the night of Aug. 4, Dashon Harvey and Iofemi Hightower, both 20, and
Terrance Aeriel, 18, were lined up against a wall, forced to kneel and fatally
shot at close range. Natasha Aeriel, 19, Terrance's sister, was also shot, but
she survived.

Among the six people who were arrested in connection with the shootings were two
illegal immigrants.

Before these killings, Carranza, 28, who is from Peru, had been arrested three
times on felony charges but released on bail. Authorities did not ask his
immigration status, which could have triggered a federal "detainer" that might
have kept him in custody.

Michael Gilhooly, a spokesman for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
said an officer had been assigned to the Essex County Jail to identify illegal
immigrants. Speaking of Carranza, Gilhooly said: "His name had been put on a
list [of foreign-born detainees] provided to us, and we get lists from these
jails that are substantial. . . . We were not aware of him."

Another suspect, Melvin Jovel, 18, from Honduras, was also in the country
illegally.

Municipal Council member Ronald Rice was among the first to call for clear
reporting requirements for illegal immigrants arrested on serious charges. But
he now says he has been astonished to see others take up this call, which he
meant as a "trial balloon."

"I want to actually help," he said. "Others have come into our town to try to
use these gruesome murders for their own political ends. And I resent it."

The killings have made Newark another front in the immigration battlefields.

In nearby Morristown,  the mayor is seeking to get the local police deputized to
enforce immigration laws. Across the country, some 34 states have introduced
laws that would deny bail to people suspected of being undocumented and increase
funding for local enforcement of immigration laws.

All the suspects in the Newark killings are Latinos and all four victims are
African American. Yet people here say the killings were so singularly brutal
they transcend generalizations about immigrants.

The most pressing problem here is crime, not immigration, said nearly two dozen
residents of the neighborhoods where the killers and the victims lived. They
talk about car theft, gunfights and changing T-shirts to avoid gang colors.

"We know it's not safe for us," said Joshua Baker, 17, a neighbor of the
Aeriels. "It's not an immigration issue."

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Mel Evans -- Associated Press; James Harvey, whose son was
killed, and Shalga Hightower, right, whose daughter was killed, attend a
hearing. At left is Harvey's mother, Dorothy Harvey.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 28, 2007 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigrant Laws Tread Uncharted Legal Path;
With Local, Federal Powers Not Fully Defined, Officials Look to the Courts

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1385 words


As officials in places such as Prince William County increasingly respond to
public discontent over illegal immigration by passing ordinances, law scholars
say a key question remains: Are local regulations legal?

The validity of the measures, designed to regulate an area long considered part
of the federal domain, is among the murkiest territories in the
already-Byzantine field of immigration law, they say, largely because local
leaders have never before felt impelled to act, and so there are few specific
court rulings to offer clarity.

"You have this complex overlay of statutes and regulations and court cases, and
you've got this federalism question of . . . what has traditionally been federal
power and what the states can do," said Jan Ting, a Temple University law
professor. "There could not be an area of law that is less clear than this, I
think."

Among the many likely results of congressional inaction on immigration, experts
say, will be a flood of litigation over local laws. Ordinances in Farmers
Branch, Tex., and Valley Park, Mo., are  facing court challenges, and activists
in Prince William have threatened to file a lawsuit  over the county's
resolution to crack down on illegal immigrants.

This year, state legislatures introduced more than 1,400 immigrant-related
bills, at least 170 of which became law, according to the National Conference of
State Legislatures. Municipalities have proposed more than 100 such ordinances,
according to the American Civil Liberties Union.

Critics of local policies were emboldened last month by the first federal ruling
on a local law, which struck down a Hazleton, Pa., ordinance aimed at ridding
the town of illegal immigrants by denying business permits to employers who hire
them and fining landlords who rent to them. In a 206-page opinion, Judge James
Munley said such laws tread on federal terrain and violate illegal immigrants'
constitutional right to due process. The town is appealing the decision.

"Whatever frustrations officials of the City of Hazleton may feel about the
current state of federal immigration enforcement, the nature of the political
system in the United States prohibits the City from enacting ordinances that
disrupt a carefully drawn federal statutory scheme," Munley wrote.

Legal experts say that although the ruling is likely to discourage other
localities, it applies only to part of Pennsylvania and is vulnerable to
reversal  by a federal appeals court -- whose decision would become law
throughout the 3rd Judicial Circuit, which includes Delaware, New Jersey and
Pennsylvania.

For now, they say, some things are clear. The Supreme Court has ruled that true
immigration matters -- who enters and leaves the United States  -- fall under
the federal government's realm alone. When it comes to laws related to
noncitizens, the Constitution invalidates, or "preempts," state laws that
clearly conflict with federal laws or that courts interpret to be ground that
Congress intended to dominate.

That is where things get hazy, experts say.

Take employment regulations. Congress has  stated the invalidity of laws, passed
by several states this year, that directly penalize employers for hiring illegal
immigrants. But it provides an exception for sanctions involving licenses.

That gave Hazleton "clear authority" to deny business licenses to employers who
hire illegal workers, said Kris Kobach, a law professor at the University of
Missouri at Kansas City who represents the town and has helped other localities
craft stiff measures against illegal residents.

But Munley rejected the provision on several grounds, calling the loss of a
license the "ultimate sanction" because it would force employers out of
business. Congress, he wrote, would not have drawn up such intricate federal
employment regulations had it meant to allow states this kind of opening.

Law enforcement is another gray area. Congress allows state and local
authorities to make arrests under some criminal immigration laws and enter into
agreements with federal authorities to enforce immigration law more broadly,
experts said. But federal appeals courts have offered varying interpretations of
how far those powers go and whether they extend to the enforcement of civil
violations, such as overstaying a visa.

Those judgments mean little for Virginia and Maryland, whose 4th Circuit appeals
court  has not weighed in, experts said.

Prince William and Loudoun counties have passed resolutions designed to limit
illegal immigrants' access to public benefits. Although illegal immigrants are
entitled to schooling from kindergarten through 12th grade, immunizations and
emergency medical treatment, the federal Welfare Act denies them most other
assistance, including public housing, disability benefits or "any similar
benefit to which payment or assistance is provided."

The line is fuzzier when it comes to locally funded benefits. What about, say,
checkout privileges at public libraries?

"It wouldn't shock me if a court were to say this is a reasonable, measured
response," said Washington University law professor Stephen Legomsky. "On the
other hand, a court is just as likely to say that the states have no business
distinguishing those of its residents who have broken federal immigration laws
and its other residents."

For some local lawmakers, it  adds up to a conundrum.

The ambiguity was  on public display in Richmond last month, when Virginia's
illegal-immigration task force -- a new panel of state lawmakers, community
leaders and law enforcement officials -- sat through a crash course on what
federal law allows states to do about the issue. With each PowerPoint slide, the
members' brows grew more furrowed.

Several recent immigrant-related bills would have been void if the General
Assembly had passed them, explained their two instructors, lawyers from a
Richmond firm and the state attorney general's office. In fact, one Virginia law
on the books since 1977 -- making employment of illegal immigrants a misdemeanor
-- has no teeth.

Did state authorities have the right, lawmakers asked, to enforce criminal
immigration laws? The lawyers were not sure. Could they yank business licenses
from the employers of illegal immigrants? Probably, one  said. But not without a
challenge, the other added.

As the Virginia task force's co-chairman, Del. David B. Albo (R-Fairfax), put
it: "I've been working on this for three years, and everybody is confused about
what you can and can't do. . . . You ask four attorneys, and you'll get four
answers."

Albo, himself a lawyer, asked whether state police could arrest people who
approached them and said they had expired visas. Probably not, the lawyers said,
because that is a civil immigration violation. And if the person said he had
entered the country illegally? Probably so, he was told, because that is a
criminal violation.

"It's crazy. It's just a nuance of a difference," Albo said later. "We wouldn't
have to have these stupid meetings if the federal government had enforced its
own laws."

To some, the confusion means local officials should butt out.

"If local officials are asking what they can do, I'd say, "Call your
congressman,' " said John Ammann, a St. Louis University law professor who is
part of a legal team challenging a Valley Park, Mo., ordinance identical to
Hazleton's.

But lawmakers say explanations of federal preemption hold little sway with
fed-up constituents.

"They're not interested in going to law school," said Del. John S. "Jack" Reid
(R-Henrico), a task force member. "I tried to explain it at a civic club meeting
one day, and they were all, 'Look, what are you going to do?' And I was all,
'Well, I'm going to stop explaining this!' "

Reid said he thinks it is "silly" for states and counties to have different
immigrant-related laws. But, he said, "I just don't think you can turn your back
on such a wholesale breach of the law and still have any credibility."

And so local laws will keep coming, he predicted. So will lawsuits, experts say.

"Can they do what they're doing? We'll find out as these things pop up across
the country and as there are challenges," said David Wolfe Leopold, a Cleveland
lawyer and adjunct law professor at Case Western Reserve University. "But what's
best for the country is if Congress does its job and fixes the broken system
that we have."

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 30, 2007 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Planned Crackdown on Immigrants Denounced

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 886 words


The U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the AFL-CIO this week separately assailed a new
White House-backed crackdown on illegal immigration, warning of massive
disruptions to the economy and headaches for U.S. citizens if the proposal goes
ahead as planned in the coming days.

The Bush administration intends to begin writing to 140,000 employers on Tuesday
regarding suspect Social Security numbers used by an estimated 8.7 million
workers, as a way of pressuring them to fire illegal immigrants. President Bush
disclosed the plan three weeks ago as part of a repackaged, 26-point enforcement
program after Congress failed to overhaul U.S. immigration laws this summer.

But leaders of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and a coalition of trade groups
representing the politically influential construction, lodging, farming,
meatpacking, restaurant, retail and service industries appealed on Monday to the
Department of Homeland Security and the Social Security Administration to
postpone the plan's implementation for six months.

Raising the possibility of plant closings, autumn-harvest interruptions and
other destabilizing consequences for the U.S. economy, 50 business organization
members of the Essential Worker Immigration Coalition signed a letter warning of
"uncertainties, disruptions, and dislocations throughout broad swaths of the
workforce," as well as discrimination against Hispanic and immigrant workers.

Yesterday, the AFL-CIO, the American Civil Liberties Union, the National
Immigration Law Center and local labor groups separately asked a federal judge
in San Francisco to stop the mass mailing and kill the plan outright. They
alleged that the DHS is overstepping its authority to enforce immigration laws
and is misapplying the Social Security system in a way that will unfairly
penalize law-abiding workers and employers.

The groups said that inaccurate federal databases could sweep U.S. citizens and
legal residents into a bureaucratic morass. The Social Security database used to
cull suspicious numbers contains erroneous records on 17.8 million people,
including 12.7 million native-born U.S. citizens, the Social Security
Administration's inspector general reported last year.

"This rule is a new tool to repress workers' rights in the name of phony
immigration enforcement," AFL-CIO President John J. Sweeney said in a statement.
The plan "will cause massive discrimination against anyone who looks or sounds
'foreign,' " said Lucas Guttentag, director of the ACLU's Immigrants' Rights
Project.

In a statement, Department of Homeland Security spokesman Russ Knocke called the
lawsuit "completely without merit, and we intend to fight it vigorously."

Asked about the business coalition's request for a six-month reprieve, Knocke
said: "The list of signatures tells you why immigration reform has been hard,
and why we often face enforcement challenges. Still, we're going to restore
public credibility on enforcement."

The attacks from the left and the right come as Homeland Security Secretary
Michael Chertoff warns of "serious" and "unhappy consequences" for the sectors
of the U.S. economy that depend on illegal labor, explaining that these are the
costs of reestablishing voters' confidence.

Administration officials have blamed the congressional defeat of an immigration
overhaul package partly on Washington's failure to back up its tough rhetoric on
illegal immigration with action, saying that political hypocrisy particularly
undermined support among conservative groups.

"Historically, whenever any administration has tried to enforce the laws that
are on the books, they have received push back from stakeholders" and from "the
same congressmen who say we need to be tough on immigration," said Deborah W.
Meyers, an analyst at the Migration Policy Institute, a nonpartisan think tank
in Washington.

Some experts speculated yesterday that the new enforcement effort might have the
dual aim of solidifying Bush's standing among an unhappy part of the Republican
Party's base and punishing business groups that did not adequately support the
immigration overhaul package.

"I don't know if there's the will for it. Maybe it's too little, too late, but
they're trying," said one congressional lobbyist, who said the administration
appears to be trying to build pressure to revive the overhaul plan in Congress.
The lobbyist spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of
the subject.

Under the new rules, set to take effect on Sept. 14, employers that receive
"no-match" letters have 90 days to resolve discrepancies. If they do not, the
DHS may conclude that employers knowingly violated the law by employing illegal
workers, opening the door to fines and even criminal arrests.

That approach marks a major change. The Social Security Administration has long
sent "no-match" letters, and it has found that 4  to 10 percent of workers have
suspect numbers because of typographical errors, name changes resulting from
marriage or multiple surnames, as well as fraud. But, until now, it has not held
employers liable.

The problem is greater in some industries. Farm groups estimate that 70  to 90
percent of field workers lack proper documents. Raids at meatpacking plants turn
up discrepancies in about 30 percent of workers' documents.

Staff writer N.C. Aizenman contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Bill Starling -- Mobile Press-register Via Associated Press;
Michael Chertoff warns of "unhappy consequences" for users of illegal labor.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 5, 2007 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Joint Effort Proposed on Deportation;
Pr. William Area Hopes To Stem Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: Christy Goodman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 840 words


Five law enforcement agencies in and around Prince William County are seeking to
join forces to combat illegal immigration with a proposal for federal training
in deportation procedures that local officials said would be one of the first of
its kind in the nation.

The multi-agency proposal comes as Republican leaders in the state legislature
have announced a measure that would require city and county jails to check the
immigration status of defendants in criminal cases.

The Prince William Criminal Alien Initiative, if approved by the federal
government, would build on an enforcement effort at the Prince William-Manassas
regional jail that has trained officers to begin the deportation process for
selected inmates. From mid-July to mid-August, the effort led to 14 new
deportation cases at the jail.

The new agreement would include the jail, the county sheriff's office and police
departments in Prince William, Manassas and Manassas Park, which together have a
population of more than 400,000. The five agencies would use the same
immigration enforcement guidelines and have the same training to maintain a
consistent approach to what can be a volatile issue. Local officials predicted
the initiative would lead to more deportation cases and, they hope, a drop in
crime.

"These individuals . . . after serving their local time, would have normally
been rereleased back into the community, oftentimes to re-offend," said Manassas
Police Chief John J. Skinner. "They aren't going to get that chance."

Some immigrant rights advocates are critical of the initiative.

"If the local police are to become involved in enforcing federal immigration
law, they are going to rupture the trust they have built with the immigration
community," said John Steinbach, a representative of the Woodbridge Workers
Committee, a group that offers support services to immigrants. He predicted that
many immigrants would be less likely to report crimes because of fear of being
reported to federal authorities.

Originally, Prince William Police Chief Charlie T. Deane did not favor training
local police to work with federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents,
citing concerns about a possible backlash in the county's Latino community. But
Deane shifted position as the county moved toward a tougher stance on illegal
immigration.

"The regional approach is the proper way to do this," Deane said. He plans to
present details on the initiative this month to county supervisors.

A similar enforcement policy has emerged in five jurisdictions in the
Fayetteville-Springdale metropolitan area of northwest Arkansas. There, a
handful of city and county police departments have obtained or are seeking
individual agreements and training from Immigration and Customs. There are plans
for a joint task force of about five officers from each jurisdiction.

The Florida Department of Law Enforcement has had an agreement with the federal
agency since 2003. Don Ladner, the department's special agent in charge of
domestic security and intelligence, said the initiative was begun after
officials learned that several hijackers in the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks had lived in the state.

Participating officers are trained in specialized aspects of immigration
enforcement, focusing on threats related to homeland security, through seven
regional task forces in Florida, Ladner said.

"We are not out here stopping cars checking for illegal immigrants, doing
business checks or [searching] farm workers. We are not doing normal, everyday
immigration enforcement," Ladner said. Florida's agreement with the federal
agency is used "for specific domestic security investigations," he said.

In the Washington area, officials said, the Herndon police department is the
only other agency to have Immigration and Customs training. Sheriff's
departments in Virginia's Shenandoah and Rockingham counties also have received
the training.

Under the proposed Prince William initiative, Skinner said, each agency would
have liaisons to work with federal agents in investigations. Trained officers
would have authority to tap Immigration and Customs databases and assist other
officers and detectives in the field, Skinner said. Joint efforts, he said,
would be "a force multiplier" for the five agencies.

Manassas City Council member Jonathan L. Way (R) said the initiative could
"become a national model."

Federal officials are considering the proposal. "We are working to determine
[if] what they are suggesting is an appropriate plan of action and if we'll be
able to work with them to tackle the area's specific challenges," said
Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokesman Richard Rocha.

During about four weeks in July and August, the Prince William-Manassas jail
processed 56 cases in which inmates were identified as illegal immigrants for
possible deportation after their release. Fourteen of those cases, known as
"deportation detainers," were begun by jail officers who had been newly trained
under the federal program, said Col. Charles "Skip" Land, the jail's
superintendent.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 5, 2007 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Counties Sift Through Policies on Illegal Immigrants;
Boards of Supervisors to Study How to Enforce Proposed Rules on Curtailing
Public Services

BYLINE: Sandhya Somashekhar and Christy Goodman; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 515 words


Elected officials in Loudoun and Prince William counties yesterday began the
complex, legally risky task of deciding how to make good on promises they made
this summer to crack down on illegal immigrants.

Both counties' supervisors approved resolutions in July designed to cut back on
government services to illegal immigrants.

But Loudoun County staff members have said that there are few services that
officials have the authority to cut. They also said that taking the
unprecedented step of enforcing federal immigration laws at the local level
could cost the county money and put it at risk of lawsuits from groups such as
the American Civil Liberties Union.

Yesterday, the Loudoun Board of Supervisors voted to study the issue in advance
of a discussion planned for Sept. 19.

"I keep hearing, 'Legally, you can't do this, you can't do that, someone wants
to sue, the ACLU is waiting,' " Supervisor Stephen J. Snow (R-Dulles) said.
"It's like everyone wants to handcuff you."

Loudoun and Prince William are among U.S. towns and counties seeking to push
illegal immigrants out since Congress failed to enact immigration reform this
year.

An estimated 12 million illegal immigrants live in the United States. Advocates
of harsh policies against them say they are a drain on communities. Supporters
of a more lenient approach say that most pay taxes and contribute to the
economy.

Reform efforts have proved tricky, as freshly minted policies are being struck
down in courts. In July, a federal judge barred Hazleton, Pa., from enforcing
anti-illegal immigrant laws, including one that would have fined landlords
$1,000 a day for renting to tenants who didn't have papers.

The Bush administration launched a campaign this summer to punish businesses
that hire illegal immigrants. But Friday, a federal judge struck down a key part
of that effort after civil liberties groups said it could hurt legal immigrants.

Yesterday, Loudoun Supervisor James Burton (I-Blue Ridge) read a statement in
defense of illegal immigrants, calling them an "integral and vital part of our
economy."

The comment drew a rebuke from Supervisor Jim Clem (R-Leesburg). "It really
upsets me to hear what you read, and I truly hope you didn't write it," Clem
said. "That is a pure violation of the laws we all live by."

Loudoun officials will have to consider whether the new policies are based on
finances or principle. A recent study in Chesterfield County near Richmond found
that illegal immigrants cost that county about $2 million a year, a small part
of the budget. The figure did not include the school system.

Also yesterday, more than a dozen people spoke at the Prince William Board of
County Supervisors meeting. Most favored harsher rules.

"Illegal aliens who have broken the law are subject to deportation. They are
criminals," said Patty Mattes, a resident of Manassas in the county.

Prince William officials are scheduled to hear a report from Police Chief
Charlie T. Deane Sept. 18 on the law enforcement aspect of the county's plan.

They are to hear from County Executive Craig Gerhart on the overall issue Oct.
2.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Loudoun Supervisor Stephen J. Snow expressed frustration over
hurdles.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 6, 2007 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Count Them In;
Illegal immigrants should be encouraged to participate in the 2010 census.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 442 words


FOR  30 YEARS, immigration officials have scaled back or altogether halted raids
on illegal aliens while the U.S. census was being conducted. But the Bush
administration announced last month that times are changing.

Undocumented immigrants try not to be found. They are therefore supremely
unmotivated to report themselves -- and personal information about themselves --
to census officials. To combat such mistrust,  during the past few censuses the
U.S. Census Bureau has launched awareness campaigns, with the help of Catholic
churches and advocacy groups, to convince immigrants that the census was both
confidential and important.

During the past three censuses, immigration officials also agreed to suspend
some sweeps for illegal aliens for the sake of getting a more accurate head
count. In 2000, the decision took the form of an informal agreement not to carry
out large-scale raids that would get a lot of media coverage. Making
high-profile arrests of illegal immigrants during a census, after all, can
increase suspicion that surveys are being handed over to law enforcement.

But next time around, Immigration and Customs Enforcement will "not even
consider scaling back [its] efforts," according to spokeswoman Ernestine Fobbs.

Why is the census important, and why do we care whether illegal immigrants are
counted? There are both legal and practical reasons. The  Constitution requires
the government to count all people -- legal or otherwise -- residing in the
United States once a decade.

The information  obtained from the census is  also critical in determining
political representation and the allocation of funds. Census officials don't
care about an individual's personal information; they care about population
trends and how that information can be harnessed to craft better public
policies.  Immigration and Customs Enforcement's knee-jerk announcement of its
intention to "aggressively" enforce immigration laws during the census is
especially shortsighted because of how crucial an accurate census is for
evaluating what ICE does. Census data, after all, provide the only really
effective means of estimating how many undocumented immigrants are  out there
(right now, the estimate is about 12 million nationwide).

The Census Bureau announced last month that it won't interfere with ICE's
duties. But scholars and career demographers are predicting distortions in this
coming census as a result of ICE's plans, especially given an anti-immigrant
atmosphere already poised to deter illegal immigrants from participating. Before
that happens, we hope the next presidential administration will step in and show
more  sense on census rules.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 2, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Panel Decries Prince William's Tough Immigration Laws;
Report Labels Proposals as Costly, Burdensome and Ineffective Long-Term

BYLINE: Nick Miroff; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 626 words


The Prince William Human Rights Commission has warned that the county's tough
new policies on illegal immigration could lead to racial discrimination and
costly litigation that would mar the county's reputation.

A subcommittee of the commission was convened in July after the Board of County
Supervisors unanimously approved the most aggressive local measures in Virginia
against illegal immigrants. Its report was released in advance of the board
meeting today at which supervisors plan to vote on proposals that would curb
access to specific county services for illegal immigrants and police policies
designed to increase residency checks and deportations.

According to the report, the measures would be burdensome to legal residents,
expensive for county taxpayers and "do little or nothing to relieve the longer
term, underlying problems of assimilation." The report compares the policies
with past discrimination in the United States against Native Americans and
African Americans, claiming that "Prince William County has been fractured in
ways not seen since the1950s."

County officials had anticipated that the report would not look favorably on
their crackdown. The advisory commission, which was created in 1992 to ensure
that Prince William residents are treated fairly and provided equal protection
of the law, was cautioned by supervisors in August not to criticize the county's
illegal immigration policies. In a letter to the subcommittee, the supervisors
asked for guidance with implementation, not criticism.

Board Chairman Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large) belittled the findings yesterday as
"useless."

"It's a tremendous waste of an opportunity," he said. "This report is nothing
but a litany of complaints. . . . Comparing the atmosphere in Prince William
today to the South in the 1950s is insulting and ridiculous."

Human Rights Commission Vice Chairman Carlos Labiosa, who led the subcommittee,
said the report was not meant as criticism but as "a recommendation." He said
the panel hadn't felt pressured by supervisors or a flood of angry letters and
e-mails.

"We made our suggestions, and we're leaving it up to the county board of
supervisors," Labiosa said.

In preparing the report, the subcommittee provided a forum for advocacy groups
on different sides of the immigration debate, most of which opposed the
measures.

"The county is changing, and I understand change is difficult for some people,"
Labiosa said. "But you cannot stop change."

The report cautions that the supervisors' goal of driving out or deporting
illegal immigrants would also shrink the county's tax base.

"It will be virtually impossible to implement this legislation in a
non-discriminatory manner unless every resident of Prince William County is
required to prove his or her legal residency at all county service points," it
says.

The subcommittee recommended that the county issue some form of standard
documentation for all county residents. Stewart dismissed that proposal as
further evidence the report was not a serious effort.

The gulf between the board's determination to implement its policies and the
subcommittee's concerns raised questions about the purpose of the advisory
panel, which was created to ensure that "each citizen is treated fairly,
provided equal protection of the law and equal opportunity to participate in the
benefits, rights, and privileges of community life," according to the law that
established the commission.

But retiring supervisor Hilda M. Barg (D-Woodbridge) said the Human Rights
Commission was like any advisory body in the county.

"We don't always do what is advised by the Planning Commission, do we?" she
said. "But we appreciate the work, and the board needs to make a decision in the
best interest of Prince William County."

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 4, 2007 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Chaos Coming;
In targeting the employers of illegal immigrants, the administration courts
disaster.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 481 words


HAVING FAILED at comprehensive immigration reform, the Bush administration is on
its way to failing at piecemeal immigration reform. Its new get-tough approach,
unveiled in the summer, aims to deter unlawful entry to the country by forcing
employers to fire illegal immigrants on their payrolls. The policy is a
prescription for social, economic and bureaucratic mayhem masquerading as
muscular enforcement. No wonder it has succeeded in uniting labor, business and
civil rights groups in opposition to it.

At the heart of the administration's new strategy is a plan to use government
data to identify undocumented workers who have provided their employers with
fraudulent Social Security numbers to qualify for a job. On identifying these
"no-match" employees, the government would alert employers, who would then have
90 days either to fire the workers in question or face hefty fines.

Simple, right? Wrong. For starters, the Social Security Administration's
database is riddled with errors -- mistakes, misspellings, hyphenated names
wrongly entered and so forth. According to the agency's own inspector general,
these errors could affect 17.8 million records. That raises the probability of
bureaucratic confusion on an epic scale. In targeting illegal immigrants, the
government's dragnet is likely to sweep up huge numbers of citizens, both
native-born and legal immigrants. Would employers facing large fines really
fight to keep workers -- even perfectly legal ones -- whose documents were
marred by a discrepancy?

No doubt, many undocumented workers might be culled in such a cruel campaign.
Some might even decide to leave the country. But many others would simply burrow
more deeply into the underground economy, working as day laborers or for
mom-and-pop employers under the government's radar. The effect on employers in
the agriculture, meatpacking, construction and hospitality industries could be
devastating. Farmers would be particularly hard hit: At least 70 percent of
farmworkers in this country are thought to be undocumented. The government is
not denying that its plan would cause confusion and dislocations; it's just
saying that's too bad.

In response to a lawsuit by unions and the American Civil Liberties Union, a
federal court in San Francisco has put the government's new rules on hold; a
ruling is expected soon. The government has a right to enforce laws. But let
there be no illusions about the costs. President Bush himself argued for
comprehensive immigration reform because he knew -- and his own aides
acknowledged -- that a crackdown without a  path to citizenship for some 12
million illegal immigrants already here was a recipe for chaos.  If the
administration is determined to squeeze employers, it might make some sense to
start with hiring. Launching an attack on millions of hardworking people already
in the labor force is foolish in the extreme.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 11, 2007 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Lawsuit Targets Prince William;
Groups Challenge Crackdown on Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: Jerry Markon; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 600 words


Civil rights groups filed a lawsuit yesterday targeting Prince William County's
closely watched crackdown on illegal immigration, arguing that a measure
ordering police to check the immigration status of people  in custody violates
federal law.

The lawsuit, filed in U.S. District Court in Alexandria, asks a judge to declare
unconstitutional a controversial resolution that the Prince William supervisors
passed in July. Before the largest crowd to attend a board meeting in two
decades, the supervisors heightened immigration enforcement by local police and
attempted to curb public services for illegal immigrants.

Although the enforcement efforts have not taken effect and supervisors have thus
far declined to fund them, plaintiffs said yesterday that the resolution is
having a dramatic effect throughout the county. The lawsuit was filed by a
Washington law firm and two civil rights organizations on behalf of 22
plaintiffs. It names the county, the Prince William police chief, the county
executive and the members of the board.

"This is instilling fear, it's causing racial divisions and it's making our
community a place that is uninhabitable for people of color," said Nancy Lyall,
a spokeswoman for the Woodbridge Workers Committee, one of the plaintiffs.
Plaintiffs and their attorneys said the resolution has heightened discrimination
against Hispanics and other immigrants.

Corey A. Stewart, chairman of the Board of County Supervisors, said the
resolution was "crafted very carefully, and we are confident it will withstand
this and any other legal challenge." He accused the Puerto Rican Legal Defense
and Education Fund, one of the organizations that filed the lawsuit, of
threatening county officials with a legal challenge before the resolution was
passed.

"They are trying to intimidate the county from upholding the law, and I am not
going to back down from those threats," Stewart (R-At Large) said. "No one is
going to threaten Prince William County and get us to back down from doing the
right thing."

Prince William Police Chief Charlie T. Deane and County Executive Craig S.
Gerhart declined to comment.

Cesar A. Perales, president of the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education
Fund, said he was simply alerting Stewart that a lawsuit was coming. "It was not
a threat," he said. "He is not upholding the law. The fact is, he is being
lawless."

Prince William's crackdown on illegal immigration has attracted national
attention and has placed the county at the forefront of Virginia jurisdictions
-- including Loudoun County -- that are trying to curb it. The July resolution,
a weakened version of a previous proposal, directed Prince William officers to
check the immigration status of anyone in police custody who they have probable
cause to believe  is an illegal immigrant. It also asked county employees to
look for ways to lawfully deny services to illegal immigrants.

Last week, the county slowed the crackdown, declining to fund the police policy
because of budget constraints and postponing a vote on proposals to deny county
services to illegal immigrants. But the supervisors voted to approve the new
police procedures and increase cooperation with federal immigration agents for
processing adult and juvenile suspects. They are expected to revisit funding at
their meeting Tuesday.

Christina Guerola Sarchio, an attorney for the plaintiffs, said that the
resolution violates the Constitution and that "people wanted to stand up and
fight it." The other 21 plaintiffs include four illegal immigrants.

Staff writers Nick Miroff and Theresa Vargas contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 14, 2007 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Cross Section of Residents Suing Over Crackdown;
Pr. William Immigration Resolution Prompts Plaintiffs' Action

BYLINE: Theresa Vargas; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. LZ06

LENGTH: 872 words


The federal lawsuit filed last week against Prince William County paints a broad
picture of those who believe they will be affected by the crackdown on illegal
immigration.

The 22 plaintiffs are a mix of identified and unidentified men, women and
children who live or work in the county. Their legal status runs the spectrum.

"They all have a different set of circumstances, different situations and I
think it speaks to what is so complicated about this issue," said Cesar Perales,
president of the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund. "I don't think
the American public understands that so many of the undocumented are members of
what I would call mixed families in that many of them might have U.S.-born
children, many of them are married to U.S. citizens. Others are married to
permanent residents. You may have brothers and sisters with different
immigration status."

The fund is one of the groups that filed the suit Wednesday in U.S. District
Court in Alexandria, asking a judge to declare Prince William's
illegal-immigration measures unconstitutional. A July resolution directed county
officers to check the immigration status of anyone in police custody who they
have probable cause to believe is an illegal immigrant. It also asked county
employees to look for ways to lawfully deny services to illegal immigrants.

"On its face, the Resolution is a poor attempt by the County Board to circumvent
federal law and regulate immigration according to its own rules," the suit says.

Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large), chairman of the Board of County Supervisors, said
when the suit was filed that the resolution was "crafted very carefully, and we
are confident it will withstand this and any other legal challenge."

The board is set to vote on the measure Tuesday.

Some of the plaintiffs approached Perales at a recent rally in Manassas, and
others called his office later, he said. Still others contacted the other two
groups that  filed the suit:  the Washington Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights
and Urban Affairs, and the Washington law firm Howrey LLP.

Some plaintiffs are unidentified, Perales said, because "we want their story to
be told but at the same time they need protection" because of their undocumented
status.

Two of the unidentified plaintiffs are women who have pending applications for
residency based on spousal abuse, the suit says. One is listed as Jane Roe 1.
This is what is known about her according to the lawsuit:

A native of Guatemala, Jane Roe 1 was petitioning for lawful status through her
husband, a U.S. citizen with whom she has a 3-year-old son. But after her
husband began physically abusing her and threatened to withdraw himself as her
sponsor, she submitted an application for immigration status based on spousal
abuse. While that application is pending, she will not have documents to confirm
she is entitled to stay in the United States if questioned by police or other
county officials, the suit says.

One woman, a 26-year-old who works in real estate and volunteers for a nonprofit
organization, has lived in the county since she was 9. She is undocumented.
Since the resolution passed, the suit says, "she no longer enjoys traveling
through the county, visiting the area shopping mall, or shopping at the grocery
store because she is afraid that she and her family will be targeted by the
police or by anti-immigrant members of the community." She and her husband, who
is also undocumented, have two children who are U.S. citizens, ages 5 and 9. The
children live in "constant fear of sudden or forced separation from their
parents," the suit says.

Rubin Ochoa Contreras is among several plaintiffs who are identified. A native
of Venezuela, he received his permanent residency in February after living in
the United States for eight years. He attends English classes at night but fears
that because his English is not proficient, he may "not be able to effectively
communicate with officers or other county employees and, accordingly, may be
needlessly, unlawfully detained or denied benefits or services to which he is
entitled."

Tulio Diaz was born in Puerto Rico and has lived in the county for 35 years. As
a U.S. citizen, he is not required to carry proof of his legal status, but the
suit says that because of the resolution, he now fears he will be asked to show
proof "due to his race, color and ethnicity."

Plaintiff Yolanda Lemus of El Salvador, a naturalized U.S. citizen, has the same
fears, according the suit. So does Lisandro Vigil of El Salvador, who was
granted temporary protected status by the federal government.

Hugo Giron, who was also granted temporary permanent status and authorization to
work, has a young son who is a U.S. citizen. Since the resolution passed, Giron
has lost immigrant clients at his landscaping business and  immigrant tenants
from properties he owns in the county, the suits says.

"Plaintiff Giron's quality of life has deteriorated since the passage of the
resolution," the suit says. "Plaintiff Giron feels that residents of Prince
William County have grown antagonistic and unwelcoming toward him and his son."

Another plaintiff is the Woodbridge Workers Committee, which consists of
hundreds of immigrant day laborers and community volunteers.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Loudoun County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 14, 2007 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

The Lives Behind Immigrant Lawsuit;
Pr. William Plaintiffs Of Diverse Status

BYLINE: Theresa Vargas; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 877 words


The federal lawsuit filed  this past week against Prince William County paints a
broad picture of those who believe they will be affected by the crackdown on
illegal immigration.

The 22 plaintiffs are a mix of identified and unidentified men, women and
children who live or work in the county. Their legal status runs the spectrum.

"They all have a different set of circumstances, different situations, and I
think it speaks to what is so complicated about this issue," said Cesar Perales,
president of the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund. "I don't think
the American public understands that so many of the undocumented are members of
what I would call mixed families in that many of them might have U.S.-born
children, many of them are married to U.S. citizens. Others are married to
permanent residents. You may have brothers and sisters with different
immigration status."

The fund is one of the groups that filed the suit Wednesday in U.S. District
Court in Alexandria, asking a judge to declare Prince William's
illegal-immigration measures unconstitutional. A July resolution directed county
officers to check the immigration status of anyone in police custody who they
have probable cause to believe is an illegal immigrant. It also asked county
employees to look for ways to lawfully deny services to illegal immigrants.

"On its face, the Resolution is a poor attempt by the County Board to circumvent
federal law and regulate immigration according to its own rules," the suit says.

Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large), chairman of the Board of County Supervisors, said
when the suit was filed that the resolution was "crafted very carefully, and we
are confident it will withstand this and any other legal challenge."

The board is set to vote on the measure Tuesday.

Some of the plaintiffs approached Perales at a recent rally in Manassas, and
others called his office later, he said. Still others contacted the other two
groups that  filed the suit:  the Washington Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights
and Urban Affairs and the Washington law firm Howrey LLP.

Some plaintiffs are unidentified, Perales said, because "we want their story to
be told but at the same time they need protection" because of their undocumented
status.

Two of the unidentified plaintiffs are women who have pending applications for
residency based on spousal abuse, the suit says. One is listed as Jane Roe 1.
This is what is known about her according to the lawsuit:

A native of Guatemala, Jane Roe 1 was petitioning for lawful status through her
husband, a U.S. citizen with whom she has a 3-year-old son. But after her
husband began physically abusing her and threatened to withdraw himself as her
sponsor, she submitted an application for immigration status based on spousal
abuse. While that application is pending, she will not have documents to confirm
that she is entitled to stay in the United States if questioned by police or
other county officials, the suit says.

One woman, a 26-year-old who works in real estate and volunteers for a nonprofit
organization, has lived in the county since she was 9. She is undocumented.
Since the resolution passed, the suit says, "she no longer enjoys traveling
through the county, visiting the area shopping mall, or shopping at the grocery
store because she is afraid that she and her family will be targeted by the
police or by anti-immigrant members of the community." She and her husband, who
is also undocumented, have a 5-year-old and a 9-year-old who are U.S. citizens,
ages 5 and 9. The children live in "constant fear of sudden or forced separation
from their parents," the suit says.

Rubin Ochoa Contreras is among several plaintiffs who are identified. A native
of Venezuela, he received his permanent residency in February after living in
the United States for eight years. He attends English classes at night but fears
that because his English is not proficient, he may "not be able to effectively
communicate with officers or other county employees and, accordingly, may be
needlessly, unlawfully detained or denied benefits or services to which he is
entitled."

Tulio Diaz was born in Puerto Rico and has lived in the county for 35 years. As
a U.S. citizen, he is not required to carry proof of his legal status, but the
suit says that because of the resolution, he now fears he will be asked to show
proof "due to his race, color and ethnicity."

Plaintiff Yolanda Lemus of El Salvador, a naturalized U.S. citizen, has the same
fears, according the suit. So does Lisandro Vigil of El Salvador, who was
granted temporary protected status by the federal government.

Hugo Giron, who was also granted temporary permanent status and authorization to
work, has a young son who is a U.S. citizen. Since the resolution passed, Giron
has lost immigrant clients at his landscaping business and  immigrant tenants
from properties he owns in the county, the suits says.

"Plaintiff Giron's quality of life has deteriorated since the passage of the
resolution," the suit says. "Plaintiff Giron feels that residents of Prince
William County have grown antagonistic and unwelcoming toward him and his son."

Another plaintiff is the Woodbridge Workers Committee, which consists of
hundreds of immigrant day laborers and community volunteers.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 21, 2007 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

'This Is Money Well Spent to Improve' Public Safety;
Stewart Discusses Supervisors' Unanimous Vote, Prince William's Crackdown on
Illegal Immigrants

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW05

LENGTH: 1723 words


Within months, traffic stops in Prince William County might have serious
consequences for thousands of residents, as police officers begin checking the
immigration status of anyone who breaks the law, whether for speeding or
shoplifting, if they think that person is in the country illegally.

With its unanimous vote last week, the Board of County Supervisors also cut off
certain services to illegal immigrants who are homeless, elderly or addicted to
drugs. A similar debate is playing out in communities across the country, where
an increasing number of jurisdictions have been taking steps to clamp down on
illegal immigrants after Congress failed to pass immigration overhaul measures.

Supervisors Chairman Corey A. Stewart was online Thursday to discuss the board's
decision.

Q:Wheaton: Bravo to your community. I only hope Montgomery County follows your
lead and stops draining taxpayer's dollars for lawbreakers.

Keep up the good work!

A: Corey A. Stewart: Thank you.

Woodbridge: For months, we've been told that illegals are somehow acting as a
financial drain on us -- they use up services that cost us all money. Now,
according to The Post ["Jump in Tax Rate Looms as Home Values Plunge,' Oct. 14,
Extra] you're working to raise our tax rates an average of $257 extra, partly to
pay for the [county police department's] illegal crackdown and to defray
lawsuits. So it looks to me that it isn't illegals who are costing me but rather
the crackdown. Do you think that's fair? I don't normally vote for Republicans,
but you promised lower taxes, and now you've reneged. Guess I learned my lesson!

For the first time in several years, we've been able to keep average Prince
William resident tax bills flat. I do not anticipate a significant increase in
average tax bills next year either. Nearly all communities in the U.S. are now
facing fiscal challenges, and Prince William is no exception. The cost of our
crackdown on illegal immigration will not significantly affect that situation.

Clarendon: Hello, Mr. Stewart. If I'm stopped by a cop in Prince William, how
can I prove that I'm not an illegal alien?

A valid driver's license doesn't count as proof. You can get one while on a
temporary visa and then keep renewing after the visa has expired.

Do I need to carry my U.K. passport with its valid visa when I visit Prince
William?

No. Our police will be trained to do this properly over the next several weeks.
If you are legally a resident in the United States, you have nothing to worry
about.

Woodbridge: Mr. Stewart, As a resident of Prince William County I am
extraordinarily displeased and ashamed of your "leadership" in regards to the
issue of immigration. You have mounted a campaign based on fear and alienation.
You have also displayed your ignorance on the matter on several occasions -- the
most notable the misuse of the Constitution. I believe you were using a section
that related to transportation, not immigration. Given the fact that your hate
tactics have only caused greater tension within the county, do you plan to offer
any useful solutions through the remainder of your term?

You have a right to your opinion. But, yes, I am and will continue to reach into
the Latino community to assure them that this resolution is aimed at illegal
immigrants only, not Latinos or legal residents.

Manassas: How much has this brouhaha cost the taxpayers to date in terms of
staff time that could have been spent on other projects? Projected legal fees to
defend us in court? What has the board determined to be the savings to taxpayers
once this is put in force? Details have been sorely lacking in what this means
to the taxpayers of the county monetarily.

First and foremost, this is a public safety initiative to remove illegal aliens
who violate the law. This is money well spent to improve the safety of the
public.

Woodbridge: Mr. Stewart, have you and/or your board members thought about the
ramifications of your stupid resolution? What is the county going to do with the
U.S.-born children whose mothers will be deported due to the regulation? I guess
the county will have to pay to support those motherless children, right? At what
cost? Raising our taxes?

That is an issue for the immigration judge. Please keep in mind that Prince
William County does not ultimately decide whether someone should be deported or
not.

Alexandria: What steps are you taking to ensure constitutional rights are
protected for people subject to these types of stops? As a constitutional
attorney, your new procedures/policies seem ripe for numerous Constitutional
challenges in court. For example: racial profiling, privacy rights, Fourth
Amendment stops, the list goes on.

We are working very carefully to implement procedures to guard against racial
profiling or other discriminatory behavior.

Manassas: Who will do the jobs the at $6 and $8 an hour that immigrants
currently do?

My sole focus as a local official is the impact of illegal immigration on county
services and public safety.

Manassas: Mr. Stewart, Why is this topic an uproar? Legal citizens are expected
to obey the laws of this country and pay taxes. Is it a big deal that illegal
immigrants are expected to do the same?

I don't understand why the illegals think they have a right to live here without
being part of the tax base.

I am not a fan of my supervisor or of the government in this county, but I
appreciate what you are doing in regard to illegal immigration.

Thank you. We appreciate your support.

Woodbridge: I am a legal Hispanic and have been a resident of Prince William
County for a long time. I am proud of you, Mr. Stewart, for upholding the
national law while the federal government fails us. I came here legally. Yes, it
took time, but it was worth it. I am disappointed in my fellow Hispanic brothers
and sisters who come sneaking into a country and then pick and choose which laws
to follow. By the way, everyone is asked for ID and proof of residency when
doing many different things here. I applaud the police and Mr. Stewart for
standing their ground and working to better me and my children's lives.

Thank you. My own wife is a legal immigrant. On a personal level, I believe it
is unfair that the federal government should turn a blind eye to illegal
immigration when those who wish to enter our country legally must wait years to
do so. As a local government official, my sole focus is the impact of illegal
immigration on county services and public safety.

Manassas: As a resident of Prince William County, you have my vote. Stopping
illegal immigration is the first thing our country needs to address.

Thank you.

Chantilly: How do you justify spending $14 million on a measure to block illegal
immigrants from using services that you don't even know if they are using (i.e.
substance abuse counseling, homeless assistance and in-home care for the
elderly)? Will it cost more to implement this plan than money saved by denying
these services?

In the long run, I believe these measures will save money and reduce stress on
county services. There is no question that the resolution will also improve
public safety by removing illegal aliens who violate the law. It is a small
price to pay for increased public safety.

Re: Clarendon's Question: Your answer to Clarendon was too facile. (Glib, if you
need a translation.) I am a middle-aged white woman. It will be presumed that I
am an American citizen, even though I could be an illegal Canadian. I will not
have to carry a birth certificate or passport to prove my citizenship, illegal
or not. My Hispanic naturalized citizen neighbor (who speaks fluent English with
a Spanish accent) will be hassled by the P.W. police and be required to show
some sort of documentation that he is in fact a citizen. How will you forestall
cops stopping people for being "not American" looking? We come in all shapes,
sizes, colors and accents.

Due to a pending litigation, I cannot answer this question in greater detail.

Woodbridge: I support the supervisors' decision. I just hope it will be applied
equally to European nannies as well as Latino day laborers. Statistics indicate
the majority of illegals are visa overstays, and many of these are better able
to "fit in" than border crossers. I don't care which one shows up at the public
health clinic. I want both of them turned over to INS.

The law must be applied evenly and fairly, without discrimination or racial
profiling.

Central Virginia: Legal immigrant here, absolutely supporting the decision. When
we lived in P.W., it hurt me every time I passed 7-Eleven on corner of Jeff
Davis Dr. to see those people just hang out there in clear view of everyone,
waiting for someone like me or my husband (U.S. born) to give them job! I am
also glad to hear prisons are doing their part to send those people back where
they came from -- less waste of taxpayer money and no additional criminals on
this side of the border. A better border patrol would help, too, instead of
prosecuting border patrol agents who do their job.

My question is what about the majority people born in the U.S. -- what do they
supposed to do if pulled out for speeding? Carry birth certificate?

Thank you. I cannot reply to your second question in any specificity due to
ongoing litigation.

Determining legal status: Please stop sidestepping the issue of how you are
going to determine who is a U.S. citizen or legal or illegal immigrant. I am a
legal immigrant who is very aware of just how complicated the immigration rules
are. My status in this country is valid, but my visa isn't, and I have had three
types of visa so far.

How are you going to determine who is legal and who isn't?

I cannot reply to this question in any specificity due to ongoing litigation.

Waldorf: It is apparent that you and your board are only interested in serving
one portion of the P.W. population. Are there any diversity initiatives or task
forces in your county that can ensure the public safety and general well-being
of the immigrants being targeted? There seems to be a lot of unspoken agendas
behind this decision.

Yes. We will be working internally and with an independent third party, probably
a university, in reviewing the program on an ongoing basis to help guard against
racial profiling.

Manassas: My heartfelt thanks for listening to your constituents, and having the
courage to do the right thing!

Thank you.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; COREY A. STEWART

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 27, 2007 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Va. Task Force Looking At Illegal Immigration

BYLINE: Anita Kumar; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 851 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND, Oct. 26


Frustrated by Congress's failure to overhaul immigration laws, a task force of
federal, state and local officials set out on its own Friday to determine how
local law enforcement officials in Virginia can detain and help deport illegal
immigrants.

The Alien Criminal Enforcement Task Force, which held its first meeting Friday,
set an ambitious goal of spurring Congress back into action.

"The status quo is unacceptable,'' said U.S. Rep. Eric Cantor (R), who
represents the Richmond area. "I think we would all say the federal government
has not done its job in terms of border enforcement, in terms of immigration
enforcement. The brunt of the problem is falling on the backs of the
localities."

Cantor and two other Republican representatives from Virginia, Thelma Drake and
J. Randy Forbes, created the 19-member task force after Congress could not agree
on a package of measures to overhaul the nation's immigration policies. The
panel includes representatives from state and local government and law
enforcement.

The group expects to meet for several months before making recommendations that
could be implemented either administratively or legislatively -- a tough task
for three House members in the minority party in Congress.

Task force members talked about a variety of topics, including the possibility
of building a detention center where illegal immigrants arrested for certain
crimes could be held until federal officials deport them. Earlier this month, a
Virginia State Crime Commission task force rejected a proposal to build a
1,000-bed detention center and instead voted to give more money to localities to
house arrested illegal immigrants and to expand or build new jails.

Claire Guthrie Gastanaga, who represents several immigrant groups, including the
Coalition of Latino Organizations, said she has written a letter to panel
members asking that the group include members of both political parties and
representatives of the immigration community.

"It's disappointing,'' she said of the makeup of the task force, which is
dominated by Republicans. "You can't have positive results when it's one-sided."

Cantor, Drake, of Hampton Roads, and Forbes, of Chesapeake, said they do not
consider immigration a Republican or Democratic issue. They said they did not
inform the rest of the Virginia congressional delegation, which includes members
of both political parties, about the task force.

"People join together in agreeing that criminal behavior on the part of people
who have come here is totally unacceptable,'' Drake said. "It's a privilege to
live in America, and if you break our laws, you shouldn't be here. . . . There's
just widespread agreement on that."

The panel also criticized Gov. Timothy M. Kaine (D) for declining to authorize
state law enforcement officials to assist federal authorities with the detention
and deportation of illegal immigrants. Kaine has said he is reluctant for state
law enforcement to assume what he thinks is a federal responsibility. But he has
told state police to contact immigration officials about suspects who might be
in the country illegally.

Del. John S. "Jack" Reid (R-Henrico) criticized Kaine for refusing to address
immigration on the grounds that it is a federal problem but taking up global
warming despite the national implications of that issue.

The General Assembly has failed to pass a proposal encouraging Kaine to enter
into agreements that would authorize state law enforcement to help federal
immigration officials, and the governor has said he is opposed.

"I think you have an opportunity to force the governor's hand,'' said Del. John
J. Welch III (R-Virginia Beach). "We are hearing from everyone on this issue.
Why can't we find a uniform approach?"

Since an immigration overhaul package died in the U.S. Senate, several
organizations in Virginia have formed to try to address illegal immigration, and
several localities have acted.

Prince William and Loudoun counties have voted to curtail government services to
illegal immigrants, and Herndon voted to close a controversial day-laborer
center frequented by many illegal immigrants. Last week, the Prince William
board unanimously passed a proposal to allow police to check the immigration
status of anyone who breaks the law. Fairfax County officials are trying to
determine which county services could be denied to illegal immigrants, although
they have not decided to do that.

On Thursday, a coalition of local governments met for the first time in Culpeper
to talk about the legal status of schoolchildren, the crowding of homes and
verification of legal employment. As of Friday, 28 towns, cities and counties
had joined the group.

The State Crime Commission will consider several proposals next month, including
automatically denying bail to illegal immigrants who commit crimes unless they
can prove they are not flight risks and having law enforcement officials ask all
arrestees about their immigration status. A new Virginia Commission on
Immigration will advise Kaine and the General Assembly on what, if any, state
policies should be adopted to address illegal immigration.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 5, 2007 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Pastors in Md. Stage Rally For Path to Legal Residency;
Group Seeks Meeting With Hoyer on Immigration

BYLINE: Hamil R. Harris; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B09

LENGTH: 395 words


Frustrated by the lack of congressional action to change immigration laws, a
coalition of Maryland pastors rallied hundreds of Hispanics and others at a
Brandywine church this week to push for legislation that would create a path to
legal residency or citizenship.

Union Bethel AME Church was filled Tuesday night with prayers and personal
testimonies of people slipping into the country. The event attracted several
hundred people, including many who are undocumented immigrants.

" 'We don't care who lives and who dies,' " said Godofredo Garcia, 26, quoting
the smuggler who led him on a 27-day ordeal across the border. "The smugglers
ordered us to abandon one man who couldn't walk anymore because he had a problem
with his leg. For eight hours we stood in a truck used to carry tomatoes, all 65
people."

In an interview afterward, Garcia, who came from El Salvador, said he is now a
legal resident living in Silver Spring and works with CASA of Maryland. CASA is
a community organization that was founded in 1985 initially to help Central
Americans who arrived in the Washington area after fleeing civil unrest and
other problems in their countries.

The forum was held as part of a new partnership among CASA, the Partnership for
Renewal in Southern and Central Maryland (PRISCM) and the National Capital
Immigrant Coalition.

The Rev. Kathy Hlatshwayo, president of PRISCM and pastor of the Bethany
Lutheran Church in Forestville, complained that Rep. Steny H. Hoyer (D-Md.), the
House majority leader, did not immediately schedule a meeting with the groups
despite repeated calls.

"We gave him several dates, and unfortunately he said that he wouldn't have a
date available until sometime in June," Hlatshwayo said. "That is unacceptable.
This is an urgent issue."

Hlatshwayo said a group of the religious leaders and immigration activists met
with Sen. Benjamin L. Cardin (D-Md.) Wednesday on Capitol Hill to discuss
immigration legislation.

Hoyer spokeswoman Stephanie Lundberg said Democratic Party leaders are very
focused on immigration issues and offered Hoyer's apology for not attending the
meeting  Tuesday.

"We have received a meeting request and are working to set something up,"
Lundberg said. "Congressman Hoyer regrets that he could not attend the
immigration rally, but he is very aware of the immigration debate occurring in
his district and around the country."

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        June 1, 2007 Friday 12:00 AM EST

The Fundamental Flaws of Immigration Reform

BYLINE: Shannon O'Neil, Special to washingtonpost.com's Think Tank Town,
washingtonpost.com

LENGTH: 988 words



HIGHLIGHT: Even with Congress on its Memorial Day break, heated debates over the
proposed immigration reform continue, raising hopes and confirming fears. At the
recent symposium hosted by the Council on Foreign Relations, "Dynamics of
Immigration and Integration in the Western Hemisphere," one panelist described
the bill as getting it about "70 percent right."


Even with Congress on its Memorial Day break, heated debates over the proposed
immigration reform continue, raising hopes and confirming fears. At the recent
symposium hosted by the Council on Foreign Relations, "Dynamics of Immigration
and Integration in the Western Hemisphere," one panelist described the bill as
getting it about "70 percent right."

Yet this rather favorable calculation concentrates on short-term policy changes,
such as the legalization of roughly 12 million undocumented workers, the
creation of a new guest worker program, and an increase in visas for highly
skilled workers.  It underestimates the importance of two long term structural
issues. The first is the seemingly mundane but crucial role of the immigration
bureaucracy. The second is the seismic demographic shift occurring in the United
States, as well as in the principal migrant sending countries. Any reform that
does not consider both the institutional infrastructure governing immigration
and the bigger picture of shifting labor supply and demand ultimately will fail
to improve our system.

Amid the impassioned policy debates, almost no attention is paid to the United
States Citizenship and Immigration Services agency, or USCIS. Yet as the entity
responsible for processing all applications, it underpins the entire legal
immigration system. The inefficiency of this system is well-known, from its
continued reliance on paper files, to its nearly four million person
family-based backlog and processing times that in some cases reach 23 years.
The new immigration reform would put greater pressure on its already strained
capacity, adding the new Y and Z visa categories to its mandate. Despite the
proposed increases in funding, the ability of the USCIS to absorb 12 million new
applicants is highly doubtful. A comprehensive restructuring -- including new
technology, processing centers, and staff -- is essential. While notably absent
from immigration debates, the effectiveness of the USCIS will largely define the
success or failure of future immigration policy.

Another vital but disregarded issue is demographic change. The vast increase in
illegal workers in the United States reflects not just the "push" of developing
country poverty, but as importantly the "pull" of high labor demand by the U.S.
economy. Over the last fifteen years the United States added twenty million new
immigrants while maintaining historically low unemployment rates and growing
faster than most other developed countries.

This labor demand will only increase in the coming decades. The baby boomers,
whose 80 million members represent the largest generation in America's history,
are nearing retirement. Over the next few decades they will leave the workforce,
opening up current positions while also creating new jobs, particularly in the
health care and related service industries. The next generation, Generation X,
has 15 million fewer members. As a result, the United States will need more
migrants in order to sustain our economic growth. Yet the current immigration
bill will not provide a legal path to fill this certain future demand.

As our society changes, so too do those societies sending the most migrants to
the United States. Nowhere is this more apparent than in Mexico. Over the last
decade Mexico has provided nearly a third of all migrants and over half of
undocumented workers to the United States. Yet the demographic factors feeding
this Northern migration are rapidly changing. With births nearly equal to U.S.
rates, Mexico is now an aging society. While nearly one million Mexicans entered
the workforce each year during the last decade, in the next two decades this
number will halve to 500,000. This means a reduced supply of new workers for the
domestic labor market, as well as a smaller base of potential migrants going
forward.

This demographic shift in Mexico, also occurring to a lesser extent in Central
America, will fundamentally alter the nature of migration flows. Migration from
these Latin American countries will continue, but the high tide is receding.
This shift will affect not just the origin of future migrants, but also their
entry path. Future migration will increasingly come from other countries and
through other ports of entry, lessening pressures on our Southern border. In
fact right now, less than half of undocumented workers sneak over the border --
a reality largely forgotten in current discussions of immigration and national
security.

The current bill will address the presence of millions of undocumented workers
-- no small feat. Yet without consideration of these underlying structural
issues, the fundamental goals of immigration reform will remain elusive. The
USCIS will be unable to process the requisite number of visas in a timely and
orderly manner, leading to confusion, frustration and continued illegality. The
ability to meet labor demands in the face of demographic changes will be
limited, exacerbated by a guest worker program without any path to permanent
residence and a point system that likely will not take into account actual labor
needs.

Immigration debates need to encompass these crucial issues. More attention to
functioning bureaucracies and less attention to walls will better address
current policy failures. Rather than once-and-for-all ultimatums, we should
recognize what we don't and can't know -- namely the future needs of a growing
and incredibly dynamic U.S. labor market.

We have an opportunity to create a new, modern immigration system that will
continue to be, as it historically has been, an engine for America's growth and
prosperity. Yet to do this we need to move beyond temporary problems, however
important they may be, to address the underlying structure of the system,
enabling a flexible and secure labor supply for our future in the global
economy.

Shannon O'Neil is a Fellow for Latin American Studies at the Council on Foreign
Relations.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2007 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 4, 2007 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Skilled Masses;
Keeping the world's talent in America

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 445 words


THE IMMIGRATION reform debate has largely revolved around immigrants who do jobs
Americans are not willing to do. But what about immigrants who do the jobs
Americans are not able to do?

The H-1B visa, for "specialty occupation workers" in high-tech fields such as
medicine, computers and engineering, is capped at 65,000 a year. Many of those
industries face a shortage of skilled American labor. So, on April 2, the first
day visa applications were accepted for fiscal 2008, few were surprised that the
quota was hit within hours. By law, the 123,480 applications received in the
first two days will be processed by lottery.

The tens of thousands of H-1B rejects will constitute some of the world's best
and brightest, and America is foolish to block them from the U.S. economy. After
all, according to the National Science Foundation, a third of all science and
engineering doctorates awarded in the United States go to foreign students
(whose numbers are not limited).  And according to the National Venture Capital
Association, over the past 15 years one out of every four public companies
backed by venture capital was started by an immigrant (including Google and
eBay). The current H-1B cap is outdated, having been set by Congress before the
Internet boom and the related blossoming of high-tech companies. Recognizing the
need for foreign talent to keep U.S. high-tech industries on the cutting edge,
Congress temporarily raised the ceiling to 195,000 for fiscal 2001 through 2003,
only to let it relapse out of neglect. Every year since, the cap has been
reached well before the start of the fiscal year, though this year was the first
time it was met the first day.

For those applicants not selected in this year's lottery -- or who were shut out
of the process entirely because they need a diploma to apply but had not
graduated by  April 3 -- the next opportunity to file an H-1B petition is not
until April 1, 2008. If those applications are accepted, the applicants will be
able to start work on Oct. 1, 2008. But by that time, immigration experts and
leaders in high-tech industries fear, many of the workers will have returned
home or moved to countries such as Australia that have recently changed their
immigration regulations to attract highly skilled workers. It may not be long
before U.S. companies follow the talent overseas.

Congress is  considering several bills that address the need to reform the H-1B
program, including two that would raise the cap to 115,000.  If they want
America's high-tech industries to stay innovative, members of Congress should
address the labor problem vis-?-vis visas -- and preferably before the class of
2007 heads  home.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 23, 2007 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Proposal For Guest Workers Survives

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 441 words


A fragile Senate coalition backing an embattled overhaul of the nation's
immigration laws survived its first legislative test yesterday, beating back an
effort to strip a guest-worker program from the immigration bill.

The 64 to 31 vote against an amendment by Sens. Byron L. Dorgan (D-N.D.) and
Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.) showed surprising strength for the bipartisan
coalition's "grand bargain." Dorgan offered a nearly identical amendment last
May to last year's Senate immigration bill and garnered 28 votes.

But this year, he secured the support of the Senate majority leader, Harry M.
Reid (D-Nev.). And Democrats vowed they would come back to the program again and
again, with amendments to cut the guest-worker program's size in half, to add an
expiration date, to torpedo the program if workers do not comply with the rules,
and to bolster worker protections for participants.

"At a minimum, we've set the stage to cutting the program in half," Boxer
predicted.

The immigration bill would set up a guest-worker visa for 400,000 temporary
workers a year. If demand is high enough, temporary-worker visas could expand to
600,000 a year. The two-year visas would be renewable up to three times,
provided that the workers leave the country for a year between two-year stints.
As workers renew their visas and new workers come in, the program could
ultimately expand to as many as 3.6 million workers in 10 years.

Opponents of the program said it would depress wages of U.S. workers while
creating an underclass of poorly paid migrants with no access to the protections
of citizenship.

Proponents said wages are already being depressed by illegal immigrants. The new
program would offer labor protections that would bolster wages on the low end of
the pay scale, supply workers to industries suffering labor shortages, and
provide a legal avenue for work to migrants who otherwise would cross the border
illegally.

With the compromise taking fire from all parts  of the political spectrum, White
House counselor Dan Bartlett yesterday challenged Democratic leaders to help
assure passage of the compromise bill, which is being pushed by Sen. Edward M.
Kennedy (D-Mass.). The "onus will be on the Democratic leadership," Bartlett
said.

"They now have an obligation to show they can work in a bipartisan way, show
leadership in their own caucus and bring a bill that is acceptable to this
bipartisan arrangement so that we can get a bill to the president's desk,"
Bartlett said. "If it's good enough for Ted Kennedy, it ought to be good enough
for Nancy Pelosi." Pelosi (D-Calif.) is the speaker of the House.

Staff writer Dan Balz contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 24, 2007 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Senate Scales Down Proposed Guest-Worker Program

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 700 words


The Senate slashed the size of a proposed guest-worker program for foreign
laborers yesterday, dealing the first real blow to a fragile overhaul of the
nation's immigration laws since it reached the Senate floor this week.

The bipartisan 74 to 24 vote trimmed a program that could have admitted as many
as 600,000 laborers a year down to 200,000, a level that proponents said would
minimize the risk that participants would depress wages and replace U.S.
workers.

The Bush administration had strongly opposed the amendment, dispatching Commerce
Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez to declare before the vote that the measure "would
eliminate . . . critical flexibility" in the program and shrivel it to an
inadequate size.

But 27 Republicans, including Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (Ky.),
joined Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid (Nev.) and 45 other Democrats in
rebuffing that plea. Independent Sen. Bernard Sanders (Vt.) also voted to trim
the program.

"There are a variety of jobs that may be filled by guest workers, from
construction to hotel service, and we shouldn't be placing American workers in
the position of competing with an unlimited number of guest workers," said Sen.
Jeff Bingaman (D-N.M.), the amendment's sponsor.

The bipartisan negotiators who created the immigration bill said the blow to
what they call their "grand bargain" will not unravel the coalition. The
compromise is premised on four central tenets: tightening border controls and
punishing the employers of illegal immigrants; granting legal status to an
estimated 12 million illegal immigrants already in the country; establishing a
robust guest-worker program to give would-be illegal immigrants a legitimate
route into the country; and shifting the emphasis of future legal migration away
from family reunification and into favoring immigrants with work skills and
educations.

The immigration compromise envisioned a program that could issue 400,000
two-year work visas a year, renewable up to three times, provided the laborers
left the country for a year between each stint. If the demand for workers is
high, the number of visas could rise to as many as 600,000 a year.

With a fixed limit of 200,000 a year, the program would not only be smaller, it
would also be less responsive to the fluctuating demand for labor, said Sen. Jon
Kyl (R-Ariz.), who, along with Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), led the
negotiations on the compromise.

The compromise continued to absorb body blows outside the Senate. House Minority
Leader John A. Boehner (R-Ohio), speaking privately to Republican activists
Tuesday night, said that he had promised President Bush that he would refrain
from discussing the bill in public, but he then called it a "piece of
[expletive]." Boehner spokesman Brian Kennedy called the epithet "an
off-the-cuff wisecrack."

Signaling just how far the president's power has waned in Congress, half a dozen
House Republicans will hold a news conference today to denounce what they call
the "Kennedy-Bush amnesty program."

On the other end of the political spectrum, a coalition of Latino groups,
including the League of United Latin American Citizens, came out against the
Senate bill, declaring that it would "separate families and lead to the
exploitation of immigrant workers while resulting in widespread undocumented
immigration in the future."

Republicans moved yesterday to bolster the proposed border controls to answer
some of the conservative criticism. By voice vote, the Senate adopted an
amendment by Sen. Judd Gregg (R-N.H.) that would toughen the border controls
that must be in place before many of the immigrant-rights measures go into
effect. The Department of Homeland Security would have to hire and train 20,000
Border Patrol agents, not simply hire 18,000, as the original deal required. It
would also have to build more vehicle barriers and radar and camera towers than
first proposed.

The amendment eliminates the deal's nonbinding deadline of 18 months for
"operational" control" to be established on the border, making it clear that the
department would face no deadline for establishing control before it implements
the guest-worker program and new visa system for illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; "We shouldn't be placing American workers in the position of
competing with an unlimited number of guest workers," said Sen. Jeff Bingaman
(D-N.M.).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 31, 2007 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Repeating the Errors of Immigration Bills Past

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 181 words


Regarding the May 24 news story "Senate Scales Down Proposed Guest-Worker
Program" and other articles and commentary on immigration:

Anyone who has carefully studied the history of the Immigration Reform and
Control Act of 1986 during the past 20 years will appreciate that the present
bill is flawed. The temporary worker program admitting 200,000 to 600,000
workers a year is unworkable. Theoretically, these workers will go home for one
year after working here for two years. Also, they will be allowed to renew their
visas only twice. Our experience with "temporary" visas, such as tourist visas
and others, shows that, once workers are here, they overstay their visas and
remain until the next legalization or amnesty. No worker will go home after two
years and remain home for one year, and certainly no worker will go home
permanently after his or her extensions are up.

This means that 10 years from now there will be 2 million to 6 million more
undocumented immigrants in the United States. And there will be agitation for a
third legalization or amnesty.

N?STOR ENRIQUE CRUZ

Annandale

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 6, 2007 Friday
                                Regional Edition

An Immigration Basic;
Broad reform may have to wait. Decent treatment at detention centers does not.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 438 words


COMPREHENSIVE immigration reform may lie dormant for a long while after its
failure in the Senate. But plenty of related issues deserve attention on their
own. One of them is how this country treats those who violate American
immigration laws, particularly the treatment given those at immigrant detention
centers.

The Justice Department, the Immigration and Naturalization Service, the American
Bar Association and other groups negotiated a set of detention standards that
were adopted in 2000. The rules call for hygienic living conditions, access to
legal materials and counsel, and appropriate medical care. Recently, critics
have argued that Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), the successor to the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, and related federal authorities are
failing to meet those standards.

Evidence they cite includes a study of five immigration detention facilities
released by the Department of Homeland Security's inspector general earlier this
year. Auditors found rodent and bug infestations, out-of-date law libraries,
limited access to legal aid services, irregular medical care, undercooked
chicken and filthy food trays. The American Civil Liberties Union, meanwhile,
has been tracking deaths at detention centers, and it and other advocates claim
to have documented cases of blatant medical neglect. In one instance, a
detainee's groin cancer spread after his petitions for treatment were denied.
ICE told the New York Times last month that 62 inmates died in its custody from
2004 to 2006.

Immigration officials have maintained that problems uncovered by the inspector
general at the five facilities are not pervasive in the system's 300-plus
detention centers. Officials also dispute details of some of the cases the ACLU
and others are investigating. And they point out that nearly a million detainees
passed through the system from 2004 to 2006; inevitably, they say, some were
seriously ill or injured.

But since ICE inspectors failed to catch many of the problems found by the
inspector general at the five facilities, the agency's claims about the rest of
the system aren't reassuring. And the stories the ACLU and others have
collected, if true, are horrifying even if rare.  To ensure that American
immigrant detention facilities meet basic standards, ICE should promulgate its
detention rules as regulations, giving them the force of law and providing a
larger incentive to comply. It also should commission an independent,
comprehensive review of living conditions and medical care. Then detainee
advocates and ICE alike will have a better picture of what is happening in these
centers.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 19, 2007 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Treat Detained Migrants Fairly

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 200 words


The July 6 editorial "An Immigration Basic"   flagged the need to ensure that
immigrant detention facilities meet basic standards of treatment. Decent
treatment should not wait. Neither should basic fairness.

It is a core American value that people not be jailed without a judge deciding
whether that detention is appropriate. International law likewise calls for
safeguards against arbitrary detention. Yet victims of persecution, detained on
arrival at this country's airports and borders, are deprived of even the
opportunity to have immigration judges rule on their continued detention.

Instead,  Immigration and Customs Enforcement acts as both judge and jailer --
deciding whether these asylum seekers should be paroled or detained in
prison-like facilities while awaiting their asylum decisions. We have provided
pro bono representation to  asylum-seekers from Burma, Colombia, Darfur,
Liberia, Rwanda and elsewhere who have been unnecessarily detained for months,
even for years, in these facilities.

This injustice should be stopped. Since U.S. immigration authorities have not
put a stop to it, Congress should step in.

ELEANOR ACER

Director, Refugee Protection Program

Human Rights First

New York

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       April 23, 2007 Monday 12:00 AM EST

'No Amnesty' Is Cry at D.C. Immigration Protest

BYLINE: Pamela Constable, Washington Post Staff Writer, Post

SECTION: METRO

LENGTH: 825 words



HIGHLIGHT: The small but fervent crowd of protesters recited the Pledge of
Allegiance and hummed along to "God Bless America." They hoisted neatly lettered
placards that portrayed the United States as under siege. They cheered lustily
as a parade of speakers, jabbing fingers toward the White House, demanded action
to secure U.S. borders, enforce its laws and make English its official language.



The small but fervent crowd of protesters recited the Pledge of Allegiance and
hummed along to "God Bless America." They hoisted neatly lettered placards that
portrayed the United States as under siege. They cheered lustily as a parade of
speakers, jabbing fingers toward the White House, demanded action to secure U.S.
borders, enforce its laws and make English its official language.

Many in the group of about 400 people had flown in from California and Arizona
to join the rally in Lafayette Square yesterday against illegal immigration and
to energize themselves for a week of lobbying on Capitol Hill as Congress begins
to grapple once more with the volatile theme of immigration reform.

"We are certainly a nation of immigrants, but much more important, we are a
nation of laws," T.J. Bonner, a U.S. Border Patrol agent, told the assembly.
"What is happening on the border is anarchy. Millions are crossing over, reaping
our benefits, taking our jobs, and the government is not doing a damn thing
about it."

An estimated 10 million to 12 million illegal immigrants are in the United
States, and Congress has been attempting for several years to address the
problem. There is little disagreement on the need to tighten border security but
a wide array of opinions on what to do with illegal immigrants already living
and working here, from offering them full amnesty to deporting as many as
possible.

The two-hour afternoon rally, much smaller than organizers had anticipated, was
peaceful, but a group of about two dozen local counter-demonstrators gathered
across the park, tooting horns and blowing whistles to drown out the speakers.
They denounced the rally participants as "fascists" and "racists" but did not
venture past several U.S. Park Police officers on horseback who cordoned off the
site.

The rally was sponsored by an organization in Georgia and coordinated with the
national Federation for American Immigration Reform, a nonprofit advocacy group,
and a number of radio talk show hosts who have championed the cause of stopping
illegal immigration.

The crowd included retired teachers and aerospace workers, ex-soldiers and
business contractors. Many were from Western states and said they were
affiliated with organized groups but had paid their own airfares. Most were
white, but a few were Latinos who described themselves as especially victimized
by the protracted influx of illegal Latino immigrants.

"I was born in Mexico, but I came here legally, and I was brought up with
American values," said Anna Gaines, a retired high school teacher from Arizona.
"I have had terrible experiences with illegal students. They don't care about
school, only about parties and drugs. They don't come with respect for our laws
and values."

A number of people in the crowd stressed that they were not against legal
immigrants and did not consider themselves prejudiced. D.A. King, the rally
coordinator, announced that "anyone with a different agenda against skin color
or national origin, you are not welcome . . . and you will not be tolerated."

Instead, speakers and participants complained about other problems they said
were caused by illegal immigrants, including gang violence, drunken driving, a
decline in wages, hospital overcrowding and impoverishment of community life.

"We don't hate anyone, and we are not anti-Mexican, but things have reached such
an intolerable point that someone has to stand up," said Robert Schussler, a
retired Marine from San Diego. His wife, Sandy, noted that their
daughter-in-law, a native of Vietnam, had waited years to enter the United
States and become a legal resident.

Much of yesterday's rhetoric was about improving border security, and several
speakers drew cheers when they praised the U.S. Border Patrol, including several
agents who are in prison on charges of killing illegal immigrants.

The most popular rallying cry, though, was a call for "no amnesty," meaning no
repeat of the 1986 law that allowed hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants
to apply for residency under certain conditions. Many speakers and participants
said any form of legalization for illegal residents, no matter how long they
have lived in the United States, would amount to amnesty.

"No matter what they call it this week, amnesty will not secure our borders,
stop illegal immigrants or stop illegal employers," King said. "We are in a
struggle to save the sovereignty of our nation. We will not lose, compromise or
bargain."

Many people who attended the rally said they expected to spend the next several
days lobbying members of Congress.

All expressed strong opposition to the House legislation proposed by Reps. Luis
V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.) and Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.) that would allow illegal
immigrants to become legal if they fulfill a series of requirements. The
legislation would also beef up border security and crack down on companies that
hire illegal immigrants.

No Senate immigration legislation has been introduced.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2007 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       June 6, 2007 Wednesday 6:54 PM EST

Romney Stresses Differences With Two GOP Rivals;
Former Mass. Governor Cites Strong Differences With McCain on Immigration and
Campaign Finance

BYLINE: Chris Cillizza and Dan Balz, Washington Post Staff Writers,
washingtonpost.com

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 891 words



HIGHLIGHT: MANCHESTER, N.H. -- Former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney advocated a
policy of attrition to deal with the more than 12 million immigrants who are in
the United States illegally, insisting that they can be slowly repatriated
simply by enforcing current law or changing provisions of a controversial
bipartisan plan pending in the Senate.


MANCHESTER, N.H. -- Former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney advocated a policy of
attrition to deal with the more than 12 million immigrants who are in the United
States illegally, insisting that they can be slowly repatriated simply by
enforcing current law or changing provisions of a controversial bipartisan plan
pending in the Senate.

Romney said he had no desire to "round them up as one big group" and send
illegal immigrants back to their native countries. Instead, he said the idea is
"to take people who are here today and working here and replace them gradually
and humanely with our own citizens as well as with legal immigrants who come in
to take their place."

The former governor offered his views on immigration, health care and his
leading opponents for the Republican presidential nomination during an interview
for the washingtonpost.com's video interview program, "PostTalk."

Romney dismissed claims by proponents of the Senate's compromise bill that
solving the immigration crisis is a difficult challenge requiring a delicately
balanced coalition. "This is not rocket science," he said. "Getting the Iranians
to not build a nuclear bomb? That's hard. Stopping the jihad? That's hard. But
enforcing our border is relatively easy, relative to those things."

Romney said there is plenty of blame to go around for the failure to solve the
problem of illegal immigration, saying the Bush administration, prior
administrations and Congress had all failed to step up to the challenge. "They
just have not been willing to do what's necessary to end illegal immigration,"
he said.

Romney's remarks on immigration came less than 24 hours after Republicans' third
presidential debate, in which he passed on an opportunity to directly criticize
Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) -- a leading advocate of a comprehensive reform bill
and one of the governor's main rivals for the GOP nomination.

But in today's interview, Romney was more vocal about his differences with
McCain, particularly on campaign finance reform.

"Senator McCain promoted the McCain-Feingold bill, which I'm afraid has made
things worse, not better," he said.

The law, Romney said, has not stopped the flow of money but has shifted power
from candidates and political parties to more shadowy organizations called 527s,
which are exempt from the fundraising limits in the bill.

McCain also opposes these groups, known for the section of the tax code that
governs their activities. When Romney was asked about McCain's shared opposition
to 527s, he replied, "The law that he passed that is in place now in our country
has created a circumstance where those 527s rule the day. That's what he put in
place."

McCain's campaign quickly struck back, seeking to paint Romney as a flip-flopper
on the issue.

"It comes as no surprise that Governor Romney fails to mention his past support
for campaign finance reform when he attacks John McCain," said McCain spokesman
Matt David. "Whether it's campaign finance reform, immigration or abortion,
Romney's shifting positions and intellectually dishonest attacks illustrate his
willingness to say and do anything in an effort to win the nomination."

Romney was less willing to explore differences with former New York mayor Rudy
Giuliani, the current frontrunner in the race for the Republican nomination
according to national polling results. But Romney said his message to
Republicans is that they must appeal to economic, defense and social
conservatives to win.

"I call it the three legs of the Republican stool," he said, repeating a message
from Tuesday night's debate.

Giuliani, in that same debate, said Republicans should unite around two
principles -- staying on offense against terrorism and promoting economic
policies that cut taxes. Without criticizing Giuliani directly, Romney said that
platform will not win the White House for Republicans in 2008.

During the interview, Romney also addressed health care. In Massachusetts, he
signed into a law a major reform that seeks to provide health insurance to all
residents of the state. He touted the reform during Tuesday's debate, but
stopped short of saying he would advocate a similar plan for the nation if he
were elected president.

"I like the idea of letting the states be the laboratories of democracy," he
said during the PostTalk interview. "Let them each develop their own plan to
deal with their uninsured and to deal with their underinsured as we did, and
have the federal government provide the flexibility in the funding they that
normally provide the states to encourage, if you will, that kind of
experimentation."

Romney said he opposed the idea of a "one-size fits all" federal solution to a
problem like health care. But as a candidate for Senate in 1994, Romney favored
a national welfare reform bill at a time when many states were experimenting
with their own reforms, and he has defended President Bush's No Child Left
Behind law, which imposes requirements on school systems across the country.

He said he saw no contradiction. When asked if he would require states to
provide health insurance for their citizens, he said, "I don't think you require
states to do that at this stage."

Romney said he expected former Sen. Fred Thompson (R-Tenn.) to enter the race
but would not speculate on what impact he might have on the contest.

Cillizza reports for washingtonpost.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2007 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        July 16, 2007 Monday 1:00 PM EST

Letters to the Editor: On Immigration

BYLINE: John T. Stirrup, Prince William County Supervisor, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 2551 words



HIGHLIGHT: "The problem of illegal immigrants in Prince William County is
exacerbated by a general disregard for the rule of law, abuse of taxpayer-funded
services and an obvious disinterest in seeking citizenship or ever embracing
American ideals. Rather, it seems their sole motivation is an economic one. Last
year, illegal immigrants sent an estimated $45 billion out of the U.S. economy
to their home countries," said John T. Stirrup, a supervisor in Prince William
County.


"The problem of illegal immigrants in Prince William County is exacerbated by a
general disregard for the rule of law, abuse of taxpayer-funded services and an
obvious disinterest in seeking citizenship or ever embracing American ideals.
Rather, it seems their sole motivation is an economic one. Last year, illegal
immigrants sent an estimated $45 billion out of the U.S. economy to their home
countries," said John T. Stirrup, a supervisor in Prince William County.

On Tuesday, July 10, the county Board of Supervisors unanimously approved a
resolution which was presented by Stirrup to reaffirm the rule of law.

Stirrup was online Monday, July 16, at 1 p.m. ET to take questions and comments
about his position on immigration.

A transcript follows.

____________________

John T. Stirrup: Good afternoon.  I'm delighted to have the opportunity to
address questions related to the recently passed Rule of Law resolution by the
Board of County Supervisors.  I look forward to your questions and a constuctive
dialogue.

John Stirrup

Gainesville District Supervisor

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: When local governments are struggling with budget deficits or
cutting services to avoid defiits, isn't it the duty of the elected officials to
make sure that government services remain available to its citizens before
providing them to non-citizens and then to those here leaglly before those here
illegally?

In other words, when there isn't enough money to go around, why penalize those
who are here leaglly by reducing their benefits/services because they are being
used up by those here illegally.

John T. Stirrup: Arlington:

I could not agree with you more.  That is one of reasons our BOard took the
action it did.

_______________________

Mattalucci, N.J.: John, kudos on a thoughtful, well-written piece. As a resident
of a state that's a virtual living history museum of immigration, I've noticed
that people don't seem to bear hatred toward immigrants just because they're
different, but because they're not held to the same standards as our
grandparents. Do you agree? And how do we advance the cause of assimilation?

John T. Stirrup: Matalucci:

Thanks for your question.  Advancing the cause of assimiliation is a difficult
one.  It seems government has done much in the opposite direction, to actually
discourage immigrants from assimilating into American Culture. If individuals
are not incentivized to learn the Enlish language, for example, they are at a
considerable disadvantage to ever assimilate.

_______________________

Woodbridge, Va.: Just a comment:  WaPo's article about illegal aliens and legal
immigrants was strange.  If you're here legally and you've got documentation,
what is there to fear?  If you're not here legally, then of course you'll be
afraid.  If I were cheating on my taxes and the IRS suddenly doubled their
auditing division, I'd be freaked out too.  I'm not completely without sympathy
but the reality is that every illegal alien took a gamble when they broke the
law and if the gamble doesn't pay off, then I can't spend a lot of tears on
that.

John T. Stirrup: Woodbridge:

That's a point I have tried to make during this debate as well.  When an
individual consciously made the decision to enter the United States illegally or
overstay their visa, they knew they were breaking the law and from that point
forward they would be at risk of deportation.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Are you a racist?

John T. Stirrup: No.

_______________________

Anonymous: I understand your concern, yet I don't believe you understand the
motivation of many of the illegal immigrants.  They wish to be here illegally
because it still is a better life, with better opportunities, than what they
left behind.  Throughout our history, the issue has been the same.  People
arrive in America, and then wish to shut the entrances and not allow anyone else
after them.  Our nation has grown with new immigrants, and without new
immigrants, our economy will not grow as it should.

John T. Stirrup: I agree with you to a point.  What we are discussing is the
Rule of Law. We have always welcomed immigrants to the United States, legally.
By giving illegal immigrants the same status as those who waited and entered
legally, you do an incredible disservice to those who entered legally.

_______________________

Fairfax, Va.: Mr. Stirrup,

What do you mean when you say the immigrant community in PW has refused to
embrace American Ideals.  They have come to work, many have set up small
businesses, Many others take advantage of the American value of religious
freedom.  For example, I see Spanish language services posted on the signs of
churches of all different dominations.  This is a freedom that many have not
experienced in Latin America where the Catholic Church dominates many sectors of
life and where separation of church and state is not maintained. So what do you
think they should do exactly to embrace American ideals?

John T. Stirrup: What I said relates to the ILLEGAL immigrant community.

_______________________

Southern Maryland: Mr. Stirrup, I would like to see INS and police agencies come
down much more strongly on the employers who hire illegals. While we shouldn't
ignore the illegals themselves, I think making them the focus of enforcement is
like attempting to chop down a tree by pulling off some of its leaves. The
illegals wouldn't come here if there weren't employers who deliberately ignored
the immigration laws for their own benefit. What are your thoughts?

John T. Stirrup: Southern Maryland:

You have an excellent point.  You may have noted that in discussing this
resolution, we refer to it as a first step. I anticipate additional resoultuions
which will address employers, among others.

_______________________

Prince William, Va.: Thanks for taking our questions.  In the Sunday Washington
Post, two brothers who are here illegally made the following comments:  "Who
else is going to pave the roads here? An American? Ha!"  Then went on to say
that if deported, "We'll be right back here in a month"

How do you respond to these comments?

washingtonpost.com: Fear Seizes Pr. William Immigrants -- Legal and Not ( Post,
July 15)

John T. Stirrup: I'd like to know the name of the VDOT subcontractor who is
knowingly hiring these individuals.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: You said there is an obvious disinterest in citizenship,
don'tyou thik this is due to the fact that they know they have NO chance of
becoming citizens? Why would I show interest in something which I know I have no
chance of obtaining? Also, instead of kicking out illegal immigrants, why not
start making them pay fees or soemthing, so that some money is flowing into the
city ... you say that they use tax-funded services, but did you know that many
or at least some do pay taxes with taypayers ID numbers and then there are those
that use fake SSN's and have money deducted from their paychecks and that money
is never accounted for.

John T. Stirrup: Washington, DC

Again, the point we are trying to make is the Rule of Law.  Either we live by a
set of laws or not. If we ignore laws for illegal aliens, are we going to ignore
them for citizens, as well? It is a crime to illegally enter the United States
or to be illegally domiciled in the United States.

_______________________

Fairfax, Va. : Mr. Stirrup:

I want to understand what you mean when you say that the immigrant community is
not embracing American ideals.  What are American ideals?  These people are
working, or operating small businesses. They are respectful of freedom of
religion and many of them are relishing this freedom here in the United States.
I guarantee you that all of them want to learn English.  Not being able to speak
english is a disadvantage and they all recognize that.  What do you expect the
immigrant community to do in order to be more American?

John T. Stirrup: Fairfax,

Just a point of clarification, your comments address the immmigrant community.
Our resolution and discussion relates to the illegal alien community.

_______________________

Hypothetical: I was recently a Project Manager for a large, local school system.
It was our job to get the schools in shape for the opening of the school year.
We also had budgets mandated by local law, so we had to accept the lowest bid.
Without the Hispanic paint crews, (since nobody else would bid at those prices)
we could never have got the work done without totally blowing through the
budget.  The taxpayers would have screamed at that!

Under your law, whose responsibility would it be to check the status of those
painters?  The contractor who hired them or the school board that hired the
contractor?

John T. Stirrup: Hypothetical:

Our professional staff will use the next 60-90 days, as directed by the
resolution, to work on all those hypotheticals.

_______________________

Huntsville, Ala.: Supervisor Stirrup:

I congratulate you, the PWC Board of Supervisors and the taxpayers for
addressing this problem.

The Police Chief for PWC has expressed concerns about the Board's recent
legislation re: Illegal Aliens in PWC.  Are his concerns overblown or valid?

Thank you again for your diligent service.

John T. Stirrup: Huntsville:

THe Chief's presentation was based on an earlier iteration of the resolution,
prior to the inclusion of the probable casue language. Many thanks.

_______________________

Falls Church, Va.: How will the aprehension and detention of the illegals be
accomplished?

John T. Stirrup: Falls Church:

Over the next 60-90 days, our professional police departments; the Adult
Detention Center, Police Department and Sheriff's office will work together and
in concert with Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to develop protocols
for a systematic deportation process.

_______________________

Fairfax, Va.: If Congress were to pass an immigration reform that gave amnesty
to the 12 million undocumented immigrants under a guest worker program that
offers a path to citizenship for those who want to stay would you be in favor
for it.  Are you in favor of lobbying Congress for such a bill in order to help
your county's problems?

John T. Stirrup: I'd be in favor of comprehensive immigration reform that would
control our borders and substantially reduce the 20 million illegal aliens in
the United States.  Unfortunately, Congress has failed us on this issue for
decades.

_______________________

Manassas, Va.: I'm a bit confused.  Exactly what services arethe illegals using
that's causing so much angstand costing so much money?

John T. Stirrup: Manassas:

If you live in Manassas, you may well be familiar with the complaints that I
frequently hear from your neighbors; fire and rescue personnel being dispatched
to respond to non-emergency situations, transporting non-insured illegal aliens
to Prince William County hospital where they receive medical services for free,
police response to numerous non-emergency calls for a variety of disturbances,
among others.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: It seems that opponents of this measure seem to fall back on
the arguement that illegal imigrants do work that legal imigrants and citizens
do not want.  Are these people saying that citizens and legal imigrants will not
work for minimum wage, or that illegal imigrants work for less than minimum
wage?  If it is the later, then why aren't more employers held accountable for
paying substandard wages?

John T. Stirrup: Washington,

It's an excellent point and one that is often lost in this discussion.  I'm
uncertain why the labor unions don't take up the issue of the below prevailing
wage payments to employees.

_______________________

Alexandria, Va.: Sir, my husband and I want to commend you and those who worked
with you to take a stand for your county and to set an example for the rest of
America. I too am an immigrant, originated from Canada. Followed all the rules,
waited in lines/filled out forms/had background checks/extensive physical
examinations, etc. I did everything the American government wanted me to do to
live here as a legal citizen. Having lived here for 12 years I'm shocked at how
one group of people can just move into a country illegally and without even
speaking the language (granted, some do)have so much privelege and freedom. I am
a nurse and run into many non-English speaking patients daily. They often look
at me as if I am required to speak Spanish. I find that very offensive. We never
had that problem in Canada. If someone wanted government handouts they had to
have documented proof that they were attending English classes or they would be
dropped from government programs. The United States is a very powerful country;
how did it let itself and its citizens get hijacked by one group of people? I
say continue to do what you are doing and others will follow. To the Hispanic
people who are here legally and trying to speak English -- more power to you. To
the Hispanic people who are here legallyand claim they are afraid to go out --
what for? Racial profiling? Give me a break! I'm black and a law abiding
citizen.

If stopped by a police officer I'm not concerned because I know I have nothing
to hide. Mr.Stirrup, I applaud you.

John T. Stirrup: Alexandria:

Thank you for your conmments.  You are to be commended for patiently waiting and
entering the United States legally.

One point I want to emphasize is that our resolution makes no reference to any
ethnicity, it addresses illegal aliens.

_______________________

Loudoun County: How does someone prove (in a "probable cause situation") that
they are here legally?  I was born here, as were my parents, so we don't carry
green cards, etc.  Will legal Americans now need to carry their passports when
they visit Prince William County ?

John T. Stirrup: Loudoun:

Over the next 60 to 90 days, our police professionals will be addressing
implementation of our policies.

_______________________

N.C.: Mr. Stirrup,

I applaud your efforts at addressing this serious issue that faces our country.

It appears our national security and the enforcement of our laws was being held
hostage by those who wanted to force amnesty down all of our throats. Now that
the immigration bill has been killed in Congress do you believe the Federal
government will actually start addressing securing our borders and enforcing our
existing laws, or will it remain up to every local government to pass its own
legislation?

John T. Stirrup: N.C.

I am hopeful that resolutions similiar to our will be passed is many other local
jurisdictions.  Ours is a direct result of Congress' failure to addess the
issue.  Perhaps when enough jurisdictions stand up, it will gian Congress'
attention and they will take real action.

_______________________

John T. Stirrup: I would like to thank the Washington Post for providing this
opportunity to discuss the Prince William County Board's resolution relating to
illegal immigration and the Rule of Law.

I would also like to thank everyone who participated in the discussion,
regardless of your position on the issue.

John Stirrup

Gainesville Supervisor

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over
Discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts; guests
and hosts can decline to answer questions.  washingtonpost.com is not
responsible for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2007 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      July 19, 2007 Thursday 12:00 PM EST

Potomac Confidential;
Washington's Hour of Talk Power

BYLINE: Marc Fisher, Post Metro Columnist, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 7769 words



HIGHLIGHT: Potomac Confidential fills the midday lull with discussion by Metro
columnist Marc Fisher, who looks at moves to combat illegal immigration in the
Virginia suburbs, eco-vandalism in northwest Washington, and this fall's
legislative elections in Virginia.


Potomac Confidential fills the midday lull with discussion by Metro columnist
Marc Fisher, who looks at moves to combat illegal immigration in the Virginia
suburbs, eco-vandalism in northwest Washington, and this fall's legislative
elections in Virginia.

Fisher was online Thursday, July 19, at Noon ET to look at the new crackdown on
illegal immigrants in Prince William County, the mess caused by the closing of
the Douglass Bridge and the latest on the D.C. madam's phone records.

Check out Marc's blog, Raw Fisher.

In his weekly show, Fisher veers wildly from serious probing to silly prattle,
and is open to topics local, national, personal and more.

Archives: Discussion Transcripts

____________________

Marc Fisher: Welcome aboard, folks. Well, I had a nice long intro but the
machine ate it, so here's the short version:  Lots of comments today about
illegal immigration, which is a hot issue not only in Prince William and Loudoun
counties, but across the area. And the actions taken by those two counties to
make life more difficult for illegal immigrants may well have a big impact
elsewhere, as an arms race of sorts may be developing in which localities
compete to see who can create more disincentives for immigrants to live or move
to their county.  Many of you want to talk about that, and we'll start the hour
with that always-volatile issue, but there are lots of other topics on the board
already, including the selection of Marion Barry to be in the new Madame
Tussaud's wax museum in the District, and Harry Potter, and the Nats, and the
Virginia abuser fees of reckless and drunken drivers.  But first, the Yay and
Nay of the Day:  Yay to the D.C. neighborhood groups that are raising hell about
the D.C. Council and Fenty administration's decision to create a phony emergency
in order to give a developer control of a block of public facilities in the West
End. The block, now containing a police station, a firehouse and a public
library, would be given to Anthony Lanier of EastBanc development, with no
competitive bidding and precious little public input. Maybe his project is a
good one, but only an open and competitive process could persuade taxpayers that
there's good reason to give away so much public land and that those public
facilities would be replaced and improved.  Nay to the sourpusses in the media
who are so intent on blowing the surprise in the new Harry Potter novel. I'm all
for blowing publication embargos when news demands it, but this is hardly such a
case -- it's a mere frill and the desire to blow the mystery is scroogish at
best.  Your turn starts right now. ...

_______________________

washingtonpost.com: Illegal Immigration: What Virginians Really Think(Raw
Fisher, July 19)

_______________________

washingtonpost.com: The Melting Pot Boils Over(Post, July 19)

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Hi Marc,

I can't help but think of the immigration debate as something like baseball --
cheating happens (scuffing the ball, stealing signs, etc. ) and yet it's seen as
gamesmanship rather than actually wrong.

I don't mean to belittle the debate, but logically speaking, it's hard for me to
balance two ideas: illegal immigrants don't really bother me, but on the other
hand, I recognize they get here by breaking the law. When I think about what
policies I would approve (besides letting anyone come here to live and work,
which I think may ultimately be the best thing), I come down on the side of
tougher border security, but less enforcement for those who do make it here.

Is this balance (border security vs. I.D.-ing immigrants) out of whack with most
people's views?

I hate the idea of the government spending time trying to I.D. illegal
immigrants, checking papers, and so on. We're fast moving in a very Orwellian
direction, I think. And that's not much of a leap or exaggeration, especially if
you just look at how public property is being privatized and local governments
want to cut off services to a group of people who don't belong.

There's no easy solution. But I tend to favor the individual over group, which I
suppose is why I say if someone is here working and living then I'm fine with
that. If we have to beef up immigration policy, I find border security to be the
most palatable.

Marc Fisher: Good post -- beefing up border security is a great idea and it's
hard to see any good argument against it, but the practical reality is that it
is a very hard thing to do. Just think about how porous other such efforts
around the world have proven to be. And even if you could build an effective
wall on the Mexican border, the enormous border with Canada is virtually
impossible to close with any degree of certainty, so that leads back to the
age-old question of trying to find ways to persuade people to stay in their own
countries.

_______________________

Bethesda, Md.: Marc, what distinguishes today from your grandmother, is that
your grandmother was here legally. Now, illegals here demand their rights to
this and rights to that, and accuse those seeking peace and good order of
racism, when it is only a desire for what government must provide as a
fundamental service -- security.

Marc Fisher: The line between legal and illegal was murky a century ago. Check
out the records at Ellis Island and you find all manner of stowaways and
discrepancies on shipping registries. I have ancestors who waited years for the
proper visas to come through before they could get here, and I have others who
slipped in in mysterious ways, joining siblings who were already here without
anyone ever quite knowing what the legal situation was. My sense from historians
of the period is that the whole process was shot through with uncertainties
about who was legal and who wasn't.

_______________________

Immigration: Marc, if enforcing the laws is not the answer and the Congress
can't pass an immigration reform bill, then what is left but for local
governments to take things into their own hands?

Marc Fisher: I can certainly understand the motivation for local governments to
respond to their constituents and to try to come up with ways to minimize the
financial impact of large scale immigration on county services. What I don't get
is why the Prince William and Loudoun supervisors don't buy the views of police
chiefs and others who warn that these new measures will undermine their ability
to get immigrants -- both legal and illegal -- to cooperate as witnesses or
victims of crimes. Does it really make sense to drive underground a large chunk
of the population? Is that good for the economy, or for crime, or for the
schools?

_______________________

Bowie, Md.: With the recent laws passed in Loudoun and Prince William counties,
do I need to start carrying a passport or my birth certificate whenever I pass
through northern Virginia? Up to now, I haven't needed to worry about what
county I was in. I have blond hair and speak with a New England accent. What
about my daughter? She has an Arabic first name, was born here and has spent
almost all her life here. What about my wife? She has been a citizen for nearly
20 years, but still has a foreign accent. What about my son? His first name is
Hazen, an English name, but some people confuse it with Hussein.

The immigration laws are broken. The Senate tried to fix them, but those who are
so opposed to illegal immigrants refused to permit a vote. Some people would
rather complain than try to solve the problem.

Marc Fisher: I don't think you need to start carrying your passport, but as the
Post's Nick Miroff reported on Sunday, there are certainly many legal immigrants
who feel that they now do need to prove their right to be here, and I've been
getting lots of mail from legal immigrants who say they are totally okay with
that, because they want the illegals tossed out.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: I appreciate you writing about John Stirrup Jr. today.

But can you really understand a person's problems unless you walk in his shoes
-- or in this case, live in his neighborhood?

It's easy for many of us to say that we should be tolerant of hard-working,
family-oriented illegal immigrants when we aren't faced with overcrowded and
unkempt houses in our own neighborhood.

Mr. Fisher, does your neighborhood face any of the problems like Mr. Stirrup?

washingtonpost.com: The Melting Pot Boils Over (Post, July 19)

Marc Fisher: Nope, I live in the District, where the immigrant population is
much smaller than in the suburbs and where immigrants tend to live clustered in
a small number of areas. But I have in my life lived in neighborhoods that were
at least half immigrants, many of them illegal, and I've lived through conflicts
very much like the ones we're seeing in Prince William and elsewhere. What I
learned from those experiences is that when a large number of illegal immigrants
enter a community, there is a great deal of upset and dislocation, and there are
indeed cultural clashes -- trash in the streets, overcrowded houses, cars parked
on lawns, lots of non-English speaking kids in the schools. This cannot help but
be disturbing to those who already lived in those neighborhoods. But in less
than a generation, those problems tend to vanish and the younger immigrants and
the children of the older ones start to look, behave and vote like most of those
around them. Except in border areas such as southern California, all of this
tends to be a transitional problem.

_______________________

Mountain Home, Ark.: When, if ever, is Congress going to get serious about
illegal immigration and protecting our borders?

I have same question about drugs coming into our country.

Marc Fisher: Good analogy, and the answer comes much clearer when you look at
the drug issue: The answer is never. The demand in this country for both drugs
and illegal immigrant labor is so great that no amount of enforcement is the
answer. Rather, it would take a concerted effort to do something about demand,
and in the case of immigration, that would mean a sharp alteration in the way
Americans think about cheap goods and cheap labor, both of which we're addicted
to.

_______________________

Southeast, D.C.: I found this section of Supervisor Stirrup's Sunday Outlook
piece the most disturbing: "Left unchecked, illegal immigration will almost
certainly put our county on a downward spiral, similar to the patterns to be
found in the Third World countries these illegal immigrants left."

It indicates his problem is not with the legal status of immigrants, but with
the immigrants themselves -- their values, culture, and nations of origin. He
seems to embrace an idea that immigrants today are fundamentally different than
previous waves, but in terms of English, intermarrying, home ownership, and
other indicators, immigrants are assimilating more quickly today than 100 years
ago.

Is there anything we can do to help a supervisor legislating based on fiction?
Can we un-poison his well?

Marc Fisher: I think you're generally right that Stirrup is driven by a sense
that these immigrants are different from those who came in prior waves of
immigrants -- he pretty much says this straight out in my column today -- and
while I agree with you that there are probably more consistencies than
contradictions between today's immigrants and those of past generations, I'm not
sure your list is quite right. The problem of teaching English effectively to
immigrants who live in virtually self-contained communities is a tough one and
there are too many second generation immigrants now whose English is so poor
that it handicaps their ability to rise in this society.  That's yet another
reason to be skeptical of efforts to deny services to immigrants and their
children.

_______________________

Alexandria, Va.: Marc, both of my in-laws are immigrants to the States -- my
mother-in-law came here from Ireland legally and my father-in-law came here from
Canada illegally. In fact, he never became a citizen and it wasn't until he was
convicted of a crime that his status was found out and he was deported -- 40
years after coming here. My point is this, no one would ever have questioned his
citizenship, because he "looked like us." The whole immigration debate has taken
on a racist tint because of the ethnicity of the vast majority of immigrants to
the States. If we were to be flooded by a vast wave of white Canucks, would
people be making such a big deal about it?

Marc Fisher: You're certainly right that the particular identity of these
immigrants is a very important factor in the opposition to their presence, but
the fact that your father-in-law was eventually deported does give at least some
credence to the idea that it's not just about keeping out people who don't look
like "us."

_______________________

washingtonpost.com: Fear Seizes Pr. William Immigrants -- Legal and Not (Post,
July 15)

_______________________

Dupont Circle: Here's what I keep trying to ask the immigrant-haters (who blow
me off during chats like this): I am the grandchild of French Canadian "anchor
babies" who were born in the northeastern U.S. circa 1890. I can't prove that my
great-grandparents crossed over the border legally (not all French Canadians
did). So, if we pass laws negating the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution,
does that mean I can be tossed out of the U.S. too?

At what point do people "become" American? None of my grandparents -- neither
the "anchor babies" nor the legal immigrants from Eastern Europe -- spoke
English at home.

Marc Fisher: That's a point I was trying to get at in the last graph of today's
column: That it's really the change in the structure of our society that makes
this wave of immigrants seem less welcome; go back and look at the virulent
anti-immigrant chatter and violence that marked the other big waves of
immigration in our history, and consider that that happened even when almost all
immigrants were clustered in ghetto-like surroundings, so that most Americans
didn't have to be confronted with the kind of culture clash we're seeing in the
Virginia suburbs. Had we lived 100 years ago in such a way that the wave of
Eastern European immigrants landed in the middle of neighborhoods where U.S.
citizens lived, the backlash would likely have been much, much more severe.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: RE: Today's column. Marc, I always enjoy your writing even
though (more often than not) I disagree with your views. But you absolutely hit
the nail on the head today in your concluding graph:

"What is different about the recent spurt in immigration is that our country has
changed: Jobs and cheaper housing are no longer in city neighborhoods where
immigrants live in isolated ghettos. Instead, immigrants -- legal or not -- live
smack dab in the middle of the rest of us. That confronts us with the culture
clash that has always been part of the glorious process of becoming American."

Well said!

Marc Fisher: Thanks very much -- more on immigration later, but now, a change of
pace. ...

_______________________

Shelton, Wash.: I read that the D.C. madam had 50,000 phone numbers. Now, like
most people out here, I'd always thought of D.C. as a staid kind of place. Sure,
you guys would take a bribe occasionally so you could afford crack, but 50,000
Johns in a city of 560,000?! Think about it. If she had 1,000 prostitutes
working for her over the years, that's 50 per woman. If she had 100 prostitutes
working for her, that's 5000. If she had 500 prostitutes working for her ...
well, you get the picture. That number makes D.C. seem like a heck of a lot
wilder place than Las Vegas or New Orleans. How come no seems interested in
this?

Marc Fisher: Calm yourselves! Yes, 50,000 is a lot of numbers, but I'm told by
folks here who've combed through the list that the great majority of the calls
came from hotel rooms, so it's not the wanton Washingtonians looking for illicit
action, but rather those nice tourists we're always being encouraged to be
polite to.

_______________________

Cleveland Park, Washington, D.C.: Marc --

I was glad to see that Madame Tussauds chose Marion Barry. I'm not a fan of his
at all, but of the choices presented, he was the only one who had anything to do
with D.C.

washingtonpost.com: Don't Light Up In Here: Marion Barry in Wax (Raw Fisher,
July 17)

Marc Fisher: He's a natural choice, and I'm thrilled he'll be in there, though
I'm skeptical that the Tussauds curators will have the guts to pose him in an,
um, interesting position. We'll all just have to bring our imaginations along
with us when we visit.

_______________________

Downtown: The rumor is that another D.C. icon, the Steamship carry-out at 18th
and Eye, will become a convenience store. Any truth to that? Phyllis Richman
used to laud their turkey sandwiches.

Marc Fisher: I saw something on one of the blogs about that happening. I've
somehow managed to miss the glories of that place -- I'll try to stop by before
it vanishes, if it hasn't already. Anyone have firsthand experience?

_______________________

Hogwarts, Scotland: Can we assume that this chat will be spoiler-free, then?
Having had Book 6 spoiled for me by a glass bowl online posting in an entirely
unrelated forum, I'm being very careful.

Marc Fisher: Yes, today's Hour of Power is Potter Spoiler-Free. I can guarantee
that, though I cannot vouch for the quality of the water we're pouring today.
That was a scary article by Carol Leonnig had on Page One today. Who needs to go
to the swimming pool for chlorine eyes when you can wash your face in the
privacy of your own home?

_______________________

Revealing the Harry Potter ending: Since when have you shied away from being a
scrooge? You're losing your touch, Fisher! You need to go eat some puppies or
something.

Marc Fisher: Properly chastened, I will now eat my ration of Meanie Biscuits.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: I'm guessing that Marion Barry's statement about his being
included in the Madame Tussauds Wax Museum was not made tongue in cheek. Too
bad. How self-delusional can one person be? And how can a city keep shooting
itself in the foot this way? It makes national and even international news
whenever something like this happens.

To quote "Miz Lillian" Carter on Howard Cosell, I don't want Barry to die. I
just want him to go away somewhere where I will never have to see or read about
him ever ever again.

Marc Fisher: Oh, no, you don't want that. You want him to keep on truckin', keep
on committing news, keep on making us all want to come on back here and shout
about him.

_______________________

Wax on, wax off: Will Mayor Barry's wax-like Tefloned figure be accompanied by
the likeness of Rasheeda Moore?

Marc Fisher: The Vista hotel room would make such a lovely setting for a wax
tableau. The challenge of capturing the grainy video image in wax would be a
grand challenge for the statue makers.

_______________________

Burtonsville, Md.: While the $64 million dollars pant suit is understandably
getting lots of attention, unfortunately this situation is not all that rare. My
family has been involved in an equally ludicrous lawsuit with a neighbor that,
while it is not going to break us, at least for a while, has now been dragging
on for over five years with no end in sight. We keep winning, they keep
appealing. The judge once entered the wrong date on a ruling and they appealed
that! And things are even more complicated in Maryland because they have two
lower court systems, District Court and Circuit Courts, which to some extent
have overlapping jurisdiction. We hope in time to get both vindication and legal
fees, but we're not holding our breath. There really needs to be a better way to
handle abusive lawsuits of this nature.

Marc Fisher: There ought to be. You probably don't want to hear my own solution,
which I admit is likely too radical for most folks. It involves largely
dissolving the civil courts. We can talk about it someday, but I'd have to warn
the folks at the big Web site or else the blowback from readers would swamp the
system.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: Marc,

As I have heard the allegations in the indictment of Michael Vick (so sickening
they are hard to hear), I was reminded of the quote from Gandhi "The greatness
of a nation and its moral progress can be judged by the way its animals are
treated." I think it's a very accurate observation from a man who had many
during his life.

Knowing how you feel about pets and their place in our society, I was wondering
what you think about Gandhi's observation. Does it ring false for you?

Thanks for all the great writing!

Marc Fisher: It won't surprise you that I see little merit in Gandhi's
observation. I certainly agree that the acts Vick is accused of are disgusting
and wrong, and I'd be glad to see him tried and convicted and punished if
guilty. But any society that diverts too much of its attention from the poorest
of its own members and focuses that attention on animals is engaging in a sad
and distorted view of our responsibilities as people. There's no call for anyone
to be cruel to animals, but there's a higher duty to care for our fellow man
first.

_______________________

Chantilly, Va.: Marc: Anything new on Pants Man? Maybe a small stroke, really
nasty migraines, something like that?

Marc Fisher: Oooh, the meanness is pouring out of us today. No, he's well and
producing legal documents at a powerfully efficient rate. The poor Chung family
is not yet free of this guy.

_______________________

Laurel, Md.: By now, couldn't the Chung family represent themselves in court?
Seems to me that they could put life-sized poster-board cutouts of themselves
and phone it in, and their argument would STILL make more sense than the
plaintiff.

Marc Fisher: Makes sense to me, but they, like most folks, bought into the cult
of expertise and bought themselves a good lawyer. That's certainly
understandable given the magnitude of the threat they faced from Roy Pearson,
but it sure would be nice if people put in that position chose more often to
refuse to bow to the legal manipulations of those who abuse the civil court
system.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Please Marc, from now until we finally get a good answer, you
and the rest of the Metro staff, every time you interview a Council member or
Mayor Fenty, should only ask the question, "Why did the West End
Library/Firehouse deal require an emergency legislation session?" The city
council and the mayor should get no other press except this issue.

I've never been this angry at our local government.

Marc Fisher: It's fascinating that this issue is bringing out taxpayer anger to
this extent. This has brought together those who have long opposed selling off
public property with those who like the idea of having developers build public
facilities at little or no cost to the taxpayer. It's a badly botched move by
the administration.

_______________________

West End, D.C.: Marc -- do not assume all of us living in the West End are on
Nader's side in this. I was very happy to read about the project in The Post.
The library is not that bad but that fire station is gross looking and often
feels unsafe to walk by at night. The West End has been getting safer and safer
as more mixed use brings more foot traffic and less deserted roads. That fire
station always is deserted at night and makes me uncomfortable when I walk past
it at night.

Marc Fisher: The library is a bad one -- on my last visit, it was dark, poorly
maintained and rendered virtually unusable by kids because of the unchecked
homeless population in the building at many hours. So I'd love to see a
developer come in and provide a new facility at no cost to the city, and
certainly that block is prime for much denser development. That block is a
barrier between two pieces of downtown that should feel much more connected.  So
why not open this project to other ideas and bids? Who knows -- the city would
likely get a better deal than Lanier is offering.

_______________________

Tenleytown, Washington: I am very concerned about the no competition given
always to developers in the District. The Council seems prepared to do the same
thing in Tenleytown with the Library/Janney School public-private partnership.
If it is a good idea, why not put it out for bid and see who makes the best
offer rather than who made the biggest campaign contribution?

Marc Fisher: I don't see any evidence that the city is moving in that direction
on the Tenleytown Library -- all you have there is a proposal from a developer
who has a good idea. Maybe other developers have a better idea, but the city
hasn't bothered to go out and find out.

_______________________

Reston, Va.: Marc, What do you think of the news that some of the VA Tech
families are asking for money from the state? Their lawyer said that they should
get the same compensation that families of 9/11 victims received. This really
bothers me. I feel horrible for these families, but I don't believe they should
get a payout just because one of their family members died a violent and
unnecessary death. People die violent and unnecessary deaths every day and we
aren't writing checks to their families.

I wasn't particularly comfortable with the 9/11 families receiving compensation
either, but I understood the rationale that it was to stop the airline industry
from being sued out of existence. Who could possibly be sued in this case? I
don't see how the school or state are responsible for an act of a crazy person.

Marc Fisher: I've never understood why a payday for those who suffer through
horrible tragedies makes any sense, either for the family or for the public at
large. Terrible things happen, and in the cases of 9/11 and Virginia Tech, while
it's good and important to investigate and figure out whether the horrors could
have been prevented, there's no public benefit to paying the relatives of those
who died. It's a good thing to help those families who cannot afford funeral and
other direct costs, but beyond that, how does getting a big payout from the
government take us any closer to preventing such incidents in the future?

_______________________

Falls Church: Marc, Have you been following the VA Tech panel and the issue of
distribution of funds from the Hokie Spirit Fund? It seems to me that much is
being made by Mr. Fadoul about the families that he represents and for whom we
all feel sympathy. But, I haven't heard anything from Mr. Feinberg or Mr. Fadoul
about covering the medical costs and rehabilitation of those who were severely
injured in tragedy. Also, Mr. Feinberg has indicated that he's not taking a fee;
can the same be said for Mr. Fadoul?

Marc Fisher: Good point -- those who were injured and require care should
certainly get help if they need it.

_______________________

Rosslyn, Va.: Just pointing out an error in your writing -- "always-volatile"
should read "always volatile". No hyphen between adverbs and adjectives. Grammar
lesson for today. Love your chats.

Marc Fisher: Right you are. Or: Right, you are. Or: You're right. "And stop
using colons inappropriately," he told himself.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Marc,

Do you have a pair of Crocs footware? I can't stand adults wearing Crocs, don't
know why, just can't.

Marc Fisher: I do not. Some in my family do. I oppose this. But I should provide
context: I oppose sandals in general. Either wear shoes or don't is my view. I
don't get the fascination with half-measures.

_______________________

McLean, Va.: Any idea whether Lanier will let photographers take pictures in his
proposed development?

Marc Fisher: Ha!

_______________________

McLean, Va.: Marc,

Do you think that the powers that be will let Teddy Roosevelt win the last
Presidential Race at the Nats' last home game at RFK this September?

Marc Fisher: That's been my prediction since last season. It could help pack the
place in late September, when the Nats are dozens of games out of first place
and the few remaining decent players have been traded for prospects. Come see if
Teddy can finally win one.

_______________________

There's no call for anyone to be cruel to animals, but there's a higher duty to
care for our fellow man first. : Difference: animals are largely helpless in
where and how they end up in bad situations. Man, who has free will, is often
directly responsible for where they end up. Sure, someone may be born dirt poor
and into an abusive family, but there comes in the factor which make humans
superior: free will and the ability to reason. I'd rather help animals.

Marc Fisher: Ouch. But you just said that there are cases of people who end up
on the short end through birth and circumstance -- I agree that people ought to
be responsible for themselves, but many centuries of history show us that in
every society, there are those who nonetheless end up with just the scraps. Why
don't you have an obligation toward them?

_______________________

Traffic Cop Wannabe: Marc, like you've never done anything distractive while
driving. I bet you pick your nose all the time while driving.

Marc Fisher: I plead guilty to all charges. But nasal excavation does not come
close to other driving activities on the distraction scale. Yammering on the
cell beats any and all personal grooming for distraction -- it way surpasses
shaving (with an electric, not with a razor), which is actually a reasonable
activity while driving.

_______________________

Montgomery Village, Md.: Marc

Alongside of Michael Vick, can we find some jail cells for the FEMA criminals
who not only allowed, but covered up the toxic air conditions in the trailers
housing Katrina victims? Seems like those dogs and our fellow citizens were
receiving similar treatment.

Also, to Ghandi's point about treatment of animals, We have invented diet dog
food for our overweight pets , but poorly feed many of our own citizens. What's
wrong with this picture?

Marc Fisher: Thank you.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: With Pearson being essentially judgment-proof (broke), how are
the Chungs going to collect attorneys' fees from him assuming a judge awards
them attorneys' fees? It seems that Pearson has nothing to deter him from
appealing (and appealing) when he knows there is no way they can collect
anything from him.

Marc Fisher: They won't. The Chungs' lawyers have already conceded that even if
they win an award of attorney's fees against Pearson, they are unlikely ever to
see a dime, especially if Pearson then loses his judgeship as a result of his
bizarre pursuit of the pants suit.

_______________________

Do you have a pair of Crocs footware? I can't stand adults wearing Crocs, don't
know why, just can't.: But, they are comfortable for picky feet with very good
arch support, yet very reasonably priced, not true of most ortho-friendly shoes.

Marc Fisher: They have holes in them. Case closed.

_______________________

Arlington: Marc,

I am still a little perplexed by your crusade against the Nats faith night. If
the owner was a born again Christian, then maybe the argument about him pushing
religion on others makes sense. However, being that he is a somewhat religious
Jew, the argument holds no value. Why can't people (and by people I mainly mean
the left) just except this is a business move to bring up more people. There is
no need to over analyze this promotion.

Marc Fisher: I agree that it is almost entirely a business move to fill seats.
But that doesn't make it right. I don't care what religion the owner is -- it's
the adoption of an exclusionary event as part of the baseball experience that I
find objectionable. Why would it comfort me that the owners don't really believe
in the particular brand of religion that the purveyors of Faith Night are
pushing? The effect is the same whatever the background of the owners: Some fans
and some kids will feel like they are missing out on something or that they
don't belong. In most of life, we would just say, Tough on them. But if you're
paying good money to go to a ball game, why should you have to deal with issues
of religious exclusion on top of that?

_______________________

Gandhi's point: You miss the Mahatma's point. The treatment of animals is the
marker for the civilization level of society because it is a
canary-in-a-coal-mine indicator for how we treat those who are vulnerable,
helpless and under our control. Those who abuse animals frequently go on to
abuse weaker humans. Those who treat animals kindly are far likelier to treat
their fellow humans kindly.

Because animals are more firmly in our power than our fellow humans, and because
it's less socially unacceptable to treat them badly, one's treatment of animals
is a clearer sign of one's inner character rather than one's response to social
pressure.

Marc Fisher: It's a nice theory -- really, it is -- but it purposely avoids the
reality of life, which is that most of us have only a limited amount of
compassion, time and energy to spend on those outside ourselves and our
families, and when that effort is expended first on animals, the net effect is
the neglect of people. Ask anyone who works in charity organizations about that
balance, and they'll tell you that when there's a rush of attention or money
spent on animal causes, it's the poor people who bear the brunt.

_______________________

Anonymous: What about studies showing that those who abuse women and children
often started by abusing animals? Only stop them when they get to abusing
people? I agree that IF protecting people lessens protection of people it is
wrong, but I am more convinced that callousness towards animals breeds, or is at
least connected, to callousness towards people. I see no reason why protecting
animals should divert sympathy from people. The two can go hand in hand (or hand
in paw).

Marc Fisher: Right -- as I said earlier, nothing I'm saying here in any way
excuses bad behavior toward critters of any kind (except mosquitoes and rodents,
who must die). There's no contradiction between caring for people who have less
and being kind to animals. There is a contradiction between putting animals
first and taking care of poor people.

_______________________

Crocs are DANGEROUS: I met this woman at Noodles and Company a few weeks ago
whose six-year-old son had a cast on his foot. Apparently his crocs were the
partial cause one of 18 incidents at the Atlanta Airport where kids have been
injured.

Apparently all 18 incidents involved kids wearing crocs on escalators, and how
the rubber or something makes it easily to wedge in a tiny space when you're
getting on and off the stairs. So be careful!

Plus, they are really ugly and remind me of the jelly shoes from when I was
younger.

Marc Fisher: Don't you love it when the news justifies a nice, raw, irrational
prejudice?

_______________________

Pouring toxic chemicals in the river rather than paying to dispose of them
properly: Was a business move.

Business moves are not always virtuous just because this is a capitalist nation.
People do really immoral things in the name of profit. And only community
resistance makes them stop.

Marc Fisher: Agreed.

_______________________

Gaithersburg, Md.: Thanks a lot, Marc. The mere mention of nasal excavation made
me unconsciously stick my finger up my nose and the boss walked in and saw me.

Marc Fisher: You should have invited him to join you.

_______________________

Nats, Religion, and Sense of exclusion: But you don't have a problem with them
doing "Ladies Night" ? (Which I think is tonight, if I remember correctly.)

Marc Fisher: Every night is Ladies Night.

_______________________

They have holes in them: Air conditioning for the feet in the summer.

Marc Fisher: If they came with miniature air conditioning units and
micro-blowers, I would formally reconsider.

_______________________

McLean, Va.: To summarize today's topics:

You can pick your nose.

You can pick on Marion Barry.

You can pick on Mayor Fenty.

You shouldn't pick on immigrants.

You can't pick your neighbors.

And you shouldn't try to pick your neighbor's nose.

Marc Fisher: I may have to hire you.

_______________________

Silver Spring: I find the discussion on illegal immigration long overdue.
Earlier in the discussion, you said "in less than a generation, those problems
-- culture clash issues tend to vanish and the younger immigrants and the
children of the older ones start to look, behave and vote like most of those
around them. Except in Southern California, all of this tends to be a
transitional problem."

I am not so sure that illegal immigrants are going to stop coming here! In fact
many say (after being deported) that they'll continue to come back ... because
the better pay, better way of life. How will we stop this continual influx!
Employers who hire illegal immigrants ought to be paying their health care and
educational costs, instead of the American taxpayers.

Marc Fisher: Yes, employers should do that, and yes, we should all be more
vigilant about not employing illegal immigrants. Except that very few people
seem particularly energized to do that, because it would mean a dramatic rise in
prices on so many services and goods.

_______________________

Alexandria, Va.: For those who think that the immigration laws are too
draconian, should anyone be allowed to transit into the U.S. or become a
citizen? If not, where should the line be drawn?

My opposition comes from the fact that people are beginning their time in the
U.S. by breaking federal law -- and that we have a reasonable ability now,
unlike in the 1800's, to determine who can and cannot be allowed in.

Marc Fisher: No doubt we should open our doors to a far greater number of legal
immigrants, and we should once again open our arms to the particularly well
qualified and educated from other lands. But we're living in a time of fear, so
we do the worst of all things: We shut the door to those who are most helpful to
us, and then we fail to come up with any workable policy regarding the random
folks who just walk in.

_______________________

Used to dislike the New York Times: Now I loathe them! How could they go and
leak important plot points from the Harry Potter books that many of us have been
waiting almost 10 years to find out! And only two days away!

I was going to go into a media blackout until tomorrow night, but thankfully the
Post has an official policy of no spoilers!

Marc Fisher: And then what happens after tomorrow night? How long will your
average media outlet give Potter fans to read the book before they start
flooding us with discussions of how it all ended up and who died and so on?

_______________________

Hummer, D.C.: What?

No coverage of the goombah with the trashed Humvee?

washingtonpost.com: Vandals Smash Man's Hummer (AP, July 19)

Marc Fisher: We'll have to save that for next week, alas. Great topic, though.

_______________________

Reston, Va.: Marc,

I'm sure you read the article about the young chap whose hummer was apparently
seriously vandalized but some environmental folk. My surprise wasn't totally
with the article and complete lack of respect for living in this country, but
with the people making comments on the article. I had no idea so many people
HATED Hummers and people who lived with their moms. The hatred for those cars
seems to be on such another level from any other like vehicle. People were
congratulating the vandals for a job well done. Unbelievable. Some of these
commenters seem to be quite happy when the vigilantism works to their favor and
moral opinions. I just hope some nutcase doesn't feel it is his/her moral
opinion is to infringe on their property and right to their life, liberty, and
pursuit of happiness.

Marc Fisher: There's little more self-righteous than those who consider
themselves Greener Than Thou. Next week, I'll tell you about my adventures with
that ilk in the Seriously Green land of Germany.

_______________________

Faith Night: I wonder if it has anything to do with a threatened boycott. I was
on a road trip around baseball stadiums last month and was in St. Louis. At the
end of the game I realized it was Christian Family Night and players started
coming out of the dugout talking about finding Christ. I have never felt so
awkward in my life. I have no problem with religion, but to exclude people for
something like that is wrong. St. Louis sells out there stadium every single day
so they don't need to sell tickets so I wonder if there wasn't the underlying
possibility of a boycott where some Christian groups would come out publicly and
say the Cardinals hate Christians.

Marc Fisher: Sounds like a bad night at the ballpark.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: As someone who does not own a car, I say, "ALL RIGHT," to the
legislation down in Richmond concerning the highway abuser fees. Heck, I don't
have to pay it, and if my husband ever becomes a reckless driver (he's an
excellent driver), he'll have to pay it. So, no skin off my nose. And, BTW, I'm
willing to have higher taxes that go to roads, schools, teacher salaries, etc.
-- things that states should fully fund. And tell me, what company would move to
a state where their employee's children would be attending crappy schools?

Marc Fisher: Another issue we didn't have time for today -- please bring it up
next time.

_______________________

Hyattsville, Md.: Marc,

Late to the chat, but I need to weigh in. We are having a city council meeting
soon where there will be a debate on whether or not to allow illegal aliens the
right to vote. Now I am pretty left-wing, but I cannot for the life of me figure
out how anyone who is not a citizen should have the same voting rights I have.
Are there any compelling arguments you are aware of that would compel me to
believe that illegals have civic rights? (Please don't tell me they pay taxes.
Just by being here they are enjoying roads, fire and police, and other services
paid for by those taxes.)

Marc Fisher: I cannot see any possible justification for letting illegal
immigrants vote. If you want to help them get legal, that's a laudable goal, as
is moving them to a point where they get involved in their communities, become
citizens and then get to vote.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: On immigration, we know the results of these laws. It's going
to be biting off the nose to spite the face, for sure. Immigrant children will
be less educated, & less likely to add skilled workers to our labor pool, more
likely to become criminals. Immigrant workers, more likely to forego health care
or screening, even as your favorite restaurant hires them for dishwashing or
food prep. Immigrant drivers, less likely to be licensed and law-abiding, more
likely to flee arrest for the smallest infraction. Folks desperate for emergency
services, turning to desperate measures to pay for hospital care, for example. I
mean, imagine there's an over-crowded house next door. Do you want the city to
forego trash pick up? That's a city service, too. And, ultimately, we'll see
some businesses go under, because the unskilled jobs will just go off to China,
etc.

The truth is that immigrants pay a lot of social security and sales taxes, and
the illegal ones rarely see a comparable return on their payments.

Marc Fisher: True, but it's also the case that a lot of them live in a cash
underground where people don't pay taxes at all.

_______________________

Logan Circle: Perhaps D.C. doesn't have a huge illegal problem, but I do have
people smoking crack in the alley behind my house, graffiti "artists" tagging my
house, homeless people of questionable mental state asleep on my street,
teenagers blaring music late at night, home invasions at the end of the block,
and a host of other exciting problems. I'm having a hard time feeling sorry for
somebody who's afraid of walking into his 7-11 because non-Caucasians are
hanging out in the parking lot.

Marc Fisher: Another neighborhood heard from.

_______________________

Bethesda, Md.: You wrote about illegal immigration: "But in less than a
generation, those problems tend to vanish. ..."

Precisely, and who wants to wait that long?

Marc Fisher: Which is why we're seeing all this action in PW and Loudoun.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: I really think the focus on illegal is a smokescreen. I think
most of the people like Stirrup that are incensed about immigration are
basically people who would object to large numbers of Spanish speakers (the
group they focus on the most) living around them no matter what their status
was. For me, I live in a garden apartment complex full of immigrants (mostly
Latino or Mongolian), ride the bus with them all the time (especially late at
night when they are returning from restaurant jobs in G'town), and basically
find them all working too hard to have time to do all the things they are
accused of by the xenophobes. I agree with you 100 percent -- this is a problem
that is purely transitional. I already see lots of Salvadoran kids answering
their mamas back in English when their mamas speak to them in Spanish.

Marc Fisher: Time cures most problems.

_______________________

Secret government installations: I hear there's one at 1150 15th St. NW, just
waiting to be exposed and photographed. More on this as it develops.

Marc Fisher: Please keep me up to date on that one.

_______________________

Gaithersburg, Md.: The other day I am driving to the gym at about 5:30 AM when a
van runs a red light, speeds through the intersection and makes a left turn,
causing me to break sharply to avoid an accident. Much to my surprise it was the
Safe Speed van -- you know, the nice folks that take pictures of speeding cars
and mail them $40 tickets. Unfortunately, there was not a red light camera at
the intersection.

Marc Fisher: Fabulous. If only you'd had a camera.

_______________________

D.C.: So, Marc, as a baseball fan, where do you weigh in on the Barry Bonds
issue? Do you think his inevitable home run record should be asterisked?

Marc Fisher: Hard to asterisk an entire era, no? We all know what his record
means. He's a bad guy yet he was once a great hitter. The photos of him early
and late in his career will tell the true story.

_______________________

Marc Fisher: Ah well, we're far over our allotted hour and so I will have to ask
many of you to try again next week. Apologies to those I couldn't get to today
-- thanks for coming along and do write if you get work.

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over
Discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts; guests
and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not responsible
for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2007 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       July 31, 2007 Tuesday 2:00 PM EST

D.C., Maryland and Virginia Politics;
D.C., Maryland and Virginia Politics

BYLINE: Mark Plotkin, WTOP Political Commentator, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 2720 words



HIGHLIGHT: WTOP political commentator Mark PlotkinÂ was online Tuesday, July 31
at 2 p.m. ET to discuss the illegal immigration crackdown in Loudoun County,
parking problems at the District's new stadium, jockeying for a State Senate
seat in Maryland and more.


WTOP political commentator Mark Plotkin was online Tuesday, July 31 at 2 p.m. ET
to discuss the illegal immigration crackdown in Loudoun County, parking problems
at the District's new stadium, jockeying for a State Senate seat in Maryland and
more.

The transcript follows.

Archive: Mark Plotkin discussion transcripts

Plotkin joined WTOP after 10 years as a political analyst for WAMU radio. He has
been active in D.C. and national politics since attending George Washington
University in the late '60s.

____________________

Silver Spring, Md.: On the one hand Martin O'Malley casts himself as the friend
of the Chesapeake Bay. On the other hand he seems to be going forward with the
Intercounty Connector, which will cut across the headwaters of the imperiled
Anacostia watershed. This includes the Paint Branch, where brown trout now
thrive. Do you know if O'Malley is having any second thoughts about the ICC?

Mark Plotkin: Before I take this question, I sure would like to hear from you
about my comments about Obama that I made last week. If you don't have any
comments, that's fine, but I thought I'd get some reaction. The point if you
missed it last week -- and I further elaborated on it -- is that Obama has
deliberately or inadvertently created a culture of arrogance, at least when it
comes to dealing with the local media in this town. I called his chief council
to complain about a series of events that occurred after Mayor Fenty endorsed
Obama and never heard back, because I only can think that if you don't have
something adoring to say about their candidate, they are content to ignore you.
I think this hubris will come back to haunt Obama and I repeat, you won't see
him in the District ever again in a local political way.

Now to your question. Gov. O'Malley doesn't seem to be flexible on this issue of
the ICC. This view is the same as the person he beat, Bob Ehrlich, and just
recently as you know, he had a press conference repeating his view that the ICC
should be built. This is a far different position then the former Democratic
Governor, Parris Glendening. I think he has factored in the politics of this and
decided that he cannot get hurt on this issue. Hope this answers your question.

_______________________

How to contact you: Hi Mark. What is the best way to contact you if one wanted
to invite you to participate in a panel, event, etc.? Thanks!

Mark Plotkin: I'm easy -- all you have to do is ask. My direct phone number is
(202) 895-5281. Call any time; I promise I'll call you back -- unlike most of
Washington, I return phone calls. There are others who believe that it is a sign
of status not to call back. It's a disease that needs to be cured, and there are
some prime offenders. Have I mentioned the Obama campaign? Try calling them and
if you get a call back, let me know. It could be a first. My address is WTOP
RADIO, 3400 Idaho Ave. N.W., Washington, D.C. 20016. How's that for full
disclosure?

_______________________

Culpeper, Va.: Do you think the Tysons-Dulles Metro rail project will be
derailed? Is the federal government going to pull the funding for the rail
project because of delays and projected cost estimates? If that happens, what
does Virginia do next?

Mark Plotkin: Well, if you listen to WTOP, I heard a comment from Rep. Tom Davis
who last week said that the outlook does not look bright for federal funding. We
had Gov. Kaine on WTOP this morning on the "Ask The Governor" program, and I
must confess I was out of the room when he gave a response to this topic. But I
suggest that you call our Virginia Reporter, Hank Silverberg -- (202) 895-5060
-- or Sprawl and Crawl Reporter, Adam Tuss -- (202) 895-5060. They are the
experts on this subject. Your esteemed Political Analyst is no transportation
expert. I'm just an idiot savant on local and national politics.

_______________________

Northwest Washington: Marky Mark: When's the last time that you spoke to former
mayor Tony Williams? What's he up to these days?

Mark Plotkin: What is this Marky Mark? No one calls me that. Do I know you? Why
the familiarity?

Anyway, responding to your question: Jack Evans, the council member from Ward 2,
I think has given the best description when it comes to the former mayor's
communication skills. Evans has called him "phone averse." I think this is too
kind. Williams has trouble communicating with other live human beings, even if
you are not on the phone. If you talk to him, he never will be mistaken for Bill
Clinton. He does not believe in direct eye contact and when you are talking to
him often, he looks like he's undergoing an unusual and highly painful medical
procedure. He's a smart guy and can be truly quite funny and sardonic, and he's
an able person, but contact with other humans is not his strong suit. In fact,
that was an important missing ingredient, and I think major detriment when he
was mayor. The present mayor likes people, engaged very well, and people like
him.

In specific response to your question, I have not spoken to the former mayor
since I saw him walking during the voting rights march down Pennsylvania Avenue
on that cold rainy spring day. He walked alone, a hat firmly on his head,
warding off any casual contact with his former constitutions, and we talked for
a very short time. A former close aide who worked in his administration recently
told me that he called Williams repeatedly at his new business venture to
convince him to call Sen. Sam Brownback to come out for the voting rights bill,
and Williams never called him back. This aide told me that he has given up
trying to call Williams. I wonder how Williams does business, or gets business
without using the phone. Maybe he uses pigeons. He is a strange bird.

_______________________

Columbia, Md.: I agree with your assessment. I also, think Obama is running for
president so soon after taking office because there would be less of a chance of
him winning once he has more history in the Senate.

Mark Plotkin: Glad to get an Obama reaction. There was an interesting article in
the New York Times about his legislative record when he served in the Illinois
state senate. He was a very pragmatic senator who made alliances with people
across the aisle, which is a very good attribute. Overall the article was very
favorable that he was interested in results and he forged good personal
relations with his colleagues without regard to their party label. My beef with
him is that he has hired people who already -- to quote the old cliche --
"seemed to have picked out their offices in the West Wing."

It's interesting that Obama tries to combat his inexperience in the Senate by
saying in his campaign literature that he has more legislative experience than
Clinton or Edwards. That's because he has eight years in the Illinois State
Senate. That's not the same thing as six years in the U.S. Senate, and I'll
repeat it -- this time, I sensed a certain degree of smugness when I observed
him at the Fenty endorsement. It's great to have self-confidence but his manner
projects something more disquieting. There is a self-satisfaction and a hurried
"I'm important" mode to him that I think voters might get tired of. I still
remember and will repeat his line to the assembled admirers, "I have to get back
to the Capital." A very poor choice of words at your get-acquainted session with
D.C. voters.

_______________________

Campos and Affordable Housing: Mark, I'm assuming you read the article where
county councilman Campos was quoted saying that he can't afford what he's
looking for -- "a single-family home in a good neighborhood in the northern
district he represents, which borders the District and Montgomery County."

This is troubling, and a slap in the face of local residents who don't make half
the money he makes -- $89,000 a year for a single person is a good salary. That
he wants to sit and wait for the perfect home is understandable, but as an
elected official it tells me he is out of touch with the market -- and more
importantly, his constituents. How could an elected official not see the
implications of his comments and the article? Someone running against him should
frame this article and reference it every chance they can get. He sounds out of
touch. Your thoughts?

washingtonpost.com: Despite Milder Market, Affordable Homes Hard to Find in
Prince George's (Post, July 28)

Mark Plotkin: Good to get an item from Prince Georges County. You noticed I
didn't say PG. I would like some remarks about your very slippery and frequently
disingenuous county executive, Jack Johnson. Back to your question: I just
thought Campos' remarks were honest, and I don't think he was trying to make
himself out to be some sort of elitist. For the house he wants, he just couldn't
find anything on that salary. I don't think this really expresses being "out of
touch," but is more an indicator that people who make a good salary are very
distressed that the good salary does not buy more house for the dollar. Prince
George's was a place where somebody was supposedly able to get good value and a
larger home, and that's why it has enjoyed such growth.

_______________________

Bethesda, Md.: I'm a retired Montgomery County Public Schools administrator and
have to admit that, during my tenure, we had occasional problems of the type
detailed in today's Post story about materials going to the wrong school and
things of that nature. However, we had sufficient safeguards in place to pick up
on most of these problems early enough so that they had minimum impact. It's a
combination of having these safeguards in place and training the staff to use
them. I'm not one of those who thinks Montgomery County teachers and
administrators are smarter than their D.C. counterparts, so it must come down to
providing the right equipment and training people to use it. I would be happy to
consult with D.C. schools for free in an effort to work towards this end. Two of
my grandchildren attend D.C. public schools and I am concerned not only about
the quality of their education, but the quality of life at their schools. If
there is anything I could do to help change this, I would be happy to try.

Mark Plotkin: Well I have a proposal for you: contact Victor Reinoso. He's the
deputy mayor for education; his D.C. government number is (202) 727-1000, and
ask for Reinoso and tell me if you hear back from him on your offer. If he
doesn't call you back, he surely should designate someone to call you back and
accept and work on your generous offer. In some ways this is a test of the new
system, the new personal, and whether anything has changed. That is, they should
call you back and design some course of action to accept gracious offers like
yours. I'm not just being complimentary -- the lack or responsiveness is the
single greatest problem of the D.C. school system.

The mayor told me on the first day he was installed in office that he was going
to get rid of superintendent Janey because he had no sense of urgency. The
bureaucracy over there is horrible and the status quo has been permitted to
flourish for so long that nothing ever changes. I do not underestimate managing
a$1  billion enterprise like this, but there are too many people there who don't
suffer any consequences for being lazy, incompetent and inept. The new regime is
supposed to identify these people and make sure they don't work there any more.

_______________________

Catonsville, Md.: I was at the "Cal Send-Off" Orioles game last Tuesday, and
Sheila Dixon absolutely was booed off the field when she presented Cal with some
sort of proclamation. I mean, the boos echoed throughout the stadium the entire
time she was on the field. The friend I was with said it reminded him of the
greeting Vice President Cheney got when he threw out the first ball at the Nats'
2006 Opening Day, only more so. Isn't Mayor Dixon heavily favored in the
upcoming election? If this reception is any indication, those predictions may be
faulty.

Mark Plotkin: Every political consultant and advisor advises politicians never
to go to athletic contests because they will be booed. Sheila Dixon obviously
decided to go ahead anyway. The most recent Baltimore Sun poll found her far
ahead of her Democratic Party challengers. She is the incumbent mayor now
because O'Malley went on to become governor, and so she enjoys the advantage of
great name recognition. The field against her in Baltimore is splintered with
many candidates, and no one candidate seems to be galvanizing support or
positioning themselves to be the alternative. So I don't know if the reception
she received in Baltimore is truly indicative of the results that she will get
in the election.

_______________________

Anonymous: I think the "Marky Mark" reference was funny. He's a musician/rapper?
People younger than me know who he is.

Mark Plotkin: Thanks for the clarification. I'm just an old you-know-what and
had no idea that the Marky Mark was a contemporary reference. Thanks again for
this nugget.

_______________________

Washington: Hey Mark, the tennis guru: I understand your disappointment and
outrage at the Obama campaign's blow-off of you and the District for the future,
but why are you surprised? From what I have experienced with politicians, the
sooner you endorse them the less need they have to cater to you. I understand
that nobody else called Mayor Fenty for an endorsement -- that does seem
short-sighted -- but by endorsing Obama so quickly, the Mayor ensured that Obama
would not have to cater to or pay attention to District issues. Now Mark, if you
remind the Obama campaign that you have a solid listening audience in Maryland
and Virginia, you might get a different reaction. What do you think?

Mark Plotkin: You don't think I'm a tennis guru? How dare you. My reports will
be on daily. My forehand has been compared to that great Aussie Lew Hoad. I've
compared my forehand to Lew Hoad's. So get used to it buddy. You'll be hearing
more from center court with Dave Johnson (he's called me "Bud Collins with an
agenda").

But to get to your question. You are right. Maryland and Virginia on Feb. 12
have more delegates, and that primary date could be crucial if on the week
before the results in the super-duper primary are not conclusive. There is also
a school of thought that Fenty should have waited a little longer before he
endorsed. I think that the influential and savvy Jim Hudson had an impact on
Fenty to do the endorsement early. Obama did appear to a Washington audience the
day after the Fenty endorsement at the Arc in Southeast and did make a passing
reference to the work they are doing, but once again a candidate used the
District for an urban backdrop rather then giving a speech to the District, for
the District, about the District. Obama had that opportunity and that venue and
choose to use Washington for a wider purpose. Once just once, I'd like to see a
presidential candidate talk to the city and emphasize local issues, like they do
in Iowa and New Hampshire.

_______________________

Washington: Will you be at any Nats games this week?

Mark Plotkin: I find myself caring whether the Nats win or lose and wanting to
know the score and feeling badly when they do lose. I think I've said before,
it's an adjustment for me to root for a National league team, since I grew up in
Chicago and was such a fierce White Sox fan and was familiar with the American
League. Any team that is in the National League plays in the same league as the
awful, horrible, perpetually losing Chicago Cubs, a team that should never -- I
repeat never -- win a pennant, win a division or, God forbid, appear in the
World Series.

I'm watching tennis this week and giving reports with my brilliant observations
almost every morning with Dave Johnson at the Legg Mason tournament. So I won't
be at any of the Nats games, but I'm sure I'll see some of them after this home
stand. Thanks for asking.

Thanks for all the questions. Glad to get a lot from Maryland this time and I
hope we get some from Virginia next week, same time, same place.

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over
Discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts; guests
and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not responsible
for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2007 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 23, 2007 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

'No Amnesty' Is Cry at D.C. Immigration Protest

BYLINE: Pamela Constable; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 825 words


The small but fervent crowd of protesters recited the Pledge of Allegiance and
hummed along to "God Bless America." They hoisted neatly lettered placards that
portrayed the United States as under siege. They cheered lustily as a parade of
speakers, jabbing fingers toward the White House, demanded action to secure U.S.
borders, enforce its laws and make English its official language.

Many in the group of about 400 people had flown in from California and Arizona
to join the rally in Lafayette Square yesterday against illegal immigration and
to energize themselves for a week of lobbying on Capitol Hill as Congress begins
to grapple once more with the volatile theme of immigration reform.

"We are certainly a nation of immigrants, but much more important, we are a
nation of laws," T.J. Bonner, a U.S. Border Patrol agent, told the assembly.
"What is happening on the border is anarchy. Millions are crossing over, reaping
our benefits, taking our jobs, and the government is not doing a damn thing
about it."

An estimated 10 million to 12 million illegal immigrants are in the United
States, and Congress has been attempting for several years to address the
problem. There is little disagreement on the need to tighten border security but
a wide array of opinions on what to do with illegal immigrants already living
and working here, from offering them full amnesty to deporting as many as
possible.

The two-hour afternoon rally, much smaller than organizers had anticipated, was
peaceful, but a group of about two dozen local counter-demonstrators gathered
across the park, tooting horns and blowing whistles to drown out the speakers.
They denounced the rally participants as "fascists" and "racists" but did not
venture past several U.S. Park Police officers on horseback who cordoned off the
site.

The rally was sponsored by an organization in Georgia and coordinated with the
national Federation for American Immigration Reform, a nonprofit advocacy group,
and a number of radio talk show hosts who have championed the cause of stopping
illegal immigration.

The crowd included retired teachers and aerospace workers, ex-soldiers and
business contractors. Many were from Western states and said they were
affiliated with organized groups but had paid their own airfares. Most were
white, but a few were Latinos who described themselves as especially victimized
by the protracted influx of illegal Latino immigrants.

"I was born in Mexico, but I came here legally, and I was brought up with
American values," said Anna Gaines, a retired high school teacher from Arizona.
"I have had terrible experiences with illegal students. They don't care about
school, only about parties and drugs. They don't come with respect for our laws
and values."

A number of people in the crowd stressed that they were not against legal
immigrants and did not consider themselves prejudiced. D.A. King, the rally
coordinator, announced that "anyone with a different agenda against skin color
or national origin, you are not welcome . . . and you will not be tolerated."

Instead, speakers and participants complained about other problems they said
were caused by illegal immigrants, including gang violence, drunken driving, a
decline in wages, hospital overcrowding and impoverishment of community life.

"We don't hate anyone, and we are not anti-Mexican, but things have reached such
an intolerable point that someone has to stand up," said Robert Schussler, a
retired Marine from San Diego. His wife, Sandy, noted that their
daughter-in-law, a native of Vietnam, had waited years to enter the United
States and become a legal resident.

Much of yesterday's rhetoric was about improving border security, and several
speakers drew cheers when they praised the U.S. Border Patrol, including several
agents who are in prison on charges of killing illegal immigrants.

The most popular rallying cry, though, was a call for "no amnesty," meaning no
repeat of the 1986 law that allowed hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants
to apply for residency under certain conditions. Many speakers and participants
said any form of legalization for illegal residents, no matter how long they
have lived in the United States, would amount to amnesty.

"No matter what they call it this week, amnesty will not secure our borders,
stop illegal immigrants or stop illegal employers," King said. "We are in a
struggle to save the sovereignty of our nation. We will not lose, compromise or
bargain."

Many people who attended the rally said they expected to spend the next several
days lobbying members of Congress.

All expressed strong opposition to the House legislation proposed by Reps. Luis
V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.) and Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.) that would allow illegal
immigrants to become legal if they fulfill a series of requirements. The
legislation would also beef up border security and crack down on companies that
hire illegal immigrants.

No Senate immigration legislation has been introduced.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Melina Mara -- The Washington Post; Ted Hayes of Los Angeles
waves a flag in front a group of counter-demonstrators, who tried to drown out
speakers with horns and whistles.
IMAGE; Photos By Melina Mara -- The Washington Post; Above, Hugh Hollar of
Herndon, left, and Wes Young of Bordentown, N.J., listen to speeches at the
rally, which urged a crackdown on illegal immigration. At right, the rally drew
fewer participants than organizers had expected. "We are certainly a nation of
immigrants, but much more important, we are a nation of laws," one speaker told
the crowd.
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 29, 2007 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

Challengers Slam Loudoun Sheriff Over Illegal Immigration;
Office Not Participating in Deportation Program

BYLINE: Sandhya Somashekhar; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 724 words


The two challengers in the Loudoun County sheriff's race are criticizing
incumbent Stephen O. Simpson for not enrolling his deputies in a federal program
that would allow them to initiate deportations of illegal immigrants.

The U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement training, called the Section 287(g)
program, lets officers detain illegal immigrants and begin deportation
proceedings before turning cases over to the federal agency. Officers certified
as part of the five-week course also have access to some federal databases.

The program has been denounced by some law enforcement officials who think it
will drive a wedge between police and immigrants, many of whom are already
afraid to report crimes. Some Hispanic advocacy groups have said it could lead
to racial profiling. But proponents of the training say it has the potential to
curb crime.

Leesburg resident Greg Ahlemann, who is challenging Simpson for the Republican
nomination at a June 9 convention, and Democratic contender Mike George of
Ashburn say the decision shows Simpson is out of touch with the urbanizing
county. Problems such as gangs are encroaching from the east, the challengers
say, and require a stiffer attitude toward those in the country illegally.

Simpson has accused his opponents of unnecessarily alarming his constituents for
political gain.

"People are being led to believe by my opposition that because we don't have
this training, we're going to be overrun with gang members and illegal
immigrants because they're going to come rushing over from Herndon. That's
simply not true," said Simpson, 53, a 20-year veteran of the department who has
been sheriff since 1996.

In the fall, Simpson was among several Northern Virginia law enforcement leaders
who considered enrolling in the training. Since then, he said, he has decided it
is unnecessary. Only about one in 20 gang members in the region is an illegal
immigrant, Simpson said, and the county already works closely with immigration
officials. During the past year, he said, his office was responsible for the
deportation of about 48 people, and about a dozen are in the Leesburg jail
awaiting the same fate.

In addition, he said, he would have to give up some jail space to keep illegal
immigrants detained longer, room he doesn't have in the crowded facility. When
the jail was built in 1958, it was designed to hold 63 inmates. Today, about 300
inmates are housed there. The county is building a new jail that can accommodate
220 inmates.

On Tuesday, Simpson will present his findings to the Board of Supervisors, which
in March asked him to report back on how the county might take advantage of the
training.

But Ahlemann and George say Simpson's response is not good enough. Herndon,
which sits just across Loudoun's eastern boundary in Fairfax County, has
enrolled officers in the program as part of a broad crackdown on illegal
immigration. Ahlemann and George say they think this will push more undocumented
immigrants into Loudoun, some of whom are involved in gangs.

"The reason we have the gang problem in eastern Loudoun is because Fairfax
County is so proactive," George said. "Today, we are behind the ball. The growth
of the county has surpassed some of [Simpson's] capabilities."

George, 53, worked for the Fairfax County Police Department for 19 years before
getting his current job in anti-piracy for the recording industry. He said he
thinks Simpson should send a minimal number of officers to the Section 287(g)
training to facilitate paperwork.

Ahlemann said he thinks as many as 12 deputies should be trained initially to
ensure that the jail has one trained officer on duty at all times. Deputies who
deal with gangs should be the second priority for the training and community
officers next. He also advocates a hard-line approach against illegal immigrants
who drive and close cooperation with zoning officers who may encounter illegal
immigrants when inspecting overcrowded homes.

The key, he said, is to make the county inhospitable to those who are here
illegally.

"I'd rather see us on the forefront of this than playing catch-up," said
Ahlemann, 36, a former Loudoun deputy who resigned in January to become a
stay-at-home dad and run for sheriff. "If people committing crimes know they're
going to be deported if they come to Sterling, don't you think they would go
somewhere else?"

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 2, 2007 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigration Rallies Focus On Keeping Families Intact

BYLINE: Darryl Fears; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 707 words


Tens of thousands of demonstrators marched in cities across America yesterday,
shouting slogans that called for a path to legal residency for about 12 million
illegal immigrants and an end to federal deportation raids that have increased
during the past year.

A year after a series of similar rallies, yesterday's protests focused on
keeping families intact. That focus appeared aimed at raids that could separate
parents who are in the country illegally from children born here who are
citizens. More than 3 million American-born children have illegal immigrant
parents who are subject to deportation, according to the Urban Institute and the
Pew Hispanic Center.

In Chicago, an estimated 150,000 marchers streamed east through the Loop to
rally in Grant Park with signs that read "Keep Families United." In Los Angeles,
at least 20,000 demonstrators walked to City Hall with signs that read "Don't
Deport Our Parents." In New York, roughly 5,000 people gathered in two Manhattan
parks, where a paper tree was erected to symbolize broken families. And in
Washington, about 450 demonstrators gathered at various places on Capitol Hill,
with signs that read "Stop Dividing Families."

Yesterday's protests were much smaller than last year's May Day rallies. In
2006, nearly 1 million demonstrators clogged city streets, and workers who took
the day off to show solidarity shut down restaurants, meat processing plants and
construction sites.

Since then, the immigration rights movement has faced a backlash. State and
local governments have passed laws to make it more difficult for illegal
immigrants to secure jobs, housing and driver's licenses. Legislation to provide
a path to legalization stalled in Congress, while proposals to increase border
security advanced.

In Washington, about 300 Asian activists were bused into the city for visits
with politicians on Capitol Hill. Eun Sook Lee, executive director of the
National Korean American Service and Education Consortium of Los Angeles, which
arranged the visit, said one in five Koreans living in the United States is an
illegal immigrant.

The trip was an effort to lobby against a recent Bush administration proposal
that would force illegal immigrants to leave the country and pay about $10,000
to be allowed back into the United States, participate in a guest worker program
and to eventually become citizens.

The administration's plan would derail efforts for "workable, just and humane
immigration reform legislation," Lee said.

But concern over immigration raids was the key issue in yesterday's marches.

As he led a small group to another location on Capitol Hill, Jaime Contreras,
president of the D.C., Maryland and Virginia National Capital Immigrant
Coalition, said the Bush administration "has been very effective in putting fear
in the community through all these raids."

At the New York march, a Mexican immigrant who lives in Jersey City sobbed as
her American-born children played at her feet.

"I'm so afraid they'll separate me from my kids," said the woman, who identified
herself only as Maria.

In Chicago, home to an estimated 400,000 illegal immigrants, march organizer and
Irish immigrant Shaun Harkin said, "the focus here and around the country is to
stop the raids and deportations and have an impact."

As the marchers passed, Chicagoans bickered over whether to welcome illegal
immigrants.

"I think they should give them an opportunity to become legals," Amieta Curtis
said.

"You can't let everyone . . . come here," interjected Cris Pellegrino.

In Los Angeles, stepped-up activity by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
was clearly on marchers' minds. "Stop the raids and deportations," signs read.

Local Spanish-language newspapers and radio stations recently carried stories
about children left in the United States when parents are deported.

Asked why he and his wife were marching, Ricardo Ortiz, an illegal immigrant
from Mexico, said he has children ages 18, 8 and 3. "We don't want to have
happen to them what happens to other families, where the kids are here and the
parents there," he said.

Staff writers Peter Slevin and Kari Lydersen in Chicago, Sonya Geis in Los
Angeles, Robin Shulman in New York, and N.C. Aizenman in Washington contributed
to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Michael Williamson -- The Washington Post; Supporters of
immigration reform march outside Democratic National Committee headquarters in
the District.
IMAGE; By Charles Rex Arbogast -- Associated Press; An immigration rights rally
held in Chicago's Grant Park brought thousands of demonstrators to the streets
of the Windy City.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 6, 2007 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Attempts to Curb Illegal Immigration Prove Costly;
Lawsuits Threaten to Break Budgets of Communities That Apply Housing, Employment
Restrictions

BYLINE: Anabelle Garay; Associated Press

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 725 words

DATELINE: FARMERS BRANCH, Tex.


As cities across the United States spend hundreds of thousands of dollars to
defend against lawsuits and other challenges to their ordinances enacted to keep
out illegal immigrants, some groups are warning that their communities are
risking financial disaster.

Dozens of cities and counties have proposed or passed laws that prohibit
landlords from leasing to illegal immigrants, penalize businesses that employ
undocumented workers or train police to enforce federal immigration laws.

Approval of these ordinances has generated criticism, demonstrations and
lawsuits in Valley Park, Mo.; Riverside, N.J.; Escondido, Calif.; Hazleton, Pa.,
and the Dallas suburb of Farmers Branch.

Escondido abandoned an ordinance that would punish landlords who rent to illegal
immigrants after it discovered the legal bills could top $1 million. By the time
the City Council agreed in December to settle a lawsuit challenging the
ordinance, Escondido had spent $200,000, spokeswoman Joyce Masterson said.

In some instances, taxpayer money has been used to hire private attorneys to
fight legal challenges. In others, private donations or insurance have offset
part of the costs.

The city paying perhaps the biggest price for its entry into the immigration
debate is Farmers Branch, which last fall became the first in Texas to ban
landlords from renting apartments to illegal immigrants. Almost immediately,
civil rights groups, residents, property owners and businesses filed four
separate lawsuits challenging the ordinance.

Documents show the city paid the Irving, Tex.-based law firm of Boyle and Lowry
almost $262,000 in fees related to the cases, mostly with taxpayer money,
through March.

Council members last month increased the city's legal budget to $444,000.

"I have heard people say we can't afford it. That's not true," said Tim O'Hare,
the Farmers Branch councilman who led efforts to adopt the ordinance. "I have
heard people say it costs the taxpayer, and it does. But the costs of having
illegal immigrants living in the city are more."

A judge has issued a temporary restraining order preventing the city from
enforcing the ordinance.

Opponents also submitted a petition with enough signatures to force a citywide
vote Saturday  on whether to rescind the ordinance.

The former city leaders  behind the measure say Farmers Branch and its 28,000
residents could end up spending millions of dollars defending the ordinance at
trial.

"It's not because I'm in favor of illegal immigration. That is not the question
here. The question is, what is this ordinance doing? . . . And it's very little.
But the damage is very, very great," former mayor Dave Blair said.

The city received about $31,000 in private donations for its legal defense fund.
But after paying legal fees, only about $5,000 remains.

Hazleton has fared better, receiving $266,000 from thousands of donors around
the country to defend its ordinance banning landlords from renting to illegal
immigrants. No taxpayer money is being spent on legal fees or other
lawsuit-related costs.

Donations included $10,000 from Geno's Steaks owner Joey Vento, whose
Philadelphia eatery has signs reading "This Is AMERICA: WHEN ORDERING 'SPEAK
ENGLISH'."

The lawsuit by opponents of the Hazleton measure says the ordinance violates
residents' constitutional rights, runs afoul of state and federal fair-housing
laws and encroaches on the federal government's authority to oversee
immigration.

Enforcement of the Hazleton ordinance was barred pending the outcome of a trial,
which started in March. A federal judge is expected to rule later this year.

Hazleton Mayor Lou Barletta said the city's attorney fees are expected to be
substantial. And if the city loses, he said it could be ordered to pay as much
as $2 million in legal costs incurred by opponents of the ordinance. Still, he
promised that Hazleton would stand its ground.

"I'm sure the ACLU, part of their goal would be to run the city out of money in
hopes that we would stop fighting, but I will raise whatever I have to,"
Barletta said.

In Farmers Branch, O'Hare is determined to keep his community's ordinance from
meeting a fate similar to Escondido's. His city has the money to fight the
lawsuits, he said, and its insurance policy should cover the costs of two of
them.

"Any thought that they can spend us into giving up or quitting is wrong," O'Hare
said.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 13, 2007 Sunday
                                 Met 1 Edition

Texas Town Approves Ban On Renting to Illegal Migrants

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 215 words

DATELINE: FARMERS BRANCH, Tex., May 12


Voters in this Dallas suburb Saturday overwhelmingly approved a measure banning
landlords from renting to most illegal immigrants, in the first public vote on
any of the more than 90 measures local governments around the country have
proposed to crack down on illegal immigration.

With two-thirds of precincts reporting, the measure had 68 percent support, with
32 percent opposed. It requires apartment managers to verify that renters are
U.S. citizens or legal immigrants before leasing to them, with some exceptions.

"It says especially to Congress that we're tired of the out-of-control illegal
immigration problem. That if Congress doesn't do something about it, cities
will," said Tim O'Hare, a City Council member who was the ordinance's lead
proponent.

Council members approved the ordinance in November, then revised it in January
to include exemptions for minors, seniors and some families with a mix of legal
residents and illegal immigrants.

Farmers Branch has become the site of protests and angry confrontations, and
opponents of the regulation gathered enough signatures to force the city to put
the measure on the municipal election ballot.

With Saturday's approval of the ban, opponents plan to fight it in court, and
will seek a restraining order to stop the city from enforcing it.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 18, 2007 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Highlights

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 178 words

Highlights

 Key components of the compromise immigration plan:

All illegal immigrants who arrived before Jan. 1, 2007, could stay and work
after paying a $1,500 fee, passing a criminal background check, and showing a
strong work record.

They would also have to pay a fine of $5,000.

After eight years, they could apply for a green card.

A new visa category would be created for parents of U.S. citizens, allowing them
to visit for up to 100 days per year.

A temporary-worker program would allow 400,000 immigrant workers to enter on
two-year visas, after which they would have to return home for a year before
reapplying. The visas could be renewed up to three times.

A new point system would add factors for green-card eligibility to lessen the
"chain migration" of family members.

The Border Patrol and interior enforcement would be expanded, and a new security
perimeter would be created. Such border enforcement provisions would have to be
implemented before immigrant-rights measures take effect.

SOURCES: Office of Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), Congressional Quarterly

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 27, 2007 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Cops, Coyotes and the Politics of Stupidity

BYLINE: Luis Alberto Urrea

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1891 words


The most cutting-edge domestic issue facing the United States today is the
crisis of illegal immigration. The outrage of open borders has led to the
current invasion -- something never before seen in U.S. history, something that
could mean the end of our American way of life. You can be compassionate, but
you need to stand firm.

Columnist Owen Arnold sums it up nicely: "Along the 2,300 miles of Mexican
border, aliens of every color and character are constantly looking for cracks."
He puts the vexing issue of border enforcement in clear focus, citing the recent
addition of 300 Border Patrol agents to the corridor that runs between San Diego
and Brownsville, Tex.: "That's only one man to every eight miles, so you can
discount him if you have a nice bomb-throwing uncle you want to bring in via
Mexico."

At last! Somebody is saying what has to be said. Call Lou Dobbs and get this man
on CNN.

Oh, wait. I got confused. Arnold wrote those words in April 1938.

Immigration is a handy political card trick; it has always been possible to
distract the American public, a large conglomeration of displaced aliens, with
the threat of large conglomerations of displaced aliens. In 1868, the first
Border Patrol was mounted to chase the Chinese out of the gold fields and off
the rail lines; it kept Great-Grandpa's mind off Reconstruction and that pesky
Indian problem. In the early 1950s, "Operation Wetback" rounded up all those
Mexican produce-pickers we'd brought in after we put our Asian agricultural
workforce in internment camps, then had to let them out. Hmm. I wonder what we
have going on today that might require inflamed posturing from cynics and
carpetbaggers.

There is as little wisdom from pundits as there is from politicians. Rhetorical
flourishes and racial profiling solve nothing, accomplish nothing except to
cause inflammation. We are plenty inflamed but little informed. How many times
have Americans heard the term "illegal"? How many times has the law being broken
been explained? We all know what a "coyote" is, but have talking heads spelled
out the difference between civil law and criminal law? Yon illegal immigrant --
have I likened thee to a speeding ticket?

Tom Tancredo, the anti-immigration Republican congressman from Colorado, can't
explain immigration law, though he did look into banning Spanish-language books
from Colorado libraries. Mexico hasn't made an effort to educate its public,
either -- it doesn't want to stop them from sending home $20 billion in
remittance money every year. Secure borders? If you want to hear anti-immigrant
rhetoric, go to Mexico's southern -- and impoverished -- border and see how the
people there feel about all the Hondurans and Salvadorans gushing in. Illegal
immigration is not a genetically programmed racial trait. It's about the money.

The United States' last hearty anti-immigrant movement was called the
Know-Nothing Party. That was a century and a half ago. Today, it's the same as
it ever was. More than 300 entrants die every year on the U.S.-Mexico border for
lack of knowledge. Nobody knows how many die in the jungles to the south. On the
frontier, we worship the god Moloch. The sacrifice of peasants brings us great
blessings.

* * *

If you want to know what's happening, you have to get on the ground, listen to
people who have nothing to gain by feeding you misinformation.

South of Tucson lies one of the epicenters of immigration's convulsive temblor.
A town called Arivaca has lately been in the news because the vaunted Homeland
Security "virtual fence" has run into resistance there. You'd think that spy
towers watching for wily Mexicans would be welcomed by the generally
conservative population of the Arizona desert. But desert rats know Big Brother
when they see him, and they have asked why the cameras and sensors are pointing
at them and not at Mexico. This story is developing, and promises to be rich in
ironies if the citizens feel betrayed.

Even farther south lies the Mexican burg of Sasabe, Sonora. Believe me when I
tell you that Sasabe is now a cliche. It was an astonishment until reporters
discovered it. Now, Lisa Ling trudges dutifully through the Sasabe scrub filming
a report for "The Oprah Winfrey Show." But before its 15 minutes of media
rapture, Sasabe was a dangerous funnel for "illegals" coming in from deeper
Mexico and beyond. It is flanked to the west by a vast former cattle ranch said
to be manned by narco cowboys who used to appear in the desert in their white
Jeep Cherokees and hold their AK-47s out the windows to let you know they didn't
like you poking around.

Here, back in the good old days of a couple of years ago, I had the occasion to
hang out with Mexican immigration cops -- the elite, sometimes notorious Beta
Group. Make no mistake, Beta was a brilliant law enforcement idea: inviolable
Mexican cops, safeguarding the border. But Moloch is a jealous god, and the flow
of sacred gold could not be interrupted. In Sasabe, the cops weren't allowed to
carry weapons. They were also decked out by the government in brilliant day-glo
orange vests, so the bad guys could see them from, oh, 20 miles away.

I know that the idea of Mexican cops can send shivers down Americans' spines,
but you need to know that these officers were warm, generous and professional.
They agreed, for example, to take us to the open field where the immigrant vans
dislodge their occupants, but only if I promised to run as fast as I could if
the machine-gun boys started to drive in our direction. The cops liked me
because I was born in Tijuana. They thought I could escape with my life while
the narcos were busy shooting at my reporter friends.

As of 10:30 in the morning, the vans hadn't shown up yet. I asked my Beta
companion where they were. "Oh, smugglers sleep late," he said. "They don't get
to work till after 11." And, sure enough, after 11 o'clock, the vans began to
appear.

Each one disgorged 27 to 30 people. This, in a desert devoid of anything but
some adobe ruins and a tin shack where two abandoned immigrant girls who worked
for the local water mafia were selling old plastic milk jugs full of hose water
for 10 times the going rate. I asked my friend how many people came through this
spot. "Well, I don't know what happens after six at night," he said. "But last
Friday, between 11 and 5:30, we counted 137 van loads." Smugglers sleep late,
but they work hard. They put in seven-day weeks, 137 van loads every day of the
year.

We retreated to the police station, a cinderblock cube with overflowing garbage
cans. The commander sat at his desk, looking as dapper as Andy Garcia. His men
watched him watch me, and when he laughed, they laughed. When he glowered, they
looked at the floor.

I told him I had never seen anything like the parade of vans in the desert.

"Nobody has," he said.

It's bigger than we realize, I said.

He replied: "Undocumented immigration is the second-largest source of income to
the Mexican government. First, petroleum. Second, immigrants' remittance money.
Third, tourism."

What about the narcos?

He paused. Then he smiled. When he laughed, his men laughed, too.

"Okay," he said, "illegal immigration is the third-largest source of income to
Mexico."

How do we solve this problem?

"There is no solution," he said. "Because there is no problem. Illegal
immigration is not a problem. It is something else. It is a phenomenon. When
faced with something like this . . . Biblical . . . exodus, all we can do is
observe. You don't solve a phenomenon, you surrender to it in awe."

* * *

Juanito might have passed through Sasabe. The officers there are rotated around
the border -- he certainly might have met my friends from the besieged desert
station on his way back to Mexico. You see, Juanito thought he was a U.S.
citizen until he got arrested for some bad barrio behavior in California and
found out he was a Mexican. His parents had never told him he wasn't born in the
United States. Not only did he go to prison, but when he got out, he was
deported.

Like all good Americans, he wasn't going to let Big Brother keep him from his
San Diego Padres or good jobs or his girlfriend. No, he scraped together all his
money, worked like a dog in Mexico and borrowed money from relatives. Being a
California kid, he wasn't going to go to any Sasabe desert and risk dying in the
brutal Arizona sunlight. He found a friendly coyote in Tijuana and paid him
$2,500 for a ride north.

If you believe you're an American, it's not hard to banter with the border guard
-- after all, you can talk the talk, quote the hip-hop, complain about the
governor and name your street and city. And he got through. And he got his ride
north. Way north. All the way to the Canadian border.

He looked around for a job until he found the perfect employer. True, he is
undocumented, but his bosses needed to save money, just like anybody else. He
works as a gardener at a U.S. Border Patrol station.

* * *

Now consider the strange case of a certain young man enraptured by America's
greatest export to Mexico after remittance money: La Jip-Jop, a.k.a. rap. He
wanted to become a rapero, and he learned his "rolas" and freestyle technique in
Mexico City. But if you're going to be a great rapper, there's really only one
place to do so -- the United States. However, "the long lines of legal
immigrants waiting for visas" we hear about in the media held no hope for him
or anyone like him. That Lou Dobbsian long line of legality is strictly for
people with college educations, careers and bank accounts -- not raperos, burger
cooks, chicken pluckers or tomato pickers. This young man  jumped one of the
largely imaginary border fences and made his way through the undocumented
underground to Los Angeles. There, he discovered that to be an American hip-hop
star, you need to speak English. He enrolled in language school, where he had
the amazing good fortune to meet a fellow rapero visionary from El Salvador.

The men studied hard, as their dreams were on the line. And they formed a band
that is becoming known on the West Coast. If you knew its name, you could watch
their videos on YouTube right now. They're touring, and they're headlining
shows. It's the American rock 'n' roll dream for a new millennium. There is one
minor catch, though:  This young rapero has suddenly realized that if he becomes
more famous, he will be found out and deported. It is a moralist's conundrum: If
your dream comes true, it holds the seeds of your downfall. What will he do?

* * *

Ask. Seek. You will find that the number of crossers in the Arizona sectors is
dropping -- but it isn't hot news to hear that fewer are coming. Why are there
fewer crossers? The joke on the ground is that there's nobody left in Mexico.
You can look at peripheral stories and form a true picture for yourself -- last
fall the Pacific Northwest's strawberry crop rotted because the workers did not
appear. Something is happening, America. The paradigm, as paradigms tend to do,
continues to shift. Being know-nothings works to the advantage of those few who
do know and want us to do their bidding. Perhaps this is what the Mexican consul
in Tucson meant when he said to me, "The entire border is ruled by one thing:
north and south. And that is the politics of stupidity."

Amen.

luis@luisurrea.com

Luis Alberto Urrea, a novelist and poet,

is the author of "The Devil's Highway."

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Sarah L. Voisin -- The Washington Post; And yet so far:
Iliana Castro of El Salvador hangs her head in a south Texas Border Patrol
station after being caught trying to enter the United States.
IMAGE; By Guillermo Arias -- Associated Press; Coming to America: Mexicans bound
for the United States duck under a barbed-wire fence in Sasabe, Mexico.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 27, 2007 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

American Children, Deported Parents;
Offspring Confront Painful Decision: U.S. Life or Family

BYLINE: Julie Watson; Associated Press

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 799 words

DATELINE: CANCITA, Mexico


Since they joined their deported parents in Mexico, 7-year-old Adriana has
stopped screaming "Papa!" in her sleep and 10-year-old Yadira's asthma has
eased. Pedro, 15, doesn't break into tears anymore, and Adrian, 12, thinks of
his new life as an adventure.

For now, these American children are trying to ignore the wrenching decision
they have to make by the end of summer: stay with their parents in this bone-dry
village where they bathe in a canal and use an outhouse, or return alone to some
of the best U.S. schools in Palo Alto, Calif.

Tens of thousands of families are facing similar choices, and even more soon
could if Congress goes ahead with an overhaul of U.S. immigration laws.

About 3 million U.S.-born children have a parent who is living illegally in
America, according to the Pew Hispanic Center, and since 2004 the government has
been deporting illegal immigrants at a record rate.

The Senate began debate this week on a sweeping bill that would provide a
pathway to citizenship for 12 million illegal immigrants in the  United States.
The bill would limit the importance of family ties, capping visas for parents of
American citizens at 40,000 a year and changing a preference system that for
four decades has favored such ties.

Pedro Ramirez Sr., 38, was banking on that system to give him and his wife a
path to citizenship once their eldest son turns 18 in two years. Now he's not so
sure: The new proposal would place more emphasis on potential immigrants' skills
and education, and his deportation may rule him out anyway.

Ramirez never went to school. He sneaked across the border as a 16-year-old,
learning English as he worked his way up from a minimum-wage factory job to
night supervisor at a supermarket.

His promotion -- and the jump in salary from $6 to $16 an hour -- allowed him to
move his family from the rough streets of East Palo Alto to quiet, suburban Palo
Alto, home to Stanford University.

He and his wife also applied for residency but were denied after their lawyer
was disbarred. Immigration officials say they evaded notices to appear in court.

Back in Mexico, the family has spent their savings of nearly $10,000
unsuccessfully fighting for residency. Friends, parents and teachers from Pedro
Jr.'s Henry M. Gunn High School -- No. 79 in the country last year, according to
a Newsweek ranking -- have raised $2,000 for the family.

Before his father was deported in February, Pedro's biggest problems were how to
get into UCLA Law School and persuading his football coach to let him be
quarterback. Now, he says he might have to get used to the family's two-room
shack and bathing in a canal to keep the family together.

"If I go, I want to go with everybody," he said.

His mother, Isabel, said she'll let her children decide what they want to do. If
they return to California, the girls would live with their fifth-grade teacher
in Palo Alto and the boys with an aunt in nearby Newark.

She said the past few months have been traumatic enough.

After Ramirez was deported, Pedro Jr. broke into tears in his math class and
couldn't concentrate. He was appalled by his mother's monitoring ankle bracelet,
saying, "You're not a criminal!"

"I feel betrayed" by the U.S. government, Pedro Jr. said.

Isabel, 36, tries to make life in Mexico as normal as possible for the children.
She bought a cushioned toilet seat for the outhouse, but it slides off the
wooden bench. She incessantly sweeps the dirt floor of the shack where she
cooks, and she splashes bleach on the ground to keep away the flies.

But it's a losing battle. Cancita has no running water and no telephone service.
It's also in the middle of one of Mexico's most violent regions -- the western
state of Michoacan.

This month, a half-dozen military helicopters swooped into Cancita after gunmen
in a nearby town killed five soldiers in a midday shootout. The troops frisked
Pedro Jr. and his father during a house-to-house search for drugs and weapons.

"I was a little nervous," Pedro Jr.  acknowledged.

But his main fear is for what will happen to his parents. If they stay in
Cancita, there is no work. If they try to return to the  United States, they'll
have to go illegally through the dangerous desert.

If the children stay in Cancita, they'll have to learn to read and write in
Spanish. Adrian, a seventh-grader, is struggling with "Los Tres Cerditos" --
"The Three Little Pigs."

Pedro Jr. spends his days burning rap songs on his dust-covered computer and
transferring them to his MP3 player, which the neighbors think is a cellphone.

Yadira said that when she explained that the device could play songs from the
Internet, they asked, "What's the Internet?"

"I don't want to go to school here. It's no good. There's nowhere to play," she
said. But she added, "I don't want to go back and leave my parents."

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Dario Lopez-mills -- Associated Press; Pedro Ramirez and wife
Isabel sit surrounded by their children, clockwise from left, Adrian, 12,
Yadira, 10, Pedro, 15, and Adriana, 7, at their new home in Cancita, Mexico -- a
far different life from the one they left behind in Palo Alto, Calif. "I feel
betrayed" by the U.S. government, Pedro Jr. said.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 28, 2007 Monday
                                Regional Edition

The Low Risk From Immigrants;
Off-Target Priorities For Homeland Defense

BYLINE: Sebastian Mallaby

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 792 words


Of the many infuriating assertions in the immigration debate, perhaps this one
takes top prize: that we have to keep illegal immigrants out for the sake of our
security. This notion is wrong, not just because undocumented workers are
statistically less likely than native-born Americans to commit crimes or because
they are serenely indifferent to al-Qaeda's teachings. It is wrong because it
misses the most basic rule of smart homeland security.

Smart homeland security starts with the reality that you can't protect
everything. The federal government alone spends more than $58 billion on
homeland security per year -- a sum greater than the entire defense budget of
Britain and about three times the estimated level of the pre-2001 homeland
security budget. This spending has bought important gains: There are air
marshals on planes, cockpits have been reinforced and so on. But the United
States contains half a million bridges, 500 skyscrapers and 2,800 power plants,
not to mention thousands of schools, shopping malls and subway stations. Even if
you doubled spending and then doubled it again, there would be too many targets
to protect. Total security is unattainable.

So the name of the game is prioritization. There are two schools of thought as
to how this should be done, and neither of them involves clamping down on
immigrants.  The first school  says: Figure out what sort of attack would cause
the most damage -- for example, an attack on an urban chemical plant that would
unleash deadly gases. The second school  says: Figure out which attacks are most
likely -- al-Qaeda has demonstrated a fascination with aircraft, so spending
$9.16 per passenger on aviation security but only 6 cents for each mass-transit
rider (as the federal government was found to do in 2004) may not actually be
crazy.

Of course, both schools of thought are sometimes trumped by unschooled
thoughtlessness. Last year the Department of Homeland Security was found  to
have a database of priority infrastructure that included Old MacDonald's Petting
Zoo in Alabama, a bean festival in Georgia and the world's largest tinfoil ball
in Ohio. The department's system for distributing grants has sometimes looked
like a sick joke: In 2006 it cut support to obvious target cities such as
Washington and New York in favor of Omaha and Louisville. But the good news is
that these practices are widely understood to be absurd. A bill co-sponsored by
Sens. Hillary Clinton  and Barack Obama would allocate homeland security grants
more rationally among states. Even Michael Chertoff, the homeland security
secretary, has confessed that the grant-allocation system needs fixing.

Which raises a few questions about the immigration bill in Congress. If Clinton
and Obama are upset with the misallocation of homeland security funds, why
aren't they yelling about the proposed crackdown on immigrants?  As a Post
editorial recently pointed out, the immigration bill would require that the
Department of Homeland Security hire, train and deploy 5,000 to 6,000 new border
agents; recruit and support several thousand civilian employees required to
fingerprint and register immigrants; build 370 miles of border fence; and create
a whiz-bang database that would allow businesses to check whether a prospective
employee has entered the country illegally. In a world of limited homeland
security dollars, how is any of this a priority?

Immigrants come to the United States because they like it here, but it's not as
though we don't have real enemies. If Congress wants to build fences, perhaps it
should consider fencing off suspension-bridge cables that could be cut by
terrorists. If Congress is in a hiring mood, perhaps it should pay for extra
coast guards to enhance port security. Former Coast Guard officer Stephen Flynn
has described how a ship more than three football fields long arrives each week
in the Boston harbor; it is full of natural gas, and by puncturing its side with
a powerboat-bomb, terrorists could cause an inferno that would melt the city's
waterfront. This is not especially far-fetched. Al-Qaeda used a small boat to
attack the USS Cole in Yemen seven years ago.

One of the distressing features of our times is the absence of any moral link
between the troops who risk their lives abroad and our domestic priorities. In
most past conflicts, Americans on the home front have made at least a token
sacrifice: They have accepted higher taxes, cultivated "victory gardens," faced
the possibility that a family member might be drafted. This time around, there
is no war tax, no draft and no sense that ordinary peacetime indulgences ought
to be questioned. Even when those indulgences divert the government's attention
from people who would kill us.

smallaby@cfr.org

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 4, 2007 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Americans' Views on Illegal Immigrants Are Complex and Conflicted, Poll Shows;
Some Back Degree Of Legalization but Not Full Citizenship

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman and Pamela Constable; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 982 words


Jason Woodward, 31, a financial analyst in Clarksville, Tenn., says that putting
illegal immigrants on a path to citizenship would be issuing a "free pass for
lawbreakers" but that an attempt to deport 12 million of them would be "wasting
millions of taxpayer dollars."

Janet McIntee, 76, a retiree in Geauga, Ohio, supports a Senate plan that would
lead to citizenship, but she has no sympathy for illegal immigrants.

"We have got to get ahold of who these people are and do something to make them
legal," McIntee said.

Joshua Grimes, 28, an accountant in Saginaw, Mich., thinks illegal immigrants
should pay a penalty for violating the law but be allowed to remain.

"There needs to be some kind of system put in place so they can become legal,"
Grimes said.

A new Washington Post-ABC poll  and follow-up interviews found that Americans
remain divided and uncertain about how best to deal with the estimated 12
million people living illegally in the United States.

The immigration debate in the past year has inspired heated rhetoric on talk
radio and drawn hundreds of thousands of protesters into the streets, but
follow-up interviews with participants in the poll revealed that many Americans'
views are far more nuanced and complex.

More than half of those surveyed said  illegal immigrants hurt the country more
than  help it, an opinion voiced by seven in 10 Republicans and about half of
Democrats.

A slim majority believe in creating a pathway to citizenship, with younger
people and Democrats far more open to the idea than Republicans and those over
55.

The number in favor of a guest worker program is almost identical -- 53 percent
-- but on this issue, almost as many Republicans as Democrats back the concept.
Those in the Western part of the nation are most supportive of it (65 percent),
as are those in urban areas.

But the partisan divide resurfaced when people were asked what factors should be
weighed the most in admitting immigrants. Democrats tended to say that reuniting
immigrant families should be given priority, while Republicans were more likely
to say that the skills of the immigrant should be paramount. The survey also
found that those who oppose a Senate legalization proposal give a much higher
priority to the issue of immigration than those who favor it in some form.

Not surprisingly, the war in Iraq and the economy were ranked by many as the
most immediate and pressing issues.

A case in point is Marie McCay, 64, a retired checkout clerk living in
Hartselle, Ala., who speaks admiringly of the Mexican construction workers
employed by one of her sons. McCay said she would have "absolutely no problem"
if Congress were to allow illegal immigrants in her area to adjust their status.
But she thinks it far more urgent that  it address her high gas and grocery
bills.

"Just yesterday I had to pay $6 for 10 oranges. And I'm spending more than $100
a month on gas just to get to the doctor in Nashville," she said. "All I have to
live on is my pension and my Social Security, and this is really cutting into
it."

By contrast, Virginia Steffes, 71, a retired school-bus driver living in New
Era, Mich., who is adamantly against the path-to-citizenship proposal, said she
feels that illegal immigration is among the most pressing problems facing the
country.

"If we don't address it soon, we're going to have so many illegals here that we
won't be able to do anything to handle them," she said. "We'll have a total
overflow situation."

Yet, in another twist, Steffes and many others against the citizenship plan said
they would nonetheless favor alternatives that offer illegal immigrants some
measure of forgiveness.

For instance, David Fleischer, an information technology consultant living in
Columbus, Ohio, proposes that illegal immigrants be given the chance to register
for strictly temporary work permits.

"Look, there are no easy answers," he said. "But the key is to get them in the
system."

Supporters of the path to citizenship were often just as ambivalent: 40 percent
said illegal immigrants should have to return to their home countries to apply
for legalization.

Immigrants and their advocates have said this would be  expensive and
unworkable. But it is nonnegotiable as far as Julian Maden of Detroit is
concerned.

"It just seems like if they didn't come in the right way at first, they should
have to go back to their countries and do it the right way," said Maden, 19.

In the interviews, respondents to the survey also seemed conflicted over whether
Congress should substantially increase the number of guest workers permitted in
the United States.

The plan was supported by slightly more that half, but approval increased to 64
percent when a suggestion was offered: that the program be limited to industries
where a shortage of workers has been identified by the government. In the
interviews, some expressed doubts as to whether government and industry can be
trusted to make that determination.

Janet Buffman, 64, a former shoe-store owner in Grand Rapids, Mich., said she
believes that many employers are simply unwilling to pay wages American workers
consider reasonable.

"I have friends who used to put up drywall who were pushed out" by Mexicans, she
said. "They were making $16 to $18 an hour plus some medical insurance. Now it's
gone down to $9 to $10 an hour. And, well, you can't support a family on that."

Opal Crazell, 58, a retiree in Konowa, Okla., who said she adores her Pakistani
doctor, blamed Americans rather than immigrants or employers. "Sure, the
immigrants are taking jobs that Americans can do. But maybe it's because they
want to work more. We have a lot of Americans that just don't want to work."

Yet she ultimately came down against the guest worker proposal.

"At the end of the day, I think we already have enough immigrants," she said.

Polling director Jon Cohen and polling analyst Jennifer Agiesta contributed to
this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 10, 2007 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

The Myth of Amnesty;
The Senate Immigration Bill vs. a Disastrous Status Quo

BYLINE: Janet Napolitano

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. B07

LENGTH: 729 words


On the subject of immigration, my plea to Congress is loud and clear: You can't
quit now. Last week the Senate was on the verge of addressing our broken
immigration system. No, the compromise bill wasn't perfect. But our current
system is a disaster. I implore lawmakers to go back to the table, iron out
their differences and give us an immigration system that is enforceable, and the
resources to enforce it.

Opponents of the Senate immigration bill -- those who really want to do nothing
-- merely yelled "amnesty" in place of reasoned opposition. They were -- and are
-- just plain wrong. Don't let them derail your efforts.

No one favors illegal immigration. But there are upwards of 12 million people
illegally in this country -- people who work, who have settled their families
and who have raised their children here. For 20 years our country has done
basically nothing to enforce the 1986 legislation against either the employers
who hired illegal immigrants or those who crossed our borders illegally to work
for them. Accordingly, our current system is, effectively, silent amnesty.

If we have no comprehensive immigration reform this year, and if we do not deal
rigorously and openly with those already here, silent amnesty will continue. As
a border-state governor who has dealt with immigration issues more than any
other governor I know of, I am certain that continued inaction by Congress --
silent amnesty -- is the worst of all worlds.

Consider what happens when we have an immigration system that is based on silent
amnesty and that is unenforced and unenforceable. To look "tough," what little
enforcement we have ends up being arbitrary and unfair. For example:

A man in the United States illegally was pulled over in Phoenix and charged with
driving under the influence. Immigration officers arrested him, his wife and
their 19-year-old son, who were also here illegally. An aunt says that their
12-year-old daughter -- who is an American citizen -- cries every day for the
family members who had to leave her behind. This is a fair immigration system?

The Immigration Customs and Enforcement agency has sent several top-ranking
students from Arizona State University to a camp in Eloy, Ariz., to await
deportation to countries they have never lived in. The students have earned top
marks, have never been in serious legal trouble and by all measures are primed
to become productive members of our economy. This is a wise immigration policy?

A team from an Arizona high school that has a high percentage of immigrant
students went to Upstate New York in 2002 to compete in a science fair. After
winning the top prize, the students crossed into Canada to see Niagara Falls --
and were stopped at the border when they tried to return. After nine hours of
interrogation they were allowed back into the United States, but a years-long
legal battle ensued over whether they should be deported. We spent precious law
enforcement resources on these high school students rather than on combating
putative terrorist threats or, indeed, on infectious tuberculosis carriers. This
is good homeland security?

Don't label me soft on illegal immigration. As a U.S. attorney (predating the
Gonzales Justice Department), I supervised the prosecution of more than 6,000
immigration felonies. I govern a state where, in 2005, there were 550,000
apprehensions of illegal immigrants. I declared a state of emergency at our
border that year, and I was the first governor in the nation to call for
assistance from the National Guard. I have also established task forces on
vehicle theft and the manufacture of fraudulent identification to complement
federal law enforcement efforts.

State measures, however, will never substitute for federal legislation that
addresses all aspects of immigration, from border security to employer sanctions
to pathways to citizenship. It is fundamentally unfair and unrealistic to
suggest that our system remain as it is and ignore the 12 million who ran the
gantlet at the border and managed to find work in our country. It is not
"amnesty" to require these individuals to earn the privilege of citizenship, as
have the millions of immigrants who came before them. While illegal immigration
is a crime, "amnesty" is a bumper sticker -- not a solution.

We need comprehensive reform, and we need it this year.

The writer, a Democrat, is governor of Arizona.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Matt York -- Associated Press; A stretch of the border
separating Mexico, on the left, and Arizona.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            June 13, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Database Is Tool in Deporting Fugitives;
Police Officers Find Illegal Immigrants In Warrant Searches

BYLINE: Ernesto Londo?o; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1494 words


Hugo Vinicio Hernandez knew that immigration agents could detain him at any time
for having disregarded a deportation order in 2001. But the Guatemalan man
didn't think he would wind up in the custody of immigration agents as a result
of a routine traffic stop.

He was deported after being pulled over by a Takoma Park police officer in
January.

It's a fate that a growing number of illegal immigrants are facing as federal
officials add hundreds of thousands of names of people with outstanding
deportation orders into the FBI-run National Crime Information Center database,
which police officers use to search for warrants.

In Montgomery County, about 60 people have been taken into custody by police
officers on immigration warrants since last year. Officers elsewhere in the
region, including jurisdictions with large immigrant populations such as the
District and Fairfax and Prince William counties, said that they also enforce
civil immigration warrants.

Although the numbers are relatively low, they are expected to increase
regionally and nationally as more records are uploaded, which concerns immigrant
advocates and some local police officials.

"It's very important for the local police department to develop strong
relationships with the community," said Montgomery police Chief J. Thomas
Manger, who has made reaching out to recent immigrants a priority. "That trust
is being jeopardized."

Supporters of the effort say that enlisting the help of police officers to
identify and remove the roughly 600,000 immigrants who are thought to have
outstanding deportation orders is long overdue.

But two police associations have lobbied against the inclusion, saying that by
acting on the warrants, departments risk alienating recent immigrants, a segment
of the community that has historically had an uneasy relationship with law
enforcement agencies. That, they say, is likely to hinder cooperation from
witnesses and victims of violent crimes who are in the country unlawfully.

Separately, immigrant advocacy organizations are suing the government, saying
that it had no legal standing to add administrative records to what has
traditionally been a database for criminal warrants. Disregarding a deportation
order is a violation of administrative, not criminal, law.

Because many outstanding deportation orders date back several years and in some
cases don't reflect the person's current immigration status, some law
enforcement officials and immigrant advocates say they fear that people could
get picked up because of sloppy record keeping. The problem is compounded
because some immigrants are ordered deported in hearings that can be held in
their absence. U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement says it screens records
carefully before adding them to the database.

Since the government began adding immigration warrants to the database in 2002,
authorities have identified more than 25,000 fugitives, according to the
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency.

The database "is an effective force multiplier that leverages the resources of
law enforcement officers throughout the United States who, in the course of
their daily duties, encounter criminal and fugitive aliens wanted by" the
agency, said Michael Keegan, an Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokesman.

Manger and other area police chiefs have concluded that they are duty-bound to
enforce all National Crime Information Center warrants, even at the expense of
being perceived as an extension of the immigration bureaucracy.

Despite the relatively small number of arrests in Montgomery, immigrant
advocates have told Manger that the unexpected deportations have torn families
apart and sown fear among immigrants.

Hernandez entered the United States illegally in September 2000 through the
Mexican border. He joined relatives in Hyattsville, found work as a welder and
began dating a Guatemalan woman. Their two sons, a 5-year-old and a
10-month-old, were born in Maryland.

He was driving to work about 5:30 a.m. Jan. 30 when an officer pulled him over
on New Hampshire Avenue after Hernandez changed lanes abruptly. Officer Michael
Collins ran his name through the FBI database -- which is routine for traffic
stops -- and found the immigration warrant. Hernandez was handcuffed and taken
to a police station. When Brenda Cruz, his common-law wife, arrived at the
station, she wasn't allowed to see him, she said.

Fuming, she says, she told Collins: "I hope this never happens to you. Today, my
kids lost their father."

As the officer drove Hernandez from the police station to the county jail in
Rockville, where he was to be picked up by immigration officers, Collins told
Hernandez he took no pleasure in taking him into custody, Hernandez said
recently from Guatemala.

" 'If you had told me from the start about your kids, I would have let you go,'
" Hernandez said the officer told him. A Takoma Park police spokesman said
Collins recalls the conversation differently.

"He did indicate that he regretted this, but he had to do his job," said Takoma
Park police spokesman Cpl. Andrew John.

The database, by design, is a repository of criminal records. A few noncriminal
records have been introduced, including missing-persons files and protective
orders for victims of domestic violence. Congress authorized the inclusion of
deported felons' records in 1996 to help authorities identify those who reenter
the country illegally. Lawmakers have tried unsuccessfully in recent years to
authorize the inclusion of civil immigration warrants in the database.

Shortly after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, the Department of Justice issued an
opinion concluding that local law enforcement agencies have broad authority to
enforce immigration laws, a departure from Justice opinions drafted in 1996 and
1989 that laid out a narrower role for police officers in enforcing immigration
laws. The new opinion coincided with the inclusion of absconders' files in the
database.

A U.S. District Court judge in New York ordered the government to remove civil
immigration records from the database in June 2004 after ruling in favor of a
man who sued the government after the D.C. police department withdrew a job
offer when it found an immigration record through the database.

After the government agreed to expunge the man's record, the judge backed down
from ordering it to purge all other immigration records from the database.

A federal judge has dismissed another suit filed by the National Council of La
Raza and other civil rights and immigrant rights organizations seeking to have
the civil files purged, but that case is under appeal.

The database contains about 247,500 Immigration and Customs Enforcement
warrants, according to the agency. More than half are administrative warrants
for people who have old deportation orders, and the rest are records of deported
felons.

The International Association of Chiefs of Police and the Major Cities Chiefs
Association have opposed the inclusion of noncriminal immigration warrants in
the database. A handful of jurisdictions have devised policies regarding the
immigration warrants.

In Houston, for example, officials reached an arrangement with the local U.S.
attorney and immigration offices in which the police department agrees to arrest
people on administrative immigration warrants only if federal authorities intend
to file criminal charges against them.

At least two other jurisdictions, Chapel Hill, N.C., and New Haven, Conn., have
decided not to enforce the immigration warrants, saying that acting on them
would burden them with what is essentially a failed federal government policy
and would potentially alienate victims and witnesses of crimes.

Brenda Cruz was a victim of a home invasion in 2002. She called the police in
that case, which remains unsolved. Last month, after discovering that someone
had broken into her van, she decided against reporting it.

"I haven't called them, because who knows how many questions they're going to
ask," she said recently, sitting in living room of her mother's Hyattsville
apartment, where she now lives.

In letters Hernandez wrote to Cruz from a jail in Salisbury, Md., before he was
deported, he urged her to file their federal income taxes on time and asked her
not to tell the children that he was getting deported. But the 5-year-old found
out, Cruz said.

"He used to be a playful boy," Cruz said. "Now he doesn't want to leave the
house. He's terrified of the police."

Cruz also came to the country illegally and is gathering documents to apply for
a visa for victims of crime.

Weeks after Hernandez was taken into custody, his sister went to District Court
in Rockville with his traffic citation in hand. She paid the $90 fee to relieve
her brother of outstanding fines.

The officer hasn't submitted the citation to the court, according to court
records, probably under the assumption that it would go unpaid.

The cashier's office accepted the payment anyway.

Staff writer Spencer S. Hsu contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photos By Sarah L. Voisin -- The Washington Post; Brenda Cruz
with sons Lester and Hugo Hernandez at their Hyattsville home. The boys' father,
Hugo Vinicio Hernandez, was deported to Guatemala.
IMAGE; Hugo hugs his mother. She told the officer who arrested her common-law
husband: "I hope this never happens to you. Today, my kids lost their father."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            June 13, 2007 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Illegal Immigrants Received Poor Care In Jail, Lawyers Say;
Treatable Illnesses Grew Grave, They Claim

BYLINE: Darryl Fears; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 1383 words


At his home in East Los Angeles, Francisco Castaneda of El Salvador faces a grim
truth: His cancer is spreading, from his groin to his lymph nodes and toward his
stomach, a progression that could soon end his life.

As he undergoes painful chemotherapy, Castaneda's lawyers are saying that the
spread of the disease could have been prevented if government doctors had
aggressively treated a small lesion that grew while he was held for 10 months in
a San Diego prison as an illegal immigrant facing deportation. In a recently
filed federal tort claim, Castaneda's lawyers charge that the "neglect allowed
the development of metastasis penile cancer that will likely cause Mr.
Castaneda's death in two years."

Castaneda's case is one of several that lawyers are investigating on behalf of
illegal immigrants who they say were taken into custody by U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement with manageable illnesses and released with infections that
threatened life and limb.

The extent of poor medical treatment for illegal immigrant detainees is an open
question. Tom Jawetz, a lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union's
National Prison Project, noted that detainees often speak little or no English,
are unaware of their rights, have no access to appointed counsel and disappear
after being deported. Still, lawyers say that scores of detainees  have not
received proper care, leading to disfigurement and even death.

"It's all too common in the treatment of federal detainees," said Adele Kimmel,
a lawyer for Public Justice and a co-counsel in Castaneda's case. "They get
treatment that you might see in a Third World country, and it's really a stain
on our system of justice to treat detainees this way."

ICE officials denied claims of medical mistreatment, noting that detainees
undergo physical examinations within 12 hours of entering detention. "I deny the
assertion that we don't properly treat detainees," said Tim Shack, medical
director for the Division of  Immigration Health Services, which provides
health-care services for ICE. "We deliver excellent medical care to detainees."

A December report by the Office of the Inspector General for the Department of
Homeland Security said that the system is generally well run. But the report
also noted that four of five facilities in its study had "instances of
non-compliance" regarding health care, "including timely initial and responsive
medical care."

Basic care is provided by  medical staff members where detainees are housed.
Shack said that tens of thousands of requests for treatment beyond basic care
are submitted each year and that about 90 percent are approved. ICE allocates
$70 million each year to  the Division of Immigration Health Services for
medical treatment,  he said.

In addition to documenting injuries and illnesses, the ACLU is trying to
determine whether medical negligence has contributed to 20 deaths since 2004.

Among those who died while in ICE custody were a man from Sierra Leone who
collapsed at a Virginia jail after  saying he did not get  medicine for a
kidney ailment, a woman from Barbados who died in   another Virginia jail after
telling her sister that she received no medicine for a uterine fibroid that
caused  hemorrhaging, and a South Korean woman who died  after cellmates
appealed to authorities for help over a period of weeks, lawyers said.

Tim Perry, assistant director of the Division of Detention Management for ICE,
denied that the deaths were the result of negligence and said  autopsy results
will prove that.

Castaneda was taken into ICE custody in March of last year. He was scheduled to
be deported  for violating parole after serving time for a robbery conviction.
Records show that he suffered from genital warts.

The physician who examined him requested that he see a urologist so that he
could undergo a biopsy to  test for cancer. Two months went by before the
request was approved.

The urologist, John R. Wilkinson, said that Castaneda's  wart "may represent
either a penile cancer or a progressive viral based lesion" and said that it
required "urgent diagnosis and treatment."

But  Immigration Health Services officials denied an offer from the urologist to
admit Castaneda for a biopsy as "not cost effective," according to the tort
claim, a procedural step that probably will  lead to a lawsuit. After the lesion
started to bleed, fester and grow between June and August,  the officials
continued to deny doctors' requests for a circumcision and a biopsy, saying the
procedures were "elective," not an emergency.

But the problem worsened. "I was surprised, because I was bleeding and it was
hurting a lot,"  Castaneda said. "The only thing they gave me was Motrin. I
couldn't sleep at night because it was hurting a lot. I was afraid for my life
at that time."

After a fourth specialist ordered a biopsy  in January for what he said was
"most likely penile cancer," doctors scheduled the procedure. But Castaneda was
released from  the custody of ICE a few days before the examination, "presumably
so it would not have to pay for the procedure," according to the claim.

Castaneda later went to the emergency room at  Harbor-UCLA Medical Center in
Torrance, Calif., where a biopsy determined he had cancer. His penis was
amputated on  Feb. 14, but the cancer had spread.

"I'm stressed out . . .  thinking it could have been prevented," he said.

Shack said  Immigration Health Services officials did not immediately schedule a
biopsy because the urologists had a difference of medical opinion. "I don't see
this as improper care. I think this is good care," he said. "It's just
unfortunate that this had a bad outcome."

In a similar case involving a Liberian detainee in 2005, officials in  York
County, Pa.,  questioned the federal government's commitment to treating one of
its detainees, Benedictus Yarzue, who was in deportation proceedings for various
crimes, including manslaughter and illegal entry into the United States.

Yarzue filed a complaint at the York County Prison in March of that year: "I
have a prostate problem which I am in pain. I went to see a doctor and she said
I need to see a urologist."  Immigration Health Services denied the request,
frustrating the prison's medical staff, which referred the case to the county
solicitor.

"Yarzue was very, very frustrating," said York County Solicitor Don Reihart.
"INS was not providing the care we deemed was required. If they turned us down,
we were put in a position to give the care and pay for it or move him somewhere
else."

Shack recalled the case in a recent interview, saying the request was denied
because the prison staff did not follow procedures such as educating Yarzue
about  correct care to avoid problems, giving him medicine and examining him to
determine whether urine was properly expelled after his frequent trips to the
bathroom.

York County officials feared that Yarzue had cancer. Shortly after the county
sued, he  was transferred to another jail. He was deported to Liberia in August,
and his whereabouts are unknown.

In another case that lawyers are investigating, they claim that an illegal
immigrant detainee, Martin Banderas of Mexico, might lose a leg because
Immigration Health Services officials would not approve a culture to determine
whether  he had developed gangrene from a cut he suffered in a shower.

After the cut opened in December, doctors removed dead skin from Banderas's leg
and treated him with antibiotics. During the treatment, it was discovered  that
Banderas, 40, was diabetic. The  wound grew worse.

"It started to make bubbles around the ankle," Banderas said in an interview.
"It was an orange color, and the pain was real bad. They gave medicine for the
pain. I couldn't walk."

Shack responded to the charges with disbelief. "I have 173 pages of records
showing that he was properly monitored," he  said. Banderas was placed in an
infirmary at the prison in San Diego, run by Corrections Corp. of America, where
doctors and nurses work around the clock, he said.

"He was not among the general population. He was receiving 24-hour care," Shack
said.

But the issue, said Conal Doyle, the lawyer for Castaneda and Banderas, was
whether  the leg  had developed gangrene and whether a culture was needed to
detect it.

"These are some of the  worst cases I have seen," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 14, 2007 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Angry About Illegal Immigration and Marching 'for America'

BYLINE: David Montgomery; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 598 words


They showed their passion and anger with thousands of faxes and calls to Capitol
Hill to stop an immigration reform bill last week. Now, grass-roots advocates of
tougher curbs on illegal immigration hope to show their might in person for
three days of rallies at the Washington Monument.

Organized by a former PTA mom from California and a homemaker from Texas -- who
will meet for the first time today in Washington after months of online planning
and venting -- the March for America kicks off this morning with a procession
from the White House to the monument. The organizers expect a few hundred to
participate today, a few thousand tomorrow and, they hope, 10,000 on Saturday.
Their permit from the National Park Service forecasts a maximum of 2,000
participants each day.

"We want to take our country back from the crazy politicians who aren't
listening to the citizens," said Melissa Gardner of Sacramento, one of the
organizers. "For all the people who are too afraid to come out and speak and are
watching all this stuff on C-SPAN, calling and faxing, we want them to get out
there and see that American patriots are united."

Today's activities are built around Operation Body Count, a project created by
activists in California and North Carolina to memorialize people who have died
as a result of actions by people in the country illegally -- primarily victims
of murder or drunken driving.

Friday's gathering will address the effect of illegal immigration on American
workers. Saturday will focus on the battle against "amnesty" for undocumented
immigrants. Dozens of authors and activists will speak. The offices of Reps. Tom
Tancredo (R-Colo.), Dana Rohrabacher (R-Calif.) and Virgil H. Goode Jr. (R-Va.)
said that they will participate.

National groups such as the Federation for American Immigration Reform in
Washington and Americans for Legal Immigration PAC (ALI-PAC) have declined to
join or promote the March for America, even though they agree with the goals.
They say marches are not their style.

"Most of your national groups have been focused on stopping [the] Senate bill,
which has worked so far," said William Gheen, president of ALI-PAC, in Raleigh,
N.C. "The illegal aliens are on the streets because about all they can do is
form mobs. Our people are in council chambers and committee meetings, trying to
use what's left of our government."

But Gardner, 49, a product marketer, and co-organizer Suzanne Wise, 36, of
Porter, Tex., say it's important to go beyond faxing, calling and blogging to
standing up in person. "Anyone can delete an e-mail -- faxes go in the trash,
for all I know," Wise said. "They can't ignore someone in their face."

So it's on to Washington. "The only money we've raised is covering exactly our
expenses, which is $5,000," Gardner said. "Talk about grass roots, I'm renting a
U-Haul, picking up the stage, bringing it over, putting it up with my son."

Gardner was galvanized last spring seeing tens of thousands of marchers rallying
for the legalization of undocumented immigrants. Wise was alarmed by what she
sees as an "invasion" of the country.

For both women, illegal immigration and border security are at the heart of a
constellation of concerns, from terrorism, rising crime rates and overstretched
schools and hospitals, to the loss of jobs and cuts in pay, and the prevalence
of Spanish on the radio, in restaurants, at job sites, in the voting booth, even
in announcements at Wal-Mart.

"All of this is adding up, and it's making America mad," Wise said.

Staff writers N.C. Aizenman and Pamela Constable contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 25, 2007 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Police on the Spot;
In the absence of a workable immigration system, state and local officers are
forced into a quandary.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 355 words


DESPITE THE objections of police chiefs all over the country, officers at the
state, city and county levels are increasingly being drawn into what should be
the federal government's responsibility to deal with illegal immigrants. In some
instances officers are compelled to arrest undocumented immigrants a  fter
routine traffic infractions if a computer shows that they are facing outstanding
federal warrants. In this way local police are being made complicit in federal
deportations, which subverts their attempts to establish ties and cooperative
relations with immigrant communities. Hence the police chiefs' objections.

This is a potentially serious problem. Violent gangs have gained a dangerous
foothold in many immigrant communities, including some in the Washington area.
To contain them, police need informers and other kinds of help in those
neighborhoods. But what immigrant informer will come forward if he knows that as
soon as police enter his name into a database, they will be compelled to arrest
him because he failed to appear at a hearing on his immigration status or a
deportation proceeding some years ago?

A handful of police departments have refused to enforce the federal warrants,
which include about 250,000 from the Immigration and Custo  ms Enforcement
agency. Most departments, including those in this region, are enforcing them,
albeit unenthusiastically in some cases. Lawsuits have been brought challenging
the inclusion of the warrants, which are for civil violations, in a national
criminal database.

All of this is symptomatic of the underlying sickness,   which is the nation's
failure to devise a workable immigration policy and the resulting problem of 12
million illegal immigrants. The tensions between federal and local law
enforcement will only worsen until lawmakers in Washington figure a way out of
the impasse -- one that recognizes the reality that most of those immigrants are
an integral part of the U.S. economy and are here to stay. As the Senate
prepares to take up its immigration bill for the second time in a month, it
should be mindful of how tenuous the status quo has become.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 26, 2007 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Foreign Nationals Hired For 2 Calif. GOP Posts

BYLINE: Sonya Geis; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 658 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 25


The California Republican Party is having a tough time with immigrants -- but
not because of the usual debates over Mexican border crossers. For the nation's
largest state GOP, the troubles hit closer to home.

First the party was forced to admit it had hired a Canadian citizen with no
political experience to be its new political director, under the H-1B visa
program -- a program that grants temporary visas. Now revelations have surfaced
that the party's chief operating officer, an Australian citizen, was ordered
deported in 2001, spent one month in jail and then filed a lawsuit in federal
court alleging wrongful arrest. The officer resigned on Sunday.

The California GOP platform supports federal action to end illegal immigration
and calls for an end to non-emergency assistance to illegal immigrants.

"It seems curious and weird," said Arnold Steinberg, a Republican political
consultant in California. "There's just so many people who have a long history
of working in this state, who are qualified for these positions that would like
to have them."

The revelations come at a time of turmoil for the California party, which tends
to be further to the right than its best-known leader, Gov. Arnold
Schwarzenegger. Divisions between those pleased by Schwarzenegger's ascendancy
and those dismayed by his talk of "post-partisanship" have marginalized the
party within the largely Democratic state.

Internal fighting over the structure of the party may have led to poor oversight
in hiring decisions, some observers said. Jim Brulte, the California Senate's
Republican leader until 2004, questioned the process that brought the
now-disgraced operations officer, Michael Kamburowski, to California.

"They either failed to do due diligence and therefore did not know, not only
about his citizenship status but the pending lawsuit, or they did know and
didn't care," Brulte said. "Either their process is broken or their judgment is
off."

Party officials said that the hiring decision was made by the board as a whole
and that Kamburowski's job performance was very good. But board members were not
aware of the litigation and are upset they were not informed.

California GOP Chairman Ron Nehring took the reins of the state party in
February and hired Kamburowski in March. The two had worked together at Grover
Norquist's organization Americans for Tax Reform in the 1990s.

Kamburowski was put in charge of a budget that encounters millions of dollars
raised in campaign seasons. As of December 2006, before Kamburowski took the
job, the California Republican Party had $219,000 and debts of $4.4 million.

His r?sum? also includes a spell as executive director of the Ronald Reagan
Legacy Project, a Norquist-associated project to name monuments after the former
president.

Shortly after he was hired, Kamburowski, in turn, hired Canadian national
Christopher Matthews to be the party's political director, leaving the top two
paid jobs in the state party in the hands of noncitizens.

The San Francisco Chronicle reported on Sunday that Kamburowski arrived in the
United States in 1995 and later married and then divorced a citizen. The
Immigration and Naturalization Service began trying to deport him in 2001, but
Kamburowski's lawsuit claims he did not receive the notices. He was jailed after
an immigration hearing in 2004 and released on bond one month later.

In 2005, Kamburowski filed a $5 million lawsuit against the Department of
Homeland Security for wrongful arrest. That suit is pending, his attorney said.

The Chronicle also reported that Kamburowski spent part of the past five years
as an aspiring actor, and sold real estate in the Dominican Republic in 2006.

Kamburowski could not be located for comment, but his attorney, Michael
DiRaimondo, said Kamburowski now has a green card.

"He has all the benefits of citizenship except voting," DiRaimondo said. "He's a
good person. A law-abiding person. This is a stigma that's following him
around."

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 26, 2007 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

A Balanced Immigration Bill

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 211 words


Charles Krauthammer was wrong on both the practicalities and the politics of
focusing on a border fence to solve the problem of illegal immigration ["Good
Fences," op-ed, June 15]. Fences work only in urban areas and on favorable
terrain, and they do not work politically at all outside the context of a
comprehensive legislative package.

Border enforcement must remain integrated within the omnibus bill to keep
competing political interests in balance. Some want enforcement only. Some want
a steady supply of cheap labor. Some want to treat the 12 million illegal
immigrants already in the United States as favorably as possible. Some want to
reduce competition for jobs.

Mr. Krauthammer suspects that some in Congress support border enforcement only
to get a good deal for those immigrants.  Absolutely right. That's the nature of
a comprehensive bipartisan solution  in which various parties give others what
they want in order to achieve an outcome they desire. That is how representative
democracy is supposed to work.

The idea of doing border enforcement first and then addressing the other matters
is a formula for making certain the other matters are never addressed,  because
sufficient political trade-offs would no longer be available.

LARRY DeWITT

Baltimore

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 28, 2007 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Rallying in Support Of Illegal Immigrants;
Kids Say Families Could Be Separated

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C14

LENGTH: 385 words


Ten-year-old   Iria Gomez-Garcia is quite an activist. She has spoken in
rallies, marched with thousands of people in Washington and talked with members
of Congress.

Last week she came from Richmond, Virginia, to join hundreds of kids -- and many
more adults -- at a rally to show how families could be separated unless
Congress passes a proposed law that would help some immigrants stay in this
country legally.

Iria's mom, who is from Guatemala, and her dad, originally from Spain, came to
the United States more than a decade ago with permission to stay a short while.
After meeting and falling in love, they ended up staying in the country without
having permission from the U.S. government to do so.

Now, Iria and her two younger brothers are afraid that immigration authorities
will send their parents back to their native countries.

"Without them, I wouldn't have anybody to take care of me, to love me and
support me," said Iria, who is an American citizen because she was born in the
United States.

More than 3.5 million kids in the United States have one or both parents living
in the country illegally, according to the Pew Hispanic Center. In recent
months, authorities have been sending more of these immigrants back to their
countries. In some cases, this process, called deportation, has resulted in
parents and children getting separated.

Freddy Ramos, 12, was born in Silver Spring, and his parents are U.S. citizens
who were born in El Salvador. Last week he also marched in front of the White
House in support of friends who are afraid of being separated from their
parents. "The government should help these people," Freddy said. "They should
let them stay here."

Twelve-year-old Monica Camacho agrees. She has lived in Baltimore since she was
7 and is not here legally. She said she would be very sad if she had to go back
to Mexico.

"I'd feel like a stranger there," she said in Spanish. "It will be hard to get
used to living there again."

Twelve-year-old Leah Patterson, who is American,  went to the rally to support
her friends. She said children shouldn't have to pay for their parents'
mistakes.

"It's not their fault that their parents are not legal," Leah said. "People come
to the U.S. because they want to have better lives. They work hard and deserve a
chance to become citizens."

-- Luz Lazo

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 28, 2007 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Immigration and Reality;
Better to be pragmatic than talk tough on illegal immigrants

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 417 words


THE EFFORT to overhaul the nation's broken-down immigration system, lifeless in
the Senate earlier this month, has embarked on a tenuous and possibly terminal
second act. Under attack from talk radio, unions, xenophobes and others, the
White House and reform-minded Republicans have maneuvered to salvage legislation
that would address the core problems of tightening enforcement of existing laws
and providing a legal future for the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants in
the country. The risk is that in the desperation to keep the bill alive, it will
be amended to the point of unworkability.

Of particular concern is an amendment by three of the bill's Senate Republican
sponsors, Jon Kyl (Ariz.), Lindsey O. Graham (S.C.) and Mel Martinez (Fla.). It
would require immigrant heads of households to return home within three years to
apply for legal status, a mandate that probably would overwhelm already badly
burdened consulates and prompt millions of illegal immigrants to opt out of the
legalization procedure. Potentially more damaging is a provision in the same
amendment that would criminalize and imprison people -- including millions of
tourists and students -- who overstay their visas. Until now those people have
been handled with administrative measures. Requiring that they be arrested
pending deportation could mean hiring thousands of new agents and building
massive  new prison capacity -- and an enormous diversion of law enforcement
time and energy for a population that poses no evident threat to homeland
security.

The idea behind the amendment is to give the bill a get-tough sheen that will
mollify critics and provide cover for wavering senators. Some immigration reform
advocates remain confident that the bill can be "fixed" at a later date -- i.e.,
stripped of onerous provisions. Maybe. But there is also a risk that skittish
senators will simply stick themselves, and the country, with a bad law. That
makes no sense. As Gov. Janet Napolitano (D-Ariz.) says, "If they're going to
eat the pain of doing an immigration bill, they might as well pass a good one."

The enemies of immigration reform remain unable to articulate a realistic
alternative to the Senate legislation that would address the plight of the 12
million undocumented immigrants. They seem to imagine that by ignoring them, or
harassing them, they will simply fade from view. They won't. If it's not
resolved in this congressional session, the problem will come back again and
again. Better to fix it now.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 28, 2007 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

GOP Can Wield the Issue of Immigration, Though It Cuts Both Ways

BYLINE: Tim Craig; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW04

LENGTH: 849 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND


By most accounts, it could be a bad year for Virginia Republicans as they try to
defend their majorities in the General Assembly in the Nov. 6 elections.

Gov. Timothy M. Kaine (D), a partisan leader who is vowing to go all-out to
elect more Democrats to the House of Delegates and the Senate, is popular.
President Bush, the nation's highest-profile Republican, is unpopular.

Democrats need to pick up four seats to retake the Senate and 11 to take over
the House.

But before you bet on big Democratic gains this year, take note: The Republicans
suddenly find themselves with an opening that could boost their chances in many
races.

With Congress considering a bill to bolster border security and give millions of
illegal immigrants a chance to eventually become citizens, Virginia Republicans
may use the issue to counteract public opposition to the war in Iraq. Illegal
immigration might be just the issue the Virginia GOP needs to stave off
significant losses in the General Assembly.

There haven't been any recent public polls on Virginia voters' position on an
overhaul of immigration law. But calls each morning to C-SPAN show the vehement
opposition some voters have to the bill before Congress. Many conservatives say
the bill grants illegal immigrants amnesty, a word that sparks outrage in many
parts of Virginia.

Virginia Republicans appear to be better positioned to capitalize on voter
discontent over immigration. GOP delegates and senators can use the issue to
mobilize conservatives to vote Nov. 6 while distancing themselves from Bush, who
supports the bill being debated in Congress.

If Congress passes the overhaul bill, conservatives could decide they will use
their votes to make a statement.

It's a long time until the presidential and congressional elections in 2008.
Virginia state elections, however, are less than five months away.

What better way for Virginia voters to lodge a protest against the national
immigration bill than by turning up to vote en masse just across the Potomac
from Washington?

If Congress does nothing on immigration this year, the states will be more
likely to tackle the issue. In that scenario, control of the General Assembly
will be key.

During the 2007 legislative session, the House of Delegates approved measures to
cut off funding for charities that help illegal immigrants, punish employers who
hire illegal immigrants, and make it a crime for illegal immigrants to live in
or travel through Virginia.

Moderate Republicans and Democrats in the Senate blocked the measures dealing
with immigration. But several of those moderates, including Sen. H. Russell
Potts Jr. (R-Winchester), are retiring.

The issue of illegal immigration may have particular resonance in Washington's
outer suburbs, such as in Prince William County, where several competitive races
for the House of Delegates are expected this year.

"When I go door-to-door, people are absolutely furious about the immigration
thing. I don't bring it up. They bring up," said Del. L. Scott Lingamfelter
(R-Prince William).

Last November, Del. Jackson H. Miller (R-Manassas) tapped into voter angst over
immigration to win a special election to replace the late Harry J. Parrish (R).

A year ago, Herndon voters unseated the one-term mayor, Michael L. O'Reilly, and
two Town Council members who supported creating the day laborer center. They
replaced them with challengers who want to bar the use of taxpayer money for the
facility and make sure it is used by legal, not illegal, immigrants.

In Hampton Roads, another part of the state with several competitive House and
Senate races this year, passions are also high over illegal immigration. In
March, two young women were killed in Virginia Beach in a car accident that
police said was caused by an illegal immigrant who was speeding.

Immigration becomes a trickier issue for Republicans in diverse Fairfax County,
where GOP Sens. Jeannemarie Devolites Davis, James K. "Jay" O'Brien and Ken
Cuccinelli II all face Democratic challengers.

But even though one in four Fairfax County residents is foreign born, there
remains a sizable voting bloc in the county that has been frustrated by the
influx of immigrants over the past two decades.

O'Brien, for example, worked with Attorney General Robert F. McDonnell (R) this
year to try to give state and local police the power to enforce federal
immigration laws.

Some people are nervous about illegal immigration becoming a major campaign
theme. They fear that a nasty, emotional debate over the issue could lead to
ethnic divisions and a backlash against all immigrants.

As Rep. Virgil H. Goode Jr. (R-Va.) demonstrated this year when he spoke out
against illegal immigration and decried the election of Muslims to Congress,
there is a fine line between socially acceptable calls to curb illegal
immigration and statements that come across as xenophobic.

Republicans should be wary of crossing that line, lest the growing number of
nonwhite voters in Virginia permanently label them the party of "macaca." For
now, though, illegal immigration may be one of the best political weapons
Republicans have.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 28, 2007 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

A Legal Debate

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C14

LENGTH: 263 words


You might have heard a lot about immigration in the news lately. That's because
there's an important bill under consideration in Congress that would create laws
affecting millions of immigrants to this country.

The Senate is trying to figure out exactly what would be in the bill, and it has
been very difficult to come up with something that pleases everybody.

The bill being considered has two main parts: It brings more police to the
border with Mexico and gives illegal immigrants a way to become legal and stay
here. Illegal immigrants are people from other countries who are in the United
States without the permission of the U.S. government.

Some U.S. lawmakers want the immigrants to become legal because it's better for
the country's security if the government has records on all residents.
Currently, the government doesn't know the identities of millions of illegal
immigrants living in this country.

However, senators don't agree on what process immigrants would need to go
through to become temporarily or permanently legal. One idea was that all
immigrants go back to their native countries to apply for legal status. The
current Senate bill, however, would allow some   immigrants to apply here.

Additionally, some senators believe that illegal immigrants, because they broke
the law, should be punished and sent home, not rewarded with permission to stay.

Even if the immigration bill passes the Senate, which could happen as soon as
tomorrow, it would still need to be approved by the House of Representatives.
That would be another big battle.

-- Margaret Webb Pressler

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 30, 2007 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Sharp Reaction to Immigration Bill's Defeat

BYLINE: Manuel Roig-Franzia; Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FOREIGN; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 611 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, June 29


Latin America reacted with sharp disappointment Friday to the U.S. Senate's
defeat of an immigration bill, a decision that Mexican President Felipe Calder?n
called "a grave error" and Salvadoran President El?as Antonio Saca said was "a
pity."

Latin American governments have long hoped for a comprehensive reform package
that would include guest-worker provisions and a route to legal status for the
estimated 12 million undocumented migrants in the United States -- half of whom
are Mexican. At the same time, the Calder?n administration has tried lately to
lower expectations, in the belief that immigration reform is unlikely until
after a new U.S. president is elected in November 2008.

In an editorial published Friday, the Mexico City newspaper El Universal said it
is "highly hypocritical that the United States admits migrants as peasants, but
does not accept them as citizens. A state that sends troops to the Middle East
to try to implant democracy and respect for human rights does not practice such
supreme values in its own territory."

But the paper also ascribed blame to Mexico, saying the country is itself guilty
of hypocrisy for not creating enough employment to entice Mexicans to stay at
home.

Calder?n predicted that the Senate's decision would increase illegal migration
and "generate worse conditions and insecurity on both sides of the border. The
migration problem cannot be resolved simply with speeches; it requires concrete
resolutions."

Calder?n, speaking before departing Mexico City for a diplomatic visit to
Belize, has been taking a more aggressive stance toward the United States than
his predecessor, Vicente Fox, who had sought to parlay a personal friendship
with President Bush into an immigration accord. Calder?n and his top lieutenants
were incensed this week after discovering that portions of the wall on the
U.S.-Mexican border are in Mexican territory. Calder?n said he complained to
U.S. officials and received assurances that those parts of the wall would be
removed before the end of the week.

Reaction to the immigration bill's failure might have been even more intense if
not for concerns here that it put too heavy an emphasis on border security and
involved overly complex provisions on granting citizenship to undocumented
migrants, said Dan Lund, a Mexico City pollster.

Despite some heated comments from Mexican leaders, it appears the Calder?n
administration has adopted the philosophy that "no bill is better than a bad
bill," Lund said in an interview.

"Life goes on," Lund said. "Here this is a hothouse issue for a few in the media
and policy wonks, but everyone else will do what they have to do to get across
the border."

In El Salvador, Saca said, "I lament what happened in the Senate. I hope that
the senators consider this well, because there are 12 million people [in the
United States] who are undocumented."

"What a pity, what a pity, but those are decisions of the legislators," Saca
told reporters.

In Guatemala, the newspaper Prensa Libre described the Senate vote as
"deplorable" in an editorial headlined "12 Million Victims." The vote, the paper
said, showed that the United States is "a country hostile toward immigrants."

Prensa Libre predicted that the decision would hurt the economies of the United
States and Guatemala by restricting the flow of people between the countries.
But, the paper noted, there could be a subtler, even more damaging effect.

"Little by little, the number of people who lose their appreciation of [the
United States] will grow," the paper said. "With what happened yesterday,
everyone loses, sooner rather than later, and there are fewer possibilities of
healing that wound."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Eduardo Verdugo -- Associated Press; Mexican President Felipe
Calder?n said the U.S. Senate's decision would increase illegal migration and
worsen conditions on both sides of the border.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 12, 2007 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Voices of Montgomery Letters to the Editor

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. GZ04

LENGTH: 738 words

Whose Voices Count Most On Immigration Issues?

The citizens of Montgomery County need to give thanks to Montgomery County
Police Chief J. Thomas Manger for standing up to Del. Ana Sol Gutierrez
(D-Montgomery) and Gustavo Torres, director of CASA of Maryland [an immigrant
advocacy group]. Under pressure from the dynamic duo,  Manger stood by his
decision to enforce the law and not, as demanded, have his officers ignore
federal immigration warrants [Montgomery Notebook, June 28]. [Civil warrants for
immigration violators come up on the FBI-run National Crime Information Center
database when a county police officer runs a computer check during a routine
stop.]

In a surprise move, Montgomery County Executive Isiah Leggett, the county's top
advocate and financial supporter of CASA of Maryland and day-laborer centers,
actually backed Manger's position on illegal aliens.

I'm saving my "half a cheer," however, as Manger is updating his 1998 police
manual, including the section on federal immigration warrants. It's important
for all law-abiding citizens to monitor Leggett and Manger to ensure that
federal immigration warrants continue to be enforced.

In fact, with the question of federal amnesty for illegal aliens now a dead
issue, the county police need to upgrade and enhance their procedures regarding
federal immigration warrants. This enhancement would include undergoing specific
federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement training to enable county officers
to question, detain and arrest illegal aliens as well as assist in the
deportation process.

I have a question for Leggett and Manger: Why are you having meetings with
pro-illegal-immigration elected officials like Gutierrez and illegal-alien
advocacy groups like CASA of Maryland? Why should these groups have special
access and input to the county's policy on federal immigration warrants? For
that matter, why do the Montgomery County police have special monthly meetings
with Latino, African American and Asian groups but not with ordinary citizens
concerned with illegal immigration and other public safety issues?

Why aren't Leggett and Manger having meetings with pro-legal-immigration citizen
groups like Help Save Maryland, Citizens Above Party, the Federation for
American Immigration Reform and the Maryland Minuteman Civil Defense Corps? As
the U.S. Senate just found out, American citizens are no longer going to take a
back seat when it comes to illegal-immigration issues.

Brad Botwin

Rockville

Director

Help Save Maryland

Subin's Remark Shows Bias On Matters of Immigration

 In the June 28 Montgomery Notebook, [former County Council member] Michael L.
Subin was quoted as saying, "Anyone who questions the honor of Chief Manger is
questioning my honor. If you compare him to the Minutemen, you are calling him a
racist and a fascist."

Apparently Mr. Subin is pro-illegal-immigration and believes that anyone who
isn't is a racist and a fascist. I am of the opinion that Mr. Subin should not
head up, nor be part of, the Criminal Justice Coordinating Commission due to his
displayed biases.

Marshall Elbert

Rockville

Carbon Monoxide Death Offers Lifesaving Lesson

Gov. Martin O'Malley recently signed legislation requiring carbon monoxide
alarms in all new Maryland residences. If you sell an existing home, you must
now disclose sources of fossil-fuel combustion (gas furnace, gas water heater,
etc.) and report whether the home has a carbon monoxide alarm.

Recent tragedies underscore the law's importance. Recently, a 62-year-old
Bethesda man died from accidental carbon monoxide poisoning. A Baltimore family
-- including a toddler and a pregnant woman -- were recently rushed to shock
trauma after dangerous levels of carbon monoxide filled their home. Working
carbon monoxide alarms might have prevented these incidents and possibly many
more.

In my work with the Montgomery County Fire & Rescue Service, I have seen the
devastation carbon monoxide poisoning has on families. We must do all we can to
prevent these senseless tragedies. Having a working carbon monoxide alarm is the
only safe way to detect this poisonous gas in your home. It is the simplest
thing a family can do to protect themselves.

For information, visit the county Fire and Rescue Service Web site
http://www.montgomerycountymd.gov/content/firerescue/sion/safetytips/COsafetytip
.pdf) or http://www.knowaboutCO.com.

Thomas W. Carr Jr.

Fire Chief

Montgomery County

Fire & Rescue Service

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Montgomery South

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 12, 2007 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Managing Illegal Immigration

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 282 words


The July 8 editorial "Hounding Immigrants"  said Prince William County's
neighbors would be  harmed by a crackdown on illegal  immigrants and asked:
"What would be accomplished by such a beggar-thy-neighbor policy?" I think the
answer is obvious -- neighboring counties will see the quality of life in Prince
William improve and see their own problems with illegal immigration increase.

Those counties will respond by passing similar measures, which will send illegal
immigrants to other jurisdictions, which in turn will pass similar measures or
suffer the consequences of more illegal immigration.

As a resident of Montgomery County, I will be watching the Prince William County
housing market closely. My bet is that quality of life will go up and that
housing prices will follow.

MICHAEL J. AMERY

Montgomery Village

In his July 8 op-ed, "Arizona's Border Burden,"  about illegal immigration,
David Broder wrote  that new state legislation  "requires every Arizona business
to verify the legal status of each new employee. That's also a requirement of
long-established federal law, but the feds rarely enforce it."

If that requirement really exists under federal law, why isn't it enforced? The
availability of jobs is a major part of the appeal for folks to enter this
country, legally or illegally. If we discourage business owners from employing
people who are in this country illegally, that would have a significant impact
on the problem. This also raises the question of the viability of additional
federal legislation: If the U.S. government does not enforce the current laws,
why should we think that new laws will have any greater effect against illegal
immigration?

CARL A. REBER

Annapolis

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            July 18, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Loudoun Approves Measure Targeting Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: Sandhya Somashekhar; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 959 words


The Loudoun County Board of Supervisors approved a resolution yesterday that
would limit illegal immigrants' access to county services and penalize employers
who hire them, becoming the second county in the region to adopt a hard-line
position in the wake of Congress's failure to enact immigration reform.

One week after Prince William County officials took a similar step, Loudoun's
supervisors voted unanimously for the resolution, which they said was necessary
to stop blight and curb crime, especially on the county's border with Herndon
and Fairfax County.

Supervisors also said they wanted to prevent tax dollars in the fast-growing
county from going to those who have settled in Loudoun illegally.

"We need help in Loudoun. We are struggling. We are a small county, and we can't
handle the hordes that are coming here and using up our services," said Eugene
A. Delgaudio (R-Sterling), the main sponsor of the resolution. "Illegal
immigration is taking a greater and greater toll on our community."

Although no one is sure how many of Loudoun's 270,000 residents are illegal,
supervisors say the county has experienced an influx of undocumented Hispanic
workers looking for jobs in the construction industry, which has boomed during
the county's rapid growth over the past decade. According to the census, about
10 percent of Loudoun's population was Hispanic in 2005, up from about 6 percent
in 2000.

The resolution is similar to the one Prince William passed but more vague, with
a plan to enact strict new policies after a more detailed discussion in
September. It requires the county's staff to study which services can legally be
denied to those who are in the country unlawfully and to look for ways to cut
off business with employers that hire illegal workers. It also calls for the
Loudoun sheriff's office to work more closely with federal immigration
authorities to quickly deport criminals who do not have papers.

Supporters of the resolution say the illegal immigrants' presence can be felt
most acutely in the eastern part of the county, where they say crowded homes are
falling into disrepair and gang violence is rising. Last year, the sheriff's
office arrested nearly 50 people who were later deported because of their legal
status. Some believe the problem will worsen if Prince William goes forward with
its plan and ends up pushing illegal immigrants over its northern border into
Loudoun.

"I think this is the first step of Virginians taking back their state," said
Joseph W. Budzinski, spokesman for Help Save Loudoun, a group that opposes
illegal immigration.

The resolution drew sharp criticism from Hispanic advocates, who said it would
foster fear in the community and encourage racial profiling. Laura Valle,
executive director of the nonprofit group La Voz of Loudoun, added that it was
no simple matter determining who is legal.

"We are not experts. We don't have the capacity to determine the difference
between false and real green cards," said Valle, whose group does not inquire
about legal status when providing translation and referral services to the
Spanish-speaking community.

The new standards could affect those who are in the country legally. Valle's
husband, an immigrant from El Salvador, lost his green card and is awaiting a
new one. In the meantime, Valle said, he worries what would happen if he were
pulled over by police.

"He feels this sort of a gut fear, and this is someone who is fairly well
established in the community," she said.

Some supervisors voted reluctantly in favor of the resolution, which was a
last-minute addition to the agenda. The proposal was announced in an e-mail sent
by Delgaudio on Monday afternoon. By late Monday, all six Republicans on the
nine-member board had signed on as co-sponsors. But the board's two independents
and lone Democrat were not contacted, and they hurried to study the resolution
before yesterday's vote.

Loudoun Supervisor James Burton (I-Blue Ridge) complained that he was being
"railroaded" on a complex and sensitive issue. "To be handed a resolution on the
day we meet, and to be asked to vote on it without understanding the
consequences or the content of that resolution, is irresponsible," he said.

But the resolution's co-sponsors said putting it off until the next meeting in
September was unnecessary. The county administrator and attorney will have six
weeks to study the issue, they said, allowing the board to make clear-headed
decisions in the fall.

"It's time for people like us to stand up and start defending and preserving the
communities that we represent," said Mick Staton Jr. (R-Sugarland Run).
"Hopefully, if enough local governments in this region and other regions start
doing this, maybe the message will get up to those folks on Capitol Hill, and
maybe they'll start doing something."

Opponents pointed out that all board seats are up in the fall election, and
illegal immigration has become a key campaign issue.

"It's all politics trying to create fear in people," said Thom Beres, chairman
of the Loudoun County Democratic Committee. "Where do you draw the line? How do
you enforce it? Do you spend millions of dollars trying to enforce it?"

Budzinski and others believe some of the problems in eastern Loudoun stem from
the Herndon day-laborer center, where workers -- legal or not -- can go to find
landscaping and construction jobs. The site sits on the border with Loudoun.
Although Herndon officials have promised to keep clients from entering the
building from the Loudoun side, Loudoun residents say the clients often loiter
at a 7-Eleven and elsewhere within the county limits.

Yesterday, the board voted to send a letter to Herndon officials urging them to
check the immigration status of workers there before providing services.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Tracy A. Woodward -- The Washington Post; "Illegal
immigration is taking a greater and greater toll on our community," said
Supervisor Eugene A. Delgaudio (R-Sterling), who sponsored the plan.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 22, 2007 Sunday
                                 Met 1 Edition

Anti-Illegal Immigration Group Protests Day-Laborer Center

BYLINE: Ernesto Londo?o; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C11

LENGTH: 523 words


A group opposed to illegal immigration held a two-hour protest yesterday in
front of a day-laborer center in Montgomery County, calling on elected officials
to stop funding the center that the county set up near Gaithersburg.

"Other counties are pushing legislation to stop this," Brad Botwin, one of the
organizers, said at the protest yesterday morning. "We're becoming a sanctuary."

Botwin, a federal employee who started Help Save Maryland last year to advocate
cutting benefits for illegal immigrants, said he has been hearing from more
people who have joined his cause.

"You're seeing PTA members, government workers saying enough is enough," Botwin
said. "I'm getting e-mails from across the county, across the state."

Gaithersburg officials, faced with considerable political resistance, had
rejected several sites for a center where day laborers could gather to meet
employers. In April, the county set up the site just outside the city limits.

One of the protesters who attended yesterday's rally, Gretta Patten, 41, of
Rockville used her dachshund, Schroeder, in what she said was her debut as an
activist against illegal immigration. The pet, which scurried around protesters
who were waving flags and signs looking for spots of shadow, wore two signs
fastened to a vest.

One said: "I've got a bone to pick with Ike," referring to County Executive
Isiah Leggett (D), who supports the day-laborer center and has said Montgomery
will not follow in the footsteps of Prince William and Loudoun counties, where
ordinances against illegal immigration have been enacted recently. The dog's
other sign said: "This hotdog's got a beef with illegal immigration."

Patten, 41, said her main gripe is about the county's financial support for
groups such as Casa de Maryland, an immigrant advocacy group that operates the
day-laborer center.

"It's knowing my tax dollars go to people who are breaking the law," she said.

The protest drew members of the Minutemen, a national group founded in Arizona
to patrol the U.S.-Mexico border and limit immigration. While the group of about
20 protesters waved to passing motorists near the Shady Grove Metro station, day
laborers planted flowers on an unkempt patch of land in front of the center,
which operates in a trailer.

Across the street, a slightly larger group of counter-protesters challenged and
at times taunted Botwin's group.

"Minutemen, KKK, racist bigots, go away!" the immigrant activists yelled.

Gustavo Torres, executive director of Casa de Maryland, said the anti-illegal
immigration protesters represent the view of a "small minority." He said that
the center has been a success and that he thinks most people in the county
support it and acknowledge the need for it.

"Any organization doing the type of work we do is going to become a target," he
said.

Sara Pellecer, an immigrant from Guatemala who was with the day laborers
yesterday, said she and other immigrants worry about the anti-immigrant
sentiment that appears to be spreading in the region, especially in the wake of
the new ordinances in Virginia.

"The measures aren't wise," she said. "They push people toward poverty and
despair."

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Melina Mara -- The Washington Post; Paul Mendez, left, and
Mark Fennel take a stand against illegal immigration.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 22, 2007 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Letters To the Editor

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW02

LENGTH: 565 words

Let Immigrants Dream

 In his letter [Close to Home, July 15], Prince William County Supervisor John
T. Stirrup Jr. (R-Gainesville) says "we Americans recognize the rule of law and
honor and embrace it." Presumably that is why Mr. Stirrup's resolution to adopt
measures unfavorable to its thousands of illegal immigrants was unanimously
passed by the Board of County Supervisors.

I wonder what will happen to the county's initiatives when Congress adopts its
own resolutions, which will amount to giving legal status to the 11 million
illegal immigrants living in this country.

Will Mr. Stirrup conclude that our nation has become too generous and too
compassionate and that we don't embrace the rule of law and order?

Mr. Stirrup is correct when he says we are "uniquely fortunate" to be Americans.
None of us chooses our birthplace. Who among us can say that we would not live
illegally in another country to put a roof over our family and food in our
children's stomachs?

Like it or not, the United States has not been able to prevent people from
entering illegally -- whether through the Arizona desert, where thousands have
died while dreaming the American dream, or through the riverbeds of Texas or via
the skies, where wealthier and more educated people from, for example, Peru and
Bolivia descend with travel visas and return flights they never take.

Many illegal immigrants achieve the American dream by marrying an American. But
does anyone care about their illegal status before the marriage?

Mr. Stirrup says that "once you become a citizen your opportunities to pursue
the American dream are limited only by your imagination." He says that all the
United States asks of its illegal residents is "that you establish legal
citizenship."

Obviously that is not what the United States asks. In the Washington area, go to
any construction site, go to the housekeeping department of any hotel, go to any
one of thousands of buildings at 11 p.m. to see who is emptying trash cans and
cleaning toilets. The vast majority of illegal immigrants in our country are
working full time and are earning three, four or five times the money they could
in their countries. They don't need legal status to pursue the American dream.

Mr. Stirrup's assertion that "illegal immigrants who enter Prince William County
seeking economic opportunity would probably be better off if they stayed in
their home countries and helped to bring about economic change there" can be
likened to someone saying that all the people abused by Catholic priests would
probably be better off if they stayed silent and helped to bring about
moralistic change in the Catholic Church.

Most of the people in our country illegally are law-abiding, honest,
hard-working people. Especially commendable are those who are studying English.

Unfortunately, those who drive intoxicated, engage in gang activity, sell drugs,
rent every inch of space in their houses out to strangers, park their cars on
front lawns, litter our streets, trash our environment with business signs on
our medians, operate illegal or immoral businesses, manipulate and victimize
others and readily line up for free handouts and services and force hardworking
middle-class Americans to foot the bill -- well, those people, simply said, are
the real problem.

Supervisor Stirrup perhaps has our best interests at heart, but it's not an easy
issue.

Stephanie Williams

Manassas

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 22, 2007 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Met 2 Edition

Muscling a Web Site Into a Social Movement;
Va. Blogger Taps Into Illegal-Immigration Ire

BYLINE: Nick Miroff; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1493 words


Illegal immigrant ice cream vendors might be spreading leprosy in Manassas.
Prince William County has been infiltrated by "unassimilated marxist radicals."
Manassas Park police covered up the predations of five Hispanic men who
gang-raped a woman in the street in June.

These claims, among others, have been made in recent months by Greg Letiecq,
whose popular blog, Black Velvet Bruce Li, offers "Blog-Fu for Prince William,
Manassas and Manassas Park politics" -- often making up in passion what it lacks
in proof.

But Letiecq (pronounced LUH-teek) is not some mouse-pushing crackpot with a
keyboard and an Internet connection. In the past 18 months, Letiecq has
leveraged his blog to help elect allies, kill off opponents' campaigns and shape
local public policy. Peers call his site the most influential local blog in
Virginia.

Since April, Letiecq has used his blog to sign up more than 500 members for his
anti-illegal immigrant organization, Help Save Manassas, quickly building it
into one of the region's most effective social movements. He and his group
researched, facilitated and wrote parts of the illegal-immigration resolution
that Prince William officials adopted this month, working with the
Washington-based Immigration Reform Law Institute.

The resolution -- approved unanimously July 10 -- seeks to deny services to
illegal immigrants and sharply increase immigration enforcement by police. Its
sponsor, John T. Stirrup Jr. (R-Gainesville), is Letiecq's district
representative and also a member of Help Save Manassas.

"We worked with Stirrup" on the resolution, Letiecq said. "Our legislative
committee helped transform it to fit Virginia codes."

Said Stirrup of the group's role: "I felt comfortable with what they were doing,
and we vetted it with our county attorney."

A former insurance salesman who works as a programmer in the defense industry,
Letiecq has seemingly been everywhere lately -- on national and local
television, at local Republican party events and rallying his troops to
"victory" at the July 10 board meeting.

His movement has tapped into a wellspring of simmering anger over illegal
immigration and a general unease about the large influx of Hispanic residents
who have moved to the region in the past decade, sparking suburban clashes over
such quality-of-life issues as overcrowding, language, even lawn care.

Much of the illegal-immigrant backlash that has spread to Loudoun County and
elsewhere in Virginia can be traced to the computer annex in the basement of
Letiecq's suburban Manassas home. There, behind the stairs, he runs his two
deeply entwined operations as blogger and activist leader amid a clutter of
camping gear, papers and his young daughters' toys.

"We're inspiring people," Letiecq said. "A lot of citizens felt like there was
nothing they could do."

When Letiecq isn't helping write county policy in Prince William, he can be
found writing material of a different sort as Black Velvet Bruce Li. Among the
ranks of the online martial artists who spin and strike across the so-called
blogosphere, Letiecq is a virtual ninja, practicing character assassination,
innuendo and exhortation with the skill of a black belt.

"He has by far the most well-trafficked local blog in the state and, as far as
influencing public policy, one of the most influential blogs in the country,"
said Ben Tribbett, whose Not Larry Sabato blog covers Virginia politics.

David Mastio, who tracks 200 Virginia political blogs on his Blognetnews.com,
ranks Letiecq "the most influential conservative blogger in Northern Virginia"
and among the top three most-influential political blogs in the state. Letiecq's
site tallies about 47,000 distinct page views a day and counts 5,000 unique
visitors, although he said he earns only about $1.50 a day from the operation
because he doesn't have time to sell much advertising.

"He's a hard-hitting, blunt, tough commentator on politics, and people like
that," said Mastio, who is also an editorial writer for the Virginian-Pilot in
Norfolk.

"Fairfax County Harboring Illegal Aliens" was the title of a recent, and
typical, Letiecq posting. Another warned "Zapatista Army Affiliate to Protest in
PWC Today" -- taking yet another swipe at a favorite target, the immigrant
rights group Mexicans Without Borders.

Letiecq even stars on the Web site of Mexicans without Borders -- playing the
villain, of course. A photo of him smoking a cigarette and looking smug outside
the Prince William County Board's chambers carries a caption that reads in
Spanish: Greg Letiecq, "leader of the racist, recalcitrant anti-immigrant group
'Help to Save Manassas,' savors the hate, satisfied at having delivered a racist
law for his group."

But to dismiss Black Velvet Bruce Li as the rantings of a fringe extremist
underestimates Letiecq's reach and appeal. When he isn't fanning anti-illegal
immigrant sentiment -- and providing a venue for raw, sometimes bigoted views,
on his comment pages -- Letiecq reports on the minutiae of local news and
politics to a degree no other media outlet has matched. Gossip, school board
meetings, rumors, tax rate analysis -- it's all there on his site.

"He's filling a need for news at the local level," said Manassas City Council
member Marc T. Aveni (R), who also is a member of Help Save Manassas.

Letiecq's blog is also more media-savvy than most, using video, photos and
snazzy graphics. The blog is widely praised for its playful humor, often at the
expense of local officials, such as a "Ham Sandwich for Commonwealth's Attorney"
campaign mocking Democratic incumbent Paul B. Ebert, or the constant referral to
a Democratic House of Delegates candidate, Jeanette Rishell, as "moonfruit."

Of French Canadian descent, Letiecq, 43, grew up outside Syracuse, N.Y., and
majored in international relations at George Washington University. A year
studying in France -- and assiduously adapting to French language and customs,
he said -- cemented his perception that illegal immigrants are unwilling to
adapt to U.S. culture.

In fact, Letiecq would not say that the anti-illegal immigrant campaign began in
his basement so much as on his lawn. From there, he points to his neighbor's
house, emanating loud salsa music, where he believes two "illegal aliens" are
living. He doesn't have proof of this, of course, but pronounces his assumption
as fact anyway.

Letiecq then points to a house two doors down, saying three families are living
there with "six to eight" kids. He worries about crime, he said, and about his
daughters, Lillian, 5, and Marian, 2, and whether public school resources are
being diverted to English as a Second Language programs.

"This isn't the kind of neighborhood you'd think would be ground zero for this
hot political issue," he said. "But there's no safe place anymore."

When Letiecq isn't campaigning against illegal immigration, he savages local
officials, media outlets (The Washington Post is a favorite target) and
candidates who disagree with his views, unafraid to strike below the belt. A
Democratic candidate for the Virginia General Assembly, Jeff Dion, withdrew his
candidacy in May after Letiecq attacked Dion's "homosexual lifestyle" and
revealed that Dion had a personal ad on a gay dating Web site.

"I'm anti-sin," said Letiecq, who considers homosexuality "a bad choice" and
said that "people who make bad choices shouldn't be our representatives."

But Democrats, illegal immigrants and homosexuals aren't Letiecq's only targets.
He has also waged a withering offensive against Faisal Gill, a Republican naval
officer and former Homeland Security official of Pakistani descent who is the
first Muslim nominee to the Virginia General Assembly.

"He's like a schoolyard bully," said Gill, a partner in the law firm
representing a former Republican House of Delegates candidate, Steve H. Chapman,
who is suing Letiecq for defamation. "He clearly plays to the prejudices people
have."

Letiecq has repeatedly derided Gill as a "terrorist" because Gill once worked
for a U.S. Muslim group whose former leader was convicted of having illegal ties
to the Libyan government. Gill was cleared of any wrongdoing by Homeland
Security investigators. He calls Letiecq's Web site "yellow journalism."

"Yellow journalism?" Letiecq repeated, grinning, when asked to respond to the
characterization. "That's true. I don't try to make myself out to be a
newspaper."

Instead, Letiecq said, he is like a 19th-century pamphleteer, advancing his
views and urging others to action. "I don't like clean, sanitized
don't-upset-anybody kinds of discussions," he said. "We shouldn't pull our
punches."

Tribbett said this locally oriented approach represents "the future of
blogging." Because local officials lack an outlet for their views, Tribbett
explained, they are intimidated by a blogger with a large and loyal following
able to flood their offices with calls or "put boots on the ground."

"It's amusing to see local officials pushed around by a blogger," Tribbett said.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

CORRECTION-DATE: August 11, 2007



CORRECTION: A July 22 Page One article about a Virginia blogger incorrectly
stated that Faisal Gill, a Republican candidate in the state's 51st House
District, is the first Muslim nominee to the Virginia General Assembly. Another
Muslim, Republican Kamal Nawash, ran unsuccessfully for the House of Delegates
in 2001 and the state Senate in 2003.

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Greg Letiecq has targeted Democrats, illegal immigrants, gays
and others.
IMAGE; Photos By Jahi Chikwendiu -- The Washington Post; Greg Letiecq has railed
against illegal immigration, saying he worries about his daughters, Lillian,
pictured, 5, and Marian, 2, and whether school resources are being diverted to
ESL programs.
IMAGE; Letiecq runs Black Velvet Bruce Li out of the basement of his Manassas
home, amid a clutter of camping gear, papers and toys. The site tallies about
47,000 distinct page views a day.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 23, 2007 Monday
                                 Every Edition

Illegal Immigration Dominates Conversation in Prince William

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. D02

LENGTH: 412 words


Virginia Lt. Gov. Bill Bolling (R) stopped in Prince William County last week to
discuss his "100 Ideas for Virginia" initiative with the chamber of commerce,
but the conversation quickly turned to the county's biggest gripe: illegal
immigration.

During the one-hour forum, audience members, who had a chance to present ideas
on any subject related to the direction of the state, spent most of the time
talking about the impact of illegal immigrants on their community.

"Don't underestimate Prince William County. We've have just begun on this
illegal immigration issue," said Lois Battistoni, a 73-year-old retiree and
resident of Lake Ridge to nods among dozens of business leaders and residents at
the town hall meeting.

Prince William, which has one of the fastest-growing Hispanic populations in the
region, has been among the most aggressive jurisdictions on the matter. This
month, the county's board of supervisors approved a measure that would curb
illegal immigrants' access to public services and require local police to verify
residency status of anyone in custody suspected of being in the country
illegally.

Battistoni, a volunteer in the Help Save Manassas anti-illegal immigration
group, said undocumented immigrants pose a burden on hospitals, schools, jails
and other public services. She fears crime is going up in the county because of
an influx of illegal immigrants, prompting an increased demand for police
officers.

Some business owners expressed frustration over difficulties in ensuring that
the workers they hire are legal.

Stephen C. Nelson, chairman-elect of the Prince William County-Greater Manassas
Chamber of Commerce, asked Bolling for the state to help business owners verify
the immigration status of potential employees.

"Sometimes, we'll send in the paperwork to check on a Social Security number,
and it will take up to nine months for any reply from the government. It needs
to be much quicker," said Nelson, who owns Junction Travel in Manassas.

Bolling, who has been touring different cities since last year to hear ideas
from Virginia residents on the future course of the state, said he has heard
similar concerns about illegal immigration from other parts of the state. Last
week, the Loudoun County Board of Supervisors passed a resolution that would
limit public services for illegal immigrants and penalize employers who hire
them.

"I think you're going to see more of the state take this kind of action,"
Bolling said.

-- Cecilia Kang

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 26, 2007 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Letters To the Editor

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. GZ04

LENGTH: 373 words

Undocumented Immigrants Contribute to This Country

Lately I have seen several letters to the editor that are critical of
undocumented immigrants. I don't know whether newspapers are not receiving
letters on the other side of the issue or are receiving them and not publishing
them.

At least one recent letter criticized the Montgomery County executive and the
chief of police for meeting with a state legislator and the leader of the
nonprofit organization CASA de Maryland, who spoke behalf of undocumented
immigrants [Montgomery Extra, July 12].

Undocumented, as well as documented, immigrants are human beings and deserve
basic human rights. It seems that some people would like to deprive them of the
pursuit of happiness, probably liberty and perhaps even life.

Most documented and undocumented immigrants come to the United States for
economic reasons, trying to escape high-poverty countries with low wages. Others
come to be reunited with their families. People who criticize them so harshly
and would send them all home should try to find work or open businesses in, for
example, rural El Salvador. It is nearly impossible.

Yes, many of the immigrants send money home to their families when they can.
Much of this money is used to buy products that are made in the United States,
and much of the rest helps build up local economies, which increases local
buying power and political stability and reduces immigration.

The ardent foes of undocumented immigrants may not realize that they help keep
our Social Security system afloat by paying in millions of dollars and then not
receiving benefits. They help control inflation by lowering the costs of
construction, agriculture and other economic activities. Nearly all of them work
hard to get ahead.

Virtually all undocumented immigrants would rather be in the United States
legally, but the number of visas issued is far too low to meet the demand or the
needs of American employers. The only recourse is for people to come however
they can.

Undocumented immigrants are a reality. They make large contributions to the
economic, cultural and social life of this country. Those who advocate for them
deserve as much respect as defenders of any other segment of society.

Kenneth D. Weiss

Derwood

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Montgomery South

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 27, 2007 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Judge Blocks City's Ordinances Against Illegal Immigration

BYLINE: Darryl Fears; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 680 words


A federal judge issued a permanent injunction yesterday against restrictive
anti-illegal-immigration ordinances in Hazleton, Pa., a city described by its
mayor as "the toughest place on illegal immigrants in America."

In a strongly worded opinion handed down at the U.S. District Court in Scranton,
Pa., Judge James M. Munley ruled that federal law "prohibits Hazleton from
enforcing any of the provisions of its ordinances," which impose a
$1,000-per-day fine on landlords who rent to illegal immigrants, revoke the
business license of any employer who hires them, declare English as the official
language and bar city employees from translating documents to another language
without approval.

Civil liberties organizations sued on behalf of illegal and legal immigrant
plaintiffs, including the Hazleton Hispanic Business Association, saying that
the city infringed on the federal government's sole authority to regulate
immigration.

The groups hailed the ruling as a historic victory for the city's Latino
residents, as well as a warning to state and local governments that copied
Hazleton's ordinances and to opponents of illegal immigration, who Anthony D.
Romero, executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union, said "dupe
local officials into adopting bad public policy that won't stand up in court."

But the opponents vowed to appeal the decision and to continue the fight to the
Supreme Court, if necessary. "Attorneys have already drafted appeal briefs,"
said Dan Stein, president of the Federation for American Immigration Reform.
Seeking to severely restrict immigration, the group strongly supported
Hazleton's ordinances.

In a statement, Hazleton Mayor Louis J. Barletta said: "This fight is far from
over. I have said it many times before: Hazleton is not going to back down. We
are discouraged to see a federal judge has decided -- wrongly, we believe --
that Hazleton and cities like it around the nation cannot enact legislation to
protect their citizens, their services, and their budgets."

Hazleton made national headlines last year by passing some of the nation's
strictest ordinances against illegal immigration, saying that illegal immigrants
were draining city coffers but without producing evidence. About 100 similar
measures were passed nationwide, some of which have been successfully challenged
by immigration supporters, civil rights advocates said.

More recently, state legislatures such as those in Virginia, Oklahoma and
Colorado have joined in the lawmaking, passing laws that allow police officers
to question suspects about their immigration status, put illegal immigrants in
jail without allowing bail and penalize businesses that hire them.

Munley struck at Hazleton's efforts with plain language, writing that the city's
ordinances "disrupt a well-established federal scheme for regulating the
presence and employment of immigrants in the United States." The judge said the
ordinances "penalize landlords, tenants, employers and employees without
providing them the procedural protections required by law." In the end, he said,
"Hazleton, in its zeal to control the presence of a group deemed undesirable,
violated the rights of [immigrants], as well as others in the community."

Prince William County Board Chairman Corey A. Stewart (R-Occoquan) said the
Hazleton decision will not give pause to county lawmakers now seeking to deny
county services to illegal immigrants and to increase local police enforcement
of immigration laws.

Unlike Hazleton, Prince William County is not trying to levy fines or punish
landlords, Stewart said.

The measures in Hazleton and elsewhere sprang up in the wake of unsuccessful
efforts to pass a comprehensive change to immigration law on Capitol Hill.

Rudy Espinal, a business owner in Hazleton, said the ordinances "turned this
town upside down" and created "an incredible amount of division." The few people
he spoke with after the judge's decision "were happy," he said.

Stein said they should prepare for a fight. "We're committed to it. We've got
support for it. People are willing to fund it," he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 28, 2007 Saturday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Latinos Unite to Turn Fear Into Activism;
Pr. William Policy on Illegal Immigrants Prompts Call for Boycott, Other Actions

BYLINE: Pamela Constable; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1356 words


Latinos in Prince William County, angered and panicked by a county resolution to
crack down on illegal immigrants, are swiftly banding together against what they
see as an assault on their community. They vowed this week to block the
resolution through a boycott, a petition drive and possibly a labor strike or
lawsuit.

At packed public meetings in three towns this week, organizers signed up
volunteers, circulated petitions, set up a hotline for reports of discrimination
and announced a campaign of phone calls and e-mails to county officials. They
also said they would organize caravans to visit Loudoun County and other
communities where Latinos feel targeted.

On Thursday night in Manassas, more than 1,000 Latino residents voted with
raised fists and cheers to stage a one-week boycott of all non-immigrant
businesses in Prince William at the end of next month. The crowd first met in a
church, then grew so large it had to move to a park outside. Latinos in
Woodbridge and Dumfries also voted this week to stage the boycott and other
actions.

The surge of activism, which also includes voter registration and citizenship
drives in other communities, follows a long period of drift and uncertainty for
area Latino advocates, especially since the collapse of a major immigration
reform bill in the Senate last month. Opponents of illegal immigrants, who had
swamped Capitol Hill with impassioned e-mails and phone calls against the bill,
felt emboldened by its defeat and have pressed ahead with local measures.

The resolution in Prince William was unanimously approved July 10 by
supervisors; this fall the board will define how the policy change will be
implemented. It seeks to deny some public services to illegal immigrants and
allow local police officers and civilian officials to question people about
their legal status, if there is probable cause, and notify federal immigration
authorities. A similar resolution was approved in Loudoun County, and measures
are being considered in other Virginia jurisdictions, such as Culpeper.

But unlike the Senate bill, which was too distant and complex to galvanize many
area immigrants to action, the proposed Virginia actions are perceived as a
clear, immediate threat. Latino leaders, taking a leaf from their adversaries,
have become focused and organized.

"This law is built on hate and racism," said Ricardo Juarez, 40, a construction
worker from Woodbridge and coordinator of a Virginia group called Mexicans
Without Borders, who was the main speaker at the three meetings. "It can affect
every one of us, and we have to defeat it. . . . Will people be asked for
documents in libraries or parks or schools? If a woman is pregnant and goes to
the hospital, is there a risk that the staff will report her to immigration?"

Backers of the Prince William resolution insist that their goal is to reduce
crime and public costs associated with illegal immigrants. However, some
residents have complained of feeling inundated by Latinos, who have been drawn
to job opportunities in the growing region. Some say the newcomers are crowding
homes, draining public services and changing the local culture.

"People are very much in favor of what we have done here in the county,
including people who are legal aliens or who have been naturalized," said Prince
William Supervisor John D. Jenkins (D-Neabsco). He said his office had received
a "ton of calls" and e-mails from supporters but only a tiny number from
opponents of the resolution.

But many legal Latino residents at the three meetings said they feared the
resolution would also make them targets of police harassment and official
hostility. They said they believed its true aim is to make life difficult for
Latinos.

"We are all worried about these new laws," said Marta Manzanares, 25, a legal
resident from El Salvador who attended the Woodbridge meeting with her husband,
a construction worker; their two small sons; and about 500 other Latinos. "Maybe
our children will have to leave school and become illiterate. . . . We came out
here to buy a house and have a quiet life. Maybe now we can lose that, too."

Previous efforts to stage boycotts on behalf of immigrant causes have had mixed
results in the Washington area. Last year, when national immigrant groups
organized a boycott to protest deportations, some local leaders opposed
participating, but Juarez's group led a construction-work slowdown and the
temporary closure of some Latino shops in Northern Virginia.

This time, the proposed boycott appears to be carefully planned and to have wide
community support. At the Manassas meeting, Juarez and other leaders issued
specific instructions to families to stock up on milk and gas before the Aug.
27-Sept. 3 boycott, to buy school supplies in neighboring Alexandria or Fairfax
County, to avoid large chain supermarkets and mega-stores and to patronize
smaller, Latino-owned markets instead. Organizers passed out plastic bags of
pens along with the petition against the resolution and taped up signs with
phone numbers and e-mail addresses where people could express their views.

Organizers also said that if their efforts fail, they will consider a one-day
labor strike, and volunteer lawyers will prepare lawsuits to challenge the
resolution as unconstitutional and discriminatory.

In other parts of the region, immigrant aid groups are stepping up citizenship
classes and voter registration drives to help legal immigrants gain political
influence. The Washington area has about a half-million Latino immigrants; a
small number are U.S. citizens, hundreds of thousands have temporary or
permanent legal status, and a large but uncounted number are illegal.

In Silver Spring last weekend, dozens of Latino immigrants crowded computer
screens at the nonprofit CASA of Maryland office while volunteers translated
long citizenship applications. A Salvadoran grandmother stared incredulously
when asked whether she would bear arms in defense of the United States. A
Guatemalan man sheepishly called his wife to remind him of their wedding date.

"Some of these questions don't make sense, but this is something I really want
to do," said Josefa Duran, 38, a Laurel resident and a native of El Salvador who
became a legal resident years ago but did not apply for citizenship until now.
"With all these new laws and changing rules, we don't want to be persecuted or
have problems. I am legal, but I want to be on the safe side."

Officials of several regional organizations that help immigrants said that since
the collapse of the Senate bill, they had reduced their public activities while
strategizing about how to combat rising anti-immigrant sentiment and workplace
federal immigration raids that have multiplied deportations and family
separations.

Jaime Contreras, chairman of the National Capital Immigration Coalition, said
that about 200,000 permanent residents in the region are eligible for
citizenship and that tens of thousands of naturalized citizens have never
registered to vote.

"There is fear in the community, but there is anger, too, because people feel
they are being unjustly targeted," Contreras said. "We want to turn that anger
into civic engagement and into participation in the 2008 elections. They say we
are a burden, but a lot of us own houses and cars and pay taxes, and we need to
stand up and be counted."

Despite the renewed activism, Latino leaders said several factors could still
prevent immigrants from taking part. Illegal immigrants might be reluctant to
appear at public events or fill out documents. (Leaders at the Manassas rally
said people could sign the protest petitions without revealing their addresses.)
And legal immigrants who have achieved financial and social prominence might not
want to be associated with a movement to defend illegal immigrants.

"We are like a sleeping elephant," said Elmer Arias, president of the D.C.-based
Salvadoran American Chamber of Commerce. "We who are citizens have good jobs and
become comfortable. We forget that we have benefited from the community and that
we have the obligation to help our people."

Staff writer Nick Miroff contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Carol Guzy -- The Washington Post; At this meeting in
Woodbridge and in two other towns, foes of the resolution signed up volunteers
and set up a hotline for discrimination reports.
IMAGE; "This law is built on hate and racism," says Ricardo Juarez, coordinator
of Mexicans Without Borders and the main speaker at the three meetings.
IMAGE; Photos By Carol Guzy -- The Washington Post; Areldy Mejia, left, and Lisa
Figueroa, holding Christopher Hernandez, 5, listen to a speaker at a meeting at
Fred M. Lynn Middle School in Woodbridge.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 4, 2007 Saturday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Hispanics in a Knot in Prince William;
Immigrants Fearful About Crackdown Pursuing Marriage

BYLINE: Theresa Vargas; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1029 words


They were children in Guatemala when they met -- 10-year-olds who hadn't heard
of Manassas or Prince William County or Virginia.

But somehow, more than 15 years later, life had brought them here: standing on
the empty second floor of Prince William's courthouse, getting married. There
was no white dress, no bouquet and no family other than their 1-year-old
daughter.

All of that could wait, the couple said, but the marriage couldn't.

"We don't know what's going to happen later," the groom, Elvis Jimenez, 26, of
Manassas, said in Spanish. "We heard that people without Social Security cards
wouldn't be able to marry soon."

Since Prince William approved a resolution last month to root out illegal
immigrants, officials say, calls from Hispanics wanting quick civil marriages
have increased, a sign of growing desperation and fear. Immigration lawyers and
community activists say many undocumented immigrants could be turning to
matrimony as a route to legal status or choosing to tie the knot before the
county starts denying public services to those who are here illegally.

In Herndon and in Loudoun County, which have large Hispanic populations and have
pushed measures against illegal immigration, officials said they have not seen a
sudden increase in marriages. Nor have clerks in Montgomery and Prince George's
counties in Maryland. The Prince William resolution is the toughest in the
state, directing police to check immigration status and seeking to deny public
benefits to illegal immigrants.

Elvis and Marcia Jimenez said that they had been planning to get married but
that they finally made the decision after hearing media reports that Prince
William would soon deny the service of civil marriage to illegal immigrants.
Although Marcia, a waitress, is a legal resident, Elvis, a painter, is
undocumented.

Illegal immigrants do not automatically gain lawful status by marrying legal
residents, but marriage allows them to apply through their spouses for legal
standing.

"He's the head of this family," Marcia Jimenez said, holding their daughter,
Daniela, and adding that she doesn't know what they would do if he was deported.

Maria Ramirez works for the county's Public Services Division, which handles
marriage licenses, and is one of four people the county lists as a
Spanish-speaking civil celebrant, a person authorized to officiate weddings. She
performed the Jimenez nuptials.

Before the Board of County Supervisors passed the immigration measures by a
unanimous vote July 10, Ramirez estimated that she was handling about 10
ceremonies a week. Now, she said, the number is as high as 20. The phone calls
to her office also have increased, with many callers asking about identification
requirements, such as whether they need to furnish a Social Security card.

"People are getting scared," Ramirez said.

Many callers also mention that they have an attorney -- which was unheard of
before, she added.

"They used to do it on their own. Now they say, 'my lawyer, my lawyer,' " she
said. "They want to be able to know first if 'I should go over there to Public
Services.' They think we're going to call immigration on them."

After the Prince William vote, county staff members were given 90 days to figure
out which services could be denied to illegal immigrants lawfully. The police
department has 60 days to establish how it will check residency and what
constitutes probable cause.

Shari Starr, a deputy clerk for the Prince William Circuit Court, remembered
listening one night to a radio program about how Loudoun wanted to follow Prince
William's lead in enacting the measures. By the next morning, Starr said, the
calls to her desk increased. On the other end of the line were people with
Spanish accents asking how they could get married -- now.

"It was immediate," Starr said, estimating she received at least 10 such calls
that first day. "My thought was, they are just scrambling to be legal so they
won't be thrown out of the area."

After Congress failed to pass comprehensive immigration legislation, many
immigrants think that marrying someone who is here legally is their only option
for legalization, said Claudia J. Zucker, an Arlington County immigration and
family lawyer, adding that this opens the door to fraudulent pairings.

"Sometimes they are honest with their attorneys, and sometimes they are not,"
Zucker said. "They say, 'Look, I'm getting married because I have no choice.'
It's a business proposition. Some of them even use the words 'business
proposition.' "

Atchuthan Sriskandarajah, an immigration lawyer with five offices in Virginia,
including one in Manassas, said he would never support a fraudulent marriage.
But if a couple had been in a relationship for years and were contemplating
marriage, he said, he wouldn't hesitate to advise them that they should consider
doing it now. In Virginia, there are no residency requirements to obtain a
marriage license, and identification is needed only as a proof of age.

"We have clients that are panicking," Sriskandarajah said, adding that many are
asking what will happen to them if they are stopped by police. The unease has
been growing since Prince William proposed its resolution, he said. "This is
coming from my clients in Prince William. It is not coming from my clients in
Fairfax."

In Prince William, the number of Hispanics has ballooned in the past few
decades, with the community making up more than 18 percent of the population in
2005, compared with 4.5 percent in 1990. The percentage of Hispanic students in
the county's school system since 1996 has swelled from 6.6 percent to nearly
one-fourth.

Teresita Jacinto, of Mexicans Without Borders and the Woodbridge Workers
Committee, said the uncertainty over how the resolution will be enforced has
only added to the confusion in the community.

She said she is fielding questions from mothers about how to protect their
children and is saying goodbye to entire families that are relocating. Jacinto
thinks there is a sociological explanation for the recent surge in nuptials.

"In a time of crisis, that kind of thing happens," she said. "People find a way
to respond to their unbearable situations, and marriage can be a good thing."

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Carol Guzy -- The Washington Post; Maria Ramirez officiates
as Marcia and Elvis Jimenez are married in the courthouse.
IMAGE; By Carol Guzy -- The Washington Post; Elvis Jiminez, an illegal immigrant
from Guatemala, holds daughter Danielle, whose mother, Marcia, is a legal
resident.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 9, 2007 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Groups to Fight Crackdown on Immigrants;
Activists Organize Against Board's Plans to Cut Off Services to People Without
Legal Status

BYLINE: Sandhya Somashekhar; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. LZ01

LENGTH: 747 words


Immigrant advocates and civil liberties activists in Loudoun County are
developing plans to fight a proposed county crackdown on illegal immigrants,
saying that they hope to dispel widely held misconceptions about the issue.

The Board of Supervisors voted last month to move toward cutting off county
services to illegal immigrants where possible and to step up deportations of
those who commit crimes.

Opponents of the board's resolution say such measures will encourage racial
profiling and engender fear among all immigrants, legal or not. The supervisors
say their intent is not to scare legal immigrants but to protect county
taxpayers from supporting those who are in the country -- and the county --
illegally.

Two of the groups leading the charge against the board's efforts are La Voz of
Loudoun, a Hispanic outreach and advocacy nonprofit organization, and the
Cascades-based Virginian Muslim Political Action Committee. Both are organizing
events in the next few weeks to promote their cause.

La Voz is sponsoring an Aug. 16 panel discussion about undocumented residents
and the issues they present for law enforcement and employers. The group's
executive director, Laura Valle, said that the meeting will be strictly
informational and that participants will not espouse any particular political
viewpoint.

But she said she hopes that Loudoun residents attending the event, scheduled for
7 p.m. at Ida Lee Recreation Center in Leesburg, will come away with a better
understanding of the complexities surrounding the immigration debate, including
the nature of immigration status. She also hopes it will persuade supporters of
tougher enforcement policies to "take all of this passion and redirect it back
to the federal government, where it belongs."

Among the panelists will be Loudoun Sheriff Stephen O. Simpson, a labor union
official and a United Methodist Church representative who provides legal
services to immigrants. The panel will take questions from the audience. Valle
said she hopes to organize a similar meeting in Spanish at a later date.

Supervisor Eugene A. Delgaudio (R-Sterling), the main sponsor of the board's
July resolution, said he will not be able to attend the discussion because it is
not in his district. He said he tends to stay in Sterling because he is busy
serving his constituents. "I wish I could go to everything I'm invited to. I
can't," he said.

Delgaudio also said that "special interest groups" with ties to national
organizations based outside Loudoun are behind the criticisms of the board's
resolution. Those groups are distorting the board's "well-meaning effort to
curtail our complicity in defrauding the taxpayers of Loudoun," said Delgaudio,
adding that he has received an overwhelmingly positive response from his
constituents about the board's actions.

Delgaudio is up for reelection on Nov. 6, as is the rest of the nine-member
board.

Mukit Hossain, president of the Virginian Muslim Political Action Committee,
said voters are not in favor of an effort that at its core is a "question of
fundamental human rights."

"People don't walk around with signs on their backs that say 'illegal,' " he
said. The board resolution "almost seeks to dehumanize immigrants in general in
the name of targeting illegal immigrants."

His group organized a meeting for national and local activists last month to
develop a strategy to fight the resolutions passed by Loudoun and by Prince
William County, whose board of supervisors took a similar vote last month. The
group, which Hossain said draws its support from the state's Muslim community
but sponsors political action on a variety of issues, also has plans for "civic
picnics" in Loudoun and Prince William next month to which local political
candidates will be invited.

He said the events will focus on education and voter registration, as well as
offer the candidates an opportunity to speak to voters.

"We are trying to see if we can create a strong force to become seriously
engaged civically leading to the election in November," said Hossain, who also
was instrumental in starting the controversial day laborer center in Herndon.
"At the end of the day, the real response will be in November."

Hossain's group and La Voz are rallying their supporters to attend the Loudoun
supervisors' Sept. 4 meeting. At that meeting, the board is expected to hear
from county staff members about which services can be cut off to people without
legal status and what the financial effect on the county might be.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Loudoun County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 9, 2007 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Culpeper Affirms Status of English;
County Targets Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: Nick Miroff; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 817 words


Culpeper County does not have foreign-language interpreters, and it does not
print its documents in Spanish, but let there be no doubt: English is now its
official language.

That's the message lawmakers wanted to send this week, voting unanimously on
resolutions to affirm the county's English-speaking primacy and to join a
growing coalition of Virginia jurisdictions asking the General Assembly for help
in cracking down on illegal immigrants.

Culpeper is the latest county in the state to enact measures targeting illegal
immigrants, after Congress failed to enact immigration legislation. Although far
less ambitious than the measures Prince William and Loudoun counties passed last
month, Culpeper's actions would send an important cultural message, county
officials said.

"We just wanted to clarify that this was an English-speaking county and make
sure we reflected that," said Supervisor Bill Chase (I-Stevensburg). "But I
don't think this really changes anything."

In recent years, residents have complained about Spanish-language signs of local
businesses, according to Chase, who thinks Culpeper's new immigrant population
isn't as committed to learning English as previous generations were.

"I think we all came from foreign countries and turned into English-speaking
Americans," he said. "But I don't feel a willingness of this particular group to
do that. I don't see the willingness to blend into society."

That charge often has been leveled lately in places with growing Latino
immigrant populations. Experts say language adaptation and assimilation have
never been a forte of first-generation immigrants. Although some scholars say
some Latinos, and Mexicans in particular, are assimilating more slowly compared
with previous immigrant groups, their children are commonly bilingual. Often, by
the third generation, only English is spoken.

But Culpeper, like other immigrant destinations in Virginia, is racked with
growing pains. In the past decade, the once-rural county has morphed into a
bedroom community for Northern Virginia commuters willing to endure long drives
in exchange for affordable homes and a small-town feel.

Much of the construction in the county's new subdivisions was done by Hispanic
laborers. Many of them gather each morning to solicit jobs at such places as the
Culpeper Town Plaza, a scene familiar to residents of Herndon, Woodbridge,
Gaithersburg and other localities in the region where day-labor pickup sites
have become flash points.

"It's been a tremendous eyesore for our community," said F. Steve Jenkins (I), a
Culpeper Town Council member and former county supervisor who has led the
campaign against the area's illegal immigrants. Jenkins, a Culpeper native and
high school football coach, said he and other residents have watched the area's
construction bonanza turn into a "residential nightmare."

"We've turned into a suburb of Northern Virginia," he said. "The influx of
illegal aliens has steadfastly grown because of the building boom that's taken
place."

Over the past year, Jenkins has pushed several times for the town to move
against illegal immigrants, but fellow council members have rebuffed his
proposals to tighten rules about residential crowding and to train local police
to work with federal immigration officers under a program being implemented in
Prince William and other Northern Virginia jurisdictions. Jenkins then turned to
lobbying county supervisors, speaking on illegal immigration at board meetings.

"It's all Jenkins. There's never a moment when he isn't on the attack," said
Mart?n Bernal, owner of the El Nopal market in the town of Culpeper. "If a
Hispanic person did something to hurt him, maybe the community should ask for
his forgiveness. But I don't know what he has against Hispanics."

Bernal, who came to Culpeper from Mexico in 1988 and calls himself a "pioneer"
of the town's Latino community, said he thought the English-language resolution
might do some good.

"I think it'll help force us to learn more English, and if we learn the
language, we'll have better job opportunities," he said. "No one's taking it as
an offense."

Far more worrisome, Bernal said, was the threat that the town or county would
try to enact policies such as those approved in Prince William that seek to deny
public services to illegal immigrants and allow local police to check residency
status.

As in Prince William and Loudoun, officials in Culpeper say illegal immigrants
are straining hospitals and schools; 10 percent of the county's 7,000 students
are Hispanic. County Administrator Frank Bossio said the resolutions were an
important step toward pinpointing the financial burden of illegal immigration on
county taxpayers.

"The din is growing steadily," he said. "Some people just have fears, whether
based on perception or reality, I don't know. But if you let that grow out of
control, then fear will drive the problem instead of fact."

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Supervisor Bill Chase said many new immigrants are not blending.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 11, 2007 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

No Benefits for Illegal Immigrants

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 246 words


Ruth Marcus's Aug. 8 op-ed column "Attack Ads You'll Be Seeing" not only left
out important facts, it missed the point. The American people expect Congress to
offer solutions to combat illegal immigration, but Democrats are making the
problem worse.

Last week the House Democratic leadership thumbed its collective nose at the
will of the American people by stealing a vote on a GOP proposal prohibiting
taxpayer dollars from going to illegal immigrants. The column implied that our
proposal is redundant, but Republicans know that current law is insufficient.

A June 2006 Social Security Administration report revealed that the government
is one of the largest employers of people not authorized to work in this
country. A June 2003 Agriculture Department report revealed that illegal
immigrants were receiving federal housing assistance. Clearly current law is not
sufficient.

Democrats also rolled back GOP reforms requiring states to verify citizenship
for those applying for State Children's Health Insurance Program or Medicaid
benefits. A 2005 Department of Health and Human Services report found that 46
states allowed self-declaration of citizenship for Medicaid.

Americans are compassionate people, but they strongly agree with Republicans
that illegal immigrants should not be receiving federal benefits.

JOHN BOEHNER

U.S. Representative (R-Ohio)

ROY BLUNT

U.S. Representative (R-Mo.)

Washington

The writers are House Republican leader and House Republican whip, respectively.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 12, 2007 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Letters To the Editor

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW02

LENGTH: 501 words

County Actions Will Not Hurt Legal Immigrants in the Area

The rhetoric concerning the county's action to gain a grasp on illegal
immigration is getting way out of hand.

Two things come to mind. Those opposing the supervisors' resolution just do not
seem to understand the definition of illegal. No one I know is attempting to
curtail legal immigration, yet the immigrant community leadership would have you
believe otherwise.

There are claims already of racial profiling, yet the self-proclaimed voice of
that segment of our population is proposing a march and boycott of
non-Hispanic-owned businesses. Is that not profiling in action?

There are very few of us who do not come from an immigrant background, yet we
have assimilated into American culture and language and became legal,
contributing citizens. Today's illegal immigrants should do the same.

Brenda Frederick

Dumfries

Stewart Mistakes 14th Amendment As Relevant to Transportation Plan

Earlier this year, Corey A. Stewart (R-Occoquan), chairman of the Prince William
Board of County Supervisors, was quoted making one of the most ridiculous
statements ever uttered by an elected official.

Stewart apparently claimed that the Virginia legislature passed the recently
enacted transportation plan because he threatened that Prince William County
would sue the state under the 14th Amendment of the U.S. Constitution for its
funding of road projects.

This claim would be laughable if it were not so pathetic. The relevant section
of the 14th Amendment reads: "All persons born or naturalized in the United
States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United
States and of the State wherein they reside. No State shall make or enforce any
law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United
States; nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property,
without due process of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the
equal protection of the laws."

The 14th Amendment, adopted in 1868, was a post-Civil War action to ensure equal
treatment of and rights for the black residents of the United States. Just how
Stewart thinks this amendment could apply to the allocation of road funds in
2007 is beyond reasonable comprehension.

Expecting any court to so rule would be a mockery of the concepts of "judicial
restraint," "original intent" and "strict construction" of the Constitution that
conservatives say are among their basic principles.

There is no doubt that the transportation initiative, however flawed, was passed
because the reactionary, Republican members of the House of Delegates, after
years of doing nothing, finally took some action to address transportation for
fear of their political lives.

Stewart's claim is akin to the rooster that believes his morning crowing causes
the sun to rise. In light of Stewart's statements, perhaps he should adopt the
nickname "Rooster," and perhaps he should adopt "cock-a-doodle-doo" as his next
campaign slogan.

Steve O. Dixon

Dumfries

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 12, 2007 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Groups to Fight Crackdown on Illegal Immigrants;
Activists Organizing Against Loudoun Supervisors' Plans to Cut Off Services,
Increase Deportations

BYLINE: Sandhya Somashekhar; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW05

LENGTH: 743 words


Immigrant advocates and civil liberties activists in Loudoun County are
developing plans to fight a proposed county crackdown on illegal immigrants,
saying that they hope to dispel widely held misconceptions about the issue.

The Board of Supervisors voted last month to move toward cutting off county
services to illegal immigrants where possible and to step up deportations of
those who commit crimes.

Opponents of the board's resolution say such measures will encourage racial
profiling and engender fear among all immigrants, legal or not. The supervisors
say their intent is not to scare legal immigrants but to protect county
taxpayers from supporting those who are in the country -- and the county --
illegally.

Two of the groups leading the charge against the board's efforts are La Voz of
Loudoun, a Hispanic outreach and advocacy nonprofit organization, and the
Cascades-based Virginian Muslim Political Action Committee. Both are organizing
events in the next few weeks to promote their cause.

La Voz is sponsoring a panel discussion Thursday about undocumented residents
and the issues they present for law enforcement and employers. The group's
executive director, Laura Valle, said that the meeting will be strictly
informational and that participants will not espouse any political viewpoint.

But she said she hopes that Loudoun residents attending the event, scheduled for
7 p.m. at Ida Lee Recreation Center in Leesburg, will come away with a better
understanding of the complexities surrounding the immigration debate, including
the nature of immigration status. She also hopes it will persuade supporters of
tougher enforcement policies to "take all of this passion and redirect it back
to the federal government, where it belongs."

Among the panelists will be Loudoun Sheriff Stephen O. Simpson, a labor union
official and a United Methodist Church representative who provides legal
services to immigrants. The panel will take questions from the audience. Valle
said she hopes to organize a similar meeting in Spanish later.

Supervisor Eugene A. Delgaudio (R-Sterling), the main sponsor of the board's
July resolution, said he will not be able to attend the discussion because it is
not in his district. He said he tends to stay in Sterling because he is busy
serving his constituents. "I wish I could go to everything I'm invited to. I
can't," he said.

Delgaudio also said that "special interest groups" with ties to national
organizations based outside Loudoun are behind the criticisms of the board's
resolution. Those groups are distorting the board's "well-meaning effort to
curtail our complicity in defrauding the taxpayers of Loudoun," said Delgaudio,
adding that he has received an overwhelmingly positive response from his
constituents about the board's actions.

Delgaudio is up for reelection on Nov. 6, as is the rest of the nine-member
board.

Mukit Hossain, president of the Virginian Muslim Political Action Committee,
said voters are not in favor of an effort that at its core is a "question of
fundamental human rights."

"People don't walk around with signs on their backs that say 'illegal,' " he
said. The board resolution "almost seeks to dehumanize immigrants in general in
the name of targeting illegal immigrants."

His group organized a meeting for national and local activists last month to
develop a strategy to fight the resolutions passed by Loudoun and by Prince
William County, whose board of supervisors took a similar vote last month. The
group, which Hossain said draws its support from the state's Muslim community
but sponsors political action on a variety of issues, also has plans for "civic
picnics" in Loudoun and Prince William next month to which local political
candidates will be invited.

He said the events will focus on education and voter registration, as well as
offer the candidates an opportunity to speak to voters.

"We are trying to see if we can create a strong force to become seriously
engaged civically leading to the election in November," said Hossain, who also
was instrumental in starting the controversial day laborer center in Herndon.
"At the end of the day, the real response will be in November."

Hossain's group and La Voz are rallying supporters to attend the Loudoun
supervisors' Sept. 4 meeting. At that meeting, the board is expected to hear
from county staff members about which services can be cut off to people without
legal status and what the financial effect on the county might be.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 14, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Sterling Park's Identity Crisis;
Swept Up in Area's Demographic Shift, Loudoun Neighborhood Wrestles With
Immigrant Presence

BYLINE: Sandhya Somashekhar; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1592 words


In some ways, Sterling Park is the same as it was 40 years ago, when it was
founded as Loudoun County's first suburban-style planned community -- a place
where working-class families could find jobs, affordable homes and a piece of
the American dream.

In other ways, though, the community has never been so different. One recent
morning, Spanish ballads blared from the open door of Pepe's Mexican Restaurant.
A cadre of Latino children zoomed along the sidewalk on scooters in front of
Sterling Elementary School, where a sign urging parents to register their
children was printed in English and Spanish.

For decades, the conservative, largely white neighborhood of a few thousand
families was isolated from the sweeping demographic changes that transformed
Northern Virginia into one of the most diverse regions in the nation.

Today, Sterling Park is on the front line of that change. The number of
Hispanics has surged since 2000 in Loudoun, the Census Bureau reported last
week, with many of them settling in Sterling Park. The community is at the heart
of an intensifying debate over illegal immigration that led the Loudoun County
Board of Supervisors to join Prince William and several other Virginia
jurisdictions last month in approving resolutions promising to crack down on
illegal immigrants who use county services or commit crimes.

Many Sterling Park residents have praised the board's action, saying the
newcomers have brought with them a flood of illegal immigrants, whom they blame
for everything from run-down houses to what they perceive as an increase in
crime.

Immigrant advocates agree that the aging neighborhood -- where nearly every
block has a house with peeling paint or an unkempt yard, and gangs are a
persistent problem -- has seen better days. But they say the critics, and the
politicians who have responded to them, are connecting a jumble of issues that
have nothing to do with illegal immigration.

The debate has sharpened largely because of a backlash among longtime residents
upset by the changes in the town.

"People I talk to are very concerned about degradation of their neighborhoods,
property values, overcrowding, lack of maintenance on homes -- that type of
thing," said state Del. Thomas Davis Rust (R), who represents Sterling Park and
nearby Herndon and supports the resolutions. "Most people that have talked to me
blame illegal immigration and believe there is a direct link. Do I have proof
that there's a link? No. But that is what people believe."

One such resident is Fran Brocke, 76, of Ashburn, who lived in Sterling Park for
43 years but moved in October because her neighborhood, she said, was being
"taken over by illegal aliens." She is a member of Help Save Loudoun, a group
that opposes illegal immigration.

"It really breaks my heart," said Brocke, recalling the brick split-level house
on Church Road where she raised her five kids. "People thought I'd never leave.
But it just got to the point where I didn't feel safe anymore."

Defenders of the immigrants say many of the criticisms are not supported by
statistics.

For instance, although there is a widespread perception that crime has increased
in Sterling, sheriff's office data show that nearly every kind of crime has
decreased since 2000. Last year, Sterling Park saw a few high-profile shootings
and gang-related incidents. But according to the Loudoun sheriff's office, only
one in 20 gang members in the county is in the country illegally, and most are
U.S. citizens.

Brocke and others say Sterling has been plagued by illegal boarding houses that
rent rooms in single-family homes to illegal immigrants.

From July 2006 to June 2007, officials received 198 complaints of overcrowded
homes, said Keith Fairfax, head of the county's residential overcrowding
enforcement office. Only a few turned out to be boarding houses in which
landlords rented homes to more than a dozen people, he said.

The county doesn't track what percentage of inspections turn up violations,
Fairfax said. The most common examples of violations were people sleeping in
basement rooms with windows that were too small under Virginia law or three
people sleeping in a room considered big enough for only two.

Often, inspectors found Bible study groups, people coming by to assist sick
relatives, well-wishers visiting newborn babies and similar get-togethers,
Fairfax said.

Laura Valle, executive director of the Hispanic advocacy group La Voz of
Loudoun, agreed that Sterling Park has seen better days. But she has a different
explanation for the changes. Since the community was founded in the early 1960s,
the buildings are beginning to show their age, she said. And in a county where
the average single-family home costs $660,000, Sterling Park has less expensive,
relatively affordable houses that attract people for whom survival, not
household maintenance, is a top priority.

That includes new immigrants, especially Hispanics, who were attracted to the
construction jobs that proliferated in fast-growing Loudoun during the past
decade, she said.

Valle believes there could be a connection, though tenuous, between some of the
problems the residents complain of and illegal immigration.

"There is a connection to the extent that if you are an undocumented immigrant,
your capacity to improve your economic situation and integrate into society is
greatly reduced," she said. "But in the scope of things, that's really
insignificant. Even if you were to miraculously deport every undocumented
person, these issues wouldn't go away."

A 37-year-old Sterling Park woman, who asked that her name not be used because
she came to Virginia illegally from Mexico last year, bristles at the suggestion
that her neighborhood is run down and overrun with gangs.

The Sterling Park home she rents from a relative is modestly furnished but tidy.
A sprinkler sits idle in her yard. Four cars are lined up in the driveway, and
the lamppost is wound with Christmas lights. She said she and her husband, their
three children and three other family members live there.

"All of us -- my kids, too -- we work all the time, and it's sometimes hard to
keep up with the house," she said with the aid of a translator. "But I think it
looks pretty good."

Some activists believe the longtime residents' concerns reflect a desire to
return to a time when their community was more homogenous.

The Census figures released last week show Loudoun's minority population is one
of the fastest-growing in the nation. Sterling Park, in particular, has seen a
striking increase in the Hispanic population: Last year, one in three students
at the neighborhood's Park View High School was Hispanic, compared with about
one in 10 in 2000, according to the state.

"The community has been changing very rapidly, and maybe much to the unhappiness
of some residents, many of those new people are not lily-white," said Mukit
Hossain, president of the Virginia Muslim Political Action Committee, which is
based in the Sterling area and has been organizing opposition to the
resolutions. "There has been an influx of a lot of immigrants into this area,
which I'm sure makes some people nervous."

The residents who called for the county's action say they are not racist; they
are simply fed up with those who show up uninvited and then treat the community
with disrespect.

"The issue is coming over here illegally, staying illegally and doing things
illegally. It's about the rule of law," said Larry Wilber, 61, a remodeling
contractor who has lived in Sterling Park for 11 years.

Mike Amos, 32, a paralegal who grew up in Sterling Park, said, "I've seen my
home town completely transformed from what it used to be, and not for the
better."

The strong anti-illegal immigrant stand among longtime Sterling Park residents
is not surprising considering its political history. Until 2005, when Democrat
David E. Poisson was elected in his place, Richard H. Black (R) represented the
Sterling area in the House of Delegates for four terms. He was known as one of
the state's most conservative politicians.

The area's representative on the Loudoun Board of Supervisors is Eugene A.
Delgaudio (R), executive director of an anti-gay organization based in Falls
Church. Delgaudio, who is up for reelection in November, was the main sponsor of
the Loudoun resolution cracking down on illegal immigrants. In a note to
constituents last month, he warned of "invasions of illegal aliens who turn safe
neighborhoods into filthy, crowded slums."

The rhetoric disturbs Jeanne West, his Democratic opponent. She believes illegal
immigration is a distraction from the real problems of the neighborhood: its age
and the lack of attention paid to it by elected officials.

"I don't want to be this Pollyanna who says this it is not a problem, but I
don't want to lay all of it at the feet of illegal immigrants," she said. "This
is still a nice family neighborhood. Something needs to be done to make sure we
get the amenities and the resources so we can keep the neighborhood desirable."

Brocke, Wilber and others say that they're not without compassion and that they
welcome those who are in the country legally. It's those who flout the law that
bother them, they said.

"I don't want someone coming to my country and building another dang country
inside of it," Wilber said. "It's like if you came home and found someone in
your house and you said, 'What are you doing here?' And they said: 'Oh, the door
was open; I just came in. By the way, I'm going to change some other things in
your home, too.' "

Researcher Meg Smith contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Jahi Chikwendiu -- The Washington Post; Fran Brocke, shown
reflected in the finish of her automobile, said she left Sterling Park last year
after 43 years because her neighborhood was being "taken over by illegal
aliens."
IMAGE; By Jahi Chikwendiu -- The Washington Post; Fran Brocke, shown touring her
old Sterling Park neighborhood, is a member of Help Save Loudoun, a group that
opposes illegal immigration.
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 14, 2007 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

DISTRICT BRIEFING

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 265 words

CLEVELAND PARK

Swastikas Painted on Wall Of Synagogue Parking Lot

Staff at a Cleveland Park synagogue found three swastikas yesterday painted on a
retaining wall of its parking lot.

Rabbi Jeffrey A. Wohlberg said this is the first incident involving the
anti-Semitic symbols that he has heard of at the decades-old Adas Israel temple,
which is off Connecticut Avenue NW.

The swastikas were painted on a wall at the far end of the parking lot, away
from the Conservative temple and facing a side street, he said. Staff members
reported the incident to D.C. police.

-- Michelle Boorstein

FEDERAL COURT

Man Sentenced to 27 Months In Illegal-Immigration Case

A Mexican man was sentenced to a 27-month prison term yesterday for harboring
illegal immigrants in his apartment in Northwest Washington, prosecutors said.

Carlos Medina, 35, pleaded guilty last month to federal charges of harboring
illegal immigrants and possession of a fraudulent document.

Prosecutors said Medina also was in the United States illegally. He has three
previous convictions for immigration offenses, they said, and had been deported
in 1996, 1997 and 2002.

Medina will be deported again once he completes his prison term, prosecutors
said. He was arrested in June 2006 in "Operation Card Shark," a federal
investigation into the sale of illegal identification documents on Columbia Road
NW.

Prosecutors said authorities caught Medina with seven other illegal immigrants
in a search of his apartment. They said they also uncovered fraudulent
identification documents.

Medina was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Paul L. Friedman.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           August 15, 2007 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Businesses Vow to Fight Crackdown;
Prince William Policies Split Latino Community

BYLINE: Nick Miroff and Krissah Williams; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 846 words


Latino business owners agreed yesterday that new Prince William County policies
aimed at cracking down on illegal immigrants are costing them customers, but
they were sharply divided on the best way to deal with it.

One group, led by some of the Salvadoran community's wealthiest business owners,
announced plans to "play by the rules" and launch a vigorous lobbying campaign
to have the policies repealed. An hour later, about 15 other business owners
said they supported a call by the group Mexicans Without Borders for a general
strike and a boycott of merchants who decline to support their cause.

At issue is a resolution approved unanimously last month by county supervisors
who want to deny county services to illegal immigrants and step up police
enforcement. Although the policies have yet to be finalized and implemented, the
business owners said they have scared away customers who fear discrimination and
deportation.

"It's amazing," said Ruben Andrade, owner of the nightclub East Coast Cafe and
three other businesses. "Everybody is so scared that a lot of my customers are
afraid to go out. They're moving out of town."

Andrade was one of the business owners who gathered to denounce the policies at
a Woodbridge shopping plaza at an event organized by Mexicans Without Borders.
They said their restaurants, markets and computer firms had lost as much as 50
percent of their customers.

Meanwhile, on the opposite side of the county at a Tex-Mex restaurant near
Manassas, another group of businessmen said they also were losing customers and
were prepared to answer the community's call for leadership. They said they had
raised $100,000 to lobby county supervisors to repeal the proposals and to fund
an economic study that would spell out the contributions of immigrants to
Virginia.

The group included Carlos Castro, owner of Todos Supermarket in Woodbridge;
Northern Virginia Realtor and radio operator Jose Luis Semidey; and Elmer Arias,
president of the U.S. Salvadoran Chamber of Commerce in Alexandria.

Castro, who opened his supermarket 17 years ago, declined to support the boycott
and said he had tried three times to meet with Mexicans Without Borders and its
general coordinator, Ricardo Juarez, but his calls were not returned. Castro
said he was booed and denounced as "racist" when he showed up at a recent
community meeting organized by Mexicans Without Borders and in appearances on
local Spanish-language radio, where much of the political debate has played out
over what to do about the new county policies.

"Instead of fighting among each other, we need to get together and we need to
work together," Castro said. "Those small laws that have been passed by some
localities are only drops when you consider the flood that is coming toward us."

The two groups have fundamentally different approaches. The Salvadoran
coalition's event was organized by Ayuda, a nonprofit group in the District that
has pledged to provide coalition members with staff and legal and lobbying
expertise. To many in the activist immigrant community, Ayuda's business group
represents the old guard. Indeed, the older businessmen said they want to work
within the political system, not buck it.

"We want to sit down and try to persuade the people with power," Semidey said. A
boycott "would probably antagonize people who may support us in the community."
he said. "We are not in Mexico, El Salvador, Venezuela or Panama. We have to
play by the rules here."

Semidey said he was an illegal immigrant two decades ago, but since then he and
the other business owners have built relationships with local political
officials. The Prince William lobbying effort is the first test of their
burgeoning political power, but division in the Latino community could dilute
the message.

Members of the coalition said they were not aware until yesterday that their
news conference would compete with the one in Woodbridge. That group, organized
by Mexicans Without Borders, made no mention of the meeting going on in
Manassas.

Similar fractures in Prince William's Hispanic community have emerged in the
past over the presence of day laborers and during a 2006 walkout by high school
students protesting tougher federal immigration laws.

While the group in Manassas pledged to flex its financial power, the business
owners in Woodbridge affirmed their support for the action plan pushed by
Mexicans Without Borders, including a Sept. 2 protest march, an Oct. 9 general
strike and a countywide boycott Aug. 27 to Sept. 3.

The boycott was initially intended to affect all non-Latino businesses in the
county; now, only stores that fail to display supportive placards issued by
Mexicans Without Borders will be targeted, according to a written statement read
by the business group.

Juarez said the tactics were agreed upon during a series of recent community
meetings hosted by his organization that drew thousands of Hispanic residents
looking for guidance and information about the new county measures.

"We've been pushed into a corner by these racist policies, and we need to be
heard," Juarez said.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Carol Guzy -- The Washington Post; Carlos Castro, center, at
a news conference with Mariano Claudio, left, and Mauricio Vivero, said the
policies "are only drops when you consider the flood that is coming toward us."
IMAGE; By Carol Guzy -- The Washington Post; Businessmen Paul Kyle, left,
Mariano Claudio, Carlos Castro, Mauricio Vivero and Jose Luis Semidey said they
had raised $100,000 to lobby for the repeal of the policies.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 16, 2007 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Leesburg Gauges Illegal-Immigrant Policies;
Officials Discuss Tougher Measures

BYLINE: Sandhya Somashekhar; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. LZ01

LENGTH: 562 words


Inspired by Loudoun County and other local governments that are considering
tougher measures against illegal immigrants, Leesburg town leaders took a look
at their policies this week to determine whether they should pursue a similar
path.

Leesburg Town Council members Ken Reid (R) and Fernando "Marty" Martinez (D)
initiated the discussion at the council's work session Monday night. At issue
was whether the Leesburg Police Department should collaborate more closely with
federal immigration authorities and whether the town could penalize businesses
that hire illegal immigrants.

Reid said that although illegal immigration is not a major problem in the town,
it could grow into what he considers a public nuisance.

"I'm one of those people who want to nip things in the bud before they get out
of control," Reid said before the meeting. "I don't think people in this
community want to see dozens of men hanging out at gas stations looking for work
under the table."

During the meeting, however, Mayor Kristen C. Umstattd said she was skeptical
that any additional effort by the town would be fruitful on an issue that is a
federal matter. "It's a guaranteed way to raise taxes," she said, referring to
the cost of additional screening by town officials.

Town Manager John Wells told the council that the town's guidelines for doing
business with private companies already require that the companies comply with
federal law. In some situations, the guidelines specifically require the
companies to verify that their employees are authorized to work in this country.

Leesburg Police Chief Joseph R. Price told the council that he would support
having a few of his investigators receive federal immigration training under the
Section 287(g) program. The program allows local law enforcement agencies to
gain access to some federal databases, which can hasten deportations of illegal
immigrants who commit crimes.

Martinez, who is running for the Virginia House of Delegates, said Tuesday that
he thought the town was doing everything in its power to prevent employers from
hiring illegal immigrants, which he said is one of his top priorities. Anything
more than that, he said, could create another "layer of government" to do
background checks, which would lead to higher taxes.

"My reluctance to involve local government into it is, is it within our scope of
what the locality is required to do? Who's going to pay for all of this?"
Martinez said.

Reid, however, said there may be steps the town can take that do not require
more government spending. For example, he said, the town could tighten
restrictions on residential crowding, a problem that he said sometimes goes hand
in hand with illegal immigration.

He said he will wait until Sept. 4, when Loudoun officials are scheduled to
receive a report about the effect of illegal immigration on the county budget,
before proposing further action.

Neither Reid nor Martinez suggested that the town move toward withholding public
services from illegal immigrants, which Loudoun County and some other local
governments have voted to do. The town does not provide services to undocumented
residents directly, but it gives funding to a variety of nonprofit groups that
do not check the immigration status of the people they help.

The amount of money given to the nonprofit groups represents a "pittance" of the
town's budget, Reid said.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Loudoun County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 16, 2007 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Herndon To Keep Day-Labor Center;
Council Wants New Manager

BYLINE: Sandhya Somashekhar; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 634 words


The Herndon Town Council voted last night to keep open its two-year-old hiring
center for day laborers but to find a new manager who will ban illegal
immigrants.

Officials say they have an operator in mind, but previous searches have come up
empty. Supporters of the center say the dozens of men who use it to find jobs --
many of whom are thought to be illegal immigrants -- might end up back on the
streets.

The vote ended the uncertainty over whether Project Hope and Harmony, the
faith-based nonprofit that runs the site, will be allowed to continue in that
role permanently.

"It will be a big disappointment for us and the workers" when Hope and Harmony
leaves, said Bill Threlkeld, director of the group, which is affiliated with
Reston Interfaith. The group will consider remaining until a new manager is
found but will continue its practice of not checking immigration status.

Council member William B. Tirrell Sr. said "the rule of law" took priority over
workers' needs. "The law is the law is the law," he said. "We can't decide by
whimsy what laws you're going to enforce."

Meanwhile, the day-labor issue was the subject of a heated meeting in Northeast
Washington last night. Many people told D.C. Council member Harry Thomas Jr.
(D-Ward 5) that they opposed his plan to set up a multicultural training center
in a shopping center off Rhode Island Avenue NE.

Speakers said the center would serve undocumented workers who take jobs that
could be filled by community residents.

"This project represents misplaced priorities," said community activist Kathy
Henderson.

The Herndon Official Workers Center has been controversial since it opened in
December 2005 in response to what many residents said was a public nuisance --
dozens of mostly Hispanic day laborers who gathered on Herndon's main
thoroughfare to flag down prospective employers.

It was approved by the Town Council and funded in part with a $175,000-a-year
grant from Fairfax County. It was unclear last night whether county funds would
still be available.

Six months after it opened, voters elected a new mayor and two new council
members who opposed the center, which many residents said had become a
taxpayer-funded haven for illegal immigrants. Since then, the center has become
a focus of the immigration debate.

The problem, critics said, was the failure to check whether the roughly 120
workers who go there on weekdays are authorized to work and live in the country.
Project Hope and Harmony has said that its role is to connect workers with
employers, not to check workers' status.

Dozens of speakers addressed the council Monday and yesterday. Some residents --
many of them members of Help Save Herndon, a group against illegal immigration
-- urged closing the center, which they said has reduced property values and
attracted illegal immigrants.

At the very least, they said, Project Hope and Harmony and Reston Interfaith
should be ousted. For the manager's job, town officials are considering a former
teacher who has said he will check work authorization papers and try to serve a
broader group of clients.

"Breaking the law in the name of charity is simply unacceptable," said Susan
Powell, a resident.

Many speakers, including several affiliated with Reston Interfaith, called the
center a resounding success that should continue as is. They had photos of empty
parking lots where workers once collected and said the center taught subjects
that helped workers assimilate.

Lisa Merkel, 34, of Herndon voiced discomfort about spending tax funds to give
jobs to undocumented workers. But she said the center has served its purpose
well.

"Some illegal immigrants are getting work," she said, "but the day-labor mess we
had a few years ago is not a problem anymore."

Staff writers Martin Weil and Yolanda Woodlee contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Sarah L. Voisin -- The Washington Post; Town Council members
Dennis D. Husch, left, and William B. Tirrell Sr. talk after the hearing on the
future of Herndon's day-labor center.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 16, 2007 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Romney vs. Giuliani On Immigration

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1004 words

SANCTUARY AND SERVICES

Romney vs. Giuliani On Immigration

Somewhere, John McCain must be smiling.

After watching his own campaign suffer badly over his support for a
comprehensive immigration overhaul, the senator from Arizona can watch from the
sidelines as his two main rivals in the race turn their immigration fire on each
other.

On the campaign trail last week, former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney
criticized former New York mayor Rudy Giuliani's record on illegal immigration,
charging that under his leadership, "New York City was the poster child for
sanctuary cities in the country."

Yesterday, the Giuliani campaign launched a radio ad that takes the Romney
attack head on by casting Giuliani's mayoralty in a distinctly different light.
In the 60-second ad, titled "Fence," Giuliani recalls the difficulty the city
had in getting federal authorities to deport illegal immigrants who had
committed crimes in New York. "It frustrates me that if someone comes here
illegally, in addition to everything else that's involved in that, if they
commit a crime, we don't throw them out of the country," Giuliani says in the
ad.

It's a clever tactic, because it focuses voters' attention on one aspect of
Giuliani's immigration approach in New York that might appeal to foes of illegal
immigration -- he did complain about the bureaucratic delays and dysfunction
that kept illegal immigrants convicted of crimes from being deported.

Left unsaid, though, is that Giuliani made those complaints in the context of
defending his administration's policy of not reporting illegal immigrants
seeking city services, a policy that was instituted by then-Mayor Ed Koch in
1988 and repeatedly challenged by federal officials.

As Giuliani sells himself to GOP primary voters, he has to contend with a
lengthy record on immigration that might not go over well in key early-voting
states including Iowa and South Carolina. In his first year as mayor in 1994, he
said of illegal immigrants: "If you come here, and you work hard, and you happen
to be in an undocumented status, you're one of the people who we want in this
city."

It's this record that Romney is trying to draw attention to, saying that
Giuliani's policies only encouraged more people to cross the border. Meanwhile,
current New York Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg (I) -- a possible presidential
contender himself -- is adding his voice to the debate. Asked this week about
New York's status an unofficial sanctuary for illegal immigrants, Bloomberg
said, "Let 'em come. . . . I can't think of any laboratory that shows better why
you need a stream of immigrants than New York City."

--  Alec MacGillis

LESS POLARIZING THAN CLINTON?

Obama's Contention Finds Support in Poll Numbers

This week Sen. Barack Obama (D-Ill.) offered what many believe is his strongest
argument for his candidacy against that of Hillary Clinton: that he is a less
polarizing figure on the national scene.

In making this case, Obama can find both affirmation and reason for concern in
an intriguing nugget in the Washington Post-ABC poll on the Democratic
presidential race released late last month. Simply put, independents and
Republicans seem to recognize that Obama has the potential to appeal to voters
outside the Democratic base -- but Democratic voters themselves don't yet seem
to be taking that fully into account.

Asked which Democratic candidate would have the "best chance to defeat the
Republican nominee in the general election," 54 percent of Democrats polled said
Clinton, compared with 22 percent who said Obama.

But when the same question was put to independents and Republicans, they had a
notably different view: 35 percent of independents said Clinton would have the
best chance, and 29 percent said Obama would; 37 percent of Republicans said
Clinton would have the best chance, compared with 33 percent who said Obama.
What to make of this 17-to-19-percentage-point gap in the estimation of
Clinton's general election prospects between Democrats and other voters?

Perhaps independents and Republicans -- the very voters whose views matter most,
come November 2008, in determining a Democrat's electability  -- are basing
their estimation of Clinton's chances on their own misgivings about her.

Leslie Gallagher, an independent from Fairfax County who responded to the poll,
has doubts about Clinton's ability to change people's minds about herself, and
she says Obama would have a better chance of winning in 2008.

"Too many people say, 'There's something about her I don't like,' " said
Gallagher, a 50-year-old homemaker who voted for John Kerry in 2004 and Al Gore
in 2000. "She's been in the public eye for a long time, and everyone's had a
long time to form opinions about her. I'm not sure she can turn it around."

--  Alec MacGillis

LABOR AND LUCRE

Realities Led Edwards To Scale Back in Nevada

John Edwards's decision yesterday to pull campaign resources in Nevada -- the
same week that Barack Obama launched radio ads in the state -- reflects two
difficulties for the Edwards candidacy: his lack of money and strong union
backing.

Apart from having at least $20 million less cash on hand than Obama, Edwards is
also missing support from the labor unions he has spent the years between his
presidential runs aggressively courting.

And in Nevada, union support is crucial, especially the backing of the Culinary
Workers Union, made up of approximately 60,000 casino, food service and
hospitality industry workers. It has a strong reputation for turning out votes
for Democrats, and Nevada political observers say its endorsement is tantamount
to winning the caucus.

Edwards aides said his campaign will move Nevada resources to Iowa and New
Hampshire, and Democratic sources say this decision may point to a shift in
strategy for Edwards. Earlier, he had been focusing on the four early states.
Now, he appears to have a more Iowa-focused approach, hoping a win there can
springboard him to the nomination -- just as it did for his 2004 running mate,
John Kerry.

--  Perry Bacon Jr.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Brett Flashnick -- Associated Press; At a town hall meeting
in Columbia, S.C., Rudy Giuliani displays part of his immigration platform: a
federal identification card. The former New York mayor came under fire on
immigration from one of his major rivals for the GOP nomination, former
Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 17, 2007 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Romney, Giuliani Escalate Their Immigration Fight

BYLINE: Michael D. Shear and Dan Balz; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 824 words


The two leading Republican presidential candidates have turned the GOP primary
campaign into a nasty, week-long debate about illegal immigration, accusing each
other of supporting efforts to give undocumented residents sanctuary from
federal immigration laws.

At campaign stops, in radio ads and with increasingly hostile statements by
supporters, former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney and former New York mayor
Rudolph W. Giuliani are talking about little else as they position themselves on
an issue critical to conservatives in their party.

"They are trying to rattle their sabers louder than the other and thump on their
chests," said Angela Kelley, the deputy director of the pro-immigrant National
Immigration Forum. "Both of these guys are trying to remake themselves."

Romney started the fight, and his criticism reflects his campaign's emerging
strategy after the former governor's victory in the Iowa straw poll last
Saturday. Romney's advisers would like to narrow the GOP race as much as
possible to a two-person contest with Giuliani, and they are seeking to brand
Romney as the true conservative in the race, in contrast to Giuliani.

They also hope to seize the initiative with conservatives before former senator
Fred D. Thompson (Tenn.), expected to enter the race next month, can establish
his own bona fides with the party's base.

At the heart of the Romney-Giuliani argument is the role of cities in the
immigration crisis. Romney has said that New York, under Giuliani's leadership,
became a magnet for illegal immigrants when city officials refused to strictly
enforce federal deportation laws. Giuliani in return has accused Romney of
looking the other way as cities and towns in Massachusetts declared themselves
"sanctuaries" for lawbreakers.

Both camps continued to escalate the issue yesterday. Rep. Peter T. King
(R-N.Y.), writing on behalf of Giuliani, attacked Romney in an opinion piece in
the Washington Times. King accused Romney of failing to act as governor against
sanctuary cities in his state.

"Mr. Romney did not cut their funding. He recommended millions of dollars in
state funding for them, and made no attempt to force these cities to change
their policies," King wrote. "When the immigration issue came before him, he
simply ignored it."

Giuliani's former deputy mayor, Randy Mastro, went further in an interview. "We
have a word here in New York for what Mitt Romney is doing," Mastro said. "It's
called chutzpah."

Romney aides responded with an online column by Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Tex.), who
called the immigration policies in New York "troubling" and blamed them for the
growth of the nation's population of illegal immigrants.

"Sanctuary policies create virtual amnesty zones for illegal immigrants. While
amnesty was just defeated in the Congress, places like New York City offer a
promise of amnesty to those who ignore our immigration laws," Smith wrote.
"Furthermore, sanctuary city policies encourage illegal immigration and weaken
our nation's ability to secure our borders."

Romney has focused on a New York executive order that Giuliani inherited -- and
later supported -- that protects illegal immigrants from deportation. Romney
aides point out that Giuliani once sued the federal government to keep the
executive order in place.

Giuliani responds that his actions in New York -- which allowed children of
illegal immigrants to go to school, and let such immigrants receive medical care
and report crimes without facing deportation -- reduced crime and improved
public health.

In a radio ad running in South Carolina, Giuliani says he was attempting to
focus efforts on the true problem: criminals. "As the mayor of New York, I
wanted to see if I could get the immigration service to help me. Let's see if
you could get rid of the drug dealers who are coming out of jail," he says.

Romney opened his attacks Monday during a campaign stop at the U.S.-Mexico
border in San Ysidro, Calif., criticizing "cities that call themselves a zone
for protection," using the phrase that Giuliani once used to describe New York.
He said that as president, he would cut off federal funds to cities that offer
sanctuary to illegal immigrants.

As governor, Romney vetoed a bill that would have allowed illegal immigrants to
receive in-state tuition at Massachusetts colleges and reached an agreement with
federal officials to allow state troopers to enforce federal immigration laws.

But Romney's tough rhetoric about sanctuary cities is new, said Shuya Ohno, a
spokesman for the Massachusetts Immigrant and Refugee Advocacy Coalition. Ohno
said Romney was "kind of a non-factor" in most debates about illegal immigration
in the state.

"It's only after he started spending a lot of time in Iowa getting ready for the
presidential run did he really step into the public on the issue," Ohno said.
"It's certainly much stronger than anything we heard when he was running for
office here, and certainly much more polarizing."

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 18, 2007 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Agitated Over Immigration in Loudoun

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 735 words


I can't tell you how relieved I was to read that, according to the Loudoun
County Sheriff's Office,  "only one in 20 gang members in the county is in the
country illegally, and most are U.S. citizens" ["Sterling Park's Identity
Crisis; Swept Up in Area's Demographic Shift, Loudoun Neighborhood Wrestles With
Immigrant Presence," front page, Aug. 14].

So the next time my neighbors are assaulted while strolling on the sidewalk, are
shot at through the walls of their homes while they sleep, have to dodge bullets
in the parking lot of the Safeway or report another theft from their garages,
I'll remind them that statistically the likelihood is that their safety is being
threatened by fellow citizens, not illegal immigrants. I'll comfort them by
quoting the article's assurance that increasing crime in Sterling is merely "a
widespread perception" unsupported by data, and that we're probably overreacting
to "a few high-profile shootings and gang-related incidents."

Maybe that information might have stopped my neighbor from moving this summer
had he known that the gang members who bullied his daughter at the middle school
last spring were here legally. I, for one, will feel a deeper sense of pride
when I spend another Saturday morning picking up shattered beer bottles from my
neighborhood streets, knowing that most of this litter was probably created by
U.S. citizens.

JAMIE McINTYRE

Sterling

I always thought of the D.C. area as a melting pot, but people like Fran Brocke,
who was quoted in the article about immigration in Loudoun County, prove that
some folks are just not happy about change. There seems to be a small percentage
of older white folk in the rural suburbs who are holding on to a 1950s "Leave It
to Beaver" ideal. They can't accept that our area's demographics are changing by
the day.

Ms. Brocke claimed she's tired of "illegal aliens" taking over. She must have a
sixth sense that no one else has:  the ability to know if someone is a legal
resident or not. I know that when I look at someone, I have no clue as to their
residency status. Maybe the Department of Homeland Security could use her
superpowers.

Many people, like Ms. Brocke, refer to the "illegal immigration problem" when
they mean the "Latino immigration problem." Ms. Brocke's bumper sticker reads
"This Is America, Speak English." I thought this was the United States, where
people can speak whatever language they choose. Variety is the spice of life;
maybe Fran Brocke will learn that one day.

JEFF LISOWSKI

Alexandria

Longtime Sterling Park residents have spent decades raising their families and
looking out for their neighborhood. Many legal Hispanic immigrants have called
Sterling home for decades and are a vital part of our community.

Residents are concerned about graffiti, dilapidated homes, trash, public
urination and other nuisances created by the growing number of illegal
immigrants attracted to Sterling by free services and Herndon's day-laborer
center. That is why I have been working to crack down on home overcrowding, gang
crime and  graffiti, and to deport illegal immigrants who commit crimes.

I wish I could be surprised by Sheriff Stephen Simpson's lackadaisical attitude
toward illegal immigrants. He was crushed by his opponent for the Republican
nomination because he, like The Post, listened to pro-illegal-immigrant
activists and refused to deal with what is happening in  Sterling Park or even
to admit a problem existed.

The claim by the sheriff's office that only 5 percent of gang members are
illegal immigrants is ridiculous and is contradicted by the congressional
testimony of Rockingham County Commonwealth's Attorney Marsha Garst, who said
that  25 percent of the area's gang members are "suspected illegal aliens."

Police reports indicate  that gang-related crimes have escalated significantly,
not declined, since 2000. The creation of the Northern Virginia Regional  Gang
Task Force in 2003 is evidence of this fact.  I am fighting gangs;  seeking to
curb the county services available for illegal immigrants is just one approach.

The problem with illegal immigrants in Sterling Park is real, not perceived. I
am sure Sterling residents would be thrilled to welcome Post reporters into the
community to live and observe their once-peaceful neighborhood. Then, I suspect,
we would hear the real story.

EUGENE A. DELGAUDIO

Member (R-Sterling)

Loudoun County Board of Supervisors

Sterling

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Jahi Chikwendiu -- The Washington Post; Fran Brocke, who
lived in Sterling for 43 years, recently moved to Ashburn to get away from
"illegal aliens" in her neighborhood.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 19, 2007 Sunday
                                 Met 1 Edition

Immigrant Policy May Spur Lawsuit

BYLINE: Jonathan Mummolo; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 679 words


About 500 people rallied yesterday against recently passed anti-illegal
immigrant measures in Prince William County, and Latino religious leaders
threatened a federal lawsuit and local boycott if the county does not rescind or
alter its resolution cracking down on undocumented residents.

Leaders of the National Coalition of Latino Clergy and Christian Leaders, which
organized the event, said they hope to meet with county officials in the next
two weeks to alter the resolution. But barring significant changes to the
measure, which was passed unanimously last month by Prince William supervisors,
they said they will file a lawsuit in U.S. District Court.

The suit would join others filed across the country against similar measures,
which have proliferated in response to Congress's failure to pass an immigration
reform bill. In Maryland, Anne Arundel County Executive John R. Leopold (R)
signed an executive order last week requiring contractors doing business with
the county to sign an affidavit swearing that they do not employ illegal
immigrants.

In a courtyard outside Prince William's government center yesterday, people
knelt, gripped Bibles and shut their eyes tightly as preachers took turns
leading prayers and songs, denouncing the measures and asking that they be
repealed.

"We are people of faith, hard-working people. We pay our taxes, we support this
country and we are going nowhere!" said the Rev. Miguel Rivera, president of the
coalition.

Prince William Supervisor John T. Stirrup Jr. (R-Gainesville), the primary
backer of the county's resolution, said he does not expect the board to change
its position. He also said that arranging a meeting with Rivera in the next few
weeks will be difficult because the board is on recess.

"We live in a litigious society," Stirrup said. "A lot of people sue a lot of
people. I think the board is pretty steadfast on its position. . . . We're not
going to allow the threat of a lawsuit by any individual or any group to
intimidate us on matters of public policy."

The county is deciding how to implement the new directive and will pass
ordinances supporting aspects of it in September, Stirrup said.

In anticipation of legal challenges, lawmakers softened the original language of
the resolution, which orders police officers to verify the residency status of
anyone in custody suspected of being an illegal immigrant and also seeks to
block access to some public services and benefits.

The coalition plans to challenge the measure based on a point in the
Constitution, said the group's lead attorney, William Sanchez.

"It's clear in the Constitution that the preemption doctrine keeps localities
and states from entering into an area in which the federal government already
has primary authority, because then there's going to be a conflict, and these
conflicts then cause confusion," Sanchez said.

The coalition also has a lawsuit pending against the township of Riverside,
N.J., which passed a measure last year that aims to put pressure on landlords
and employers who cater to illegal immigrants. A similar ordinance was struck
down last month by a federal judge in Hazelton, Pa., and Sanchez said his group
is also considering suing Oklahoma over sweeping anti-illegal immigrant
legislation signed into law there in the spring.

Among those at yesterday's rally were Bristow residents Anna Ordo?ez, 27, and
her husband, Geronimo, 25, both originally from El Salvador.

"I came to support our Spanish community," Anna Ordo?ez said. "I am a citizen,
but just because I am Spanish, they're going to be stopping me to question me. I
don't think that's right."

Although Ordo?ez said she and her husband will not leave the county if the new
measures are implemented, another resident, Harold Silva of Woodbridge, said he
does not want to remain where he's "not welcome."

Silva, 40, originally from Colombia, attended the rally with his wife, Andreina.
"As soon as I can sell my house, I'm going to leave this county," he said. "This
is going to get worse . . . I'm very pessimistic. We've had a very bad history
in this country."

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photos By Nikki Kahn -- The Washington Post; Jose Garcia of
Manassas, holding his daughter Denise, joins Carlos Arellano, Hilaria Bonilla
and Jose Sifontes at the rally in Woodbridge.
IMAGE; Maria Zelaya of Manassas prays at the rally, organized by leaders of the
National Coalition of Latino Clergy and Christian Leaders.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 21, 2007 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Activist's Arrest Highlights Key Immigrant Issue;
She Is Deported; Son Is Left Behind

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman and Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 868 words


The arrest and deportation to Mexico of an illegal immigrant  who took sanctuary
in a Chicago church to remain near her U.S.-born son has become the latest
flashpoint in the nation's immigration debate, with proponents of more liberal
immigration laws criticizing the action as heartless and  unnecessary, and
opponents praising it as long overdue.

Elvira Arellano, 32, was holed up with son Saul, 8, in Adalberto United
Methodist Church in Chicago for a year before announcing at a news conference
last week that she was leaving the church to lobby U.S. lawmakers. She was
arrested Sunday in downtown Los Angeles after speaking at a rally and attending
a Mass.

Immigration advocates have cited the predicament of a mother and son being
hunted by authorities  as a symbol of the unfairness of the country's tougher
enforcement approach on illegal-immigrant working families and their U.S.-born
children. Their situation also  inspired a revival of the religious sanctuary
movement among congregations in 50 U.S. cities.

Arellano's arrest draws "renewed attention to the plight of hundreds of
thousands of families who are in the same situation," said the Rev. Alexia
Salvatierra, national coordinator of the Los Angeles-based New Sanctuary
Movement, which invited Arellano to speak to its members.  She said that
Arellano represents "families with U.S.-citizen children, with a long work
record in this country, no criminal history, and who are part of the fabric of
our country, who face the prospect of having parents ripped away from their
kids."

Arellano was deported shortly after entering the United States  illegally in
1997, then she  reentered. She worked in Washington state and gave birth to her
son, separated from his father, and in 2000 went to Chicago,  where she cleaned
planes at O'Hare International Airport.

She was arrested in 2002 and convicted of working under a false Social Security
number during a review of airport personnel after  the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.
That conviction  prompted a deportation order;  Arellano was to surrender to
authorities last August but instead sought refuge at the church.

Opponents called her deportation a belated step by the Bush administration to
uphold the rule of law.

"This woman knowingly violated the law and lived in the U.S. illegally," said
Steven A. Camarota, a spokesman for the Center for Immigration Studies, a
Washington think tank that advocates less immigration. "She was deported,
knowingly violated the law and came back."

Camarota said that although  the U.S. immigration system should and does grant
exceptions in  rare cases, Arellano had her day in court, lost and chose not to
live with her son in Mexico. "She does seem at times to have willingly used her
son as a kind of prop. . . . We didn't, quote, 'separate the family.' She chose
to do that."

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials said  Arellano was arrested
in California to avoid a confrontation at the Chicago church, where her
supporters protested peacefully yesterday.

"We are required to enforce our nation's laws and make sure they are applied
fairly without regard for a person's ability to generate public support," ICE
spokeswoman Gail Montenegro said. "Mrs. Arellano willfully violated immigration
laws, and she is facing the consequences of her illegal activity. "

There are about 3.1 million American-born children of illegal immigrants,
according to an analysis by the Urban Institute and the Pew Hispanic Center.
Until recently, few parents were deported because U.S.  authorities rarely
caught immigrants who made it across the border and settled in this country.
Only about 3 percent of immigrants, or about 51,000 people, who  were removed by
ICE in 2004 had lived in the country for more than a year, according to federal
officials.

That changed this year as the United States  stepped up raids on companies
employing illegal workers.  In response, advocates increasingly highlight cases
in which families with U.S.-born children are broken up, convinced that their
plight presents a compelling case for offering  legal status to immigrants.

Arellano's son was among the most prominent. Saul  spoke at rallies in the
United States and Mexico, and even lobbied members of the U.S. Congress and
addressed the Mexican Congress.

He was with his mother when she was arrested at about 2:30 p.m. local time upon
leaving Mass at Our Lady Queen of Angels Catholic Church. According to Emma
Lozano, head of the Chicago immigrant-rights group Centro Sin Fronteras, who was
with them, several unmarked cars encircled the sport-utility vehicle they were
riding in and agents began "screaming and yelling at the rest of us to get out
of the car."

Arellano pleaded with agents to give her a moment to console her crying son,
before hugging him and making the Sign of the Cross over him, she said.

"She took Saulito's hands and said to him very calmly, 'They can't hurt us. God
is protecting us. You just have to have faith and I will be fine and with you
soon,' " Lozano said. "They clearly wanted to silence her forever. . . . To
think that there are all these criminals out there and they spend all these
taxpayer dollars to arrest Elvira Arellano. How pathetic."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Reed Saxon -- Associated Press; Elvira Arellano, an illegal
immigrant from Mexico who had taken refuge in a Chicago church to avoid
deportation, posed Saturday with son Saul, 8, in Los Angeles. She was arrested
the next day.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 24, 2007 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Radio Host Sics Callers on Connolly Over Immigration

BYLINE: Bill Turque; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 363 words


Tensions between Fairfax and Prince William counties over illegal immigration
spilled over to local talk radio yesterday when Fairfax Board Chairman Gerald E.
Connolly's office was peppered by calls from listeners of WMAL (630 AM)
midmorning host Chris Core.

Core posted Connolly's phone number and e-mail address on his show's Web site
after interviewing Prince William Board Chairman Corey A. Stewart (R-Occoquan).
Stewart, whose board has taken aggressive steps in an attempt to roll back
illegal immigration, including authorizing police officers to check the
immigration status of crime suspects, has been critical of Fairfax for not
taking a similar hard line.

Connolly and Stewart have traded shots over the past week. Stewart said Fairfax
risks becoming a "sanctuary" for undocumented immigrants. Connolly has accused
Stewart of political posturing.

Connolly spoke to WMAL this week on the issue, saying it was impractical for
localities to assume responsibility for enforcing immigration law. He has also
said he wants the county to focus on such issues as residential crowding that
target "outcomes and behavior" rather than identity.

Connolly declined to join Stewart on yesterday morning's show, citing schedule
conflicts. Core responded by posting a "Chris Core Call to Action!!!" on his Web
site, with the office number and e-mail address.

"I understand I'm going to make life miserable for someone in his office," Core
said.

Core's posting was reminiscent of the morning in August 2005 when Herndon
officials shut down Town Hall phone lines. They were inundated after Mark
Williams, a substitute host on WMAL broadcasting from a station in Sacramento,
urged listeners to call and voice opposition to a proposed job site for
immigrant day laborers. Town officials described many of the messages as hate
calls.

Connolly said that Core produced "a little bit of a surge" on the office's three
phone lines but that it quickly receded. He noted that a lot of the calls were
from outside Fairfax County.

Although they have not spoken since the tit-for-tat began, Stewart and Connolly
say there's nothing personal about the disagreement.

"We get along fairly well," Stewart told Core.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; "I understand I'm going to make life miserable" for Fairfax
County Board Chairman Gerald E. Connolly, said talk radio host Chris Core,
right.
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 26, 2007 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Respecting Our Troops;
The cases of Spec. Jimenez and Pfc. Soriano

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 494 words


AMID THE din and venom of the debate over illegal immigration, the cases of
Spec. Alex R. Jimenez of Lawrence, Mass., and Pfc. Armando Soriano of Houston
deserve notice. Spec. Jimenez, of the 10th Mountain Division, disappeared in May
when his Army convoy was attacked south of Baghdad. Pfc. Soriano, of the Army's
3rd Armored Cavalry Regiment, died three years ago when his vehicle rolled off
the road in Iraq. The two men are missed and mourned by friends and family, in
both cases including illegal immigrants who have faced the threat of
deportation.

In the case of Spec. Jimenez, the problem involved his Dominican-born wife, who
entered the country illegally in 2001. She was living under threat of
deportation until, amid a flurry of media reports concerning her missing
husband, U.S. authorities suddenly granted her a green card in June. As for Pfc.
Soriano, who was born in the United States, his father, a Mexican national who
entered the country illegally, continues to face deportation proceedings despite
the government's decision to allow Pfc. Soriano's relatives to apply for green
cards following his death, according to the Houston Chronicle.

Their cases are unusual but hardly unique. An estimated 68,000 active-duty
military personnel were born in foreign countries, and 8,000 others enlist every
year, a third of them Mexican or Central American. Nearly half of them are not
citizens of the United States. Although undocumented immigrants are not legally
eligible for service in the U.S. armed forces, there are numerous instances of
some who used phony green cards to enlist. No one knows how many soldiers,
sailors, airmen and Marines have relatives who lack papers, but given that 12
million such people are in the country, it is probably not insubstantial. In
some parts of immigrant-rich communities like Los Angeles, large percentages of
those who enlist in the military are foreign-born residents of the United
States.

There is a long history of immigrants serving in the American military, dating
to the Revolutionary War. Acknowledging their contribution to the current war
efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan, President Bush signed an order in 2002 that
allowed thousands of immigrants serving in the armed forces to apply for
citizenship on an expedited basis. The president's policy is a just reward for
those who have put their lives on the line for their adopted country, despite
the cramped arguments of anti-immigration activists who say that it has merely
bought their service.

What is too often lost in the fight over illegal immigrants is how deeply
ingrained they have become in America's life, economy and culture. To imagine
that 12 million people can be swept up in raids, deported or driven out of the
country by mean-spirited laws is fantasy, and it fails to take into account the
reality of assimilation already taking place. Anyone who doubts that need only
consider the friends and family of Spec. Jimenez and Pfc. Soriano.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 27, 2007 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

A Strong, but Divisive, Voice for Immigrants;
Boycott of Pr. William Will Test Leader

BYLINE: Nick Miroff; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1495 words


Twelve years ago, Ricardo Juarez was an unemployed government clerk standing in
the dark on a riverbank outside Eagle Pass, Tex. He had no particular American
dream in mind, he says, no vision of white picket fences or the Liberty torch.
The youngest male in a family of 12 siblings, Juarez was mostly thinking about
food. He and a group of other migrants set their inner tubes into the swirling
blackness of the Rio Grande and let the current carry them across.

Juarez washed up in Woodbridge two weeks later. His brother Alex helped him find
work in construction -- digging ditches, lugging sacks of cement, driving nails.
Prince William County was booming. But Juarez was more eager to organize
immigrant laborers than be one.

Now 40, Juarez has become one of the Washington region's most visible -- and
divisive -- Latino figures. His organization, Mexicans Without Borders, claims
more than 3,500 regional members, and it is the largest and best-organized group
opposing recent efforts by Prince William and other area jurisdictions targeting
illegal immigrants.

But the biggest test of Juarez's leadership begins today. Juarez and his group
have organized a week-long boycott in Prince William in protest of an
anti-illegal immigration resolution unanimously approved by county supervisors
July 10. The resolution has not been finalized, but its goal is to repel illegal
immigrants by refusing them access to certain public services and to increase
deportations by ordering more aggressive residency checks by police.

Juarez -- who refuses to disclose his residency status -- calls these policies
"a new apartheid" and "racist." And in a move Juarez's critics say is typical of
his overheated rhetoric, radical politics and strong-arm style, the businesses
in the county subject to the boycott will be those lacking green placards
provided by Mexicans Without Borders. Hispanic-owned or not, any business
without one will be shunned.

Juarez defended this with-us-or-against-us approach in interviews last week, as
his group printed more than 500 of the placards for delivery to shops,
restaurants and other businesses.

"We feel like we've been backed into a corner, that no one is listening to us,"
Juarez said. Stung by the harsh rhetoric of the resolution's backers, Hispanic
immigrants feel rejected, unappreciated and ignored, he said. "We don't expect
the resolution to be rescinded, but we want the boycott to give us our voice
back."

Increasingly, though, the sound of Juarez's voice -- at churches, rallies and
outside government buildings -- is making county officials and others cringe.
Shortly after the July 10 resolution, Juarez and his group organized three town
hall-style "assemblies," the largest of which drew more than 1,000 people to a
Manassas church.

Many immigrant families were confused and frightened by the resolution. And in a
county where one-fifth of the population is Hispanic but there are no elected
Hispanic officials and no major Hispanic advocacy organizations, Juarez offered
reassurance, unity and a plan. The crowds at the assemblies voted for a march, a
one-day general strike and the week-long boycott. Said Juarez, "They gave us
their vote of confidence to lead this process."

Membership in Mexicans Without Borders is not limited to Mexican nationals,
drawing immigrants from El Salvador, Guatemala and other Latin American
countries -- particularly the region's most recent arrivals. But several
prominent members of the county's more established Hispanic community and others
who also oppose the resolution are unnerved by Juarez's growing sway. Some are
Salvadoran immigrants who came in the 1980s to escape civil war. Others include
Hispanic "pioneers" who built successful businesses in areas where few Latinos
lived.

With more to lose, they worry Juarez's confrontational tactics will backfire and
a boycott will heighten racial tensions and harden divisions.

"I think it's premature," said Jose Luis Semidey, a U.S. citizen born in
Venezuela who owns real estate offices in the Manassas area and is working with
other local Hispanic businessmen to chart a more cautious course, saying they'll
oppose the resolution through lobbying and legal challenges if necessary. "I
don't think the boycott is going to amount to much."

The boycott wasn't even on the radar of the Prince William County-Greater
Manassas Chamber of Commerce, as Chairman Rick Hendershot said none of the
chamber's 1,100 members had contacted him about it.

In other official circles, Juarez is already a pariah, viewed by county
supervisors as a fire-breathing rabble-rouser who has created an undue sense of
alarm among Prince William's Hispanic residents.

"He is not a moderate voice," said Board of County Supervisors Chairman Corey A.
Stewart (R-At Large). "I see him as an extremist who is hurting the entire
Latino community by whipping them up into this anger and trying to convince them
that this is a racist measure."

Even the group's name, Mexicans Without Borders, seems to confirm residents'
fears about illegal immigration, Stewart said. "The name makes me think they
don't believe there should be any controls to stop people from coming in
illegally."

Juarez said he recognizes that countries must have borders but rejects the
notion that a person can be "illegal." He repeatedly declined to answer
questions about his own residency in the United States. "I think it should be a
private matter," he said, saying he was under no legal obligation to discuss his
status. "One of the messages we're trying to send is that a person's identity
should not have to be revealed publicly."

Juarez's path from the banks of the Rio Grande to the frontlines of the region's
immigration fight began, as he tells it, in Coatepec Harinas, the mountain town
where he grew up two hours southwest of Mexico City. Juarez's father died when
he was 4, leaving a 17-acre plot of farmland to Juarez's mother and 11 siblings.
As a teenager, Juarez listened to the Beatles, played bass guitar in a rock band
and, as photo albums show, tried hard to style himself in the likeness of Jim
Morrison.

Juarez never finished college and was laid off from a public relations job at
the National Institute of Anthropology and History in 1994. He returned home to
the family farm just as the Mexican peso crisis plunged the country into
financial turmoil.

"We were struggling," Juarez said, blaming Mexican government corruption and
powerful U.S. interests for the crisis. "Our produce became worthless. There
were no jobs anywhere."

But there were jobs in Woodbridge, evidenced by the money Juarez's brother Alex
wired home to the family. Alex invited him to Virginia, and a week later, Juarez
reached the Rio Grande.

Today, Juarez and his wife, Patricia, live with Alex, his wife and their three
children in a two-story Woodbridge home. A photo of early 20th-century Mexican
revolutionary Emiliano Zapata hangs in the den, casting a burning stare from
beneath a large sombrero.

Zapata's modern-day acolytes, the leftist rebels of the Zapatista Army of
National Liberation, have shaped Juarez's worldview and inspired his
organizational strategies -- minus the ski masks and AK-47s. Although Juarez
certainly does not advocate armed struggle in the Virginia suburbs, he has
worked with Zapatista-affiliated activist organizations, according to Juarez and
Web sites, and shares the rebel group's contention that U.S. free-trade polices
hurt Latin America's poor and drive emigration.

Of course, Juarez's battles don't transpire in the jungles of Chiapas but in the
parking lots of Virginia 7-Elevens, where day laborers gather to solicit work.
He and several activist friends formed Mexicans Without Borders in 2000, he
said, primarily to assist and advocate for the rights of immigrant workers who
were cheated out of wages, injured or in legal trouble.

After authorities moved against day laborers in Woodbridge in 2005, Juarez and
his group led protests, then rallied against proposed federal restrictions on
illegal immigration the following year. When Manassas tried to tighten its
residential overcrowding rules -- prompting a federal investigation -- Juarez
again led the fight. Mexicans Without Borders now has affiliate subgroups in
Baltimore, the Virginia towns of Culpeper and Harrisonburg, and other places
across the region.

At a shopping plaza in Manassas last week, Juarez gathered about 40 people for a
bus caravan to a Falls Church rally. Maria Rivas, a 32-year-old illegal
immigrant from El Salvador, had arrived with her two U.S.-born daughters, ages 9
and 6. The girls played a fantasy game, speaking to each other in flawless,
unaccented English, as their mother explained in Spanish that the new resolution
had left her daughters worried their parents would be deported.

"They're young, but they know what's going on," Rivas said, adding that the
girls had urged their mother to help Juarez. "We have to support him," she said.
"He's a leader, and he's the only one we have."

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Kevin Clark -- The Washington Post; Ricardo Juarez, right,
with the Rev. Jorge Acho, at a protest last week in Falls Church of Prince
William's immigration crackdown.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 28, 2007 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Costs of Illegal Immigration

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 132 words


Regarding the Aug. 23 letter "It's Not Immigrants, Just Population":

While overpopulation has put a strain on this region's infrastructure, as letter
writer A.L. Swiggard suggested,   that is not the main problem with  illegal
aliens.

Illegal aliens cost U.S. taxpayers billions of dollars a year more -- in
schooling, welfare, crime and policing, medical and hospital services,
translation services, etc.  -- than any alleged economic benefit they provide to
their illegal employers.

Such costs, and the social problems associated with illegal aliens' failure to
assimilate into American culture  -- by not learning English or by living in
overcrowded housing, for example -- are real and cannot be swept aside simply by
blaming their recognition on "ethnic prejudices."

JERRY CAPLIN

Gaithersburg

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           August 29, 2007 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

In Manassas Park, Sanity;
Taking a stand against illegal-immigrant bashing

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 443 words


THE LITTLE town of Manassas Park is an unassuming place -- not the sort of town
you'd necessarily expect to take a courageous stand on illegal immigration. Yet
that's exactly what it's done.

Built as a bedroom community of Cape Cods in the '50s, it remains primarily
residential, so much so that it is only now getting around to building a city
center, which officials hope will broaden the tax base. Although its population
has nearly tripled in the last 20 years, to 13,500, it is one of the smallest
incorporated cities in Virginia. As an enclave of mostly affordable housing in
pricey Northern Virginia, Manassas Park has attracted many Hispanic immigrants,
and as a result the city has become majority minority.   Still, no Hispanic has
yet run for mayor or the City Council, which is dominated by Republicans and
conservative civil servants required by law to run as independents.

Manassas Park is bounded on all sides by Prince William County, which has lately
joined the nationwide rush to hound illegal immigrants by denying them public
services and siccing the police on them in hopes of driving them away. Prince
William's neighbor to the north, Loudoun County, has done the same. But Manassas
Park, its diminutive size notwithstanding, is refusing to be bullied into
joining in the immigrant-bashing.

Instead, the City Council has taken a stance opposing the nativist fever all
around. The mayor, Frank Jones, and council members rejected what they
characterized as vigilante actions against illegal immigrants. The danger,
several said, was that all Hispanics would be tarred  with the brush of
intolerance and that the line between stalking illegal immigrants and whipping
up a general hatred against Hispanics would blur. In a community where longtime
residents know most of their Hispanic neighbors as good citizens, there was
little sentiment for a xenophobic crusade.

Elected officials in Manassas Park say that they oppose illegal immigration but
that stopping it is a federal responsibility. Cities and counties lack the means
to do so, the officials say. Instead, they are doing what localities should be
doing -- getting tough on problems often associated with illegal immigrants,
such as crowded flophouses, excessive numbers of cars parked at residences and
gangs. Mr. Jones says he is also seeking greater authority from the state to
register and inspect rental properties systematically to ensure that decent
standards of health and safety are maintained. Until Congress gets serious about
enacting a realistic national policy on immigration, Manassas Park's example is
a sane, sensible approach to dealing with the problem at a local level.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 30, 2007 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Va. Republican Bill Would Bar Illegal Immigrants From College

BYLINE: Tim Craig; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 921 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND, Aug. 29


Virginia Republicans announced legislation Wednesday that would prohibit public
colleges and universities from accepting illegal immigrants even if they
attended a public high school and were brought to the United States at an early
age by their parents.

GOP leaders, who control both houses of the legislature, suggested that some
Virginia residents are being denied access to college because too many illegal
immigrants are taking available slots.

"If a legal Virginia resident is applying to schools, should they be admitted?
Or should that slot be set aside for someone who has arrived here illegally?"
asked James K. "Jay" O'Brien Jr. (R-Fairfax), the sponsor of the proposal.

The Republican proposal would also require city and county jails to check a
defendant's immigration status and to have at least one person on duty who has
been certified by the federal government to detain illegal immigrants until
deportation proceedings. It would also routinely deny bail for illegal
immigrants charged in a crime and suspend the business licenses of anyone
convicted of hiring illegal immigrants.

All 140 seats in the General Assembly are on the ballot this fall, and illegal
immigration has been a key issue statewide -- particularly in Northern Virginia,
where Republicans have been losing ground in recent elections.

Immigrant-rights activists, who say illegal immigrants aren't being admitted to
Virginia colleges anyway, accused the GOP of trying to needlessly scare voters.

Claire Guthrie Gastanaga, a lobbyist for immigrant organizations, said the GOP
"is taking advantage of a public misconception about the facts" and "exploiting
fear and ignorance."

"It's poll-driven. It's cynical, and it's just silly," Gastanaga said.

The college admissions proposal, which comes as party leaders try to shift
public attention from controversial abusive-driving fees, is part of a
five-point plan presented by Republican legislators, including House Speaker
William J. Howell (Stafford) and Senate Majority Leader Walter A. Stosch
(Henrico).

"Allowing illegal aliens to circumvent the rule of law not only undermines the
integrity and wellbeing of our society and stretches thin limited taxpayer
resources at all levels of government, but is an injustice to those immigrants
who followed the lawful path in coming to Virginia and the United States,"
Howell said.

The proposals are more restrained than past statewide efforts to deal with
illegal immigration.

Last year, the House of Delegates approved a bill that would cut off state
funding for any charity found to be assisting illegal immigrants. Some GOP
delegates are pushing separate proposals this year to cut off state funding to
local governments that provide services to illegal immigrants. Governments in
Prince William, Loudoun and Culpeper counties are trying to curb illegal
immigration, too.

Del. David B. Albo (R-Fairfax), chairman of the Courts of Justice Committee,
said the House would focus on the proposal outlined Wednesday because the GOP
leadership is confident it would be upheld in court.

But the issue of denying a public college education to an illegal immigrant will
probably be controversial.

In past sessions, the House of Delegates and more moderate Senate have failed to
agree on proposals to deny in-state tuition rates to illegal immigrants.

Howell and Stosch say they are ready to go much further.

Under the GOP proposal, a public college such as Virginia Tech or George Mason
University would have to prove an applicant is a legal resident or has a valid
student visa.

Northern Virginia Community College allows the admission of illegal immigrants,
but they must pay out-of-state tuition.

But most four-year colleges prohibit illegal immigrants, advocates and college
officials said. "We don't enroll illegal aliens," said Jeff Hanna, a spokesman
for the University of Virginia. "A student who applies and is accepted must
produce documentation." In 2004, a federal judge in Alexandria upheld the right
of U-Va. and six other Virginia colleges and universities to deny admission to
illegal immigrants. The suit was brought by illegal immigrants upset that they
were being denied entry.

O'Brien couldn't present any evidence Wednesday that illegal immigrants are
gaining access to Virginia's colleges.

But GOP leaders offered statistics showing that 36 percent of applicants to a
four-year public college in Virginia were rejected last year. They couldn't say
how many of those denials occurred because the applicants weren't academically
qualified.

In some cases, students at Virginia public schools do not have legal status --
even though their younger siblings do -- because they were brought into the
country at a young age by their parents. In those circumstances, O'Brien said,
it would be up to "the parents of that child to seek legal presence for that
child."

The proposal dealing with defendants in county jails would require that sheriffs
have at least one person on duty at all times who is certified to check their
immigration status.

A 1994 law asks sheriffs to check immigration status. But Albo said that the
legislation is confusing and that many jails do not follow it.

"This will absolutely mandate them to do it and tells them how they should do
it," Albo said.

Gov. Timothy M. Kaine (D) said that he is eager to work with the Republicans to
curtail illegal immigration but that he is waiting for the findings of a state
commission studying the issue before he endorses a specific proposal. The
commission is expected to complete its work in October.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 2, 2007 Sunday
                                 Met 1 Edition

WEEK IN REVIEW;
Aug. 26-Sept. 1

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C04

LENGTH: 631 words

Report Criticizes Va. Tech Response Alert Could Have Saved Lives, Panel
Concludes

The panel appointed by Gov. Timothy M. Kaine (D) to investigate the massacre at
Virginia Tech criticized the university's response to the shootings and its
treatment of Seung Hui Cho, concluding that lives could have been saved if
officials had issued an alert sooner that a gunman was on campus.

The eight-member panel also found that Cho went to the campus counseling center
after he was ordered to do so by a judge in 2005 but that the center failed to
treat Cho. The panel's report also says the center was passive in its follow-up
and is missing important records about Cho's visit and telephone conversations
with counselors.

But the report reaches no conclusions about Cho's motive for the April 16
rampage.

GOP Bill Targets Illegal Immigrants Measure Would Bar Acceptance by Colleges

Virginia Republicans announced legislation that would prohibit public colleges
and universities from accepting illegal immigrants even if they attended public
high schools and were brought to the United States at an early age by their
parents.

GOP leaders, who control both houses of the legislature, suggested that some
Virginia residents are being denied access to college because illegal immigrants
are taking available slots.

The Republican proposal would also require jails to check a defendant's
immigration status and to have at least one person on duty who has been
certified by the federal government to detain illegal immigrants until
deportation proceedings can begin. It would also routinely deny bail for illegal
immigrants who are charged with crimes and suspend the business license of
anyone convicted of hiring illegal immigrants.

Herndon Solicitation Ordinance Invalid Judge Says Law Violates First Amendment

A Fairfax County Circuit Court judge threw out Herndon's anti-solicitation
ordinance, finding that the town's two-year-old prohibition against laborers and
motorists discussing employment on the streets violates First Amendment rights
to free speech.

The 11-page opinion by Judge Leslie Alden was a legal setback for town
officials, who regarded the ordinance as an important tool in their crackdown on
illegal immigrants. Some town leaders say such immigrants account for most of
those seeking work.

Town Attorney Richard B. Kaufman declined to discuss Herndon's legal options,
including plans for an appeal or whether the town would continue to enforce the
law.

Sen. Warner Won't Seek Sixth Term Davis, Mark Warner Among Possible Contenders

Sen. John W. Warner (R-Va.), 80, announced that he would not seek a sixth term
in office. The decision is a blow for Republicans, who hope to regain control of
the Senate next year. Democrats hold a 51 to 49 lead.

The Democrats are promoting former governor Mark R. Warner, no relation to the
senator, as a likely candidate for the seat. On the Republican side, contenders
include Rep. Thomas M. Davis III, a moderate. Davis would probably have serious
competition from conservatives, including former governor James S. Gilmore III.

Across the Region Smoke Snarls Metro; AU Rove Protesters Fined

A series of smoke and fire incidents disrupted train travel in much of the Metro
system Sunday and Monday nights. Officials said the problems probably were
caused by power and equipment failure.

Six American University students agreed to pay $100 fines to settle misdemeanor
charges stemming from a raucous April 3 protest of White House counselor Karl
Rove's visit to the campus, their attorney said. During the demonstration, one
student mooned Rove's car while some of the others allegedly lay in the street
to block the vehicle. Five students were accused of disorderly conduct and
crossing a police line. The sixth was charged with crossing a police line.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Michael Williamson -- The Washington Post; Prince William
Boycott Juan Padilla bought supplies for his restaurant outside the county and
posted a pro-immigrant sign in response to Prince William's resolution cracking
down on illegal immigrants.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 2, 2007 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

The Border Boondoggle

BYLINE: Andrew Cockburn

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1600 words


The U.S. Border Patrol has just unveiled a total makeover of its traditional
uniform. Shiny badges and other emblems of law enforcement are out. Our frontier
troops will now have a look more in keeping with their role as frontier troops,
with lightweight fatigues and better weapons. Agent Ramon Ramirez told the
Associated Press that the new garb looks more military, "like you mean
business."

When it comes to frontier security, business is booming all over.

In Stafford County, Va., a 50-man company called McQ has started work on a
$100,000 contract to develop a "smart rock" for the Department of Homeland
Security. McQ, whose motto is "Tough sensors for an insensitive planet,"  says
that its rocks, embedded with acoustic and motion sensors, will be able to
detect illegal immigrants and other miscreants sneaking across our borders.

The firm expects its contract for developing the rocks to grow to $1 million by
fall -- a sure sign that while immigration "reform" bills may come and go, the
threat of illegal immigration will continue to expand. This is a certainty not
because of the state of the Mexican economy or because of government laxity
here, but because border control is now an integral part of the
military-industrial national security system, which has a long history of
profiteering from purported dangers to our safety.

These are that system's immutable laws: 1) The "threat," as portrayed to the
public, always increases in direct proportion to the amount of money lavished on
confronting it, and 2) every extra dollar appropriated for this purpose brings a
progressively less effective counter to the threat, thus requiring that even
more money be spent. Meanwhile, reality -- the scope and shape of whatever
threat is being pressed into service -- is usually at sharp variance with the
official picture, which leads to: 3) The "other side" can usually be maneuvered
to react in a way that justifies further efforts on our part.

This system evolved, and reached its most perfect form, during the Cold War.
Decade after decade, the American taxpayer was presented with a Soviet military
machine that allegedly far outclassed our own puny efforts at military buildup
and would shortly be in a position to have its way with us -- unless we invested
the requisite treasure in various systems to counter the threat. Yet despite the
billions lavished on our defenses, we never seemed to be able to match the foe's
advertised military might.

Most famously, the "missile gap" invoked by John F. Kennedy to win the 1960
election duly spawned an immediate and costly buildup of missiles on our side,
even though the gap was soon revealed to be wholly without foundation. Our
buildup generated a strenuous counter-effort by the Soviet Union. So at the end
of the cycle, taxpayers were informed that we still faced a "window of
vulnerability" vis-?-vis the Soviets and must pay up accordingly.

Coincidentally or not, the guardians of our Mexican frontier apparently caught
on to this game around the time the Soviet Union finally collapsed.

In the early 1990s, the U.S. Border Patrol began channeling would-be migrants to
narrow sections of the border. Operation Gatekeeper in Southern California, for
example, involved a steel fence (built from slats originally designed for
landing strips in Vietnam) diverting the flow eastward from the coast to one
single crossing point at San Ysidro. The consequent tightly bunched influx made
for spectacular footage in "Under Siege," a  movie specially produced by the
Border Patrol in 1992 for the edification of an impressionable Congress. Old
Pentagon hands long ago christened this tactic "threat inflation." It was
deployed countless times in the days of confrontation with the USSR, when
footage of the annual Soviet military parade of tanks and missiles through Red
Square was an indispensable tool for our military whenever it was in search of
money.

The result for the border initiative was a spectacular budgetary harvest -- a
roughly 1,000 percent increase between 1986 and 2002, from $151 million to $1.6
billion, and a threefold increase in Border Patrol manpower.

But just as the break-neck expansion of our nuclear bomber fleet in the 1950s
brought us little peace of mind, the "militarization of the border," as critics
like to term the process, has produced a result very different from the one
advertised by its promoters and beneficiaries. The number of migrants entering
the United States actually increased, as documented by sociology professor
Douglas S. Massey of Princeton University's Mexican Migration Project.
Furthermore, the chances that an illegal entrant would be picked up went down
sharply as migrants began coming across the vast Arizona desert, posing a
greater challenge even for the enlarged Border Patrol. Though many were dying of
thirst, many more were evading interception in the trackless wastes.

And the costs of border-control successes have been escalating just as costs did
in the Cold War. Dividing the overall Border Patrol budget by the number of
arrests, it turns out that the cost of a single apprehension more than
quintupled between 1992 and 2002, going from $300 to $1,700. In addition, though
more migrants than ever were getting in, the increased hardship and expense of
the journey deterred many from rotating home on a regular basis, as had been the
custom.

So the final effect of securing the border was to increase the overall number of
illegal immigrants staying permanently in the United States.

Therefore, the "problem," and the consequent need for more border protection,
automatically increased with each appropriation by a Congress eager to show no
less resolve in warding off the Mexican threat than it had in standing up to the
Russians.

Now, however, we are moving into an era of serious money, set to surpass
previous border-control initiatives by a wide margin. All those extra Border
Patrol officers may be expensive, but as any general or admiral worth his salt
will tell you, it's technology -- the more complex and "state of the art," the
better -- that really runs up the bills and brings home the pork.

This trend is typified by the soaring surveillance towers, not to mention
soaring cost, of SBInet (as in Safe Border Initiative), a high-technology
surveillance system managed by Boeing.  It's being marketed as a "virtual fence"
that will detect intruders from Mexico and ultimately Canada. The fence employs
radar, cameras, acoustic and other surveillance technology sensors. These are
all linked by a complex computer network that theoretically will enable agents
in some distant command post to monitor any and all illegal incursions and take
appropriate action, including broadcasting high-volume warnings from
tower-mounted loudspeakers.

One useful indication of where all this is headed can be found in the Army's
ongoing Future Combat Systems program, also managed by Boeing. This $168 billion
extravaganza of computers, sensors and robots is theoretically able to
automatically detect and target battlefield threats, making it so deadly to a
foe, its proponents claim, that it  may be possible to dispense with armor on
U.S. military vehicles.

Conceptually and in other ways, FCS and SBInet have much in common. Both are
based on the notion that technology can confer total awareness of a situation,
leading to the automatic destruction of an enemy tank or the apprehension of a
would-be tomato picker sidling across the border. Both, furthermore, can trace
their ancestry to the Vietnam War and the original electronic fence composed of
thousands of sensors that was deployed at vast expense across the Ho Chi Minh
Trail, in hopes of detecting and destroying supplies coming south for the Viet
Cong.

Known as "McNamara's Wall" for then-Defense Secretary Robert S. McNamara, it
never showed any sign of working and was quietly abandoned in 1970. As a
memento, Pentagon analysts preserved the tape of a relay from one sensor, the
smart rock of its day, faithfully transmitting the sound of some passing Viet
Cong urinating on it.

Despite this sorry record, our border guardians love their electronic fences.
Before SBInet, there was the 1990s-era Integrated Surveillance Intelligence
System, ultimately shelved as a technical and financial disaster, complete with
contractor rip-offs. Then came the more ambitious America's Shield Initiative,
generating a similar result. Together, the two failed efforts cost $429 million.

SBInet, even more ambitious in design than its predecessors, was endorsed by
Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff in 2005. The southern portion is
projected to cost $7.6 billion by 2011. But Richard L. Skinner,  DHS's inspector
general, has reported that the cost could reach $30 billion. (Old Pentagon hands
refer to this disparity between present and future costs as "front loading.")
Boeing, the prime contractor, is largely being left to itself to define the
program objectives. As the Government Accountability Office delicately reported
earlier this year, the project's budget "lacked specificity" on "anticipated
costs" and "expected mission outcomes," meaning that DHS has  no idea what it
will cost or what it will do.

Given such deficiencies, it seems safe to assume that $30 billion and more from
now, migrants will still be sneaking in to mow our lawns and clean our discount
stores, and that this ongoing threat will ensure ever-expanding rounds of
spending. That's what "militarization of the border" is all about.

amcockburn@gmail.com

Andrew Cockburn is the author,

most recently, of "Rumsfeld: His Rise, Fall, and Catastrophic Legacy."

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Chip Somodevilla -- Getty Images; Sign of the times: Between
1986 and 2002, the U.S. border-security budget rose by about 1,000 percent.
IMAGE; By Denis Poroy -- Associated Press; Saddling up: U.S. Border Patrol
agents on all-terrain vehicles get ready for a shift along the frontier near San
Diego last month.
IMAGE; By Mike Morones -- The Free Lance-star; Tricks of the trade: "Smart
rocks" and sticks are used to conceal sensors and cameras.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 3, 2007 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Latinos Join in Protest In N.Va.;
Thousands Denounce Immigration Measure At Prince William Rally

BYLINE: Bill Turque; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 705 words


Carrying American flags and chanting "S?, se puede" ("Yes, we can"), several
thousand Latinos rallied at the seat of Prince William County government
yesterday to denounce the Board of Supervisors' plan to curb services to illegal
immigrants.

Protesters from as far as Minnesota converged on the Sean T. Connaughton
Community Plaza for speeches and a two-mile march, organized by Mexicans Without
Borders and other immigrant advocacy groups.

"We come in peace," said Karla Makris, 26, a paralegal born in Nicaragua. "We're
not stealing. We're not criminals."

On July 10, the Prince William board thrust the county into the middle of the
Northern Virginia immigration debate, adopting a resolution directing officials
to determine which government services can be lawfully withheld from anyone in
the country illegally.

The measure also authorizes Prince William police to ask about residency status
if they have probable cause to believe that an individual is in the country
illegally. Exactly what constitutes probable cause, and how legal residency
would be verified, is still under review by the police.

The county's Latino community responded with a week-long economic boycott,
concluding this weekend, targeting businesses deemed hostile to immigrants.

Organizers also announced plans for an Oct. 9 work stoppage in Prince William.

The message at yesterday's late-afternoon protest was that immigrants want what
they said everyone else wants, to be left alone to work and raise their
families.

"We have come to respond to the ill-conceived and harmful actions to the county,
and to say that is wrong," said the Rev. Bob Menard of St. Francis of Assisi
Parish in Triangle.

"Everybody is equal here," said Pedro Marquez, 21, a construction worker.
"Everybody is here to do work. Our kids are in school. Our parents are working.
It's messed up. People are trying to bring Hispanic culture down."

Protesters marched along Prince William Parkway past Prince William County
Republican headquarters and a large campaign sign for board Chairman Corey A.
Stewart (R-At Large), a leading advocate of the July resolution. One group
carried a large plaster effigy of Stewart.

The protesters  had support from non-Latino Northern Virginians who marched
along with them and some of whom identified with the Latino struggle. "I'm
Irish, and I'm from a family of immigrants," said Sissi Curtin of Fairfax
County, who said her forebears faced similar bigotry.

"It's the same old people. You know that, and I know that."

Prince William police declined to offer an estimate of the turnout, which
informal estimates placed at 5,000 to 7,000.

There were no arrests, and the only major incident along the march route was an
engine fire in a pickup, which sent a brief flutter of concern through the crowd
as smoke wafted through the air.

It has been difficult to gauge the effectiveness of the boycott, although it
seems to have had only a marginal impact on the national chain stores that are
its chief targets. Latino customers continue to patronize such businesses as
Wal-Mart and Giant and fast-food restaurants.

What is easier to see is that the action has both energized and split  Prince
William's Latino community. Mexicans Without Borders favors such economic
measures as the boycott to push back, and other business leaders seek
negotiations with county leaders.

The immigration issue has also driven a wedge between the region's local
governments. The Loudoun County Board of Supervisors recently passed a similar,
if less exact, version of the Prince William measure. It directs county
officials to study which services might be legitimately denied to illegal
immigrants and to explore ways to cut off business with companies that hire
undocumented workers.

Fairfax County has resisted entreaties from Prince William leaders to follow
their example. Fairfax County Board of Supervisors Chairman Gerald E. Connolly
(D) has said that it is impractical and constitutionally questionable for local
governments to undertake immigration enforcement. He said he wants the county to
focus on "outcomes and behavior," rather than immigration status, by cracking
down on boarding houses and other code violations that can degrade the quality
of life in neighborhoods.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Susan Biddle -- The Washington Post; Miguel Bendezu of
Sterling, who is originally from Peru, attends a rally before the march along
Prince William Parkway to protest a plan to curb services to illegal immigrants.
Informal estimates placed turnout at 5,000 to 7,000.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 3, 2007 Monday
                                Regional Edition

An Obstacle to Learning English

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 182 words


I have to dispute the assertions in Jerry Caplin's Aug. 28 letter. Undocumented
immigrants account for one in 20 U.S. workers. We don't know what kind of shock
to the economy would be delivered by losing 5 percent of our workforce, should
undocumented immigrants be deported.

I agree that undocumented immigrants should assimilate. The first step is to
allow them to do so. A bill in the Senate this year would have provided a path
to citizenship for the undocumented, but it was filibustered to death. The task
of assimilating is made more difficult if we don't allow it.

As for learning English, I hear all the time that immigrants are "refusing to
learn English." A few years ago, I helped a friend register for an English
class. She almost didn't get in, and dozens of people behind her in line managed
only to get on a waiting list.

All over the United States, there are waiting lists to get into English classes.
If immigrants are "refusing to learn English," why are so many trying to get
into English classes?

MAURICE BELANGER

Director of Public Information

National Immigration Forum

Washington

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 6, 2007 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Klan Leaflets Denounced in Manassas;
Members of Both Sides of Debate Reject Appeal to 'White Christian America'

BYLINE: Pamela Constable; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 667 words


Dozens of Ku Klux Klan leaflets calling for a ban on "all non-white immigration"
were distributed last weekend in Manassas, where a dispute over illegal
immigration has raised tensions in recent weeks.

The leaflets, dropped at night into mailboxes and on driveways along one street,
urged "white Christian America" to stand up for its rights. Smatterings of
racist literature are distributed in communities throughout the region every few
weeks, but this incident struck a raw nerve in Manassas.

Klan officials, who are based in Arkansas, said yesterday that Virginia
residents had asked them for Klan literature to deliver in Manassas.

In Prince William County, officials are trying to restrict public services to
illegal immigrants and allow local police to take action against them. Latino
activist groups are staging marches and boycotts to protest the proposed
measures, which they denounce as racist and anti-Latino.

"We have heard from people all over Virginia, including Manassas, who are
concerned about quality-of-life issues including gangs, violence and drugs,"
said Travis Pierce, a Klan official, speaking by telephone from Compton, Ark.
"We put out leaflets to bring these problems to the attention of the local
authorities. . . . Our concerns are legitimate, and our actions are legal."

Officials and activists on both sides of the immigration debate in Prince
William rejected the Klan's message and actions, which came to light when
homeowners on one street in Manassas said over the weekend that they had found
several dozen Klan leaflets in their mailboxes or on their driveways.

"This is totally over the top. It is something the citizens here will
universally condemn," said Greg Letiecq, an activist who opposes illegal
immigration and heads a group called Help Save Manassas. The group complains
that the large influx of Latino immigrants to the region, including many who are
illegal, has burdened public services and caused neighborhoods to deteriorate.

Marc T. Aveni, a member of the Manassas City Council, said that the Klan should
stay away from the area and that its actions were not productive.

"We don't want this here," he told Potomac News Online. "I 100-percent condemn
this sort of thing."

Pro-immigrant activists in Prince William, led by the group Mexicans Without
Borders, condemned the Klan activities in even stronger terms. They said the
Klan leaflets showed that local efforts to curb illegal immigration had created
a "hostile environment" toward immigrants and minorities.

"Any time lawmakers pass initiatives that . . . single out a segment of the
population and try to drive them out of the community, they are laying the
foundation for increased bigotry and hatred," Mexicans Without Borders said in a
statement issued yesterday in response to the reports of Klan leafleting. They
said a recent wave of anti-immigrant rhetoric had "opened the door to racist
organizations."

Some local residents suggested that the immigrant groups had drawn distant
"fringe elements" to the region, especially by staging a week-long economic
boycott and a protest rally this month. But Pierce said the people who handed
out the Klan leaflets were all Virginia residents who "love their nation and see
the problems too."

The leaflets contain a brief history of the Klan, tell how to contact and join
the group, and urge "white Christian Americans" to unite in defense against a
variety of issues, including drugs, gang violence and pornography. They also
opposed immigration by Mexicans and other "non-white" groups, who they said seek
to "take over" the country.

Police said no problems or incidents were reported in connection with the
leafleting, and no arrests were made.

Although Klan activities are focused in the U.S. South, its members have
periodically distributed similar material in other communities in the Washington
area where racial or immigration issues have heated up. Klan recruiting leaflets
were found in Frederick in 1999, and a Klan march was held in Annapolis in 1998.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; City Council member Marc T. Aveni condemned the leaflets.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 7, 2007 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Legal Realities Color Immigrant Crackdown;
Herndon Labor-Site Action Spurs Debate

BYLINE: Bill Turque; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 830 words


For elected officials who promised Northern Virginia voters that they would make
their communities less hospitable to illegal immigrants, Herndon Town Council
member Dennis D. Husch has some advice: Read up on the Constitution.

Husch and the council decided Tuesday to close the town's day-laborer center, in
large part because of a Fairfax County Circuit Court judge's ruling that the
site must be open to all residents, including illegal immigrants. He said Mayor
Stephen J. DeBenedittis and other council members were unprepared for the legal
complexities they faced in seeking to operate a labor site that didn't serve
undocumented immigrants.

"At the end of the day, I'm supposed to be worrying about streetlights and
potholes," said Husch, not "that pesky 14th Amendment."

That amendment, which promises equal protection under the law, must be
universally applied, said Judge Leslie Alden, citing Supreme Court rulings.

As officials in Loudoun and Prince William counties consider how to fulfill
promises to crack down on illegal immigration, equal protection is only one of
the deeply rooted constitutional principles they will have to address, experts
on immigration law said yesterday. County officials will be wading into legal
waters where freedom of speech, due process and right to free assembly are as
critical as the zoning ordinance. Some say they will find that the gap between
campaign rhetoric and legal reality is broader and deeper than first imagined.

"The presumption in general seems to be that if someone is here illegally, they
have no rights other than to be put on an airplane and sent home," said Reston
immigration lawyer Charles A. Tievsky. "You're looking at a fairly deep body of
law that says if someone is in this country, they are entitled to a pretty
fundamental array of constitutional rights."

Local officials say they are only stepping into a vacuum created by federal
inaction. States, counties and municipalities across the country have drafted
bills aimed at curbing illegal immigrants' access to government services or
empowering police to take a greater role in enforcing federal immigration law.

Prince William Board Chairman Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large) told a U.S. House
subcommittee yesterday that the federal government needs to clarify the extent
to which localities can enforce immigration law. "Local governments and law
enforcement agencies need the greatest level of immunity afforded by both the
federal and state governments," Stewart said, according to a prepared statement.

But some courts are taking a dim view of local involvement in enforcing
immigration law. In July, a federal judge struck down a Hazleton, Pa., ordinance
denying business permits to employers who hire illegal immigrants and fining
landlords who lease to them. Judge James Munley said such laws encroach on
federal powers and violate rights to due process. This year, a federal judge
barred the Dallas suburb of Farmers Branch from enforcing a similar rental law.

Prince William and Loudoun, which passed resolutions directing staff members to
examine which services the counties can lawfully withhold from illegal
residents, have discovered that their options are not as broad as originally
thought. Most key programs, such as food stamps and Medicaid, require the county
to verify immigration status. Some immigrant advocates said yesterday that they
doubted that any serious policy changes would emerge from the local debate.

"I really don't believe that any of the local ordinances will be finalized,"
said Vienna lawyer Parastoo G. Zahedi.

Former Herndon mayor Michael L. O'Reilly said the resolutions were more
political theater than an attempt to change policy. "Most of these resolutions
were done for purely political reasons, to make a statement saying, 'I'm against
illegal aliens.' They have little or no effect."

Herndon officials said one reason that they elected not to appeal Alden's ruling
was to avoid protracted and expensive litigation. Instead of using the labor
site and the town's anti-solicitation ordinance to regulate the hiring of day
laborers, the town will fall back on established zoning and traffic safety
statutes to keep such activity off the streets.

But communities using that approach also have been successfully challenged in
court. A federal judge in California ruled last year that day laborers in
Redondo Beach had the right to look for jobs on public sidewalks. In November, a
federal judge ruled that officials in the New York City suburb of Mamaroneck had
harassed day laborers in a racially motivated attempt to discourage them from
seeking work on the streets.

Kent Willis, executive director of the ACLU of Virginia, said his organization
and immigrant rights groups will monitor whether day laborers are allowed to
find work on the streets of Herndon.

"The First Amendment guarantees a fundamental right for individuals to
communicate with each other," he said. "This would mean the weather, politics or
employment."

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Dennis D. Husch and colleagues voted to shut the Herndon job
site.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 9, 2007 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

3 Men Charged With Forging Documents;
Officials Say Green Card Operation Preyed on Immigrants

BYLINE: Theresa Vargas; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. LZ10

LENGTH: 427 words


With $175 and a few hours, an illegal immigrant could buy fake documents to work
in the United States through a Woodbridge counterfeit operation, authorities
said last week.

Multiple law enforcement agencies working through the Northern Virginia Gang
Task Force have arrested three men they say were producing and selling fake
Social Security and green cards, which are issued by federal agencies.

Lt. Ron Haugsdahl, task force supervisor, said about eight similar operations
have been discovered in Northern Virginia in the past three years. Such
operations add to the community's problems, he said.

"These people are out there preying on people who don't know any better. All
they are trying to do is get a leg up here. Then these employers see them and
take them as real, and it just adds to the confusion," Haugsdahl said. "It just
kind of snowballs from there."

The latest counterfeiting operation, run out a basement in a house on Conrad
Court, was open six to eight weeks, he said. A search warrant filed in Prince
William County Circuit Court outlines how it was discovered.

Officers began surveillance on five people in two vehicles Aug. 22, and once a
transaction appeared complete, they stopped the vehicles, the warrant said. One
of the men stopped had bought fake documents and gave police this account:

A man approached him asking whether he had a passport and was interested in
purchasing work documents. "Do you want an ID to work in the United States?" the
man had asked him, according to the warrant. "I'll give you a good price."

Within two hours of handing over money, the man received the fake documents, the
warrants said.

Another man who was also stopped by police told detectives that he knew one of
the men running the operation and that the fake IDs were produced in a basement.
Haugsdahl described the operation as low-tech. The counterfeiters would take a
picture using a cellphone camera, download it onto a computer and print out the
cards, he said. That the documents weren't genuine would be obvious to the
semi-trained eye, Haugsdahl said.

"Most police officers would know they are fake. Employers may or may not," he
said.

The warrant lists more than a dozen items seized from the house, including
computer and printing equipment and $1,406 in cash.

Three men have been charged with several misdemeanors in addition to forgery of
a public document, a felony. Police also obtained a detainer against them from
federal immigration authorities. Haugsdahl said authorities are investigating
the men's names; each gave police false identification.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Loudoun County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 9, 2007 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Immigration Myopia in Virginia

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. B08

LENGTH: 558 words


For Virginia's Democrats to cede the issue of illegal immigration  to
Republicans in this fall's legislative contests would be as socially
irresponsible as it would be politically myopic ["Democratic Gains Are Predicted
in Va. Assembly," front page, Sept. 2]. Communities as diverse as Culpeper and
Herndon, and Loudoun and Prince William counties, are seeking to curb the influx
of illegal aliens (calling them "undocumented workers" is akin to referring to
bank robbers as  "unofficial withdrawal specialists").

Although they are denigrated as "xenophobes," "racists" and "nativists" by
special pleaders, local leaders are responding to concerns about school
crowding, emergency-room access, neighborhoods blighted by old vehicles,
trash-strewn yards, houses bulging with occupants, ubiquitous signs in Spanish
and the proliferation of gangs. Several other factors should awaken Democrats,
especially those from Northern Virginia, who blithely intone the mantra that "we
are a nation of immigrants":

Periodic wars and depressions interrupted the waves of new arrivals in the 19th
and 20th centuries, giving them a chance to assimilate and, above all, learn
English. No such "timeouts"  have occurred since the 1965 immigration law, which
fostered the continuous influx of millions of Hispanics, many of whom live in
linguistic enclaves perpetuated by the English-as-a-second-language lobby.

Democrats claim to embrace the principle of justice. Although the United States
legally admits almost 1 million prospective citizens each year, illegal aliens
have broken the  line, thrusting themselves ahead of men and women who have
filled out myriad forms and followed the rules and expected to receive fair play
in return.

The Democrats should align themselves with the working people whom the Bush
administration has disdained. It's not a Fairfax County lawyer or a Richmond
businessperson whose wages and job opportunities are threatened by the
mushrooming number of unlawful aliens. Instead, it's housekeepers, construction
workers, hospitality industry employees and child-care providers, who feel
abandoned when the party of Truman, Kennedy and Roosevelt elevates the interests
of lawbreakers over the well-being of these forgotten blue- and pink-collar
citizens.

Finally, in scorning rigorous law enforcement, Democrats are compromising
opportunities for African Americans, who have been our party's most faithful
backers in the Old Dominion. The Congressional Black Caucus, which rakes in
donations from corporate giants that exploit illegal aliens, has urged African
Americans to join forces with Hispanics and other minorities in a "rainbow
coalition" that supposedly will uplift the nation's downtrodden. In fact, such
vapid sloganeering means that "African Americans have been left devoid of a
strong black voice in Congress on a topic [illegal immigration] that affects
them deeply, given their high unemployment rates and historic struggle to get
quality housing, health care, education and other goods and services," writes
Vanderbilt University professor Carol Swain, who happens to be black. Virginia's
Democrats risk displaying equal callousness toward this constituency.

-- George W. Grayson

Williamsburg

The writer, who teaches at the College of William and Mary, served 27 years as a
Democratic member of the Virginia House of Delegates.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Istock

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 9, 2007 Sunday
                                 Met 1 Edition

Republicans Stage Blitz at Board Meeting;
Officials, Activists Question Policies on Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: Kirstin Downey; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C06

LENGTH: 618 words


The immigration debate broiling across Virginia came to the Democratic enclave
of Arlington County yesterday as local Republican party officials and activists
peppered county board members with questions about how they are handling illegal
immigrants.

The questions mirrored concerns voiced elsewhere -- crime, a day-laborer center
and housing -- and arose at the public comment session of a board meeting in
which immigration issues had not been on the public-discussion agenda.

Rafael Bejar, chairman of the Arlington County Republican Committee, asked
whether county police policy is too lax in referring suspected felons or violent
criminals to federal immigration officials.

Bob Atkins, the party's treasurer, asked how many illegal immigrants are in
county jails and whether officials have applied for federal funds to help house
them.

John Antonelli, a Republican who served on the county's affordable-housing
advisory commission, said the nonprofit groups that run county-backed
affordable-housing complexes permit illegal immigrants to live there and
sometimes turn legal residents away. He also said a day-laborer center in South
Arlington should ensure that workers who use it are here legally and that their
employers pay taxes and abide by employment laws.

"Arlington must recognize that immigration offenses are not just a federal
responsibility," Antonelli said. "They are everyone's responsibility."

Board members, all of whom are Democrats in one of the state's most liberal
localities, defended their policies and accused the Republicans of playing
partisan politics in raising the topic.

Board Vice Chairman J. Walter Tejada said the county is committed to keeping
people safe.

"Nobody is defending the criminals," Tejada said, adding that hasty action to
change policies concerning immigrants could create negative side effects.
Changing policies at the day-laborer center, for example, a step Herndon took
after fierce debate over the issue, caused legal problems and "could be
chaotic," said Tejada, who is running for reelection.

Republicans said they are asking not for immediate changes, but for debate over
how to handle illegal immigrants, some of whom are creating "public safety"
concerns, the speakers said.

About five weeks ago, an illegal immigrant was sentenced to three life terms and
20 years for the rape of a 42-year-old Arlington woman. She was attacked by the
man, a Salvadoran, as she walked along the Four Mile Run bike path.

"We just want a review, given the national situation," said Bejar, a Cuban
American who said that police officers should be required to report immigrants
suspected of felonies or violent crimes to federal immigration officials but
that in Arlington it is only a "recommended" action. Atkins said he has been
told that the county jailed at least 789 illegal immigrants, including some for
felonies, in 2006.

After the meeting, board member Barbara A. Favola said she did not consider the
questions part of "a healthy conversation." She said county officials "follow
all the legal requirements."

Republicans have been trying to gain ground for their candidates in a county
that has grown increasingly Democratic in recent years. Republicans Michael T.
McMenamin and Joseph J. Warren are running this fall to replace Tejada and win
the seat of board Chairman Paul Ferguson, who is running for clerk of the court.
Joshua F. Ruebner of the Green Party is also on the ballot.

"This isn't about policy," board member Chris Zimmerman said.

After the public meeting, however, the board convened a closed-door session to
discuss "legal requirements applicable to the county with respect to immigration
status of persons in the county," according to the board's agenda.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 11, 2007 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

More Illegal Immigrants, More Seats in Congress?

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 230 words


The Sept. 6 editorial "Count Them In" played down the effect that illegal
immigration has on congressional apportionment and the damage it does to fair
representation for American citizens.

Every Election Day, noncitizens infringe on the right to proper and proportional
representation for U.S. citizens as a result of the 14th Amendment, which
requires that those in our country illegally be counted when seats are
apportioned for Congress.

I have introduced H.J. Res. 6 to correct this technical error by replacing the
word "persons" in the amendment with "citizens." This would give American
citizens, both native born and naturalized, fairer  representation. The Census
Bureau would still conduct a complete count of all people in the United States,
but only the number of citizens in each state would be used for apportionment.

States with large populations of illegal immigrants receive a disproportionate
number of seats in the House of Representatives because noncitizens are included
with citizens.  For example, Montana has one representative for a population of
about 895,000 citizens. The 34th District of California has one representative
but fewer than 420,000 citizens.

Policies emerging from the debate on illegal immigration must reflect the will
of U.S. citizens and should not be affected by those here unlawfully.

CANDICE MILLER

U.S. Representative (R-Mich.)

Washington

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 15, 2007 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Police Have Plan For Scrutinizing More Immigrants;
Minor Crimes to Trigger Status Checks

BYLINE: Theresa Vargas; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 594 words


Illegal immigrants stopped in Prince William County for traffic violations,
shoplifting or other misdemeanors would have their immigration status checked
and could face arrest, according to a proposed police department policy that
will be presented to county officials next week.

The police department previously checked only suspects of gang violence or other
serious crimes. The proposed policy is broader, expanding such checks if two
requirements are met: There is probable cause to believe a person is in the
country illegally, and a check of immigration status does not increase the time
a person is detained.

The immigration status of victims and witnesses of crimes would not be checked.

The policy, projected to cost about $14.2 million over the next five years,
comes in response to the Board of County Supervisors' July 10 anti-illegal
immigration resolution. The resolution calls for public services to be denied
illegal immigrants and directs police to check immigration status.

Police Chief Charlie T. Deane was given 60 days to draft a proposal for meeting
the supervisors' mandate. The board will hear the proposal Tuesday and will
accept public comment before voting on it Oct. 2, board Chairman Corey A.
Stewart (R-At Large) said yesterday.

"We are definitely breaking new territory here," Stewart said. "This is the most
aggressive crackdown on illegal immigration by any locality in the United
States. . . . What we're doing here, it's aggressive because we are initiating
deportation of people for felonies as well as misdemeanors."

Deane said the past two months were spent talking to law enforcement officials
across the nation, meeting with lawyers and drafting the policy.

"It's been an intense effort by our staff," Deane said. "This is a unique policy
that is going as far as anybody in local law enforcement has gone in this area."

Officials said the county initiated the deportation process against 52 people in
July, and the least serious offense was driving under the influence.

Under the new policy, an illegal immigrant stopped for stealing a $10 steak or
for breaking the speed limit would be subject to an immigration status check and
could be arrested depending on what that check reveals, Deane said. Encounters
between police and the public that once took 15 minutes could now take hours.

The $14.2 million would go toward additional police staffing, training, public
education, the "farming out" of inmates to relieve jail overcrowding and an
evaluation of the program.

Stewart said the board is prepared to pay $1.4 million this year.

"I think it's worth it," Stewart said. "I think cracking down on illegal
immigration and removing illegal immigrants is going to save us money and
resources over the long term. The reality is they are crowding our jails, they
are crowding our hospitals and they are crowding our schools."

Because immigration is a federal matter, officials said, county police have
limited enforcement powers. Officers cannot make arrests based solely on
immigration status, and they must be investigating a separate violation before
they can check a person's status.

Federal staffing and availability of jail space also affects the number of
illegal immigrants who can be taken into custody.

"If someone walked up to an officer and said, 'I paid someone to smuggle me
across the border,' the local officer doesn't have the authority to arrest,"
Deane said. "Some people might find that surprising."

If approved, the policy is expected to go into effect after officers have been
trained to enforce it, no later than January.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 16, 2007 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Stewart's Testimony In Congress Criticized;
Remarks Called Personal Opinion

BYLINE: Christy Goodman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW01

LENGTH: 548 words


Prince William Board of County Supervisors Chairman Corey A. Stewart came under
criticism last week for his recent testimony before a congressional
subcommittee.

Instead of sticking to his prepared remarks, Stewart went off script and,
several board members said, missed a prime opportunity to help the county.

Stewart (R-At Large) testified Sept. 6 before the U.S. House Committee on the
Judiciary's Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security
and International Law.

A draft of his testimony that was circulated to supervisors and county staff was
deemed appropriate. But Stewart's final written testimony went beyond board
policy, and his oral testimony did not follow the written testimony.

Stewart asked for the authority "to detain and arrest suspected illegal
immigrants based solely upon a civil detainer" and for the ability to fine
landlords who rent to illegal immigrants, an action some courts have declared
illegal.

"He added some additional language that I communicated to him went beyond board
policy and entered the realm of his own opinion," Supervisor Martin E. Nohe
(R-Coles) said.

Like the other supervisors, Nohe wanted Stewart to ask for more federal funding
to deal with the issue, a board policy. "It is important that whenever he is
going to speak in the context where people assume he is speaking as chairman
that he only speak board policy," Nohe said.

"They didn't want to hear personal opinions. They wanted to hear what the
county's position was and how we were concerned," Supervisor John D. Jenkins
(D-Neabsco) said.

Jenkins said he wanted Stewart to be tougher with Congress and demand more
federal funds to deal with illegal immigrants in the county and to reduce the
number of illegal immigrants in the regional jail.

"There are some serious constitutional questions we need to look at. We don't
want to spend our time doing things we [could be] getting sued for," Jenkins
said.

Supervisor Hilda M. Barg (D-Woodbridge) said Stewart shouldn't have been
"speaking off the cuff." "Just because it is an election year, I don't want to
be used by him or anyone else for his self-gain."

Stewart has never been shy about his ambition to higher elected office, namely
the 11th District seat of Rep. Thomas M. Davis III (R-Va.). Davis is said to be
considering  seeking the seat of retiring Sen. John W. Warner (R-Va.) next year.

Stewart introduced himself to the subcommittee as the county chairman but said
later that he was speaking for himself, not the board.

"The thing is that opportunity in front of Congress would have never been there
if it hadn't been for my leadership and [Supervisor John T. Stirrup Jr.'s
(R-Gainesville)] leadership . . . raising this to the forefront," Stewart said
in his defense. ". . . What I did in front of Congress was say, 'Look, you are
not doing your job, so give us the authority to do more.' "

His opponent in the Nov. 6 election, former county attorney Sharon E. Pandak
(D), said Stewart is more focused on getting face time on television than
working for the county.

"He hasn't made it any secret that his goal is going beyond the chairman of the
supervisors. In the interim, he is the chairman of the board, and he has an
obligation to the citizens of this county to promote their interests first,"
Pandak said.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 16, 2007 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Housing Help on the Border

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 116 words


Considering the crisis in  the mortgage industry and the huge inventory of
housing, do  politicians in Washington still think we should gather up the
illegal immigrants and send them back to Mexico and Central America? Let's see:
That  would free up millions of  houses and apartments. Or, maybe we ought to
rethink this plan.

It's fun to watch just how quickly things change. Right now, it appears that
about the only thing keeping the economy afloat is the fact that the illegal
immigrants are occupying so many houses in the United States.

Maybe we should consider opening up our southern borders and welcoming a few
more hardworking people in to help stabilize the economy.

ED SCEERY

Santa Fe, N.M.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 16, 2007 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Letters To the Editor

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW02

LENGTH: 585 words

Don't Turn a Blind Eye To Immigration Backlash

 As a former middle school counselor in the Baileys Crossroads area, I am very
familiar with the challenges that immigrant families -- legal and illegal -- and
especially their children face in adapting to life in the United States. By and
large, like all immigrants before them, the vast majority want nothing more than
to achieve and contribute to the American dream

I am a mother raising two young children in Prince William County, blessed to be
a stay-at-home mom. I find myself greatly concerned about how the local
political reaction to illegal immigration is affecting the environment in which
my children are growing up.

Recently, several members of the Board of County Supervisors sponsored a
controversial resolution to combat illegal immigration in the area. Supervisor
John T. Stirrup Jr. (R-Gainesville) and Chairman Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large)
are entitled to their opinions about illegal immigration, but they are not
entitled to turn a blind eye to the actions that certain hate organizations are
taking in conjunction with their opinions, specifically the Ku Klux Klan.

Recently, there have been reports on activity by the Klan in some neighborhoods,
distributing anti-immigrant material. Instead of perhaps moderating their
position on illegal immigration, the supervisors instead denied there was any
connection between the two issues.

"I'm really disturbed that he would try to make such a stupid connection,"
Stewart said about one news story.

"There's a lot of things that happen in life, that may happen in the same time
frame that may not necessarily be related to each other," Stirrup said. "I don't
really think that there's a relationship between the two."

To deny the connection of the immigration resolution and the KKK appearance is
to deny reality.

"If any one single issue or trend can be credited with reenergizing the Klan, it
is the debate over immigration in America," said Deborah M. Lauter, civil rights
director of the Anti-Defamation League. "Klan groups have witnessed a surprising
and troubling resurgence by exploiting fears of an immigration explosion, and
the debate over immigration has, in turn, helped to fuel an increase in Klan
activity, with new groups sprouting in parts of the country that have not seen
much activity."

The Southern Poverty Law Center has reported the following: "Energized by the
rancorous national debate on immigration and increasingly successful at
penetrating mainstream political discourse, hate groups in America continued to
grow in number in 2006, rising 5% over the year before to 844 groups.

"That increase translated into a 40% jump in the number of groups since 2000,
when there were 602 hate groups operating in America, according to research [by
the center's Intelligence Project]. Much of the expansion has been driven by
hate groups' exploitation of the issue of illegal immigration, which many
Americans see as a pressing concern."

What disappoints me most is the direction my board of supervisors is taking this
county, a direction that leads to nowhere but increased hate and division. What
we need are voices of innovation, of new ideas, solutions that can take into
account the totality of the illegal immigration dilemma before this county and
country.

If we do not begin to solve this problem in a realistic and humane way, we will
continue to see an upsurge of hate while not addressing the issue of illegal
immigration in a comprehensive manner.

Elena Schlossberg-Kunkel

Haymarket

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 19, 2007 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

Division Problem;
The GOP's Ruinous Immigration Stance

BYLINE: Michael Gerson

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A23

LENGTH: 748 words


Immigration used to be a debate among Republicans. Now the issue survives mainly
as a weapon.

Former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney -- who once commented on illegal
immigrants, "I don't believe in rounding up 11 million people and forcing them
at gunpoint from our country" -- attacks Rudy Giuliani for not rounding up
enough illegal immigrants when he was mayor of New York. Giuliani -- who once
said, "If you come here and you work hard and you happen to be in an
undocumented status, you're one of the people who we want in this city" --
criticizes Romney for tolerating "sanctuary cities" in Massachusetts.

One gets the impression of decent men, intimidated by the vocal anger of
elements of their own party.

That anger is pushing Republicans into some powerful symbols of indifference to
Hispanic voters. The Univision Republican debate, scheduled for last Sunday with
simultaneous translation into Spanish, was postponed when only Sen. John McCain
agreed to show up. Rep. Tom Tancredo objected to the event on principle: "We
should not be doing things that encourage people to stay separate in a separate
language" -- which raises the question: Is saying "Viva Cuba Libre" no longer
permissible for Republicans? And this snub came on the heels of conspicuous
Republican absence at a forum held by the National Association of Latino Elected
and Appointed Officials, and at the National Council of La Raza convention.

It is a strange spectacle. Conservatives are intent on building a more
appealing, post-Bush Republican Party. But their most obvious change so far is
to reverse remarkable Republican gains among one of the fastest-growing groups
of American voters. The renovators seem more like the wrecking crew.

From the beginning of his political career, George W. Bush refused to support
amnesty for illegal immigrants. He did, however, take a principled,
middle-ground position that also appealed to Latinos -- a proposal that would
give legal status to those who want to work in America and return home, while
also providing a realistic (but not easy) path to citizenship for those who want
to stay.

The political effects were immediate. Bob Dole got about 21 percent of Hispanic
votes in 1996. Bush won about 35 percent in 2000. In 2004, Bush ran in the
Latino media on the slogan "Nos conocemos," or "We know one another" -- and both
he and Republicans in Congress averaged over 40 percent of the Hispanic vote.

The political effects of conservative opposition to immigration reform have been
swift as well. Latino support for GOP candidates dropped back to 30 percent in
2006. According to one poll, Latinos under age 30 now prefer a generic Democrat
over a Republican for president by 42 points. A harsh, Tancredo-like image of
Republicans has solidified in the mainstream Hispanic media. And all of this
regression will be even more obvious in the next few months, because more than
half of the Hispanic voters in America live in states that are part of the new
lineup of early primaries.

I have never seen an issue where the short-term interests of Republican
presidential candidates in the primaries were more starkly at odds with the
long-term interests of the party itself. At least five swing states that Bush
carried  in 2004 are rich in Hispanic voters -- Arizona, New Mexico, Nevada,
Colorado and Florida. Bush won Nevada by just over 20,000 votes. A substantial
shift of Hispanic voters toward the Democrats in these states could make the
national political map unwinnable for Republicans.

There is a moral hazard as well. Surfing on a wave of voter resentment is easier
than rowing on the calmer waters of inclusion and charity. But the heroes of
America are generally heroes of reconciliation, not division.

In politics, some acts are so emblematic and potent that they cannot be undone
for decades -- as when Republican presidential candidate Barry Goldwater voted
against the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Goldwater was no racist; his
constitutional objections were sincere. Members of the Republican Party actually
voted for the Civil Rights Act in higher percentages than Democrats. But all of
this was overwhelmed by the symbolism of the moment. In his autobiography, Colin
Powell says that after the Goldwater vote, he went to his car and affixed a
Lyndon Johnson bumper sticker, as did many other African Americans. Now
Republicans seem to be repeating history with Hispanic Americans. Some in the
party seem pleased. They should be terrified.

michaelgerson@cfr.org

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Jacquelyn Martin -- Associated Press; Abdulaziz Kamus, right,
and other supporters of immigration reform protest outside the Republican
National Committee's Washington headquarters in May.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 19, 2007 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Arlington Condemns Region's Immigrant Crackdown

BYLINE: Kirstin Downey; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 636 words


The Arlington County Board yesterday strongly rebuked elected officials
elsewhere in Northern Virginia who are clamping down on illegal immigrants,
saying such efforts are "politically inspired," "irresponsible" and "punitive."

The five board members, all Democrats, unanimously backed a resolution calling
on elected officials elsewhere to "promote the integration of immigrants"
instead of enacting rules they said would be divisive.

They said the county will continue to prosecute illegal immigrants who commit
crimes and report them to federal officials, but in a way that treats "all of
its residents . . . with human dignity and respect."

The Arlington officials said the county will take no actions that might
discourage immigrants from reporting crimes to the police, such as requiring
officers to check the immigration status of every person with whom they come
into contact. They also said the county will not cut public health services for
immigrants, which officials said could cause disease to spread. They said they
will not restrict education programs because children of illegal immigrants are
likely to remain in the United States and it therefore makes better sense to
help them be able to earn a good living.

"We will not engage in divisive tactics," said the board's vice chairman, J.
Walter Tejada, a naturalized citizen who was born in El Salvador. "I was never
more proud to be an Arlingtonian than I am today."

The regionwide debate over illegal immigration came to Arlington early this
month. At a Saturday board meeting, local Republican officials posed pointed
questions to the board about the extent of crime being committed by illegal
immigrants and whether officials were requiring the police to report such crime
to federal immigration officials. They also questioned whether it is appropriate
for Arlington's day-laborer center to serve workers who are in the country
illegally.

Board members responded by saying that the county's crime rate has reached a
record low even as the community has become more diverse.

In some areas, politicians have been swept to victory by attacking their
opponents as lenient toward illegal immigrants in giving them health services,
education or employment assistance. In Herndon, for example, supporters of a
day-laborer center were defeated last year, and the center was shut down last
week.

In Prince William County, a proposed police policy would require officers to
check the immigration status of anyone arrested for traffic violations,
shoplifting or other misdemeanors. Manassas Park recently canceled a Latino
festival that had cost $30,000, some of which had come from city money.

After many years in which relaxed immigration policies were favored by
Republicans and Democrats, taking a stand in favor of immigrants now requires
some political courage. Tejada is facing reelection, and Paul Ferguson, the
board's chairman, is hoping to be elected clerk of the court. Both have
challengers in the Nov. 6 election.

Arlington officials criticized the federal government yesterday for what they
called its failure to enact fair immigration laws and enforce them
appropriately, saying government incompetence on that front has thrown the issue
into the laps of local governments.

The federal government "has been incredibly inefficient in border security,"
said board member Jay Fisette (D), and the result is that "many ills in the
community" are being blamed on immigrants.

Only a few people were in the audience to hear the board members' resolution,
and most of them applauded.

Among the supporters was Enrique Escorza, the consul general of the Mexican
Embassy, who was sitting near the front of the room.

"The signal we are receiving here is very important," Escorza said. "Listening
to a very responsive county board like Arlington is very gratifying."

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; "I was never more proud to be an Arlingtonian than I am today,"
said board member J. Walter Tejada.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 22, 2007 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Churches Weigh Offering Help to Illegal Immigrants;
As Sanctuary Movement Is Renewed, Questions of Law and Obligation Arise

BYLINE: Nancy Haught; Religion News Service

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B08

LENGTH: 720 words

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore.


Jean Bucciarelli remembers the Sunday last May when someone urged her
congregation to become a sanctuary church -- to actively support illegal
immigrants who want to stay in this country.

"Someone said, 'Let's just do it,' " she recalled. Some members of Ainsworth
United Church of Christ were ready, but Bucciarelli wasn't. Like most Ainsworth
members, she still had too many questions.

"It is naive to go into something without knowing what you're getting into --
except that it sounds like a good Christian thing," says Bucciarelli, 68, a
charter member of the church, which describes itself as a "multicultural,
multiracial, open and affirming [of gays, lesbians, bisexuals and transgender
people] community."

The congregation decided to slow down but continue the conversation. Congregants
talked through June, when news broke of an immigration-enforcement raid on a
local Fresh Del Monte Produce Inc. plant. They wrestled with many questions any
religious group would: Would sanctuary conflict with other church ministries?
Would members be pressured to open their homes? Would they be breaking the law?
What were the legal consequences?

The nationwide New Sanctuary Movement is about six months old. Its roots,
however, go back to the Bible, where passages prescribe offering refuge to
people unjustly accused of crimes. The movement last surfaced in the United
States in the 1980s, when some churches sheltered Central and South Americans
denied political asylum.

The most visible symbol of the New Sanctuary Movement has been Elvira Arellano,
a Mexican woman who spent a year sheltered in a Chicago church to avoid
deportation. She was deported last month after she embarked on a nationwide
speaking tour; her son, Saul, 8, a U.S. citizen, has joined her in Mexico.

Today, loosely organized religious groups and individuals in about 50 cities
support families who risk separation if members here illegally are deported. The
movement is public in its efforts and encourages immigrants to tell their
stories.

New Sanctuary has not meant -- at least so far -- that churches or church
members provide shelter. So far, leaders and people from about 20 congregations
accompany immigrants to court and help them keep body and soul together.

Several Portland churches have supported "women of the bracelet," about 25
mothers arrested in recent raids, including from the Fresh Del Monte plant, and
then released wearing electronic monitoring bracelets. The women may not work,
must spend at least 12 hours a day at home and must check in regularly with
authorities. They support their children with donations they receive for serving
homemade enchiladas and tamales at church events.

The Rev. W.J. Mark Knutson, pastor of Augustana Lutheran Church in Portland,
says his congregation raised about $1,500 for the women during its summer
festival. Others have also organized baby showers for women who were pregnant or
were new mothers.

Maria del Pilar Delgado of Mexico City, who's living in Northeast Portland, wore
an electronic ankle bracelet after her arrest. On a recent evening, she sat at
her kitchen table and went through bills. She needed $2,000 to appeal her
deportation, $550 for rent, $200 for other bills and an undetermined amount for
her American-born children, ages 7 and 9, for school.

Women like her were on the minds of the people at Ainsworth as they debated
whether to join the New Sanctuary Movement. The people the church would help,
the congregants agreed, would have to have a good work history and not have a
criminal record -- aside from their immigration status. While some members did
volunteer their homes, there would not be pressure on others to do so. If church
members didn't hide immigrants and if they helped them follow immigration
requirements, the legal consequences would probably be minimal, an attorney
advised them.

Bucciarelli was relieved. "I do think immigration is a mess," she said, "but at
the same time, I'm not willing -- and most people would not be willing -- to
risk a huge fine or big jail sentence."

The question came to a vote at Ainsworth in July. Bucciarelli thought about
abstaining. But after airing her concerns and listening to others, she voted for
Ainsworth to be a sanctuary church, as did a majority of the voters.

Nancy Haught writes for the Oregonian in Portland, Ore.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 24, 2007 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Va. GOP Seizes on 'Red-Hot' Concern;
Illegal Immigration Fuels Campaigns Across the State

BYLINE: Anita Kumar; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1288 words


As Virginia Senate candidate Bob FitzSimmonds heads out each day to knock on
doors in Prince William County, he brings extra copies of his latest brochure,
the one addressing a single issue: illegal immigration.

FitzSimmonds, a conservative Republican running an uphill race to unseat
longtime Sen. Charles J. Colgan (D-Prince William), said he hears more from
voters about illegal immigration than any issue except transportation. The
Senate district includes Manassas, Manassas Park and part of Prince William, to
which thousands of immigrants have moved in recent years.

"Immigration is definitely a problem," Patty Jenkins, 49, told FitzSimmonds as
she and her husband cleaned their garage one recent day.

Candidates across the state, particularly in the increasingly diverse Northern
Virginia suburbs, are hearing multiple sides of the immigration issue during
visits to neighborhoods, fairs and community meetings. How they respond could
help determine the outcome of the Nov. 6 elections for all 140 House and Senate
seats.

"It's red-hot," said Sen. James K. "Jay" O'Brien Jr. (R-Fairfax). "Immigration
is an issue everywhere in Virginia. Any candidate that speaks with confidence
about [requiring immigrants to have a] legal presence will generate a terrific
response."

Heightened interest in the issue has prompted a surge of proposals by Virginia
Republican leaders. Hardly a week goes by without a candidate announcing an
"action plan" on immigration: FitzSimmonds's brochure, for example, spells out a
five-point plan.

Republican and Democratic candidates said they were surprised by the seemingly
sudden and strong interest. Many said their internal polls did not show illegal
immigration to be a significant voter concern at the start of the year. A
Washington Post-Kaiser Foundation-Harvard University survey in May found that
about a third of Virginians said they think illegal immigrants already living
and working in the United States should be deported.

But interest picked up after Congress failed to approve an immigration overhaul
this summer. That was followed by attempts by Prince William and Loudoun
counties to crack down on government services to illegal immigrants and the
closing of a day-laborer center in Herndon.

"It's a matter of concern across the state because of a failure of the federal
government to do their job, to come up with some kind of comprehensive reform,"
said Del. Robert H. Brink (D-Arlington).

Virginia Republican leaders first seized the issue, unveiling a proposal to curb
illegal immigration by prohibiting illegal immigrants from attending public
colleges, requiring sheriffs to check immigration status before jail releases
and suspending business licenses of companies convicted of hiring illegal
immigrants.

Virginia Democrats, who are in a position to make gains in the GOP-controlled
General Assembly, say Republicans have tried to divert attention from voter
outrage over costly abusive-driver fees with an issue -- illegal immigration --
that state and local government can do little to resolve.

"To a large degree, they are grandstanding," said Richard L. Saslaw (D-Fairfax),
the Democratic leader in the Senate. "It's to wash off the stink of abuser fees.
When you see them dragging up issues like this . . . that's all they are trying
to do."

The abusive-driver fees, which took effect July 1 and range from $750 to $3,000
for serious traffic offenses, were supported by Gov. Timothy M. Kaine (D) and
members of both parties but were conceived by Republicans to avoid raising taxes
to pay for road and transit projects.

"Republicans feel that [immigration] is a real opportunity for them to mobilize
their base constituency, especially at a time when the Republican grass roots
are so dispirited," said Mark J. Rozell, a political science professor at George
Mason University.

Republicans dispute the notion that they are exaggerating the immigration issue
to gain political advantage, saying they are responding to complaints they get
from voters.

As FitzSimmonds campaigned in Prince William recently, Marie Humston, 58,
stepped onto her porch to ask him what could be done about the 12 people who she
said moved into a single-family home next to hers on leafy Cliffbrook Court in
Montclair.

"There are some things we can do at the state level," FitzSimmonds said before
handing her his brochure, which lists such proposals as punishing employers who
hire illegal immigrants and denying in-state tuition to illegal immigrants.

But most four-year colleges already prohibit illegal immigrants, and a 1994 law
asks sheriffs to check immigration status.

"People need to recognize and realize that these promises are really just bumper
sticker messages," said Flavia Jimenez, an immigrant policy analyst for the
National Council of La Raza, which bills itself as the largest national Hispanic
civil rights and advocacy group in the United States. "Many politicians are
promising to fix the illegal immigration problem without hard facts to follow
the statements they are making."

It's not just Republicans touting immigration. Democrats are, too, especially in
conservative districts.

George Barker, a Democrat running against O'Brien in one of Northern Virginia's
most competitive races, said immigration has "got people's attention. It's not
just a Republican issue."

Although candidates in both parties are promising to take action if elected,
there is little state and local governments can do, in part because the law
provides many protections for illegal immigrants, as Herndon found out recently
when a judge determined that the town's day-laborer center must be open to all
workers, including those in the country illegally. Town officials shut down the
center rather than comply with the court.

It is unclear whether talking about illegal immigration will help Republicans
this fall. Republicans Jerry W. Kilgore and George Allen tried to use the issue
in their last statewide campaigns but lost. But immigration did appear to help
Republican Corey A. Stewart win chairmanship of the Prince William Board of
County Supervisors last fall.

National party leaders are warning that the issue could hurt the GOP as it tries
to keep the White House next year and make gains in Congress. Virginia's U.S.
Senate race next year will no doubt include an airing of the immigration issue.

Across the country, Republicans are trying to woo Hispanic voters, a
fast-growing group that helped reelect President Bush, who won a historically
high 40 percent of its vote in 2004.

That support faltered last year when the Republican share of the Hispanic vote
dipped to 30 percent after the GOP-controlled Congress considered a bill that
would have substantially boosted border security.

Michael Thompson, executive director of the Thomas Jefferson Institute for
Public Policy, a conservative think tank based in Fairfax, said: "Immigration
can be an issue, but is a short-term victory this fall worth long-terms problems
for the party? Look at what happened in California. The Republican Party became
known as the mean-spirited, anti-immigration party and went from success to
failure almost overnight."

Frank Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, an immigrant
advocacy group, predicted this year's Republican immigration proposals in
Virginia would also go awry.

"It's crazy. We are watching slow-motion political suicide," Sharry said. "They
are reaching for it out of desperation . . . but it's more likely to backfire
than work."

Del. Thomas Davis Rust (R-Fairfax), who is running for reelection, disagreed.
"The federal government has failed miserably, so people are looking for the next
level of government to fix it," he said.

Staff writer Tim Craig contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photos By Dayna Smith For The Washington Post; Virginia Senate
candidate Bob FitzSimmonds takes extra copies of his brochure on illegal
immigration as he knocks on doors in Prince William County.
IMAGE; "There are some things we can do at the state level" regarding illegal
immigration, says FitzSimmonds, shown with his wife, Debbie.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 24, 2007 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Immigration: Enforcement or Accommodation?

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 294 words


I am dismayed by the obvious disregard for the illegal status of many of our
area immigrants. Why would jurisdictions refuse to ask about the legal status of
drivers who break the law or otherwise fall outside normal behavior? What is not
understood about the term "illegal immigrant"? Isn't it a crime to be in this
country without permission?

Is there another agenda? Perhaps our local politicians think they need to
accommodate illegal immigrants with the notion that it will lead to more
Democratic Party voters.

There is a deeper issue we need to consider: the additional burden on our
entitlement programs.

Social Security and Medicare are on a collision course with insolvency, without
the addition of 12 million illegal immigrants.

If our politicians do not realize the danger we face if we do not confront our
growing illegal-immigration problem in Northern Virginia, they are doing
taxpayers a disservice by not looking out for our interests.

ALLAN J. FRITZ

Fairfax

Â·

Michael Gerson ["Division Problem," op-ed, Sept. 19] claimed that the debate
among Republicans on immigration -- headed by President Bush -- survives mainly
as a "weapon."

I respectfully disagree. I support the president's plan on illegal immigrants
because it is a long-term realization of the changing ethnic makeup of this
great nation. The president has been relentlessly promoting his plan across
America despite anger from within his own party and especially the Democratic
Party -- which, as of this moment, has no meaningful plan. For this, he deserves
respect.

I am a legal U.S. permanent resident from New Zealand, and while I would not be
subject to any such immigration plans, I hope that the American people realize
that this debate is something worth having.

ANDREW PRIEDITIS

Germantown

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 26, 2007 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

A Future for Children;
Young immigrants should be given a chance to succeed in America -- even if they
entered illegally.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 485 words


TENS OF thousands of illegal immigrants graduate from American high schools
every year, having entered the United States as children or young teenagers with
their parents. They may be computer geniuses, talented artists, gifted debaters,
entrepreneurial whiz kids or superb athletes, but it doesn't really matter; most
of them, no matter how bright and ambitious, face insurmountable obstacles to
success -- through no fault of their own. Although they grew up here and may
seem culturally and linguistically indistinguishable from their native-born
peers, they cannot share their classmates' high hopes and bright prospects.

Moved by their stories, senators from both political parties are sponsoring a
measure that would give these youngsters what America has always given promising
newcomers: a chance. The legislation, known as the Dream Act, would apply only
to those who entered the country at age 15 or younger, have lived here for at
least five years and have unblemished records. Upon graduating from high school,
they would be granted conditional legal status for six years, a grace period in
which they would have to spend at least two years enrolled in a four-year or
community college or serving in a branch of the U.S. military. If they satisfied
all those conditions while staying out of trouble, they would qualify  to become
legal permanent residents.

According to the Urban Institute, an estimated 360,000 undocumented immigrants
who have already finished high school  could be eligible right off the bat for
six-year conditional legal status under  Dream's provisions; 65,000 more would
graduate annually and become eligible in the coming years. Many would elect to
join the armed forces, thereby providing the military, which is struggling to
meet recruitment targets, with a high-quality pool of potential recruits. Many
others would enroll in institutions of higher education, instantly improving
their long-term prospects to be well-paid, taxpaying, high-achieving members of
society. If, as members of Congress and the Bush administration routinely
acknowledge, there is to be no mass deportation of illegal immigrants, the Dream
Act goes some way toward ensuring that the youngest and most promising
immigrants will benefit this country for many years to come.

The Dream Act has been offered as an amendment to the Defense Department's
appropriations bill and could face a floor vote in the Senate this week.
Predictably, the anti-illegal-immigrant forces are  howling about a new
"amnesty." Let them use whatever word  they choose. But let's also be clear
about the victims if the measure is defeated -- promising young English speakers
who had no say about how they were brought to this country. Most will stay here,
in the only land where they feel at home. The real question is whether America
is big enough and wise enough to offer them a future or will doom them to lives
on the margins.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 30, 2007 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

Most Immigrants Convicted Of Crimes Are Not Deported

BYLINE: Jeff Bliss; Bloomberg News

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 707 words


Ezequiel Lopez-Quintero already had a rap sheet that stretched to Texas when,
police said, he shot Kenosha County, Wis., Sheriff's Deputy Frank Fabiano Jr. in
the head, killing him.

Lopez-Quintero, 45, an illegal immigrant from Mexico, was free at the time of
the May shooting, after having been jailed for two previous violent crimes. By
law, he should have been deported, but federal immigration authorities did not
know he had been in custody, and state and local police did not tell them.

The case is not an exception.  Less than half the foreigners convicted of crimes
in the United States, most of whom are in the country illegally, are deported
after serving their sentences, according to the Department of Homeland
Security's inspector general.

Cases such as Lopez-Quintero's highlight the holes in the nation's overwhelmed
immigration system, said Rep. David E. Price (D-N.C.), who chairs the House
Appropriations subcommittee overseeing Department of Homeland Security funding.

"There's no convincing case for putting anything higher on the priority list in
terms of deportation than persons who've committed crimes," Price said.

The House has passed a bill sponsored by Price that would require the DHS to
check monthly with the nation's prisons and jails to on the number of
incarcerated illegal immigrants. Another provision in the legislation would
expand a program to deputize local and state police to help identify potential
deportees among people they arrest.

The House approved $180 million for such expulsion efforts, but the measure is
hung up in Congress over differences with the Senate's bill to fund Homeland
Security.

Marc Raimondi, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said that
the Bush administration is not ignoring criminal immigrants. The administration
has requested a $29 million boost for the criminal-deportation program for the
fiscal year that will begin on Monday, a 21 percent increase from its current
$137 million budget.

The DHS inspector general's report estimates that there are 302,500 deportable
immigrants in U.S. jails and prisons. However, they are scattered among 5,033
facilities, some run by the federal government, some by states and some, as in
Kenosha County, by localities.

"This problem has become so large that the federal government can't handle it
alone," said Sheriff Jim Pendergraph of Mecklenburg County, N.C., which since
last year has identified 2,100 people for deportation by working with the
federal government.

John Torres, director of U.S. detention and removal operations, is focusing on
federal prisons, where 27 percent of those incarcerated were born in other
countries, according to the Government Accountability Office. In 2006, the
United States sent 88,830 criminal immigrants back to their native countries
with the help of agents and judges who work within prison walls to speed up the
deportation process. About 107,000 noncriminal  immigrants were also deported.

Price said Torres's strategy overlooks illegal immigrants in state and local
prisons and jails, which make up 93 percent of the country's facilities.

In Kenosha County, officers stopped alerting immigration officials about
foreigners in custody during the 1980s because federal budget cuts left no money
for the deportations, said Capt. Gary Preston, head of the local jail. "Law
enforcement just got into the habit of not bothering," he said.

In 2005, Lopez-Quintero twice pleaded guilty to battery in Kenosha County
circuit court, and spent nearly nine months in the county jail. Kenosha County
Jail officials did not resume informing immigration officials about foreign-born
inmates until November 2006 at the urging of federal officials, Preston said.
That was 2 1/2  months after Lopez-Quintero was released, according to jail
records.

According to court records, Lopez-Quintero, fueled by tequila and $200 worth of
cocaine, allegedly shot Fabiano three times on May 16 after the officer ordered
him out of the van he was driving. Lopez-Quintero has pleaded not guilty to a
charge of first-degree intentional homicide.

Lopez-Quintero is now set to be processed for deportation, regardless of the
outcome of his trial, said Michael Keegan, a spokesman for Immigration and
Customs Enforcement.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 30, 2007 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Illegal Immigration Divides Candidates;
Sheriff Hopefuls Dispute Issue's Priority

BYLINE: Bill Brubaker; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. LZ05

LENGTH: 597 words


The three candidates in the Loudoun County sheriff's race sparred Tuesday night
over whether illegal immigration should be the top priority of law enforcement
officers in one of the nation's fastest-growing jurisdictions.

Republican candidate Greg Ahlemann said that the presence of illegal immigrants
in the county is "the issue in this race" and that the large number of Sterling
Park residents who don't speak English suggests there are undocumented workers
in that heavily Hispanic community.

"Clearly we've seen a move, a change. I've seen it firsthand from working on the
streets of Sterling Park since 1997 and how the demographics have changed,"
Ahlemann, a former Loudoun deputy, said in the debate sponsored by the League of
Women Voters of Loudoun County.

"I know that many of the people that I arrested initially who had no
identification couldn't speak any English -- I'm just going to guess that they
might have been here illegally," he said.

Democratic candidate Mike George, a former narcotics and organized-crime
detective who helped create Fairfax County's gang intelligence unit in the
mid-1990s, said defending against terrorist attacks should be a greater priority
in Loudoun than illegal immigration.

"I think the homeland security threat is the number one priority. . . . I'm not
for illegal immigration. I think there are people cutting in line in front of
millions of other people," said George, who is director of investigative
services for the Recording Industry Association of America, a trade group. "But
we really have to work on preparing for terrorism threats. . . . To fight
terrorism takes a whole community. We are not prepared right now."

Loudoun County Sheriff Stephen O. Simpson, who is seeking his fourth term, cited
gang violence, terrorism and traffic as the biggest issues, noting that violent
crimes decreased in the county from 2005 to 2006.

"We're going to continue to face the same problems . . . as the county continues
to grow," said Simpson, who is running as an independent because he lost to
Ahlemann in the Loudoun County Republican Committee convention in June.

"We have been very aggressive in dealing with gangs. . . . That doesn't mean
it's gone away," Simpson said. "Traffic is going to continue to be a problem. .
. . And with the constant threat of homeland security issues, the constant
threat being as close to D.C. . . . this is going to be something the sheriff is
going to have to continue to deal with."

Ahlemann has made illegal immigration the centerpiece of his campaign. In the
debate at Ida Lee Park Recreation Center, he said 4,000 students are enrolled in
English as a Second Language programs in Loudoun schools and speculated that 100
of them could be illegal immigrants.

Simpson and George criticized Ahlemann's attempts to link gang crime and illegal
immigration to the Hispanic community in Sterling Park.

"I do think it's wrong to assume -- like some people do -- that everyone who is
in Sterling that's Hispanic is, first of all, illegal, and, second of all, a
gang member," Simpson said. "That's just not true. . . . In Loudoun County, only
about one out of about 20 people we deal with that are in gangs are illegal. So
you have to be very careful when you start pointing fingers . . . in a political
campaign."

George seemed to agree. "We can't look at a certain culture and say they're gang
members," he said. "I've worked Asian crimes. I've worked Nigerian crimes. I've
worked Russian mafia crimes. There's crime in every culture and every race. . .
. We need to target a crime; we don't need to target a culture."

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Loudoun County

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Greg Ahlemann
IMAGE; Mike George
IMAGE; Stephen Simpson

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 4, 2007 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Prince William Law Seen As a Test;
Board Considers What to Deny to Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: Nick Miroff; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 819 words


As soon as Prince William County announced its plan to deny services to
undocumented immigrants, calls began coming in from as far as Arizona and
Washington state, as local governments across the country look for new
strategies to target people in the country illegally.

Crackdowns elsewhere in the nation have had limited success. Towns such as
Riverside, N.J., Hazleton, Pa., and Escondido, Calif., have passed, then
repealed, ordinances aimed at illegal immigrants -- or suffered costly legal
setbacks in defending the policies.

The Prince William Board of County Supervisors says its approach is different.
Unlike other jurisdictions' attempts to punish landlords who rent to illegal
immigrants or employers who hire them, county officials crafted their strategy
around increased police enforcement and service restrictions.

Supervisors are trying to put a final price tag on their plan and determine
which services can be legally denied, all in advance of a crucial Oct. 16 vote.

Immigration law experts say the county's policy is legally untested.

"There is a long history in our jurisprudence that states cannot discriminate
with respect to populations," said Muzaffar A. Chishti, director of the
nonpartisan Migration Policy Institute's office at the New York University law
school. "As a general principle, they probably will have a difficult time."

County staff members were ordered in July to determine which services and
benefits could be withheld from illegal immigrants, and the result is the
phone-book-size "Analysis of County Services" that was presented at this week's
board meeting. The report suggested that checks for residency status would be
permitted for such programs as homelessness prevention, senior care and business
license applications. Supervisors deferred their vote on the report's
recommendations.

"It was a huge undertaking," said Assistant County Executive Melissa Peacor, the
study's director. No other local government in the country has produced that
type of analysis, she said.

"We knew that other jurisdictions here in Virginia and around the country would
be looking at this," said Peacor, adding that Prince William staff members
consulted with their counterparts in Loudoun County, where lawmakers are
determining how to curb services to illegal immigrants.

Implementing the recommended service cuts would be complicated, though, as
county staff members would have to be trained as immigration screeners.

Substance abuse counselors would need to be well-versed in the nuances of U.S.
visa categories. Seniors who want to go sightseeing on county-subsidized
"Bluebird" bus tours would have to prove they're legal. Homeless shelter staff
members would need to know the difference between a C-1 "Alien in Transit" visa
and Temporary Protected Status.

Aware that uneven enforcement would run afoul of equal-protection laws, Peacor
said the residency checks would be mandatory. "We would ask everybody," she
said.

The county's services report provides a comprehensive view of the workings of
local government, dividing services into several categories. Some services
already are denied to illegal immigrants under federal law, such as food stamps,
Medicaid and welfare benefits, the report says.

Others, such as access to public schools, are federally protected. Then there
are public facilities -- pools, golf courses and historic sites -- where access
could be denied but at a high cost that is likely to draw legal challenges, the
report says. Finally, access to features such as landfills, animal control and
psychiatric services should not be denied because they benefit the community as
a whole, the report says.

Those benefits and services that the county should restrict, in keeping with the
board's stated goals, are not likely to incur significant costs, Peacor said.
Some, such as adult day care and aging in-home care, have waiting lists and are
being used by illegal immigrants, she said. Legal county residents would benefit
from the decreased demand, she said.

Although supervisors have voted unanimously on their illegal immigration
proposals, divisions are emerging over which services should be on the list.
Vice Chairman Martin E. Nohe (R-Coles) said he was concerned about the effect of
business license requirements for thousands of entrepreneurs who, under current
county law, do not require a license if they gross less than $100,000 annually.

"I'm not sure if it makes sense to add all that additional bureaucracy," said
Nohe, estimating that thousands of business owners in the county would be
affected. "And it would be difficult to inform all the legal business owners out
there about the new ordinance."

Nohe said Prince William is bracing for court battles and moving into unknown
legal territory.

"Is [the county's plan] more defensible than the Hazleton case? Is it less
likely to be struck down? We think so," he said. "But it's a reason to proceed
cautiously."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             October 5, 2007 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Pr. William Immigration, Housing Ills Seen as Linked

BYLINE: Nick Miroff; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1322 words


Prince William County's home prices and its Hispanic population rose in tandem
during the first half of this decade, a result of a home-building frenzy that
became a powerful magnet for immigrant laborers. They arrived by the thousands,
sending housing values even higher.

Many did not come legally. But in the blur of swinging hammers and flying dollar
signs, that detail was often overlooked. Illegal immigrants had little trouble
finding jobs and not much trouble getting mortgages.

That arrangement has unraveled. Prince William has some of the highest
foreclosure rates in the region, with a glut of unsold, depreciating homes. And
its elected officials have embarked on one of the most ambitious efforts in the
nation to drive out and deport illegal immigrants.

That combination -- an excess of housing and new anti-illegal immigrant policies
-- is likely to exacerbate the county's weak real estate market, agents and
lenders say. Regardless of one's views on immigration, they say, simple
arithmetic dictates that if a lot of residents leave the county, the housing
meltdown will only worsen.

"If I'm not welcome somewhere, I'm going to sell my house," said Jose Luis
Semidey, a real estate agent whose business in Prince William shut down in
August when he laid off 40 employees and moved the company to Reston. The
county's anti-illegal immigrant measures, which he and a coalition of other
Latino businessmen are fighting, "have accelerated the collapse of the real
estate market in the minority community," he said.

In August, the region had the lowest unemployment rate of any metropolitan area
in the country. But stories abound in Prince William about Hispanic families
leaving for Maryland, the Carolinas, Texas and elsewhere. There are no hard
numbers indicating if many residents have left or how many are likely to leave,
nor is there a clear picture of what their departure could mean for the county's
retailers and other businesses.

The town of Riverside, N.J., tried to target illegal immigrants through several
measures last year but reversed course last month under legal and economic
pressure and voted to rescind the laws. When a sizable portion of the town's
Latin American immigrants left, several businesses closed, and others took a big
hit.

In Prince William, an early indicator of the impact of the anti-illegal
immigrant policies is likely to be seen in the real estate sector, and the
county is a gloomy place in a grim regional market. In two years, from August
2005 to August 2007, home sales fell 66 percent in Prince William, 52 percent in
Loudoun County and 49 percent in Fairfax County. The number of properties on the
market in Prince William more than doubled, from 2,753 to 6,515.

About 900 of the homes on the market in August were "properties in distress":
bank-owned or sliding into foreclosure, said Michael T. Minnery, president of
the Prince William Association of Realtors. That is a tenfold increase from
2005, he said.

Many distressed properties are in Zip codes with high concentrations of Latino
residents. One county resident told supervisors at a board meeting this week
that a house up for auction on her street didn't draw a single bidder, despite
an opening price of $259,000. The house used to be worth $400,000, she told the
board.

Minnery said it is too soon to know whether Prince William's recently introduced
anti-illegal immigrant measures are driving Hispanic residents away or
discouraging potential buyers from moving to the county. The association does
not have an official position on the policies, but Minnery said he thinks that
"anything that puts limits on the housing market is bad."

"Everyone should be able to own a home in this country," he said. "Everyone has
the right to home ownership, no matter if they are a U.S. citizen or not."

That was the prevailing view in Prince William for years, said several lenders
who worked with Hispanic immigrants. Customers with little more than a tax
identification number and a pay stub were able to secure 100 percent financing
on mortgages. The lack of a driver's license -- let alone a green card -- was
hardly an obstacle to getting loans.

To cover high mortgages on low wages, many immigrant families rented rooms in
their homes to men working in the construction industry.

"All those people who rented rooms are gone," said Carlos Aragon, a Woodbridge
real estate agent who said he sells one-third as many properties as he did two
years ago. "And now these measures come along to finish killing off the market,"
he said of the anti-illegal immigrant legislation.

County supervisors unanimously approved a resolution in July seeking to deny
certain public services to illegal immigrants. They also directed police to
check the residency status of anyone caught breaking the law if there is
probable cause to think a suspect is an illegal immigrant. Although the measures
have not been implemented, Hispanic leaders and residents say the policies have
created a climate of fear in the Latino community and will lead to racial
profiling.

The board has not discussed the potential impact of the measures on the county's
housing market, said Supervisor W.S. Covington III (R-Brentsville). But
Covington said Prince William would save on school expenditures and other costs
if thousands of illegal immigrants leave.

"How many are going to leave naturally because of opportunities in the housing
market drying up, and how many are leaving because of our policies?" Covington
said in an interview. "If there is a significant number of departures, I think
we'll be a more financially stable county."

Nearly 20 percent of the county's population is Hispanic, according to the most
recent census estimates. Covington said he thinks that a significant portion of
all county residents -- perhaps 7 to 8 percent -- are illegal immigrants. If
one-third to one-half leave the county voluntarily or by deportation, he said,
"maybe you do have some real savings, or you just don't grow as much."

"I don't see it as a bad thing," he said. Complaints about overcrowding in
schools and neighborhoods have been a driving force behind the county's new
measures.

But many real estate agents shudder at the prospects of a drop in population and
more foreclosures. With little equity in their properties and adjustable-rate
mortgages adjusting sharply upward, some immigrant families are gathering up
their belongings and walking away from their homes in the middle of the night,
several real estate agents have said.

"These people are slammed," said Mary Donaldson, a former mortgage settlement
consultant. She's now a loss-mitigation specialist who negotiates refinancing
agreements and short-sales for homeowners who fail to sell their properties at
the original purchase price. "They've lost their jobs because the construction
industry has slowed or shut down, and when they get into trouble, they don't
read their mail. A lot of them just don't understand the process, and they're so
afraid that they can't talk to the bank."

Several of Donaldson's Hispanic customers have recently cited Prince William's
policies as a reason to move. "They're not going to stay if some of their family
members are being forced out because of the new laws," she said. "I think the
banks may end up with a lot of houses they didn't suspect they'd end up with."

But credit concerns, not immigration policies, are on the minds of most market
watchers eyeing Prince William, said Rob Heltzel, president of the local chapter
of the Virginia Mortgage Lenders Association.

Is immigration policy "being wildly talked about in my sector of the industry?"
he said. "No. Our conversations are purely about the availability of funds."

As for the charge that county supervisors have exacerbated the county's real
estate pains, Heltzel said he doubts the struggling industry factored into their
policy decisions. "I think the issue was a lot greater than the housing market,"
he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 11, 2007 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Building Group Said to Ignore Hiring Issue;
Politicians Campaign On Illegal Immigration

BYLINE: Nick Miroff; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW01

LENGTH: 508 words


A pair of Prince William County Republicans set up their soapboxes in a
Chantilly parking lot this week to hammer the region's home-building industry,
accusing developers of "turning a blind eye" to hiring practices that employ
illegal immigrants.

The industry characterized the attack as election-year politics.

Prince William Board of Supervisors Chairman Corey A. Stewart and state House
candidate Faisal Gill convened a news conference in the parking lot of the new
headquarters of the Northern Virginia Building Industry Association, then took
aim.

"What really disgusts me is they're not the ones paying the price," said
Stewart, singling out residential builders for blame. "We pay the price."

Gill accused the trade group of keeping silent on illegal immigration
enforcement. "I've yet to hear one statement from them, ever," he said.

Both Republicans are running heavily on the illegal immigration issue, with
Stewart taking credit for Prince William's crackdown and Gill proposing to
charge employers who knowingly hire illegal immigrants with a felony under state
law. The offense is already a felony under federal law.

"Fines alone are not the answer," said Gill, who also proposed the creation of a
"strike force" unit within the Virginia State Police that would target illegal
immigrants across county lines.

The next day, Jim Williams, executive vice president of the building
association, fired back, particularly at Stewart, who would "do or say anything
to get elected," he said.

"The grandstanding that the chairman is doing is probably the lowest point I
have seen in election politics in over 30 years," Williams said. "Corey Stewart
has reached an all-time height in using [illegal immigration] for demagoguery."

Williams also challenged Stewart to prove that association members had hired
illegal immigrants.

"Our members comply with immigration laws, and we comply with hiring laws," he
said. "We encourage all of our subcontractors to comply to the fullest extent
possible."

As in last year's campaign, Stewart has heaped blame on the home-building
industry for clogged roadways, crowded schools and other county ills. But this
week, he added illegal immigration to the list with his parking-lot salvos.

"You have to rock the boat and be willing and able to take on the pro-illegal
immigrant groups and not show fear," said Stewart, who is pressuring fellow
board members to approve funding Tuesday for the county's new anti-illegal
immigrant measures.

According to Williams, the association and several of its members had
contributed to the campaign of Stewart's Democratic opponent, Sharon E. Pandak.

But Stewart has also received tens of thousands of dollars in contributions from
the construction industry this year, money that he said is from the commercial
and office sector, not home builders.

So are residential developers to blame for hiring illegal immigration, while
other types of builders are not?

Stewart was less certain. "Not all developers are unscrupulous," he said. "It
depends on the developer. It's not just residential."

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 11, 2007 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Fairfax Jail Will Check For Illegal Immigrants;
Those Found Will Face Deportation

BYLINE: Tom Jackman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 757 words


Fairfax County Sheriff Stan G. Barry, who runs Virginia's largest jail, has
decided to begin screening inmates for immigration violations and working with
federal authorities to deport those illegally in this country.

Fairfax officials have resisted involving their police force in immigration
enforcement but said they have no problem with Barry's initiative because his
deputies will be screening people who have already been arrested.

"I think if you break the law, and you're already here illegally, you are not
welcome in this county," Fairfax Board of Supervisors Chairman Gerald E.
Connolly (D) said. "I think we have to be strict about that."

The partnership with federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials will
give Fairfax deputies instant access to federal immigration databases. It also
will allow the sheriff's office to schedule deportation hearings for suspected
illegal immigrants and give deputies the authority to set "immigration bonds"
that must be paid in full -- in cash -- before inmates are released.

"We're not going to go out actively looking for people," said Barry (D). "We're
targeting people that are not obeying the rules of society."

Of the 27,000 people who were housed in the Fairfax jail last year, Barry
estimated that 4,300, or 16 percent, were suspected of being here illegally.

Advocates for Virginia immigrants have criticized the use of local police to
enforce federal immigration law but are less critical when immigration checks
are performed in jails. Deputies will undergo special training on screening
inmates.

Virginia legislators  will consider a measure next year to require jails to do
immigration status screening. A coalition of immigrant groups is seeking to
limit the screening to jails, and only after a conviction.

"Fairfax County has been a leader in trying to maintain the trust of the
immigrant community," said Tim Freilich, legal director of the Virginia Justice
Center. "We hope that any . . . agreement that is entered into by Fairfax County
will protect the confidentiality of immigration status of all victims and
witnesses and that there will be close tracking of racial and ethnic data of the
people screened."

Fairfax Police Chief David M. Rohrer said he generally supports the sheriff's
initiative, though he has concerns about whether the immigrant community will
feel comfortable reporting crime. "I want victims and witnesses to feel free to
contact police," Rohrer said, "and not be afraid that the first question is
going to be, 'What is your status?' "

In the spring, Barry traveled to Charlotte to study the program in the
Mecklenburg County jail. Sheriff Jim Pendergraph implemented the federal program
last year, and in less than 18 months the jail has placed 2,839 people into
deportation proceedings, said Sgt. Daniel Stitt of the Mecklenburg County
Sheriff's Office

"The citizens love it," said Pendergraph, who announced this week that he is
leaving Charlotte to become ICE's top liaison between federal and local police
and sheriffs on immigration matters.

Thirty-three local agencies across the country, mostly in county jails, have
formed such partnerships with ICE, spokesman Richard Rocha said, and 70 local
agencies have pending requests. He said 26,000 people have been identified by
local agencies for possible deportation in the last two years.

The program does not allow local authorities to make immigration arrests unless
a federal immigration detainer has already been issued.

When defendants are booked into the jail, they will be questioned about their
nationality and citizenship. If a person cannot show that he or she is in this
country legally, a deputy will enter the person into the federal system and
schedule a deportation hearing. When the county charge is resolved, or bond is
posted, the person is released. He or she then must prove legal status at the
deportation hearing, or a detainer is entered, setting the stage for
deportation.

If a deputy determines that the person has no ties to the area and has a
criminal history, a second, cash-only immigration bond is set to ensure
appearance at the deportation hearing. Experts said this was not unusual in the
federal immigration process. In Charlotte, "everybody gets an immigration bond,"
Stitt said. "There's nobody on release anymore."

Barry said the program should save Fairfax money by relieving police of
repeatedly arresting some violators for petty offenses and by deporting
convicted criminals. It also will provide an incentive for those here illegally
not to get arrested, he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; 2006 Photo By Dayna Smith -- The Washington Post; Fairfax County
Sheriff Stan G. Barry says the jail will work with federal immigration
officials.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 12, 2007 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Issue Vs. Expertise In Race For Board;
Immigration Stand Hovering Over Pr. William Ballot

BYLINE: Nick Miroff; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1344 words


Corey A. Stewart had just downed a plate of sausage goulash at Cafe Mozart, his
favorite District hangout, when illegal immigration got in the way of dessert.
The chairman of the Prince William  Board of County Supervisors was thinking
German chocolate cake, but his waiter, Alex Kemsky, a bearish Ukrainian, was
worried about a friend in Dale City.

"Will he lose his house?" asked Kemsky, explaining that the friend, an illegal
immigrant from Honduras with two jobs, two children and a lot of home equity,
was now cowering in fear of Prince William's new anti-illegal immigrant
policies.

Stewart gave a reassuring laugh and said that, no, the man's house would not be
taken away. Then he flipped into campaign mode, telling Kemsky that his friend
was more likely to be deported.

But the man worked hard and didn't cause trouble, Kemsky said.

"I don't want to sound cruel, but people should obey the rules," Stewart said
flatly. Then he ordered cake.

If the issue of illegal immigration follows Stewart, a Republican, everywhere
these days, it is largely by his own design. No other politician in the region
has staked his political fortunes on the issue as much as Stewart, a 39-year-old
trade lawyer who defeated Democrat Sharon E. Pandak in a special election last
year for the county's top job. The two are facing off again this year with a
four-year term up for grabs.

Last time, both candidates were relatively unknown quantities, each vying to
replace  chairman Sean T. Connaughton (R), who left to head the U.S. Maritime
Administration. But this year's election is  centered mainly on Stewart and his
dramatic 10-month term. Although Stewart's support cuts across party lines, so
does opposition to him, and at least one Republican board member has broken
ranks to support Pandak.

Stewart began generating buzz and catching flak soon after taking office. He
helped pass a one-year freeze on new applications for residential development
and pressed to keep tax bills flat in a tight budget year by squeezing certain
county services and trimming staff. Then came the county's proposal to target
illegal immigrants.

Although the effort was started by Supervisor John T. Stirrup Jr.
(R-Gainesville), Stewart quickly became the policy's biggest champion. In recent
months, he has appeared on national television, testified before Congress and
traded barbs with officials in Fairfax and Montgomery counties. "Corey Stewart
Cracks Down on Illegal Immigration!" his campaign Web site trumpets.

Stewart's goal is to make his rematch against Pandak a referendum on illegal
immigration, tapping into a groundswell of frustration over quality-of-life
concerns, such as residential overcrowding, day laborers and gang activity. So
when fellow Prince William supervisors deferred a vote on financing the county's
plan to target illegal immigrants, Stewart didn't conceal his eagerness to get
the measure approved before Election Day.

"I have insisted that the Board vote on this no later than October 16," he wrote
to a constituent in an e-mail obtained by The Washington Post. "This is the last
meeting before the election on November 6, and it is imperative that the Board
vote before the election to avoid losing momentum."

Stewart later said in an interview that he would be "knocking heads and twisting
arms" because he "didn't trust [other supervisors] to do the right thing."

Pandak sees this message and other statements by Stewart as a pattern of
"grandstanding." She accuses him of running the county government on slogans and
publicity stunts, alienating colleagues and sowing "deep divisions" in the
process.

"He lacks the expertise to represent the second-largest county in the state,"
Pandak said in an interview at her Woodbridge campaign headquarters. Her
campaign motto this year: "A leader you can trust."

Pandak, 54, would like the election to be about her rÃ©sumÃ©, contrasting her
qualifications with Stewart's much-shorter tenure in county government. A native
of Staunton, Pandak served as Prince William County attorney from 1989 to 2004
and received the county's highest job-performance rating before going into
private practice. If Stewart tends to talk in sound bites, as his opponents
say, Pandak speaks in paragraphs that suggest a studied, technocratic approach
to public administration.

While Stewart excels with one-line zingers and the folksy, back-slapping style
of a classic campaigner, Pandak has been working hard to connect with voters on
a personal level. Although she has spent nearly 25 years in county government,
says she lost  to Stewart last year  partly because of  a "lack of name
recognition," she says.

This time around, Pandak has a larger campaign staff and a deeper war chest,
out-raising Stewart $360,000 to $228,000, according to campaign finance reports.

As he did a year ago, Stewart has sought to make an issue of Pandak's
contributions, claiming she is heavily financed by residential developers who
have routed money to her directly and through the state Democratic Party.

Pandak calls this "a smear campaign," noting that Stewart has raised a larger
portion of his money from development interests this year than she has. But
Stewart insists that his donations are primarily from companies looking to build
more commercial and office space, which he welcomes.

On the hot-button issue of immigration, Pandak has pilloried Stewart for
"mishandling" the issue, saying she would have tackled the county's concerns
differently by proposing to fine employers who hire illegal workers. Had she
been on the board, she said, she would have worked to build broader support for
new policies at the state level, because "the problem doesn't start and stop
with Prince William's borders."

"I absolutely am willing to confront the problem," she said, "but to use it as a
grandstanding political issue and divide this community is wrong."

Where Pandak sees division, Stewart believes that he has engaged county
residents on the issues they care about most -- transportation and illegal
immigration -- and that he will be rewarded on Election Day. The
Minnesota-raised Stewart fashions himself as a fighter for the county's
everyman, and, in many ways, he resembles the type of voter that has moved to
Prince William in recent years, with a long commute and young children in the
public school system.

Like Pandak, Stewart adamantly opposes the planned conversion of Interstate 95's
HOV lanes to HOT lanes. But with Stewart, the issue is more personal. Stewart
regularly gives rides to other county commuters through the improvised,
anonymous carpool system known as "slugging" that arose because of the
three-people-per-vehicle HOV rule. The arrangement also allows Stewart to
campaign to a captive audience while he drives to work at his Georgetown law
firm.

As Stewart has pushed harder in recent weeks for the county's anti-illegal
immigrant policies to be funded and approved before Election Day, some county
board members have begun to push back, expressing frustration with what they
call Stewart's combative style and electioneering from the dais. One longtime
Republican supervisor, Maureen S. Caddigan (Dumfries), has crossed party lines
to support Pandak, and Democrats say that Stewart is more vulnerable now than
before.

"Corey's been making mistakes all over the place," said Pete Frisbie, chairman
of the Prince William County Democratic Party. "He's your typical politician
who's willing to say anything to get elected."

With a proposal for sharp increases to the fees charged to developers, known as
proffers, also facing a supervisors' vote Tuesday, the board meeting will be a
pre-election barometer for Stewart. If the other board members -- five
Republicans and two Democrats -- vote to fund the illegal immigration policies,
as Stewart has urged, and back his proffer increases, he may pick up momentum
toward Election Day.

"I'm sure certain people do not agree with everything he's done," Stirrup said.
"But I think what people respect about Corey is they know where he stands, and
they like the direction the county is going in."

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE
IMAGE; By Gerald Martineau -- The Washington Post; Board Chairman Corey A.
Stewart sees illegal immigration as linked to key quality-of-life concerns.
IMAGE; By Richard A. Lipski -- The Washington Post; Sharon E. Pandak, Stewart's
Democratic opponent, has accused him of "grandstanding."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 13, 2007 Saturday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Candidate Ignites Race For Sheriff In Loudoun;
Ahlemann Targets Illegal Immigration

BYLINE: Bill Brubaker; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1238 words


A pastor's son and former motorcycle cop who wants to be the next sheriff of
Loudoun County wears a large, colorful tattoo on his left forearm: an
affirmation, he says, of his moral, political and religious convictions.

One side of Gregory J. Ahlemann's tattoo shows a Colonial flag. "It's there to
show our nation was founded on Christian values but that as a nation, we are
moving away from this," he said, citing divorce, abortion and premarital sex as
prime culprits.

And in some ways, Loudoun is losing its way, too, Ahlemann was quick to add, by
not aggressively targeting illegal immigrants, a population that he said is
improperly using public services and committing a "rising number" of crimes.

Ahlemann said he has no idea how many illegal immigrants live in Loudoun, nor
does he know many are committing crimes. Those statistics do not exist, he said.
"It's so hard to say who is here illegally and who is actually a criminal," he
said.

In the run-up to the Nov. 6 election, the tall, outspoken former Loudoun deputy
who once wrote 200 traffic tickets in a single month has turned what is usually
a low-key sheriff's race into a lively referendum on whether he is right when he
says illegal immigrants are making the county a more dangerous place to live.

"Greg Ahlemann is wrong," said three-term incumbent Stephen O. Simpson, who lost
the Republican nomination to Ahlemann in the spring and is running as an
independent. "Ahlemann is throwing this stuff out there as though it's gospel.
There's no evidence what he's saying is true. But I think he could sell ice to
an Eskimo."

The Democratic candidate, Michael E. George, a former narcotics and organized
crime detective who helped create Fairfax County's gang intelligence unit in the
mid-1990s, said Ahlemann is trying to ride the anti-illegal-immigrant bandwagon.

"Ahlemann has one platform, and he thinks this is the hot ticket to winning an
election," said George, chief investigator for the Recording Industry
Association of America, a Washington-based trade group.

It's a volatile issue in the region. Last month, the Herndon Town Council voted
to shut down a controversial publicly funded hiring center for day laborers. And
in recent months, county officials in Loudoun and Prince William have been
debating how far they should go in cracking down on illegal immigrants who use
county services or commit crimes.

"I mean, I'm not for illegal immigration," said George, a Loudoun resident for
27 years. "But I've found that most people who are here illegally come to work.
They know they are illegal, so they try to stay under the radar."

George said Loudoun's top law enforcement priority should be preparing for a
terrorist attack, especially because the county is home to Dulles International
Airport.

Simpson points to gang activity, terrorism and increasing traffic on Loudoun
roads as the top issues, noting that only one in 20 gang members arrested in the
county in the past year was an illegal immigrant.

But Ahlemann, who has been knocking on doors during his campaign, said many
longtime Loudoun residents -- especially in heavily Hispanic Sterling Park --
blame illegal immigrants for what they perceive as an increase in crime.

At a recent debate in Leesburg, Ahlemann said the large number of Sterling Park
residents who don't speak English suggests there are illegal immigrants. He made
the same assumption, he said, when he patrolled the community's streets as a
deputy. "I know that many of the people that I arrested initially who had no
identification couldn't speak any English -- I'm just going to guess that they
might have been here illegally," he said.

Ahlemann said he might have better data if Simpson had agreed some years ago to
enroll his deputies in a special U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
training program that empowers deputies to verify a detainee's immigration
status.

Simpson said he did not want to participate in the program at first because
federal authorities wanted a guarantee that they could rent space in the
overcrowded Loudoun jail to house detainees who were awaiting deportation
hearings.

In an April campaign letter, Ahlemann said Simpson's "passive attitude" has
contributed to "the rapid rise in illegal immigrant gang activity" in Loudoun.
And he predicted "more crime by illegal aliens will spill over on our schools
and highways."

In early May, Simpson said he applied to join the training program after federal
officials agreed to limit the stay of federal detainees to 72 hours in the
Loudoun jail.

"Sheriff Simpson Flip-Flops," Ahlemann wrote in a campaign letter several days
later.

The letter included a photo of a smiling Simpson with a smiling former President
Jimmy Carter, who once made a book-signing stop in Loudoun. Carter, Ahlemann
wrote, is "perhaps best known for his incompetence and botched approaches" to
the 1979 Iran hostage crisis. Simpson said he is proud of the photo and others
he has taken with President Bush and former president Bill Clinton.

Simpson is awaiting final approval from federal officials to enter the training
program. But on Tuesday, he participated in a news conference in which customs
officials announced the arrests of 1,313 gang members and illegal immigrants in
23 cities in 19 states. Thirteen of those arrests were made in Loudoun, and four
of those suspects were being held on immigration charges.

Ahlemann sparred with Simpson's management team when he worked in the sheriff's
department, complaining of low morale and unethical behavior by some employees.
And last year, Ahlemann started a Web site to vent his frustrations. The site
did not identify Ahlemann or name his employer. But it trumpeted his religious
and political views and offered a T-shirt ($10) emblazoned with the Colonial
flag, the Israeli flag and a thorny wooden cross -- the same design he later had
tattooed on his forearm.

"It's my personal logo," he said.

The Israeli flag, he said, signals his belief that Christians should stand up
for Israel because biblically, "the Jews are God's chosen people."

Ahlemann turned in his deputy's badge in January and almost immediately
announced his candidacy. He took down his Web site and wore long sleeves on the
campaign trail, lest anyone get the wrong idea about that eight-by-four-inch
design. "Some people might not consider my tattoo professional," he said.
Ahlemann declined to be photographed showing it.

Ahlemann said his campaign has been partly financed by his father, who is a
minister with congregations in Loudoun and the northern Shenandoah Valley. At a
recent service, the Rev. James "Jay" Ahlemann seemed the proud father,
predicting his son will be the next Loudoun sheriff.

Pastor Ahlemann told the congregation that his son never hid the tattoo from
motorists, who included "people that wore all these turbans and stuff."

A few moments later, the minister launched an attack on Islam, calling it "a
religion of hatred and of death." And he said Muslims "want to either convert us
or kill us."

In a recent interview, Greg Ahlemann sought to distance himself from his
father's comments, saying there are extremists in all faiths.

Thinking about the job he soon hopes to have, Ahlemann said: "From a sheriff's
perspective, you are paid to enforce the law. If someone has a religious view
that's different from yours, that doesn't matter. Whether they have committed a
crime or they are a victim of a crime, I will treat them all the same."

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE
IMAGE; Gregory J. Ahlemann (R) says illegal immigrants are a drain on Loudoun.
IMAGE; Sheriff Stephen O. Simpson wants to focus on gang activity and traffic.
IMAGE; Michael E. George (D) says terrorism preparedness should be a priority.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 14, 2007 Sunday
                                 Met 1 Edition

WEEK IN REVIEW;
Oct. 7-13

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C04

LENGTH: 604 words

Prince William Sued Over Immigrant Plan Residency Check Called Violation of
Federal Law

Civil rights groups filed a lawsuit targeting Prince William County's crackdown
on illegal  immigrants, arguing that a measure ordering police to check the
residency status of people in custody violates federal law.

The lawsuit, filed in U.S. District Court in Alexandria, asks a judge to declare
unconstitutional a controversial resolution that Prince William supervisors
passed in July. The enforcement efforts, including a bid to curb public services
for illegal immigrants, have not taken effect, and supervisors have  said it is
too early to decide whether to allocate the $14.2 million needed to fund them.

Meanwhile, Fairfax County Sheriff Stan G. Barry (D), who runs Virginia's largest
jail, has decided to begin screening inmates for immigration violations and
working with federal authorities to deport those in the country illegally.

Va. Report Finds Psychiatrist Shortage Emergency Treatment for Mentally Ill
Lacking

Virginia lacks enough experienced psychiatrists to evaluate the mentally ill,
there aren't enough beds for those seeking emergency treatment in many areas and
hospitals are losing money on mentally ill patients, according to a state
government report.

The report, by the Joint Legislative Audit Review Commission, states that 47 of
Virginia's 135 localities do not have public psychiatrists and that 87 do not
have public child psychiatrists. In addition, half of the state's psychiatrists
are in seven Virginia localities, according to the report, and one in five is in
Fairfax County, Fairfax City and Falls Church.

Warner Has Wide Lead in Senate Race Poll Pits Ex-Governor Against Davis and
Gilmore

Former Virginia governor Mark R. Warner (D) holds a 30-point lead over his two
potential Republican rivals in next year's U.S. Senate race, boosting Democrats'
chances of expanding their congressional majority and highlighting the party's
ascendancy in the state, according to a new Washington Post poll.

Warner, who announced his candidacy last month, would get more than 60 percent
of the vote in a hypothetical matchup against Rep. Thomas M. Davis III or former
governor James S. Gilmore III, the two Republicans who have indicated they might
run.

Possible New Site Emerges for Army Jobs Alexandria Property's Owners Begin
Lobbying

When the U.S. Army agreed in late summer to rethink plans to move thousands of
jobs to Fort Belvoir in southern Fairfax County, it did so largely on the
promise of an alternative property in Springfield near Metro and Virginia
Railway Express stations.

But another site, in Alexandria, has emerged as a competitor. In recent weeks,
its owners have pressed Pentagon officials and two congressmen to move the jobs
there. The Alexandria property, known as the Victory Center, sits on 16 acres
along Eisenhower Avenue not far from the Van Dorn Metro station. Prudential Real
Estate Investors owns the site.

Across the Region D.C. School-Voucher Program; Metro Fare Talks

Â· The D.C. Opportunity Scholarship program, designed to send low-income
children in the District to better-performing private schools, has allowed some
students to take classes in unsuitable learning environments and from teachers
without bachelor's degrees, according to a government report. The shortcomings
are detailed in a draft prepared by the Government Accountability Office.

Â· Metro board members voted to delay for two weeks consideration of proposals
to raise fares. That gives them more time to consider three plans they put forth
as alternatives to one recommended by General Manager John B. Catoe Jr.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Donnie Biggs -- Potomac News Via Associated Press; Gearing Up
Sen. James Webb rides a VRE train with VRE official Jennifer Straub. VRE is
pushing for federal funds to buy new locomotives. Webb says VRE could benefit
from the new taxation authority of a regional transportation program.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              174 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 17, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

As Hundreds Testify, Pr. William's Vote on Immigrant Plan Goes Late

BYLINE: Nick Miroff and Kristen Mack; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1361 words


A vote to enact Prince William County's nationally watched plan to crack down on
illegal immigrants was delayed into the night yesterday after a huge public
turnout produced a marathon session of emotional public testimony.

More than 1,200 people packed the county government complex in Woodbridge and
the streets outside yesterday afternoon, creating a charged -- and at times
tense -- atmosphere. As the Board of County Supervisors meeting began,
supporters and opponents of the measures scuffled in the street before police
pulled the two sides apart, threatening to make arrests.

The confrontation underscored the intense debate playing out in communities
across the country, where an increasing number of jurisdictions have been taking
steps to clamp down on illegal immigrants after Congress failed to pass
immigration overhaul measures.

"This is America!" activists yelled from the anti-illegal immigrant group Help
Save Manassas as they were restrained by police.

Opposite them, several hundred residents, mostly Hispanic, responded with a
deafening chant of "Â¡SÃ­, se puede!" ("Yes, we can!").

The tension in Woodbridge came as officials in Fairfax County and Richmond also
turned their attention to the issue yesterday. Fairfax's county executive said
he would begin studying which services might be restricted to illegal
immigrants. In Richmond, officials rejected a proposal to build a 1,000-bed
detention center where illegal immigrants could be temporarily held for
deportation. Instead, the Virginia Crime Commission's immigration task force
approved a proposal to give more money to local governments to house arrested
illegal immigrants and to expand or build jails.

But the real drama was in Prince William, and it wasn't confined to the street.
About 375 people signed up to address the supervisors during the public comment
period; early today, dozens of people were still waiting to speak. When the
board's chairman, Corey A. Stewart (R), who has made illegal immigration the
signature issue of his reelection campaign, moved at the outset to reduce the
time allotted for each speaker from three minutes to one, Supervisor Maureen S.
Caddigan (R-Dumfries) sought to block the measure.

Caddigan and other board members have criticized Stewart for using $30,000 in
public money to send postcards to every Prince William household notifying
residents of the board's vote. Stewart should not invite residents to the
meeting and then restrict their right to speak, Caddigan argued.

The motion was put to a vote, and five of the board's other seven members,
including three Republicans, agreed with Caddigan.

Nine hours later, the supervisors were still hearing public testimony and not
begun a discussion of the proposal to fully implement the anti-illegal immigrant
policies. At one point late into the session, Supervisor Hilda M. Barg
(D-Woodbridge) said Stewart had left the board chambers to conduct television
interviews and asked to delay proceedings until he returned.

The measures considered yesterday would authorize police to conduct immigration
checks on anyone accused of breaking a law or local ordinance if an officer
suspects that person is an illegal immigrant.

The measures also would deny certain county services to illegal immigrants.

But with a projected 14 percent decline in property values, several supervisors
have expressed concern about funding the measures, opting two weeks ago to delay
the vote until yesterday.

With the Nov. 6 election approaching and all of the supervisors up for
reelection, the county's illegal-immigration policies have become a dominant
campaign issue. Stewart has pushed hard for the new measures to be approved
before Election Day, angering fellow board members.

But for hours yesterday afternoon and deep into the night, the podium belonged
to residents, highlighting how visceral the issue has become.

Children of immigrants, standing on stools, asked board members not to hurt
their parents.

Others pointed out that illegal immigrants are breaking the law. "Where do you
get off demanding services, rights and mandatory citizenship?" said Manassas
resident Robert Stephens, addressing the crowd of Hispanic residents. "Who
invited you? You cry for your rights? You have none."

County officials said they knew that the crowd would be large but that they
hadn't anticipated more than 1,000 people. Office doors, which normally remain
open, were locked and required codes to get in. People spilled out of the
board's chambers and the building's atrium, which together hold several hundred
people.

One woman was dressed like the Statue of Liberty. Another said she had time to
go home and prepare dinner before coming back to address the board.

A roughly equal number of opponents and supporters of the policies signed up to
speak, but not everyone chose to address the supervisors directly. About 1,000
opponents of the measures rallied outside, many in green T-shirts asking the
board to rescind the resolution, and a much smaller group wearing the red
stickers of Help Save Manassas rallied nearby.

Even more people were in attendance yesterday than at the board's July 10
meeting, when the supervisors unanimously approved the plans to deny some public
services to illegal immigrants and increase immigration enforcement by police.
Yesterday's vote would be more specific, naming the county services that would
be denied and allocating the money to carry out the policy. The July vote
prompted similar proposals in Loudoun and Culpeper counties and elsewhere in the
region.

But the Prince William measures would be the most extensive. Police officials
emphasize that they would not be conducting immigration sweeps or setting up
checkpoints, as some have feared, and that it would take months to put the
measures into practice. More than 500 county police officers would need to be
trained in the nuances of federal immigration law. Yesterday's vote was also
scheduled to address the creation of a seven-officer Criminal Alien Unit that
would work directly with federal immigration agents.

The county's plan to deny services has evolved since it was first proposed.
Services such as access to schools and emergency medical care are federally
protected, and illegal immigrants are already ineligible for benefits such as
Medicare and food stamps.

Instead, Prince William has pinpointed a more limited set of services and
benefits, including substance abuse counseling, homeless assistance and in-home
care and other county programs for the elderly. County officials said they are
not sure how many illegal immigrants are taking advantage of these programs or
how much money would be saved by curbing them.

Experts say the county policies are untested in court. A group of 22 plaintiffs
has filed a lawsuit against the county and its top officials seeking to block
the measures, claiming that they violate equal protection laws and that
immigration enforcement is a federal concern.

In Richmond yesterday, state officials rejected the controversial proposal to
build the detention center, where illegal immigrants arrested for certain crimes
could be held until federal officials deport them.

"I don't think there is support in the General Assembly or with the public for
building a stand-alone facility," said state Sen. Kenneth W. Stolle (R-Virginia
Beach), chairman of the Crime Commission.

The detention center would have been the country's first state-run facility
built to hold only illegal immigrants accused of crimes. Currently, illegal
immigrants who are arrested are held in local jails, federal facilities and
private prisons. Under the new proposal, localities would be allowed to keep all
of the money the federal government sends them to house federal inmates,
including illegal immigrants, instead of giving a share to the state. Sheriffs
also would start to receive 50 percent, instead of 25 percent, of the cost of
expanding or building jails.

The 22-member task force killed the detention proposal during a more than
four-hour meeting yesterday. It approved 18 other proposals that will be
considered by the full Crime Commission next month.

Staff writer Anita Kumar contributed to this report from Richmond.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Carol Guzy -- The Washington Post; Emotions ran high as a
crowd of people, most against the illegal-immigrant proposal, gathered outside
the government complex.
IMAGE; By Carol Guzy -- The Washington Post; A woman who declined to give her
name protested before the supervisors weighed whether to fund the clampdown.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 19, 2007 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Test Run For 2008;
In a Special Election, Lessons for Both Parties

BYLINE: E. J. Dionne Jr.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 815 words


The narrow victory of Democrat Niki Tsongas in a special congressional election
in Massachusetts this week offers warnings to both Republicans and Democrats for
2008.

Her victory on Tuesday speaks to the continuing unpopularity of President Bush
and the war in Iraq. But her less than robust margin over Republican Jim
Ogonowski -- she won 51 percent to his 45 percent, with minor-party candidates
taking the rest -- tells Democrats they cannot assume that Bush's low standing
will turn the road to next year's elections into easy street. Individual
candidates can still trump party affiliation, and sleeper issues can catch
politicians by surprise.

In Massachusetts's 5th Congressional District -- a collection of mill towns and
affluent and blue-collar suburbs north of Boston -- the surprise issue was
illegal immigration. Ogonowski made it the centerpiece of an anti-Washington
campaign. An Ogonowski news release, for example, accused Tsongas of being
"committed to giving cheap college to illegals at taxpayer expense."

Tsongas, a community college dean, favored granting in-state tuition rates to
the children of undocumented immigrants. In Ogonowski's translation of that,
Tsongas believed that "Massachusetts taxpayers should foot the bill for the
college tuition of the children of illegals."

Republicans think the immigration issue helped Ogonowski, so the country may be
in for a lot more of this sort of thing next year. "Everywhere we went, people
wanted to talk about immigration," said Matt Wylie, Ogonowski's general
consultant. "It was just coming up over and over again."

The personal played, too. Ogonowski, an affable hay farmer and retired Air Force
and Air National Guard officer, was well suited to the populist, anti-Washington
campaign that national Republicans hoped would provide a template for their
candidates in 2008. His brother John, an American Airlines pilot, was killed
when his hijacked plane was flown into the World Trade Center on Sept. 11, 2001.
Ogonowski cast himself as a regular guy facing a political pro.

Tsongas, a lawyer whose experience in politics dates to Eugene McCarthy's 1968
presidential campaign, is the widow of the late Sen. Paul Tsongas, beloved in
his old House district, particularly in Lowell, the home town he helped revive
with the creative use of federal aid. His popularity propelled Niki Tsongas into
an early lead, but there was grumbling that her name was her principal asset.

The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee and national liberal groups
sensed early on that the contest was far from a lock and poured in money, people
and advice. Jennifer Crider, the DCCC's communications director, said final
tallies will show that the Tsongas side outspent Ogonowski and his allies by
about 4 to 1.

Democratic strategists were not only worried that Ogonowski was running a better
campaign than Tsongas. They also noticed that the district was one of the least
Democratic in a very blue state. Many of its nominal Democrats are Reagan
Democrats.

"There are different shades of blue," said Rep. Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.), chair
of the DCCC, "and this one is a very light shade." In 2006, Democratic Gov.
Deval Patrick won by a landslide but got less than 51 percent in the 5th
District. Three former Republican governors, Mitt Romney, Paul Cellucci and Bill
Weld, carried the district.

But this time, the Democrats had three trump cards: Bush, Iraq and the
president's veto of the State Children's Health Insurance Program, or SCHIP.

Ogonowski tried to get around Bush. He said he did not want the president
campaigning for him. His ads cast him as "not a partisan politician." His
pollster, Rob Autry, said it was no accident that the Republican ran not so much
against Congress as against Washington as a whole.

But this could not immunize his candidacy from what Autry said was "an issue
that, unfortunately, has resonance." The pollster described the "issue" with a
compound word: "Bush-Cheney-Rumsfeld." On Iraq, Ogonowski said the war was a
mistake, but he was far less clear than Tsongas on withdrawing troops. She made
ending the war a central theme of her campaign.

The Republican's final mistake was not taking a firm stand against Bush's SCHIP
veto, which Tsongas roundly condemned. This, said Autry, "provided Tsongas with
an example of where Ogonowski supported Bush's position." With health care as a
rallying cry, Tsongas brought more than enough Democrats home.

A Tsongas loss might have justified the National Republican Congressional
Committee's post-election spin that "the political tide has turned" since 2006.
In fact, the issues that worked in 2006 came through again this week, and
children's health care is now an additional Republican burden.

But Tsongas's victory was harder than it should have been. Any Democrat
complacent about 2008 should go over the returns from Paul Tsongas's old
district.

postchat@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Niki Tsongas

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 22, 2007 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

New Fear Leads Both Legal, Illegal Latinos To Leave Pr. William;
Random Sweeps Are a Worry

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1156 words


Supporters of the anti-illegal immigration measure adopted in Prince William
County last week have argued that its most important purpose is to send a
powerful signal to the county's mostly Latino illegal immigrants that they are
no longer welcome.

It appears the message has already been received: Terrified that new policies
will lead to mass deportations, illegal immigrants and the many legal immigrant
relatives and friends who live with them have been moving out of Prince William
ever since  July,  when county supervisors first approved the plan's outline.

The size of the  migration is difficult to measure, particularly during a year
when slumping housing prices and skyrocketing foreclosures have  led many
residents to  move for purely economic reasons.

Still, signs of the growing climate of fear are everywhere.

At the Freetown Market, a convenience store in a heavily Latino section of
Woodbridge that offers U-Haul trucks for hire, one-way rentals have jumped from
between 10 and 20 a month just before July to about 40 a month today.

In the same strip mall, at a money-transfer store where the customer line to pay
utility bills once snaked out the door, business has slowed so dramatically the
past three months that one clerk has been let go and the remaining one spends
most of her time on the computer, e-mailing gloomy updates to relatives back
home in Guatemala.

A few doors down, staff workers at the IMA English language academy will soon be
taking the American flag decorations off the walls and moving to a smaller
space, because the number of students has plummeted from 350 to about 60 since
July.

"There is a mass panic," said the academy's owner, Roberto Catacora. "Those who
haven't already moved away don't dare step outside their houses."

Although one of the new measures  directs county police to check the immigration
status of only criminal suspects, many  immigrants  think that all Latinos will
be subject to random sweeps, Catacora added.

The effect on his once-bustling academy was palpable on a recent weeknight, when
all but one of the six classrooms were deserted.

Among the absent students  was Jose Luis Pubeac, 42, a day laborer who  sneaked
into the country 18 months ago. He was busy preparing for his flight back to El
Salvador on Saturday.

"I was already thinking of going home, because I was having such a hard time
finding work," said Pubeac, speaking on his cellphone as he raced around picking
up presents for his five children back home. "But this law convinced me it was
time.  [They] hate us so much here."

Most departing immigrants, however, appear to be moving closer afield, choosing
states such as North Carolina or neighboring counties such as Prince George's or
Arlington that they perceive as less hostile.

In August, Walter Ramirez settled on Alexandria.

A 29-year-old construction worker, Ramirez was not personally at risk from
Prince William's crackdown because he has a temporary permit granted to many
Salvadorans  when an earthquake  devastated their country in 2001.

But his roommates were a different story. And after the July resolution was
adopted, they were overcome with stifling paranoia.

"I used to walk over to the supermarket every day to pick up food or a phone
card or just to hang out," recalled one roommate, a 22-year-old from Honduras
who sneaked into the United States three years ago. "But suddenly it seemed like
there were so many police officers there, so I limited myself to once a week. It
was so stressful, because you feel totally locked up, like you're a prisoner in
your own home," he added, speaking on the condition of anonymity.

Ramirez nodded his head sympathetically. The two were sitting on a large tan
couch that took up almost the entire living room of their new home, a walled-off
section of a ramshackle colonial house on a leafy cul-de-sac.

The cramped quarters are a step down from the well-kept  apartment they rented
in Woodbridge, where each man paid $275 a month for his own room and had access
to the nicely landscaped complex's swimming pool. In Alexandria, they pay $400
each for shared rooms,  make do with a hot plate in place of a stove and are no
longer walking distance from friends and shops.

"It's a more isolated life here, and that's a sacrifice. But I had no choice,"
Ramirez said. "My buddies are like my family. I can't live in a place where they
are going to be persecuted."

Several  real estate agents who serve Latino immigrants predicted that  more
people will reach the same conclusion as Ramirez now that the Prince William
Board of County Supervisors has given final approval to the anti-illegal
immigration measure.

"This is not something that only affects the undocumented,"  agent Rosie Vilchez
said. "Because in the same family, it's so common to have some people who are
citizens, some people who are residents and some who are undocumented. And those
with papers are going to do whatever is necessary to protect those without."

Within hours of the board's vote, Salvadoran-born Aracely Diaz instructed her
real estate agent to put her townhouse on the market.

Diaz, a supermarket checkout clerk, was one of nearly 400 people who waited for
hours to comment on the bill during the marathon pre-vote session that stretched
into Wednesday's  wee hours.

"Even after they passed that July resolution, I had hope that [the supervisors]
would change their minds," said Diaz, 37, who has legal status but worries about
relatives who do not.

Now, she noted bitterly, "I'll be selling at a loss. But I don't care. I no
longer have any affection for this place that treats us this way. I just want to
get out."

Jose Ventura, a Salvadoran mason renting an apartment in Manassas, cites similar
reasons for his decision to move not just his residence but also his  business
to Maryland.

Ventura, 38, who came to the United States seven years ago and then received the
temporary protected status because of the earthquake in his homeland, smiled
ruefully as he recalled the sense of possibility that suffused Prince William
back then. "Oh, it was so great. There was so much work," he said.

He took two jobs to save  enough to start a masonry company, then built it into
a 35-person  operation.

But a slowdown in the construction industry has  forced  Ventura to cut his
workforce  to 15 people. Meanwhile, his plan to buy a new house and offset some
of the mortgage by renting some of the rooms backfired after county residents
called for a crackdown on overcrowding. A few days ago, the bank foreclosed on
the property, wiping out all $80,000 of his savings and leaving him $20,000 in
debt.

The supervisors' unanimous approval of the anti-illegal immigration resolution
struck Ventura as the last straw.

"I feel like when this county was growing, when they needed us, they welcomed us
Latinos with open arms," he said. "But now that the county is all grown up and
times are hard, it's totally turned its back on us. They are so ungrateful."

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Gerald Martineau -- The Washington Post; Prince William
County has "totally turned its back on us," says Jose Ventura, a mason. So he's
moving himself and his business to Maryland.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 23, 2007 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

GOP Finds Hot Button in Illegal Immigration;
Special Election in Massachusetts Could Be Indicative of Democratic Weak Spot

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 1139 words


When Republican Jim Ogonowski launched his long-shot bid for Congress, he
prepared for an upbeat campaign in his Democratic, working-class district of
Massachusetts, based on a winning rÃ©sumÃ©: affable hay farmer, former Air Force
lieutenant colonel, and brother of an American Airlines pilot whose hijacked
plane slammed into the World Trade Center on Sept. 11, 2001.

But by last month, although opinion polling showed that he was well liked, he
was still running 10 points behind Democrat Niki Tsongas with just weeks to go
before a special election. The campaign needed a way to go beyond biography, to
persuade Northern Massachusetts to vote Republican. They found it in illegal
immigration.

On Tuesday, Ogonowski still fell short, but Tsongas's 51 to 45 percent victory
was a shocker in a district where both John F. Kerry and Al Gore took 57 percent
of the vote, and where liberal Democratic Rep. Martin T. Meehan served
comfortably for eight terms. The underwhelming victory of the wife of deceased
former senator Paul Tsongas has rekindled Democratic concerns about an
immigration issue they had hoped had been put to rest.

"This issue has real implications for the country. It captures all the American
people's anger and frustration not only with immigration, but with the economy,"
said Rep. Rahm Emanuel (Ill.), chairman of the House Democratic Caucus and an
architect of the Democratic congressional victories of 2006. "It's self-evident.
This is a big problem."

Republicans, sensing a major vulnerability, have been hammering Democrats,
forcing Congress to face the question of illegal immigration on every bill they
can find, from agriculture spending and housing assistance to the State
Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP).

House Democrats are so concerned that they have resumed talks on a new
legislative push, even though the collapse of an immigration deal in the Senate
this spring has left virtually no chance that a final bill can be passed in this
Congress.

But even in the early stages of this renewed effort, negotiations have only
underscored the party's problems. Some Democratic leaders want what they call a
"mini bill," emphasizing border control, penalties on firms that employ illegal
immigrants and stronger efforts to deny illegal immigrants government benefits.
But Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.), the point man on the bill, said he will
never accept a measure that does not include a pathway to citizenship for the 12
million undocumented workers in the country.

"I think the Democrats are on the wrong side of this issue, and if they continue
down this path, they are going to lose a lot of seats," said Matt Wylie, a
strategist for the Ogonowski campaign.

The issue has shifted since concerns about illegal immigrants triggered angry
calls for border fences and deportation two years ago. Now, voter anger appears
to revolve around the belief that illegal immigrants are unfairly consuming
government benefits, a fear that stems more from economic uncertainty than
culture clashes, Democratic and Republican pollsters say.

Those concerns are not everywhere. But they are glaring in some of the white,
working-class districts in Kansas, Indiana, North Carolina and New Hampshire
that gave the Democrats control of the House last year. And they were on clear
display in Lowell, Mass.

"Immigration played into the economic issue," said Francis Talty, a political
science professor at the University of Massachusetts at Lowell who followed the
Tsongas-Ogonowski contest. "Do you want illegal immigrants to get in-state
[university] tuition? Do you want them to get driver's licenses? Do you want
their children to get benefits under SCHIP? It was the benefit side that has
real resonance, not the deportation thing."

A new national poll for National Public Radio, conducted by the Democratic
polling  firm  Greenberg Quinlan Rosner, and the Republican firm Public Opinion
Strategies, found that voters are more likely to side with Democrats than
Republicans on war, taxes and spending, the economy, health care and health
insurance for children, often by wide margins. On immigration, the Republicans
hold a 49 to 44 percent lead.

But even that might be deceptively tight, said Glen Bolger, a partner with
Public Opinion Strategies. In the poll, the GOP position was framed as getting
control of the border, requiring illegal immigrants to reenter the country
legally, stopping illegal immigrants from getting government benefits and
sending illegal immigrants who are criminals packing. The Democratic position
was, "It is impractical to expel 12 million people, but we need tougher controls
at the borders, tougher penalties on employers who hire illegal immigrants and
we should bar illegal immigrants from getting most government benefits, while
allowing the law-abiding immigrants to get on a long path to citizenship."

That Democratic message is much tougher than the one most voters are hearing,
Bolger argued. "They're actually in worse shape than they think they are," he
said.

Dustin Olson, Ogonowski's campaign manager, said the candidate did not intend to
make government benefits for illegal immigrants a centerpiece of the campaign,
but it came up unbidden, again and again.

Internal polling found that Ogonowski's tough stance was winning 60 percent to
30 percent over the positions articulated by Tsongas, said Rob Autry, another
Public Opinion Strategies partner who served as Ogonowski's pollster.
Ogonowski's position on taxes had a narrower, 13 percentage point lead. Every
other issue "was dicey," he said.

Then, just two days before Tuesday's balloting, Tsongas said illegal immigrants
should each be allowed to get a driver's license. The final radio ad of the
Ogonowski insurgency intoned, "And now for something truly incredible. You
already know Niki Tsongas supports amnesty for illegal immigrants, but today we
learned Niki Tsongas would go even further. Tsongas told the Boston Herald she
wants to give driver's licenses to illegal immigrants."

John Walsh, chairman of the Massachusetts Democratic Party, said the final vote
proved the limits of the immigration message. The district may be less
Democratic than the presidential numbers make it appear, he cautioned.
Republican gubernatorial candidates have carried it handily since 1990, until
Deval L. Patrick, the current Democratic governor, won it with 51 percent of the
vote, the same percentage Tsongas took.

If Ogonowski's internal polling showed him trailing by 10 points in September,
his immigration blitz made up only five points, he said.

But in districts where Democrats do not have five points to give, those numbers
loom large. "For the American people, and therefore all of us, it's emerged as
the third rail of American politics," Emanuel said. "And anyone who doesn't
realize that isn't with the American people."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By David H. Brow -- Associated Press; Democrat Niki Tsongas won
by only 51 to 45 percent in a district that gave presidential hopefuls Al Gore
and John F. Kerry 57 percent of the vote.
IMAGE; By Charles Krupa -- Associated Press; Republican Jim Ogonowski mined
anti-illegal-immigration sentiment to run in a Democratic district.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 24, 2007 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Poll Finds Immigration on Voters' Minds;
Issue Rapidly Rises to Prominence, With Three-Fourths Calling It Important in
Election

BYLINE: Anita Kumar and Jon Cohen; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B07

LENGTH: 1441 words


After years of simmering in the background, illegal immigration has quickly
emerged as one of the key issues in Virginia's Nov. 6 election, particularly in
Northern Virginia, where voters say they are seeking candidates who will address
it, according to a new Washington Post poll.

Three-quarters of likely voters in Virginia said immigration is important to
their votes in the election for state and local offices, while just a year ago,
immigration ranked seventh of 10 listed issues in a Post poll before the U.S.
Senate race. Since then, the percentage of Virginia voters calling immigration
"extremely" or "very" important to their vote has jumped 15 points.

"That's heartening," said Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large), chairman of the Prince
William Board of County Supervisors, who spearheaded efforts to crack down on
illegal immigrants. "For many people, this has really become a serious threat to
their quality of life."

There is a widespread sense that illegal immigration is a local problem,
particularly after Congress's failure to approve an immigration overhaul this
summer. That has vaulted the issue into prominence.

It has also gained attention because of what people in both parties say is a
predominantly Republican tactic to turn attention away from President Bush's
sagging approval ratings, an unpopular war and the state's costly new
abusive-driver fees.

"It's a conscious political strategy by Virginia Republicans," said Frank
Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, an immigrant
advocacy group in Washington. "What happens in Virginia in the legislative races
will be a pretty good test of whether this works or not."

Republicans across the state -- and a few Democrats in conservative districts --
have seized the issue, unveiling countless proposals to curb illegal immigration
and talking it up on the campaign trail.

In the past two statewide elections, the unsuccessful Republican candidates for
U.S. Senate and governor tried to make immigration an issue, but it did not
resonate as deeply with voters as such problems as traffic congestion.
Transportation and the state's economy are still the biggest issues facing
Virginia today, according to the Post poll, but immigration has made a surge in
voter interest this fall. Among likely voters, 61 percent called illegal
immigration a problem where they live.

A majority of likely voters who said immigration is extremely important would
like to see Republicans maintain control of the General Assembly, and those who
call the issue the state's top problem generally prefer the GOP approach. But
overall, Virginians give Democrats a narrow edge on handling immigration, and
more voters would like to see the Democrats take over the state legislature.

"I think Democrats would have a better solution," said Barbara Humphreys, 57, of
Buena Vista, who ranks immigration as a top issue, along with the economy and
the war in Iraq.

Political analysts say Democrats could make gains in the Republican-led
legislature Nov. 6, when all 140 House and Senate seats are up for grabs.
Democrats could take control of the Senate for the first time since 1999 and
pick up a half-dozen or so seats in the House of Delegates, analysts say.

A majority of Virginians, 53 percent, said they want state and local governments
to do "a lot" to deal with illegal immigration; an additional third said they
want "some" action.

Although state and local governments can do little to resolve immigration
concerns, in part because federal and state laws provide many protections for
illegal immigrants, six in 10 likely Virginia voters said they would be more
inclined to support an office seeker who advocated aggressive state and local
action against illegal immigrants.

"I think we need to strengthen our borders," said Lori Robinson, 45, of Norfolk,
who plans to vote for Republicans next month, partly because she thinks they
would be stronger on immigration. "I'm looking for someone to stand up and say,
'This is what this country needs.' You want to help everyone, but you can't."

"Clearly there's a lot of frustration with the broken immigration system," said
Tim Freilich, legal director for the Virginia Justice Center for Farm and
Immigrant Workers. "What we're seeing are state and local elected officials
trying to do something. What we need now is comprehensive immigration reform. We
don't need mean-spirited, shortsighted results."

In recent months, Prince William and Loudoun counties have voted to curtail
government services to illegal immigrants, and Herndon voted to close a
controversial day-laborer center frequented by many illegal immigrants. Last
week, the Prince William board also unanimously passed a proposal that will
allow police to check the immigration status of anyone who breaks the law.
Fairfax officials are trying to determine which county services can be denied to
illegal immigrants, although they haven't decided to do that.

Republicans dispute the notion that they are exploiting the immigration issue to
gain political advantage, saying they are responding to complaints from voters.
"If you're hyping a nonissue, you wouldn't get these results," Stewart said.

Gerald E. Connolly (D), who is running for reelection as chairman of the Fairfax
County Board of Supervisors, said many politicians are making false claims about
what they can do.

"Some politicians have declared open season on a particular group of immigrants
who are here that goes way beyond unpalatable. It puts people at risk. I can
tell you I've spoken to a lot of immigrant communities. This has made them very
anxious. We have a sad history in Virginia that we don't want to repeat,"
Connolly said.

Nearly seven in 10 Virginians polled said the federal government has not done
enough to deal with the issue. But many also see illegal immigration as a state
and local issue -- and not one that the federal government alone should address.

About one in eight Virginians call immigration the most or second-most important
problem in the state. Fifty-one percent of those surveyed said illegal
immigration is a problem where they live, including 20 percent who said it is a
"very serious problem."

Steve Fowler, 57, a consultant who lives in Manassas, describes immigration and
transportation as his top issues after abortion. "To me, the issue is . . .
whether they broke the law to come here," he said.

But Bill Maxwell, 70, a retiree who has lived in Alexandria for four decades,
said immigration is not a top priority. "I think Republicans are making a big
deal out of it," said Maxwell, who has voted for both parties in the past but
plans to vote Democratic in November.

On most questions about immigration, there are wide differences by party and
region.

Although 58 percent of Republicans and 55 percent of independents want much more
local action on illegal immigration, fewer Democrats, 43 percent, do. And almost
three-quarters of Republicans are more likely to support a candidate who wants
strong action against illegal immigrants, nearly double the percentage among
Democrats.

"Republicans would do a better job," said Pat Holub, 42, who is in the Navy and
lives in Springfield. "Liberals have a tendency to want to do everything for
everybody."

Nearly a third of likely voters who live north of the Rappahannock River said
immigration was one of the top two issues in the state, and 77 percent said
illegal immigration was a problem in their communities; 37 percent called it a
very serious problem.

Those numbers surged higher in Prince William, where half of all residents
called immigration the most or second-most important issue facing the state and
a majority classified illegal immigration as a very serious local problem.

Roy Beck, executive director of NumbersUSA, a group that advocates limits on
immigration and penalties for illegal immigrants, called the poll results
surprising because immigration has not been an issue taken on by a statewide
leader in Virginia as it has in some states.

Beck attributed some of the interest to increased attention to immigration by
the media and to the enormous alterations in the state's landscape.

"People across Virginia, especially in Northern Virginia, they are witnessing a
rapid change," he said.

The poll was conducted by telephone Oct. 4 through 8 among a random sample of
1,144 Virginia adults, including additional interviews with randomly selected
residents of Loudoun and Prince William counties. The results from the full poll
have a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points; it is
larger among subgroups.

Polling analyst Jennifer Agiesta and staff writer Bill Turque contributed to
this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

GRAPHIC: IMAGE
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 25, 2007 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Two Approaches to Illegal Immigration

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 459 words


The Oct. 22 front-page article "New Fear Leads Both Legal, Illegal Latinos to
Leave Pr. William"  had me cheering.

While I sympathize with illegal aliens as fellow humans, I will not condone the
breaking of our immigration laws, no matter the  skin color or language  of
those involved. I applaud the   counties and cities that step in where the
federal government is failing.

If America continues to be the  escape valve for the poor of other countries,
the corruption  of their  governments will continue in perpetuity.

We reap what we sow, and the blame goes far in this mess of human exploitation
--   to politicians who pander for votes,  to employers who want  cheap labor
and even to the clergy who profess merely to be honoring the dignity of each
individual.  Eventually all of us, even the rich, will suffer the consequences
of ignoring the rule of law.

It's called chaos.

LYNN BEIBER

Bowie

I can no longer stand by and  do nothing. I feel ashamed of being a Republican
in Prince William County. I believe that some of our elected officials are
pitting one group against another because one group speaks Spanish. As a
Republican and a Christian, I find that deplorable.

It seems that it is mostly Republicans who are behind the recent legal efforts
against illegal immigrants in Prince William. Yet, I don't think this issue is
about the legal status of immigrants; I  saw this  sentiment when I lived in
Chesterfield, long before the influx of illegal aliens.  I often saw police
(local and state) pulling kids over in their cars,  the kids' only crime
appearing to be that they were playing Spanish music or  that they didn't look
white.  The officers would check licenses and  then let the kids go. These
efforts are designed to  instill fear. It's racism, folks, nothing but.

JOSEPH PETTORINO

Lake Ridge

Â·

I would like to ask this of  Gerald E. Connolly, chairman of the Fairfax County
Board of Supervisors: When did Fairfax roll out the "welcome mat" to illegal
immigrants ["The Dividing Line on Illegal Immigrants," front page, Oct. 23]?
Does  turning a blind eye to illegal activity apply to  the traffic ticket I got
for driving on the shoulder to avoid an accident?  Can I get a list of the
things covered by the "welcome mat" exception?

KEVIN L. O'MEARA SR.

Alexandria

Â·

I believe that what Prince William County is doing is barbaric.

The drastic measures  being taken are unnecessary. Some people may say  that
illegal immigrants should have taken the steps necessary to become citizens, but
they do not understand the struggle it takes to get legal status.

With the new restrictions, many Latinos will fear random sweeps, and soon Prince
William County will feel the economic impact of choosing to drive away
hardworking Latinos.

BIANCA AVILA

Washington

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 25, 2007 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Bill Aimed at Immigrant Children Fails

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 444 words


Legislation that would have offered a path to citizenship for illegal-immigrant
high school graduates who entered the United States as children failed a key
test vote in the Senate yesterday.

The measure, known as the Dream Act, would have given conditional legal status
to illegal immigrants now younger than 30  who graduated from American high
schools, came to the United States before they were 16 and have lived in the
country for at least five years. They  would be eligible for permanent residency
after two years of college or military service.  The measure failed after a 52
to 44 procedural vote, eight votes short of the 60 needed to begin debate.

The proposal was a last-ditch effort at new protections for illegal immigrants
this year after the Senate could not  reach a compromise on a broader overhaul
of the nation's immigration laws this summer. It was included in that
unsuccessful attempt at an overhaul,  then was defeated last month as an
amendment to a defense spending bill.

Its sponsor, Sen. Richard J. Durbin (D-Ill.), resurrected it this week as
stand-alone legislation.  He argued that it was  narrowly tailored to aid only
young and ambitious immigrants who know no other country, and who would help the
U.S. economy by paying more taxes.

"What crime did these children commit? They committed the crime of obeying their
parents, following their parents to this country," Durbin said. "Give them a
chance to prove themselves to this country."

Opponents denounced the bill as amnesty and argued that any legalization
proposal must include enforcement measures.

"This or any other type of an amnesty bill would be a slap in the face of all of
those who came in legally," said Sen. James M. Inhofe (R-Okla.).

Estimates of how many immigrants would benefit from the legislation vary. The
pro-immigrant Immigration Policy Center released a report Tuesday that said
360,000 high school graduates would immediately qualify, and that  715,000 more
undocumented children would be eligible if they graduate from high school and
meet other requirements. Those figures match ones  previously issued by the
nonpartisan Migration Policy Institute.

The Center for Immigration Studies and Numbers USA, organizations that advocate
lower levels of immigration, said the bill would put far more illegal immigrants
on a path to permanent residency -- at least 2.1 million, according to the
center -- and would eventually allow them to sponsor family members.

In a statement calling for more broad-based immigration reform, the White House
expressed opposition to the Dream Act, calling it a "preferential path to
citizenship for a special class of illegal aliens."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 27, 2007 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Rights Officials From Mexico Cancel Visit;
Team Was to Talk to Residents About Immigrant Crackdown

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 520 words


Mexico's human rights agency canceled plans yesterday to investigate whether new
Prince William County policies violate the rights of illegal immigrants over
fears that its visit might cause an uproar in a county already roiled by
anti-immigrant sentiment.

"This humanitarian mission has been canceled because there was an intention to
manipulate it that we will not be a party to," said Ricardo Juarez, a leader of
the Virginia group Mexicans Without Borders, which had been coordinating the
visit.

Although Mexico's National Commission on Human Rights has conducted several
fact-finding missions in border areas and major immigrant gateway cities in the
United States in the past year, the planned visit to Prince William would have
been the first to examine the impact of efforts by smaller jurisdictions to
combat illegal immigration through local laws.

But the commission dropped the plan after Juarez said he came to fear that the
visit would be used to political advantage by Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large),
chairman of the Board of County Supervisors and a leading proponent of the
crackdown on illegal immigration.

Juarez said the visit was being "used as a weapon by Corey Stewart against a
community that is already suffering the consequences of his policies of hate."

Stewart, who is up for reelection next month, denied that he sought to undermine
the visit but did express concerns.

"There is a sovereignty issue," he said. "You've got a foreign government trying
to interfere with the working of a U.S. locality."

Prince William emerged as one of the most prominent examples of anti-immigrant
activism earlier this month, when county supervisors voted unanimously to
empower police to check the immigration status of anyone who breaks a law. The
board also voted to cut off certain services to illegal immigrants such as bus
tours for senior citizens, leadership training programs for adults, and rental
and mortgage assistance. Illegal immigrants will also be prohibited from getting
business licenses.

Mauricio Farah, head of the Mexican commission's migrant rights division, said
in a phone interview from Mexico City: "These kinds of ordinances are
criminalizing people who are not criminals, who have only come here to work. We
respect the right of every sovereign nation to make its immigration laws, but a
person's entitlement to basic human rights is not dependent on their immigration
status. And these kinds of discriminatory, xenophobic and even racist laws are
stripping people of their fundamental right to political, economic and social
development."

Farah and other members of the team had planned to question immigrants from
Mexico and other countries about their experiences at a meeting Monday night.

The commission is an independent public institution that is principally charged
with serving as a government watchdog, so the team would have directed any
recommendations to the Mexican consulates or government.

Although the visit to Prince William was abandoned, the group will visit next
week with members of Congress and U.S. advocacy groups that are challenging
local anti-immigration measures.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              182 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 12, 2007 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Common Sense, Not Ideology;
A Powerful Immigration Tool Under Fire in Virginia

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. B08

LENGTH: 460 words


Localities such as Loudoun and Prince William counties are feeling pinched by
the population of day laborers in their communities to the point where they are
trying to pass ordinances to deny services to illegal immigrants. But denying
such services teeters on the edge of unconstitutionality, and it won't make day
laborers disappear. These municipalities should look to the town of Herndon as
an example of how to manage the day-laborer population.

The town's day-laborer center opened in 2005 during the tenure of the previous
Town Council. Though it is controversial, it has accomplished what it set out to
do: keep day laborers from soliciting work on our street corners. An average of
about 125 workers use the center to solicit work every day, and they represent
the majority of such workers in our town. This has eliminated the throngs of men
who previously solicited jobs on our main thoroughfare. Through all of this,
Herndon has maintained a thriving and robust economy.

Now the Loudoun Board of Supervisors wants the Town Council to require the
laborers who use Herndon's site to prove their legal right to work. Loudoun
intimates that its day-laborer problem is Herndon's fault, but the fact of the
matter is that the town has successfully managed its day laborers for the past
year and a half and Loudoun has not.

Ironically, Loudoun is one of the fastest growing counties in the nation, which
brings many building and construction opportunities. This market draws day
laborers, who go where opportunities exist. Loudoun needs to manage its own day
laborers as Herndon has done, and quit blaming its woes on Herndon.

Creating unfriendly ordinances that make Latino residents feel targeted may only
backfire. For instance, if populations of people feel unwelcome, the housing
supply may increase rapidly as people move out, affecting already slumping home
values. Local businesses that rely on a large consumer base will suffer. Also,
local policing efforts, in which officers gain trust and assistance from the
community, may be undermined.

The current Herndon council strongly opposes, for ideological reasons, having
this center for day laborers that is open to all, but it has not closed the site
down. It is attempting to replace the current nonprofit site operator with a
for-profit business. This has contributed to county funding being withdrawn.
Surely the council members must know that closing the center or significantly
changing its operating model would invalidate some of the town's enforcement
tools?

In the end, it all boils down to common-sense, practical solutions vs. ideology.

-- Jennifer Boysko -- Barbara Glakas

Herndon

The writers are members of Herndon Embraces All With Respect and Tolerance. The
views expressed here are their own.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              183 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        May 11, 2007 Friday 12:00 AM EST

The American Way on Immigration -- Or Germany's?

BYLINE: Tamar Jacoby, Special to washingtonpost.com't Think Tank Town,
washingtonpost.com

LENGTH: 853 words



HIGHLIGHT: It's one of the hoariest chestnuts in the immigration debate:
"There's nothing more permanent than a temporary worker" -- and it's not
entirely wrong. Just look at Germany, which admitted more than a million
Gastarbeiter, or guest workers, in the 1950s and '60s, most of them from Turkey
and southern Europe. The idea was that they would do a year or two of manual
labor, then go home -- and some 80 percent did. But others stayed and eventually
brought family, and today there are some two million people of Turkish descent
living in Germany, permanent residents but often on the margins of society.


It's one of the hoariest chestnuts in the immigration debate: "There's nothing
more permanent than a temporary worker" -- and it's not entirely wrong. Just
look at Germany, which admitted more than a million Gastarbeiter, or guest
workers, in the 1950s and '60s, most of them from Turkey and southern Europe.
The idea was that they would do a year or two of manual labor, then go home --
and some 80 percent did. But others stayed and eventually brought family, and
today there are some two million people of Turkish descent living in Germany,
permanent residents but often on the margins of society.

Still, this issue cuts two ways for Americans, particularly American
conservatives. Remember, the American system of immigration is based on
assimilation -- not temporary, but permanent, the more permanent the better. And
today, with the social fabric stretched thin by multiculturalism, conservatives
have led the way in making the case for assimilation. So why are some of the
most conservative members of Congress -- Jon Kyl of Arizona, John Cornyn of
Texas, among others -- advocating a strictly temporary worker program rather
than the melting pot model that has traditionally worked so well for America?

Temporary or permanent?  It's the question at the heart of this year's
immigration debate -- and far more important in the long run than what we do
with the 12 million illegal immigrants already in the country. Legalization is a
transitional issue, after all: it's about acknowledging and remedying the
mistakes of the past. The choice between temporary and permanent is about how
the immigration system will work going forward -- and if the past is any guide,
today's choices could shape the system for a generation or more.

But in truth, temporary vs. permanent is an oversimplification. It's not the
either/or dichotomy it appears to be -- and the best answer for the U.S. today
is almost surely a combination. The challenge is coming up with the right
combination.

The case being made for temporary programs mixes several arguments, some more
attractive than others. Of course, some folks just don't want any foreigners to
stay too long, no matter how useful they are to the economy. But there's also a
principled case for a circular flow. It's good for the countries the migrants
come from: they go back not just with money to invest, but also new skills and,
often, a new work ethic. And temporary programs have advantages for the U.S. as
well, safeguarding us against the possibility of an economic downturn when we no
longer need so many foreign workers.

But what about the foreigners who do so well here -- moving up on the job,
putting down roots, falling in love with America and all it stands for -- that
they want to settle permanently and, like generations of immigrants before them,
become citizens? We need a program that works for them, too. And we need a
program that recognizes the diversity of our labor needs: slots not just for
newcomers with no experience, but also for more seasoned workers, the
semi-skilled, foremen, supervisors and the like.

What exactly is the right mix of temporary and permanent? We don't know -- and
shouldn't pretend to. Congress shouldn't be second-guessing our changing labor
needs -- and it shouldn't be second-guessing how well foreign workers will adapt
to life in the U.S. We need a flexible system that creates incentives for most
workers to go home, but which permits those we need, and those who prove they
merit it, to stay on permanently in the U.S.

One option would be with a point system. Allow foreign workers to enter the
country on temporary visas, then use a merit-based calculation to determine who
can stay. But unlike most point systems, this one wouldn't measure just skill
and education. It would also give credit for enterprise, hard work, job
advancement, abiding by the law, learning English, putting down roots and
investing in your community. We could figure in economics: perhaps a limit on
the number to be admitted permanently based on the unemployment rate or GDP
growth. But as much as economics, our annual quota -- a flexible, adjustable
quota -- should be based on assimilation. The foreigners we allow to stay
permanently should be those already tested by the system -- those who've tried
and succeeded at making it in America.

Wouldn't this just be repeating the German mistake? Quite the opposite: We would
be learning from the German lesson. Germany's failure wasn't in its temporary
program; the failure was thinking that one size would fit all, not making
provision for the relatively small share of workers who wanted stay, and then
not encouraging them to assimilate.

The good news: Neither conservatives, nor other Americans have to choose. We can
have both a responsive temporary system and assimilation too. The first step is
recognizing that we need both, and that it isn't necessarily a failure -- far
from it -- when a foreign worker graduates from one track to the other.

Tamar Jacoby, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, is launching a new
nonprofit called "Our Pledge" devoted to advancing assimilation.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2007 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 23, 2007 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

The Storm Over Immigration;
For too many, compromise is a dirty word.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 456 words


THE VIRULENCE and breadth of opposition to the Senate immigration bill has
kicked up a dust storm of dogma that has obscured the real stakes and potential
of the legislation.

Critics on the right howl that the bill offers "amnesty" to 12 million illegal
immigrants who in fact would face a long, onerous path to earned citizenship.
But  those critics are loath to acknowledge that deporting 12 million people,
including droves of workers on whom the American economy relies, is economically
suicidal, pragmatically unfeasible and morally repellent. Critics on the left
decry the bill's convoluted system for dealing with future guest workers,
without recognizing that it would leave them no worse off than they would be
under the admittedly dysfunctional status quo. What critics on all sides
overlook, in shrilly focusing on the bill's deficiencies, is that its defeat
would leave this country with an immigration dilemma that is growing rapidly and
is poisoning political discourse in states and localities from coast to coast.

A clunky compromise, the Senate immigration bill weighs in at well over 300
pages and is more easily dealt with by sound bites ("Amnesty!") than by
analysis. There is no denying that it is full of flaws and that it would
establish some rules and procedures that may not work (measures such as kicking
out guest workers for a year between three two-year stints of employment and
expecting them to stay out), and others that are simply mean-spirited (such as
requiring illegal immigrants already here to leave the country and reenter in
order to "reboot" and legalize their status).  Many of the bill's segments  and
provisions could benefit from debate, scrutiny and revision.

But those who cite the offending sections and insist on the bill's defeat must
explain how that would leave the country in a better posture. The practical
effect of a defeat would be to leave the country without any resolution to the
current non-system of immigration for at least two more years, and possibly for
much longer -- an outcome the American public clearly doesn't want.

For years there has been hand-wringing over the death of bipartisanship in
Washington politics and over the rise of the politics of uncompromising
ideology. In the Senate immigration bill, there is a glimpse of what
bipartisanship looks like in the real world -- an ungainly, imperfect hybrid
that goes some distance toward tightening border security, clearing the backlog
of visa applications, and providing a future for 12 million immigrants already
in this country, including many who have been here since childhood. The wiser
course is to work for improvements, not to sound the death knell for legislation
that holds the promise of a better future.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 29, 2007 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Window of Opportunity

BYLINE: E. J. Dionne Jr.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 748 words


The immigration bill before the Senate is a source of great agony and a
fountainhead of opportunity.

Forget about the deep divisions in the country on this issue. Senators in both
parties are deeply torn within themselves over what to do.

Take, first, the Democrats. A substantial majority of them support giving 12
million or so illegal immigrants a path to citizenship. But they find two
features of the bill particularly troublesome.

The most disconcerting is a guest-worker program through which about 200,000
immigrants would be admitted each year -- but only for two years. After that,
they would in principle have to go home for a year before they could try to come
back again.

The problems with this are  moral and practical. Guest workers are a bad idea.
Workers should not be treated as if they were factors of production such as
steel or plastic. They are human beings. The best way to guarantee the rights
and wages of all Americans is to give every immigrant the opportunity to become
a citizen, with all the rights and duties that entails.

In any event, the notion that all or even most of the 200,000 guest workers
would return home on schedule is laughable. We could be opening up a brand-new
immigration problem.

The other provision that bothers so many Democrats, particularly Latinos, is a
point system based on various qualifications, including employment and
education, for determining who would get preferences for green cards. It would
have the effect of making it harder for immigrants to bring in members of their
families.

This idea has drawn fire from, among others, Sens. Barack Obama and Hillary
Clinton. Obama said the proposed system "places a person's job skills over his
character and work ethic." In pushing to change this part of the bill, Clinton
said tartly: "For those who often speak about family values, this is your
opportunity to match your rhetoric with your action." (Here's betting that
Clinton wins this one.) These are real issues, but they must be balanced against
the urgency of doing something about the illegal immigrants already inside the
United States. Most Democrats, uncharacteristically, agreed with President Bush
when he said at his news conference Thursday: "You can't kick them out. Anybody
who advocates trying to dig out 12 million people who have been in our society
for a while is sending a signal to the American people that's just not real.
It's an impractical solution."

That's the opportunity. Politically, it will be much easier for Democrats if a
Republican president and a substantial number of Republicans in Congress push
through legalization. Otherwise, Democrats might have to bear this burden by
themselves -- if they should keep control of Congress and win the White House in
2008. However they vote on a final bill, both Clinton and Obama (and every other
Democrat running for president) have an interest in getting something done now.

For Republicans, the politics are even harder. Their core constituencies are at
odds. Business groups definitely want an immigration bill, while many social and
cultural conservatives (though not all religious conservatives) think any form
of mass legalization is "amnesty" and a sellout.

The loudest voices on the Republican side, including much of the conservative
talk-show army and many Web sites, despise the bill. They are furious at Sen.
Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) for lining up with Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) to push
this compromise. But Kyl, who had a tougher reelection campaign than he expected
last year, knows that many voters simply want a solution to the immigration
problem. He has used the Democrats' desire for broad legalization to extract
some tough concessions, including a provision postponing the effect of most of
the bill until a variety of steps against illegal entry are taken.

And many Republicans also know that their share of the growing Latino vote
dropped sharply in 2006 because they were seen as blocking congressional action
on immigration.

The opportunity for Bush is to get credit for a major achievement at a moment
when -- well, let's just say he could use one right now. His party could share
in the triumph and stanch the flow of Latino votes the Democrats' way.

Just about everybody has a problem with parts of this bill. But just about
everybody has an even bigger problem with the status quo. My hunch is that the
politics of opportunity have a slight advantage over whatever agony may be
called forth by this imperfect compromise.

postchat@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              186 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 8, 2007 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Careful Strategy Is Used to Derail Immigration Bill;
'Amnesty' Becomes Achilles' Heel

BYLINE: Shailagh Murray; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 913 words


Two weeks ago, when the immigration bill landed on the Senate floor, Sen. Jim
DeMint (R-S.C.) voted against an amendment that targeted one of its key
provisions: a guest-worker program that President Bush and many U.S. companies
have sought for years.

Shortly after midnight yesterday, DeMint returned to the floor and, along with
three conservative Republican colleagues, voted in favor of the same measure he
had opposed, to sunset the program after five years. Not that DeMint has
anything against guest workers. He supports the idea. But weakening the
guest-worker program would leave the bill in tatters -- and in the twisted logic
of the Senate, that served DeMint's greater goal of derailing the legislation.

"If it hurts the bill, I'm for it," DeMint explained matter-of-factly.

The early-morning vote shocked members of the bipartisan coalition who have
struggled to pass an immigration bill, one of the most complex and controversial
that Congress has tackled in years. Leaders in both parties condemned the GOP
switchers for conspiring to sabotage legislation that had taken countless
delicate negotiating sessions to craft. And that was exactly the intent. The
four new votes were the result of an aggressive last-minute lobbying campaign by
the legislation's Democratic and Republican critics.

"I'm embarrassed to say they were trying to kill the bill, and I'm ashamed of
it," Republican Whip Trent Lott (Miss.) said of DeMint and his associates. He
fumed that the senators had voted against their principles and on an amendment
offered by Democrats, no less.

But that's the Senate, where tactical voting is par for the course, and where a
single disgruntled lawmaker -- or, in this case, four -- can run even the most
artful compromise aground. And that was the ultimate effect of their vote,
leading to the legislation's demise last night.

The debate also underscores the limits of party loyalty when a red-hot issue is
at stake -- especially for Republicans, given Bush's poor standing in the polls.
Changing the nation's immigration laws to expand the workforce, tighten
enforcement and bring order to the chaos of a vast illegal population has been a
priority for Bush since he took office. Many GOP lawmakers also support the
overall cause. But one key provision -- a path to citizenship for undocumented
workers -- has unleashed a vehement reaction among conservatives, who believe
the immigration system broke down long ago. Given the administration's weak
response, DeMint said, Republicans do not have the political credibility to
argue back.

"I think Republicans are trying to solve a real problem. I think the president
is, too," DeMint said. "But the American people don't trust us."

Sen. Byron L. Dorgan (D-N.D.) does not like the immigration bill, either, but
for entirely different reasons. Echoing the concerns of labor unions, he argues
that the guest-worker program would depress wages and lead to foreigners taking
good jobs that would otherwise go to U.S. citizens.

When the debate started late last month, Dorgan offered two amendments: one to
kill the guest-worker program, and a second to water down the program to make it
more acceptable to unions, by ending it after five years. The first failed by a
large margin. But the second measure was defeated 49 to 48.

To close the gap, Dorgan and a GOP  ally, Sen. Bob Corker (Tenn.), looked to
Republicans who had voted against the sunset amendment two weeks ago but who
were known to have qualms about the bill itself. The target list included five
senators from states with illegal-immigration problems, or where the issue had a
particular potency with conservative voters. Along with DeMint, the list named
Sens. Jim Bunning (Ky.), Charles E. Grassley (Iowa), Elizabeth Dole (N.C.) and
Mike Enzi (Wyo.). Dole and Enzi face reelection next year.

After conversations with Dorgan and among themselves, four of the five decided
to support Dorgan's late-night second effort. Moments before the vote,
Republican leaders succeeded in talking Grassley back to their side.

DeMint hurried into the chamber around 12:15 a.m., voted yes on the sunset
amendment, and then hurried home to bed. He did not realize it had passed until
he returned to the office in the morning.

Pressed by reporters to explain his switch, Bunning at first referred to
unspecified changes that Dorgan had made at his behest, then conceded that he
had grander ambitions. "I've been trying to kill [the bill] since the
beginning," Bunning said.

Enzi spokesman Coy Knobel said his boss gave additional thought to the Dorgan
amendment after the first vote and determined that supporting it was effectively
"a vote against amnesty."

Dole said she changed her mind after a GOP-led bid to strike the "amnesty," or
legalization, section gained just 29 votes. Instead, she would try to defeat the
bill by weakening one of its popular provisions, the guest-worker program. "That
was the intent," Dole said, "because we had not been able to strip the amnesty
out."

Dorgan said he was "pleasantly surprised" by the outcome, another 49 to 48 vote,
this time in his favor (several senators had switched in the other direction, to
try to save the bill). He insisted that he never viewed the amendment as a
poison pill, but rather as an attempt to keep the guest-worker program in check.

But the conservatives, he confessed, did not take much prodding. "It's like the
loose thread on the cheap sweater," Dorgan said. "You start pulling and the
sleeve comes off."

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Sen. Jim DeMint (R-S.C) and others helped kill the immigration
bill.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              187 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 26, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

A Guest-Worker Program That Does Well by Migrants

BYLINE: Krissah Williams; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1434 words

DATELINE: MONTERREY, Mexico


If a quarry needs a migrant worker who can haul 50-pound loads of rock out of a
mine, or a big landscaper wants to hire a man who'll mow grass from sunup to
sundown for $8 an hour without overstaying his visa, Jeffrey West scrolls
through his computer, clicks the mouse and fills the order.

West, an American who lives in Texas and runs an office here, provides a legal
passageway to the United States for several thousand temporary Mexican workers
every year, signing them up, helping them get visas, putting them in a database
for companies in the north to peruse. Though the pay is low and the work
grueling, he hardly has to go looking for willing workers.

"They find us," said West, 45, a matter-of-fact Midwesterner. "We don't have to
go out and recruit."

West's secure database --  MexicanLabor.com -- contains photos and profiles of
more than 20,000 Mexican men and a few women. Most are from rural villages, few
have more than a third-grade education, some cannot read. Once they're in the
database, West has his assistants look through, seeking workers accustomed to
hard labor --  those who don't "look soft," he said.

West began LLS International eight years ago, and its history is, in part, the
story of the modern U.S. guest-worker program. Once small and obscure, it has
grown in size and attracted controversy. The role of guest workers in the U.S.
economy is being hotly debated as Congress considers the largest overhaul of
immigration law in two decades. The existing program admits about 158,000 guest
workers each year. A bill before the Senate would more than double that number,
and business leaders are pushing lawmakers to allow even more foreigners.

Call him a labor recruiter, and West bristles. The term is sullied. There are
hundreds of recruiters in Mexico, including some who charge trusting workers
thousands of dollars for nonexistent jobs in the United States.

With so many desperate for work, West occupies a powerful position as an
American standing at the door to legal jobs. This month, he perched behind a
computer at his headquarters in this busy industrial city, navigating the
database, which assigns each man and woman a bar code so he can track their
movements like FedEx packages.

David Sanchez Martinez sat in a cushioned chair nearby, hoping to become one of
those bar codes. The pimply-faced 19-year-old borrowed $2,000 at a monthly
interest rate of 30 percent from a loan shark in his hometown of Mazamitla
Jalisco to finance his bus trip to Monterrey, buy food, pay the recruiter, pay
the U.S. Consulate and -- if all goes well -- buy a Greyhound bus ticket to
Richmond, where he'll push a lawnmower for hours each day.

"The pay is $7.75 per hour; $11.75 for overtime," Sanchez said, reading aloud
the employment contract an LLS employee handed him. Ten times more than he can
make in Jalisco.

Eager and strong, Sanchez, the father of a three-month-old baby girl, is only
sporadically employed in his home town. He gladly paid West $160 for the chance
to work in the United States. He would know in the late afternoon whether the
U.S. Consulate accepted his application.

For that $160, West will do all the visa paperwork, arrange an interview with
the U.S. Consulate and connect a laborer with an employer under the guest-worker
program referred to by its legislative designation as H-2B, which allows about
121,000 migrants to work up to 10 months in seasonal industries. Many Mexicans
also apply for H-2A, which admits 37,000 foreigners to tend U.S. farms and
fields.

Complaints against some recruiters have resulted in lawsuits. One, filed by the
Southern Poverty Law Center, alleges that recruiters charged Guatemalan forestry
workers more than $1,000 and seized the deeds to their homes as collateral.
Another class-action suit claims recruiters of laborers in Peru, Bolivia and the
Dominican Republic required migrants to pay from $3,500 to $5,000 to work in
hotel jobs in New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina. Their employment contracts
required them to labor three to four months without pay to recoup the
recruiters' fees.

West said he has had relatively few complaints, but he did stop filling requests
for agricultural companies after he was named in lawsuits by disgruntled guest
workers in pay disputes. Farm workers receive access to free legal services, but
other migrant workers do not.

West carefully monitors what he calls his "AWOL rate," the number of migrants he
sends to the United States but who don't return when their visas expire. There
are 3 or 4 percent every year, he said.

When it happens, his office calls the worker's mother or wife, saying, "We
really need to know where he is, immigration is looking for him." Usually the
worker, who is legally bound to a specific employer and cannot work elsewhere,
surfaces.

West started LLS -- a hastily chosen acronym to which he later applied the words
Latin Labor Solutions -- after facing his own workforce shortage in the late
1990s. West oversaw the construction of a 400-acre golf course in southeastern
Michigan, hiring locals to move dirt for $7.50 per hour. They rarely lasted past
lunch time.

"I'd have stacks of pay stubs in my desk for four hours of work that these guys
had done, and I'd never seen them again," West recalled.

After flood or a late frost wiped out the crops in a nearby town, West hired the
unemployed migrants working those fields. Two and a half years into the project,
the Internal Revenue Service sent him a letter warning that his employees'
Social Security numbers did not match their names.

He had an inkling some of the men weren't legal, but, now forced to act, he
asked how he could properly rehire them. The answer: Have them deported and
re-enter as guest workers. It took two years, but West did it. The Mexicans
arrived complaining that the recruiter West hired treated them roughly.

A few months later, on a business trip to central Mexico with his
Mexican-American wife's sister, West -- who does not speak Spanish -- made the
connections that became the foundation of the recruiting business. He hired an
unemployed American expatriate who helped him match 60 Mexicans with employers.
Year after year, the business has doubled or more.

Now nearly 95 percent of the migrants West moves north are veteran guest workers
whom U.S. employers request by name. The company has six offices throughout the
country, most near poor villages. Around October, his employees begin calling
former guest workers, asking the job-seekers to travel to an LLS field office
where they will have a unique bar code attached to their passports and a photo
taken.

The migrants deposit $160 directly into the company's bank account. West stopped
taking cash after he caught one of his employees selling visas to desperate
job-seekers for hundreds of dollars.

"It took a long time to find people who took the job seriously, who took the job
more as a ministry and calling than a career," said West, whose father was a
Baptist minister in the Bible Belt. "It helps families and the country."

He recently ran out of the Spanish copies of the New Testament he offers
departing migrants but issues each a flyer that reads: "Dios, familia, pais,
trabajo." God, family, country, job. It lists a toll-free number workers can
call if they're lost or aren't getting enough hours, or if their employers place
them in poor living conditions.

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service spokesman Chris Bentley could not
comment on West's company but said that recruiters play a valid role in the
guest-worker program and that "the program runs exactly the way Congress
intended it to."

A low AWOL rate appeals to employers, who don't want the liability of a missing
worker. In pursuit of that, West sometimes rejects employers. This month, a
candied-apple maker requested 30 migrants to wrap apples at $6.89 an hour, not
even enough to pay for traveling to the United States.

"It's not going to happen," West said to his general manager Salvador Morales,
who runs the day-to-day operations in Monterrey when West is home in Texas.

"If workers take that, it is usually just to run away," Morales agreed.

If Congress expands the guest-worker program, West, who already puts a
global-positioning device on buses transporting migrants to the United States
when possible, plans to expand his technology. He'd like to issue guest workers
ID cards equipped with a radio frequency device that would register on his
computer during a weekly check-in.

Workers like Sanchez don't seem to mind. According to West's database, Sanchez
received his visa and is working in Richmond. He is to return to Mexico in
December.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Jeffrey West, head of LLS International.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              188 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 13, 2007 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

No Phone Calls for Many Detainees;
GAO Report Cites Violations of Guidelines for Dealing With Immigrants

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 638 words


The number of immigrants detained by the United States has grown from 90,000 to
283,000 over the past five years, and many were improperly barred from making
even a single phone call to a lawyer, congressional investigators reported this
week.

Detainees' calls were  completed 35 to 74 percent of the time each month between
November 2005 and November 2006, according to the Government Accountability
Office, Congress's audit arm.

The United States uses a criminal-detention model to hold immigrants, although
most are charged with administrative violations of immigration laws. The
detainees are not guaranteed the protections routinely provided to U.S. citizens
or criminal defendants, including access to public defenders. As a result,
federal authorities have agreed to 38 nonbinding detention guidelines with the
American Bar Association as a form of due process, including providing telephone
access to legal counsel.

"Without sufficient internal control policies and procedures in place, ICE is
unable to offer assurance that detainees can access legal services, file
external grievances and obtain assistance from their consulates," the July 6 GAO
report said, referring to the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency.

Concern about potential mistreatment has grown in Congress and among civil
liberties groups as a national enforcement crackdown has sent the detention
population soaring. "The importance of meaningful access to legal representation
and materials for individuals in immigration detention cannot be overstated,"
said Karen J. Mathis, president of the American Bar Association, whose staff
praised the GAO's work. "When the detention standards are not implemented
properly . . . immigrants in detention are denied due process."

ICE spokeswoman Jamie Zuieback said her agency has agreed to improve its
telephone service and contractor oversight. "We are encouraged by the finding in
the GAO's most recent report, which notes that detention facilities generally
complied" with ICE's standards, even though the size of the detainee population
had tripled, she said.

The GAO said that its investigation of 23 detention sites was not  scientific
and that the results cannot be projected to all 352 sites. It reported pervasive
telephone system failings and isolated violations of at least one of eight
standards audited -- including those on food, medical care and use of force --
at nine sites studied.

For example, four facilities did not fully comply with grievance standards. The
same number reported overcrowding of as much as double their rated capacity and
"triple-bunking" in detainee cells built for two. The overcrowding is the
subject of pending litigation by the American Civil Liberties Union.

The GAO report said ICE's Detention and Removal Operations unit also did not
reliably track the number of complaints received or their outcome. "Standards
for internal control in the federal government call for clear documentation of
transactions and events" to ensure that "potential systemic problems throughout
the detention system" can be detected, the investigators wrote.

The increase in detentions is a result of the stepped-up enforcement campaign
that was meant to underpin the Bush administration's immigration overhaul
effort, which failed. The daily detention population increased from 19,718 in
2005 to about 26,500 in February, even as officials sped up or denied additional
hearings for detainees and deported virtually all the non-Mexican ones.

Illegal immigrants spent an average of 37.6 days in custody as of April,
although a fourth of them, about 70,000, were held for more than 44 days, and 5
percent, about 14,000, were detained for more than four months. Federal law
provides illegal immigrants 30 days to go to an appeals board and the courts
before the rulings against them become final.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Melina Mara -- The Washington Post; A U.S. Border Patrol
officer directs illegal immigrants into a holding cell. GAO investigators report
overcrowding in several detention facilities.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              189 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 29, 2007 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

The Week That Was

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. LZ02

LENGTH: 354 words


News that appeared July 22-28 in The Washington Post that is of interest

to readers in Loudoun and Fauquier counties.

 Sunday 22

Blog Targets Illegal Immigrants

Much of the illegal-immigrant backlash that has spread to Loudoun County and
elsewhere in Virginia can be traced to Greg Letiecq's popular blog, Black Velvet
Bruce Li.

Tuesday 24

Fire Damages 3 Townhouses

A fire that caused $435,000 in damage to three townhouses in Purcellville on
Sunday was accidental, the Loudoun County Fire Marshal's Office said.

Wednesday 25

Court Date Set in Incest Trial

The trial of James L. Bevel, a leader of the U.S. civil rights movement of the
1960s who has been charged with incest, is scheduled to begin April 7, according
to Loudoun County court records.

Scrap Sparks Property Crimes

Soaring prices for salvaged metals, driven by a global demand in Asian markets,
have turned scrap into the new gold for the sticky-fingered set, leading to an
array of property crimes in Loudoun County and the Washington area.

 Friday 27

Bluemont Fire Investigated

 An investigation is underway into the cause of a fire that destroyed a home in
Bluemont on Wednesday night, the Loudoun County Fire Marshal's Office said.

Power Line Hearing Gets Fiery

 Heated testimony at a hearing about a proposal to build a 65-mile high-voltage
power line through Northern Virginia provided a hint of the friction that has
been associated with the project and the tension to come as the state begins
deciding whether to approve it.

Residents Enlist Water Witches

 In rural parts of Loudoun County and the rest of the region, residents
sometimes summon water witches, or dowsers, people who say they are born with a
capacity to locate underground water by channeling its energy.

Saturday 27

Dulles Metro Funding at Risk

The estimated cost of the proposed Metrorail extension to Dulles International
Airport has grown so significantly over the past three years that it may not
meet guidelines for federal funding, the U.S. Transportation Department's
inspector general reported yesterday.

For information about these and other articles, visit
http://www.washingtonpost.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Loudoun County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              190 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 3, 2007 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Border Computers Vulnerable to Attack;
GAO Report Details Problems in System

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 658 words


The U.S. government's main border control system is plagued by computer security
weaknesses, increasing the risk of computer attacks, data thefts, and
manipulation of millions of identity records including passport, visa and Social
Security numbers and the world's largest fingerprint database, officials said.

U.S. officials have called the US-VISIT system a cornerstone of the nation's
efforts to stop terrorists at the borders and stanch the flow of illegal
immigrants. It automates the collection of fingerprints and digital photographs,
and links border control officers to FBI, border enforcement, immigration and
State Department watch lists and databases.

Congress has allocated $1.7 billion for the system since 2002. But in a
congressional report to be released today and obtained by The Washington Post,
Homeland Security officials said that many vulnerabilities exist throughout the
network and the computer stations used at 400 airports, seaports and land
crossings. These vulnerabilities could, in turn, spread the risk of
cyber-attacks or data losses to some of the government's most sensitive security
databases, the officials said.

"Weaknesses existed in all control areas and computing device types reviewed,"
the Government Accountability Office reported. It called  on DHS to "immediately
address" problems to avert potentially crippling disruptions or the
misidentification of drug smugglers, terrorists and felons trying to enter the
country.

"These weaknesses collectively increase the risk that unauthorized individuals
could read, copy, delete, add, and modify sensitive information," investigators
said.

In a statement,  Joseph I. Lieberman (I-Conn.), chairman of the Senate Homeland
Security Committee, said the computer vulnerabilities may make Americans less
secure, not more. "DHS is spending $1.7 billion of taxpayer money on a program
to detect potential terrorists crossing our borders," he said, "yet it isn't
taking the most basic precautions to keep them from hacking into and changing or
deleting sensitive information."

The report raises the latest red flag over the Bush administration's efforts to
secure the borders, already heavily criticized by Congress and conservative
critics. It also adds to a growing list of warnings about the vulnerability of
key government computer networks.

In May, the Transportation Security Administration reported the loss of a hard
drive loaded with personal payroll information on 100,000 workers,  including
federal air marshals. A computer virus halted processing of international
travelers at U.S. airports for several hours in August 2005. And a computer
failure in December knocked out for two hours the national computer network used
at all 400 customs sites.

U.S. authorities expressed concern over a dramatic increase in computer attacks
and warned that they could become more destructive as hackers grow more
sophisticated, pointing to a rise in incidents aimed at Pentagon information
systems.

US-VISIT Director Robert A. Mocny acknowledged concerns but said that security
fixes are underway and that the report raised many hypothetical problems and
overstated others, because few outsiders can gain access to the system's
computers.

"There have been no attacks on the US-VISIT system," Mocny said. Still, he
conceded increased risks as sensitive databases are added. "When you connect
more systems, which [DHS] wants to do, you do have the risk of the 'weakest
link,' " he said.

US-VISIT has compiled digital facial images and fingerprints of 90 million
individuals and is used to vet 54 million border crossings each year. But Marc
Rotenberg, executive director of the Electronic Privacy Information Center, said
the government has not taken  adequate steps to safeguard the privacy of
millions of people whose citizenship, immigration, law enforcement and national
security records are used in the customs checks.

Staff researcher Madonna Lebling contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 4, 2007 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Whose America?

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 127 words


Before reading  Chris Lutz's condemnation of illegal immigrants [Free for All,
July 21], I was firmly encamped in the live-and-let-live crowd. But I can now be
counted on to be a most virulent supporter of getting rid of all those illegals.
In Lutz's words, we would rid ourselves of those who give us "noise at all hours
of the night, unlicensed food vendors, flophouses with lined parking lots built
on residential lots, traffic, failure to pay income taxes, forged documents,
littering, loitering, gangs and failure to integrate into American society."

Deportation would solve everything, right? But aren't these arrivals from south
of the border already fully integrated Americans? Just not Lutz's preferred form
of Americans.

-- Michael Scott Friedman

Brookeville

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 8, 2007 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

Attack Ads You'll Be Seeing

BYLINE: Ruth Marcus

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 827 words


Here's an emerging line of attack you can expect to hear more of in the 2008
congressional campaigns -- especially if you live near a vulnerable Democratic
incumbent: Democrats vote to give welfare benefits to illegal aliens.

Or, even better: Democrats vote to take benefits away from deserving senior
citizens to pay for welfare for illegal aliens.

Ugly? Absolutely. Devastating? So Republicans hope. True? No.

Bashing Democrats on immigration -- accusing them of doing everything but
carrying illegals' luggage across the border -- is a GOP mainstay. But the
accusations that Republicans started to peddle last week reached a new low in
dishonest nativism.

The first salvo involved the House version of the measure to extend the
children's health insurance plan, SCHIP.

"What we do is take, at the cost of seniors who get . . . choices of their own
health-care plans, we take it away," former speaker Dennis Hastert (R-Ill.)
claimed during the House debate. "We wipe it out, and we give it to people who
are illegal aliens."

"That bill, if it becomes law, would take $197 billion out of the Medicare trust
fund, from our seniors, to give to illegal aliens," charged Rep. Ron Lewis
(R-Ky.).

Leave aside the inflated numbers. Leave aside the scare talk about "our
seniors." (AARP, the seniors' lobby, supports the bill.)

The provision at issue would repeal a 2006 requirement that everyone applying
for Medicaid provide proof of citizenship -- passports or original birth
certificates. That might sound sensible, but it has been a cumbersome, expensive
solution to a non-problem.

In 2005, when he was overseeing the Medicaid program for the Bush
administration, Mark McClellan noted that an inspector general's investigation
did "not find particular problems regarding false allegations of citizenship,
nor are we aware of any."

Because many Medicaid applicants don't have such papers easily at hand --
they're not the passport-carrying types -- the requirement has resulted in tens
of thousands of eligible children being denied coverage or kicked off the rolls
and has cost states millions of dollars to administer.

In Virginia, for instance, during the first nine months of implementation, the
state's Medicaid rolls fell by 11,000 children -- even as the number of children
enrolled in SCHIP, the parallel program for children in families earning
slightly more, continued to rise. The impact wasn't on Hispanic children, whose
families tend to have documents available and whose enrollment numbers continued
to increase, but on white and African American children.

The House provision makes the documentation requirement optional for states,
which, after all, have an interest in seeing that their Medicaid dollars are
spent properly. Adults on Medicaid would still have to prove citizenship, swear
that their children are citizens and provide their children's Social Security
numbers. And states would have to conduct annual audits to ensure that no
illegal immigrants are being covered.

Opponents point to Congressional Budget Office estimates that lifting the
documentation requirement would raise costs $2 billion over 10 years. But, CBO
Director Peter Orszag told me, that's almost entirely because it would increase
enrollment of eligible children.

Not that those inconvenient details matter much. "Target Dems Go the Extra Mile
for Illegal Immigrants," crowed the House Republicans' campaign arm. It sent out
individualized releases accusing vulnerable Democrats of voting "to give illegal
immigrants government healthcare benefits." You can see the 30-second ads
coming.

But the debate over the health insurance bill looked tame next to the howls of
outrage over a later vote on a proposal to change the agriculture spending bill
to bar funds from being spent on illegal immigrants -- specifically, for housing
benefits or in hiring. That is, of course, prohibited under existing law, as
California Republican Jerry Lewis acknowledged in making the motion.

Republicans had a legitimate beef with the way the vote was hustled to a
premature close, giving Democrats a victory that might not have been theirs. But
at a news conference the next day, Republicans took pains to emphasize that this
was not simply about procedural mistreatment.

"The radical leadership of the Democrat Party reversed that vote in order to
again give more government benefits to illegal immigrants," said Jeb Hensarling
of Texas, who chairs the conservative Republican Study Committee.

To the Democratic leadership, said Tennessee Republican Marsha Blackburn, "it is
more important to let illegal immigrants be paid, fed and sheltered with U.S.
taxpayer dollars than it is to let the voice of the American people be heard."

Paid, fed and sheltered? Federal law already prohibits this. But this debate
isn't really about making good use of federal funds. It's about using
immigration as a weapon against at-risk Democrats -- and assuming voters won't
bother to learn the truth.

marcusr@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              193 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 9, 2007 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Remittances to Mexico Slow;
Fund Transfers to Relatives Hurt by Tougher U.S. Laws

BYLINE: Krissah Williams; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. D03

LENGTH: 351 words


A new national survey of Latino immigrants suggests that recently adopted state
and local laws aimed at making life more difficult for illegal immigrants have
slowed the growth in the flow of money sent to relatives in Mexico.

Experts who follow the money transfers, also known as familial remittances, have
been confounded over why growth in the totals has leveled off in the first half
of the year despite continued growth in the Mexican immigrant population. The
Inter-American Development Bank sponsored a recent survey of 900 immigrants by
Bendixen & Associates, a Miami firm that specializes in multi-cultural polling,
to try to explain the change.

In the first six months of the year, Mexican immigrants sent $11.4 billion to
their native country, according to estimates by the Central Bank of Mexico. That
is about the same amount sent last year, a significant slowdown given that
remittances have grown more than 10 percent a year for the past decade,
reflecting population growth, said Donald F. Terry, manager of the
Inter-American Development Bank's Multilateral Investment Fund.

The poll found that this year 56 percent of Mexicans living in states with newer
immigrant populations sent money to their relatives back home, compared with 80
percent last year. Many of those are the same states that have passed more than
40 laws in the past two years that created harsh penalties for businesses
employing illegal immigrants and landlords who board them. English-only laws
also have proliferated.

More than 80 percent of the immigrants polled, a quarter of whom were employed
as construction workers or day laborers, said they were having a harder time
finding work because there were fewer jobs and more employers were requiring
legal work documents. About half of the immigrants polled were in the country
illegally, said the survey, which had a margin of error of plus or minus 3
percentage points.

"In the new destination states, around half a million migrants have stopped
sending money home," Terry said. "This means that over the past year, 2 million
people in Mexico have lost a vital lifeline."

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              194 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 8, 2007 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                                Suburban Edition

Plan to Target Businesses That Employ Immigrants Draws Fire

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 552 words


A pending crackdown by the Bush administration against U.S. companies that
employ illegal immigrants faced growing opposition yesterday, as the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce and several large industry groups joined an AFL-CIO lawsuit
to halt the program and the U.S. Small Business Administration said it was
considering whether to take their side.

"We are evaluating that," Keith Holman, a spokesman for the SBA, said when asked
whether the agency would file a friend-of-the-court brief in the legal challenge
to a drive by the Department of Homeland Security and the Social Security
Administration to pressure U.S. companies to fire as many as 8 million workers
who have suspect Social Security numbers.

An SBA official, speaking anonymously because he was not authorized to address
the issue, said that "the fact we would be considering doing an amicus brief,
that we haven't rejected it out of hand, suggests there may be problems" with
the program.

A federal judge on Aug. 31 barred the White House from mailing Social Security
"no-match letters" this month to an estimated 140,000 employers. The letters
were to warn businesses of the new rule requiring employers to fire workers who
fail to resolve discrepancies in their records within 90 days, or else face
potential fines and even criminal liability for hiring illegal immigrants. U.S.
District Judge Maxine M. Chesney in San Francisco set a hearing for Oct. 1.

The AFL-CIO, several local labor groups and the American Civil Liberties Union
allege that the DHS is exceeding its authority to enforce immigration laws and
is misusing  a Social Security database in a way that could lead to workplace
discrimination against countless law-abiding workers, including native-born
Americans, immigrant citizens and legal residents.

The groups charged that the Social Security Administration has acknowledged
errors in records of 17.8 million legal U.S. workers, who could be caught in the
dragnet. The agency has determined that as many as 10 percent of U.S. workers
have suspect numbers, for reasons including immigration fraud but also
typographical errors, name changes and hyphenated surnames.

Yesterday, several members of the Essential Worker Immigration Coalition, which
represents U.S. business sectors with large numbers of immigrant workers, such
as the service industry, filed papers to join the case.

"Using the no-match letter as a tool to enforce immigration laws is wasteful,
costly to the business community, and an awkward attempt . . . to commandeer the
Social Security retirement and disability systems to enforce the nation's
immigration laws," the groups said. Parties include the U.S. and San Francisco
chambers of commerce, the 900-member Golden Gate Restaurant Association, and
trade groups representing U.S. roofing contractors, nursing and landscape
businesses, franchisees, and produce companies.

The groups also alleged that the administration failed to complete an economic
impact assessment as required under the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 when
a new government rule is likely to impose significant costs on businesses with
fewer than 500 workers. It is that alleged failure that might draw the SBA into
the case.

Spokesmen for the DHS and the Office of Management and Budget did not
immediately return telephone calls seeking comment.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

CORRECTION-DATE: September 14, 2007



CORRECTION: A Sept. 8 A-section article about the Bush administration's
immigration enforcement drive incorrectly said that the Department of Homeland
Security did not immediately return a request for comment. On Friday evening,
DHS spokesman Russ Knocke said business groups "are making the situation worse"
for their constituents, who need tools to comply with the law and know that
compliance is best for their bottom line.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 12, 2007 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Festival Canceled, Activists Blamed;
Latino Event Was Planned in Manassas Park

BYLINE: Nick Miroff; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 639 words


While other Northern Virginia locales have moved aggressively against illegal
immigrants in recent months, the small city of Manassas Park has cut a different
course. Its lawmakers have resisted pressure to adopt the tough measures
approved in surrounding Prince William County and elsewhere, lashing back last
month with a statement denouncing the "vigilante agenda" of
anti-illegal-immigrant activists.

So when Manassas Park announced that it had decided to cancel its third annual
Latino Festival this month, the city said others were to blame for scaring away
sponsors and spoiling the fun.

"There is a bit of a shadow cast because of the stuff that's been going on
around here," said Mayor Frank Jones. "Groups that are anti-illegal [immigrant]
are making a pretty strong presence. It's not a very friendly kind of presence
if you are Latino."

Sponsorship for the festival -- which honors Hispanic Heritage Month -- did not
materialize this year, and the city could not afford to shoulder the cost of the
festival, Jones said.

But several business owners who had supported and attended the festival in the
past said city officials never contacted them about backing this year's festival
-- and said they would have gladly sponsored the event.

"We usually get contacted by the city," said Robert Lopez, vice president of
Lopez Enterprises Group in Manassas. "We're always asked to do our best and help
out, but this year we never got a call."

Manassas Park officials would not provide a list of sponsors who were leery of
backing the festival because of tensions over the illegal-immigration laws.
Theresa Polk, who was in charge of planning the event as deputy director of
parks and recreation, said she could not name any of last year's sponsors.

"We had over 40 major sponsors last year, and this year it went down to five,"
she said. "We were getting feedback from citizens saying they would not be
attending. They're staying home and keeping their families close."

The event's sponsors were worried that if agents from Immigration and Customs
Enforcement were to raid the festival, it would reflect poorly on their
businesses, Polk said. "They felt the climate wasn't right," she said.

The cost of the one-day Latino Festival in 2005 and 2006 was roughly $30,000
each year, city officials said, with sponsors contributing more than $20,000
last year. They said they had raised only $750 for this year's event.

Attendance at last year's festival was smaller than in 2005, city officials
acknowledged. According to Jones, the event drew more than 7,000 people each
year, but Polk said last year's festival attracted about 2,500. A little more
than 30 percent of Manassas Park's 11,642 residents are Hispanic, according to
the most recent census estimates.

Ronald Virto, publisher of the Manassas-based Spanish language newspaper El
Comercio, said he put up $10,000 for the festival in 2005 but was not a sponsor
last year. Still, no one from the city of Manassas Park called to ask for his
backing, unlike in the past, he said, adding that he was "shocked" to find out
the event had been scuttled.

"I was very mad and sad because I don't even know what happened," he said.

Manassas resident Stephanie Williams, a vendor at the previous festivals, said
no one called her from the city this year, either.

"I'm very disappointed, because this is Hispanic Heritage Month and cities all
across the country will be celebrating," said Williams, who has a
Spanish-language public affairs show on a local cable channel and runs a private
language academy.

"I think that if Manassas Park has taken a lead and come out publicly in
expressing their disinterest in going after illegal residents, then they should
have made more of a concerted effort to make sure the festival was successful,"
she said.

Staff researcher Meg Smith contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 30, 2007 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

People to Welcome

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 129 words


The decision of the members of the Ainsworth United Church of Christ in
Portland, Ore., to  make their church a sanctuary for illegal immigrants is
admirable [Religion, Sept. 22].

It is unfortunate that so many  policies, such as those proposed by Virginia
Del. L. Scott Lingamfelter (R-Prince William), treat illegal immigrants like
criminals. The immigrants I know through my work as an ESOL (English for
speakers of other languages) teacher are hardworking, honest and warm-hearted,
exactly the type of people  I want to be part of the United States.

Our country should be advocating for these immigrants to have the opportunity to
legalize their status, rather than condemning them for pursuing the same thing
past immigrants  pursued -- a better life.

CAROLINE BORDEN

Dale City

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             October 8, 2007 Monday
                                Regional Edition

The Price of Intolerance;
Prince William discovers that hounding immigrants doesn't come cheap.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 484 words


PRINCE WILLIAM County's elected leaders have balked, for the moment, at
implementing what would be one of the nation's more pernicious, unenforceable
and legally dubious local crackdowns on illegal immigrants. Facing elections
next month and political heat generated in no small part by their own rhetoric,
they may still decide to go ahead. If they do, they will fan the flames of
xenophobia in Prince William, squander the time and energy of police officers
and other agencies' employees, and, we now know, burden county taxpayers with
millions of dollars in spending that will achieve very little.

The policy the county is considering  would do two main things: require police
to coordinate more closely with federal authorities and conduct residency
checks, even in the case of minor offenses, if they think a suspect might be in
the country illegally; and deny some county services to illegal immigrants. The
first instance is an invitation to blatant racial profiling by the police. The
second is symbolism masquerading as policy.

The policy would leave it to police to determine who looks like an illegal
immigrant and who looks legitimate. The inevitable result is that most police
officers will be checking the status of Latino detainees more often than that of
other suspects. Nearly a fifth  of Prince William's residents are Latino -- most
of them legal -- and the county's own Human Rights Commission has warned of the
likelihood of racial profiling. What's more, the police action may not have much
significant effect. Federal authorities have limited capacity to pick up and
detain illegal immigrants who may be arrested in Prince William, particularly
those detained for routine and minor offenses.

The plan to deny county services to  illegal immigrants would also change
little. For the most part, illegal immigrants are already denied access to many
local services (excluding schools and emergency health care, which the courts
have said are constitutionally mandated). A report prepared by county officials
did recommend that illegal immigrants who are homeless, elderly or disabled be
denied county assistance otherwise available to those groups. Aside from
establishing Prince William's reputation as the most mean-spirited jurisdiction
in America, it's hard to see what such a policy will achieve.

What is known is that these policies would not be cheap. County officials said
it would cost $14.2 million to implement the police portion alone; denying
services -- even if dozens of agencies and hundreds  of bureaucrats could be
trained and given usable guidelines to do so -- would cost even more. That has
given  some county board members sticker shock; they are  considering whether
the goal of harassing  illegal immigrants justifies the hefty price tag. While
they are mulling, they might also consider whether Prince William wants to be
known as the nation's capital of intolerance.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 11, 2007 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Homegrown Scientists and Engineers

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 216 words


The May 4 lead editorial, "Skilled Masses; Keeping the world's talent in
America," said that "The tens of thousands of H-1B [visa] rejects will
constitute some of the world's best and brightest, and America is foolish to
block them from the U.S. economy. After all, according to the National Science
Foundation, a third of all science and engineering doctorates awarded in the
United States go to foreign students (whose numbers are not limited)."

The suggestion seems to be that the large percentage of foreigners earning
doctorates is an argument for larger H-1B visa quotas. But policymakers --
including the National Science Board, which oversees the National Science
Foundation -- have made it clear that increasing the number of native-born
scientists and engineers is a priority. The only way to accomplish that is to
raise

salaries and improve working

conditions for scientists. A large influx of immigrant labor has the opposite
effect.

This is a difficult issue, and it boils down to competing national priorities:
Do we favor cheaper and more abundant skilled labor -- in which case increased
quotas make sense -- or a healthier domestic supply?

JIM AUSTIN

Portland, Maine

The writer is editor of Science Careers.org, which is published by the American
Association for the Advancement of Science.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              199 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 5, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Joined at the Claw;
Fates of Maryland Crabbers, Guest Workers Are Intertwined

BYLINE: Krissah Williams; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1347 words

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Md.


Jack Brooks tried hiring prisoners just out of jail. He sent a bus to Baltimore
to pick up workers from an unemployment center. He recruited high school
dropouts at vocational schools. Anything to keep his century-old family business
running.

But if Marylanders regard the crabbing life as the state at its most real and
romantic, hardly anyone wants a dirty, smelly, hand-gouging job that keeps you
in a metal chair up to nine hours a day, lasts only eight months a year and pays
about $15,000 for the season.

So now this 56-year-old man -- whose thumbnails, crushed by crab claws, bear
witness to his labor -- spends his time filling out forms and sending notarized
documents to federal agencies for permission to bring Mexicans to steam and pick
crabs at his family's J.M. Clayton Seafood.

He is one of the people at the heart of the debate in Washington over a proposal
to expand the ranks of foreign workers as part of a wholesale reworking of
immigration law. So is Olga Gonzales, one of the 100 Mexicans working for him.

They are unlikely partners.

Brooks was born and schooled on Maryland's Eastern Shore, on the banks of the
Choptank River. He drives through the cobbled streets of Cambridge and smiles as
he calls out a "How are you?" to Sissy Jones, one of about a dozen local
residents who still pick crabs for his family, as did her mother and aunt before
her.

All he can say to Gonzales and his other Mexican employees is hola. All they
know of his community is the aging Clayton Seafood crab house with its white
walls and cold cement floor, weekly trips to Wal-Mart, Saturday night mass at
St. Mary Refuge of Sinners, and watching the one Spanish television station in
the rickety rental homes they share.

Yet Brooks and Gonzales are bound by the global economy. One in need of work.
The other in search of laborers.

If Gonzales had her druthers, she would toil in Mexico, sticking close to her
4-year-old daughter and elderly parents.

"If you don't come here, you don't eat in Mexico," she says matter-of-factly
after a full day of picking crabs.

If Brooks had his, he would employ Americans.

"I don't want to deal with this bureaucracy," Brooks said. "Every year, we are
vulnerable. . . . This is not my perfect world, but this is what keeps us
going."

He has a lot riding on the immigration bill now before the Senate, which is the
result of a tenuous compromise between powerful lawmakers and the Bush
administration. The bill includes a patchwork of guest-worker provisions, among
them boosting the seasonal-worker program Brooks uses. Legislators propose
boosting the number of visas available to him and others in seasonal industries
from 66,000 to 200,000, but Brooks and other employers think they may need even
more.

Lawmakers could also vote to introduce a separate guest-worker program, giving
nonseasonal businesses access to 200,000 two-year visas that could be renewed up
to three times, but only after workers return to their home countries for a year
each time.

It's all more bureaucracy than Brooks ever expected. His rusting metal desk is
covered in a two-inch stack of papers -- applications to Maryland's Labor
Department, the U.S. Labor Department and the Department of Homeland Security,
along with a phone number for a foreign-labor recruiter in Charlottesville who
through a contact in Mexico notifies the seasonal workers that their visas are
ready.

The company began importing workers in 1997, but his father first saw the local
workforce wane in the 1970s. By the 1980s, Brooks's dad and two friends invented
an intricate crab-picking machine. But only the human hand can delicately pull
out the two premium lumps. In the early 1990s, the crabbers lost a generation of
local pickers to a booming health-care industry, big-box retailers and a deluxe
400-room Hyatt resort on the edge of town.

Just a few years ago, the government's seasonal-worker program -- known for its
legislative designation, H-2B -- was rarely used by the industries to which it
is available, said Demetrios Papademetriou, president of the Migration Policy
Institute. Before the Sept. 11 attacks, employers hired illegal workers with
near impunity because the federal government rarely pursued such violations. Now
it routinely cracks down on illegal hires. Still, he estimates, 800,000 illegal
immigrants come to work in the United States annually, and half a million stay.

Brooks and other employers argue that the number of visas for guest workers
should rise and fall on market demand. Two years ago, the government met its
quota of 66,000 seasonal workers in only four months, and only a last-minute
legislative change temporarily increased the size of the program.

He says he does not want to break the law. "I would rather shut down than hire
illegal workers," he said.

Labor unions and some in the Democratic congressional majority worry that an
expanded guest-worker program will depress wages and create an underclass of
migrants with limited access to U.S. citizenship. A proposal to strip the
Senate's immigration bill of the guest-worker program failed, but other
amendments aimed at limiting access to guest workers are expected to be
introduced this week.

"The idea that they can come for two years and must go home is just ludicrous,"
said Eliseo Medina, executive vice president of the Service Employees
International Union, which represents workers in many industries that would use
an expanded guest-worker program. "We need to make sure that needs of our
economy are met, but we also need to make sure that the needs of workers are
met."

Brooks and his family try to welcome and orient the Mexican workers. The company
owns five houses, which it rents to them for $35 a week per person. It picks up
and drops off workers at the crab house each day and takes them on shopping
excursions once a week. Brooks's son Clay, 28, who learned Spanish from the
workers, acts as a translator.

Brooks is an affable man who enjoys talking for hours and chafes at not being
able to chat with his workers. He has never set foot in Mexico, and he said he
imagines that they are risk-takers to leave their homes to work for him.

As he walks by Gonzales, she works silently, thinking of her family in a small
village surrounded by cornfields. The first time she boarded a bus in the
bustling border town of Nuevo Laredo for Maryland was in 2004. She felt sick on
the four-day trip to a place she had never heard of to do an unknown job.

She arrives at work at 6 a.m., pulls on a hairnet and plastic gloves, and starts
with the crabs. She cracks the crustacean's back, removes its gills, cuts its
legs at the knuckles and pulls out the thin meat that remains. Every hour and a
half, she carries her tray of meat to scales that determine her pay. Most days,
she is fast enough to make $12 an hour at peak season. She averages about $300 a
week.

The wages are meager, Gonzales says, not enough to escape poverty. But without
them, her daughter would go without shoes and milk and her parents without meat.

Brooks says he cannot afford to pay more. The local crabbing industry is under
pressure from Southeast Asia. Maryland blue crabs once dominated the regional
market, but their total value has dropped from $24.8 million in 1997 to $14
million last year, according to a study of Chesapeake Bay crab processors by
University of Maryland associate professor Douglas Lipton, who researches costal
and marine economics.

Lipton also found that each seasonal crab worker saved 2.5 local jobs. Without
crab pickers, there would be less need for crabbers, distributors and drivers.
Pretty soon, an entire culture and way of life is lost. Expensive waterside
condos have already replaced most of the old crab houses in Cambridge.

"I'm a crab man. I'm not an economist. I'm not a lobbyist," Brooks says, picking
a male crab out of a bushel with his bare hand as a group of Mexican men
prepared to weigh the load. "A year without them, and we would lose all of our
markets to competition from Southeast Asia. This is a good legal program that
works."

It works, Gonzales agrees, but she is sad every day here.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Sarah L. Voisin -- The Washington Post; Piecey Saunders,
left, jokes with Mexican worker Nelia Manzanares Angel at J.M. Clayton Seafood
in Cambridge.
IMAGE; By Sarah L. Voisin -- The Washington Post; Olga Gonzales shares her day
with a friend in North Carolina, also a guest worker from Mexico. Gonzales does
not make enough to escape poverty.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              200 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 23, 2007 Monday
                                 Every Edition

BYLINE: Krissah Williams; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 475 words


The iPod-carrying lifeguard watching over the rooftop pool at the posh Park
Connecticut apartments, the physics teacher at Suitland High School and several
laborers all have one thing in common: They are among the foreign workers who
keep the local economy running, turning up more and more often in unexpected
jobs.

Arlington's High Sierra Pools, which once counted on eager American teenagers to
occupy its lifeguard chairs, now fills nearly half of its 500 jobs with young
people from Bulgaria, Poland, Peru and elsewhere.

Almost all of the 80,000 horses in Maryland are now bathed, brushed and fed by
migrants.

And Leroy Dixon's family-owned tent company in Glen Burnie employs a half-dozen
Mexican workers through a visa program for circus laborers because, Dixon said,
local workers usually quit when they are asked to put up a tent on a Sunday
night or hoist a canopy before dawn.

Employers who say they are feeling the pinch in a region marked by low
unemployment and relatively high wages more often are turning to foreign
workers, who have gone far beyond jobs they dominate such as cutting lawns and
programming software.

They are here on a variety of visas, some reserved for students, others for
professionals and laborers permitted to work for nine-month stints. A Washington
Post review of a Department of Labor database of companies that petitioned for
foreign workers last year revealed that thousands of employers in the District
and its suburbs sought tens of thousands of guest workers, most with little shot
at permanent residency.

Employers in the District requested 4,904 foreign workers through the H-1B
program, which allows U.S. employers to hire foreign professionals, and 107 of
those requests were made by the city's school system. In Maryland, 399 employers
requested 8,209 temporary foreign workers through the H-2B and H-2A programs,
which allow seasonal industries and farms to hire guest workers. Six Flags
America in Mitchellville alone requested permission to hire 225 temporary
workers to keep its roller coasters roaring at peak season. In Virginia,  1,029
employers requested temporary foreign workers through the H-2B and H-2A programs
last year.

Not all requested workers are approved, but their numbers, along with those of
immigrants on long-term visas, keep expanding. From 1990 to 2000, the region's
foreign-born population grew by about 70 percent. Since 2000, it has grown by at
least 23 percent, to more than 1 million. About 300,000 other foreigners work
here illegally, according to the Pew Hispanic Center.

Local employers who import foreign workers said they are heavily dependent on
the migrants they employ. A half-dozen said they will continue hiring through
the government's guest-worker program, keeping the local economy churning
despite last month's congressional failure to overhaul immigration law.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              201 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 23, 2007 Monday
                                 Every Edition

Abruptly Bucked Onto a Tougher Course

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. D07

LENGTH: 419 words


For evidence of Oliver and Rachel Kennedy's dependence on foreign workers visit
their Brookeville horse farm. There they house more than a dozen horses that for
the past few years had been cared for by four grooms from Mexico, Peru and
Bolivia. They knew the horses, brushing their manes in the mornings, running the
show horses and cleaning their stables.

The routine was shattered this year, said Oliver, when horse men and women in
the Northeast and their lawyers overlooked changes to the visa program that they
use, causing nearly all the foreign grooms in Maryland and surrounding states to
be booted from the H-2B program, which allows foreign workers into the United
States on temporary stints. A process that had let the horse farms collectively
apply for grooms through a regional association ended.

"It really put a massive cramp in our style," Oliver said from his farm, where
he and his wife have taken up the slack and hire temporary workers when they
can.

Until now, the program worked well. The laborers arrived by summer's end,
usually earning $600 a week while working 10-hour days. Along with the Kennedys,
who have been in the horse business for decades, the grooms travel to horse
shows, preparing the animals for their grand strolls.

But this year, as preparations for the big horse shows begin, the Kennedys are
making do without their grooms. "There is no consistency with our horses," said
Oliver, who runs, judges and announces horse shows, including the Capital
Challenge Horse Show in Prince George's County.

For shows, such as the one in Vermont this month, he has hired two local teenage
girls on summer break to ready the animals. The teenagers are glad to work the
shows but are not interested in the daily grind of clearing manure from horse
stalls.

"We've gotten away from playing in the dirt," said Pam Saul, a member of the
Maryland Horse Council and part of the family that operates Rolling Acres horse
farm, a few miles from the Kennedys.

Some of the foreign grooms have stayed illegally in Maryland on expired visas,
reluctant to return to their home countries where employment can be scarce and
pay is substantially lower than in the United States.

"It is a mess in our industry," Oliver said. "If you can find someone who is
legal . . . they are getting paid through the nose."

He said he needs the foreign workers but is wary of reapplying for the H-2B
program. Lawyer's fees for this year's failed attempt cost him $3,500.

"It used to be easy," he said. "Now, it's not easy at all."

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              202 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 23, 2007 Monday
                                 Every Edition

'Their Work Ethic Is Phenomenal'

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. D07

LENGTH: 537 words


Leroy Dixon built his party company from the ground up 13 years ago by putting
one stake in the ground after the other and tying together a roster of events
which includes big Chesapeake Bay festivals and small backyard weddings. Mostly
he builds tents and canopies, labor-intensive work that must often be done at
odd hours.

As Party Plus grew, Dixon, his wife, Lauri, and their son, Lee, quickly
identified the largest  obstacle to their success: finding reliable workers.

"People only rent tents in the warm weather," said Dixon, whose company is based
in Glen Burnie. It was next to impossible, he said, to recruit and retain
workers willing to stick with a job that pays $8 an hour plus overtime and
promises long hours of physical labor in the spring and summer and a virtual
work stoppage in the winter.

For the first time last year, Dixon hired a lawyer to help him apply for a
government program that lets seasonal businesses hire foreign nationals for nine
months each year.

The program, known as H-2B for its legislative designation, admitted 121,000
foreign workers last year on temporary visas. Six were Mexican men working for
Dixon -- under the H2-B title of circus laborer -- putting up tents, loading and
unloading chairs, some days from sunup to sundown.

"The fellas that come up here, they work extremely hard," said Dixon, who has
been in the party business with his wife since the mid-1980s. "Their work ethic
is phenomenal. They can literally do the work of two people we get from a
temporary day-labor source, and that is not an exaggeration."

With his belated discovery of the 17-year-old H-2B worker program, Dixon
believed he had a solution -- until his request for workers last year got caught
in a bureaucratic snag among the three federal agencies that must approve every
request for foreign workers.

By the third week in May, the six Mexican workers Dixon requested still had not
been approved to enter the United States and bus up to Maryland. They were
nearly a month behind schedule, and Party Plus was in one of its busiest and
most lucrative periods. In a two-week span, Dixon is responsible for preparing
the tents, setting the chairs, building the staging and putting up the lighting
and video projection for the graduation ceremonies of Montgomery College and
community colleges in Anne Arundel, Howard and Hartford counties.

"If I don't get it done, I'm in breach of contract," Dixon said.

As the graduations hit, the foreign workers still had not received the
government's required approvals, and Dixon had to hire temporary day-laborers
from recruiters who charge a hefty fee.

"My profit for the graduations goes right out the window, and typically when you
are hiring folks from temporary agencies they don't have the same desire that we
do to get the job done," Dixon said.

He slogged through the graduations but called the office of his senator, Barbara
A. Mikulski, to complain. Mikulski and her staffers, who had intervened in the
past for crab houses on the Eastern Shore, helped push his application along,
Dixon said. By June his temporary workers had their approvals.

Party Plus's Mexican workers are to return to their homeland in early December.
Dixon hopes to bring them back next year.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              203 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 13, 2007 Saturday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Crab Processors Await Decision on Guest Worker Visas

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 803 words


For generations, the crab processors on the Eastern Shore of Maryland and
Virginia have followed the same seasonal schedule: Winter is the time to do
maintenance on the crab houses. Spring is when the first pickers arrive to take
their place on the rows of metal chairs inside. By summer, they are cracking
through the shells for nine hours at a stretch.

Now, fall has emerged as the season for a new, decidedly less traditional
watermen's ritual: an annual lobbying frenzy to gain congressional renewal of a
provision within the guest workers program that allows immigrants to return each
year to pick crabs. The provision, which  landscapers, pool cleaners, resort
operators and other seasonal-business owners also rely on, has for the first
time been allowed to expire amid criticism from immigrant advocates, whose
challenge may successfully block the renewal.

A report by the Southern Poverty Law Center this year said guest workers are
vulnerable to exploitation because they lack access to legal resources and are
effectively bound to work for the employer who sponsors them. In interviews with
thousands of guest workers, the center found that the laborers were routinely
cheated out of wages, forced to live in squalid quarters, denied medical care
for on-the-job injuries and required to pay exorbitant fees to recruiters in
their home countries.

The provision, first adopted in May 2005, exempts returning workers from a cap
of 66,000 on the number of unskilled temporary laborers allowed into the United
States each year. The crabbers contend that without the exemption, they would
have no hope of hiring the foreign workers who fill their picking lines: By the
time crabbing season begins, all 66,000 permits for new workers have been
snapped up by industries with earlier start dates.

With many in Congress adamantly opposed to increasing the number of foreigners
allowed into the United States, the returning-worker exemption has never been an
easy sell. But this fall's battle to renew it is proving the toughest yet.

On Sept. 30, for the first time since it was adopted, the provision expired
before Congress voted to extend it. This year, longtime backers of the measure,
such as Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) and John W. Warner (R-Va.), also face
mounting opposition from a new source: labor advocates concerned that the
seasonal guest-worker program does not adequately protect workers' rights.

Sonia Ramirez, legislative lobbyist for the AFL-CIO, said her organization is
pushing Democratic allies in Congress to pass a bill that would strengthen
guest-worker protections.

Renewing the returning-worker exemption would essentially expand the seasonal
guest-worker program, Ramirez said. "And before we get to a conversation about
growing the program, we really need to address some of the fundamental flaws in
the way it's being implemented."

Crabbers and owners of other small seasonal businesses fear that such proposals
will get bogged down in controversy even as their industries reach the breaking
point.

"It's horrible trying to stay in business and make plans for the future when you
have to go through this uncertainty year after year," said Jack Brooks, owner of
J.M. Clayton Seafood in Cambridge, Md.

Hiring U.S. workers is not an option, Brooks added. Since as far back as the
1970s, local pickers have been steadily leaving the business for year-round jobs
in the area's burgeoning health-care, big-box retail and hotel industries that
are better paying and less grueling. Crab pickers make about $15,000 per season.
But the crab processors say they cannot afford to woo the pickers back with
higher wages without losing market share to lower-priced imports from Latin
America and Asia.

Area crabbers first hit on the seasonal worker program as a solution to their
troubles in the mid-1990s. Known as H-2B after its legislative designation, the
program enables businesses to bring workers in for eight months at a time if
they can prove to the U.S. Department of Labor that no U.S. workers are
available for the jobs and that they will be paying the prevailing wage or
higher.

About 75 of the 120 workers whom Brooks employs at peak season are guest workers
from Mexico. John B. Graham of Graham and Rollins in Hampton, Va., employs even
more: 110 of his 120 workers are Mexican.

Even as he joins in the latest round of letter-writing, phone calls and visits
to the Hill, Graham, 42, confessed that he is beginning to lose heart.

"I've always been very passionate about this business, being that it's been in
my family for generations and that I've watched the industry shrink so much over
the years," he said. "But honestly, I just don't have the get-up-and-go that I
used to. If, even after all your hard work, you don't know how long you're going
to be around, it's hard to remain passionate."

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              204 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       May 24, 2007 Thursday 12:00 PM EST

Legal Implications of the Immigration Compromise

BYLINE: Liz Stern and Carl Hampe, Immigration Group, Baker and McKenzie D.C.
Office, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 6207 words



HIGHLIGHT: The McCain-Kennedy immigration compromise, supported by the president
but under attack from both the left and the right, would be the biggest change
to American immigration laws in decades. Liz Stern and Carl Hampe with the
immigration group in the D.C. office of lawfirm Baker & McKenzie, were online
Thursday, May 24 at noon ET to explain the legislation, how it would change
current law, and its potential impacts on businesses and immigrants.


The McCain-Kennedy immigration compromise, supported by the president but under
attack from both the left and the right, would be the biggest change to American
immigration laws in decades. Liz Stern and Carl Hampe with the immigration group
in the D.C. office of lawfirm Baker & McKenzie, were online Thursday, May 24 at
noon ET to explain the legislation, how it would change current law, and its
potential impacts on businesses and immigrants.

The transcript follows.

Stern is a partner in the Washington, D.C. Office of Baker & McKenzie LLP and
heads the Global Migration practice group. Her team of lawyers handles
immigration related issues from executive transfer matters to
undocumented/low-skilled labor cases.

Hampe's focus has been on corporations and employers that rely in unskilled or
low-skilled workers where turnover rates are high. Carl is currently
representing companies being targeted by Immigration and Customs Enforcement
(ICE) for civil and criminal enforcement actions for hiring unauthorized
workers.

____________________

Washington: Legal Immigrants: Would the new rules reduce the number of visas
available to legal immigrants from 140,000 to 90,000? How many more would be
added by the points-based system? Overall, wouldn't skilled legal immigrants be
losers in this?

Liz Stern: Welcome to this discussion -- Carl and I are delighted to join the
Washington Post and you to discuss such an important issue. The new legislation
represents a historical overhaul of the nation's laws. The volume of legal
immigration is actually quite large, including initially a volume of 247,000
green cards for "merit-based" immigration and a family backlog elimination
volume that is substantial. However, the actual availability for new candidates
may be very limited, as the merit-based green cards would include set-asides fo
the employment backlog, the unskilled, and, ultimately, the beneficiaries of the
new Z visa for undocumented workers in the US since January 2007.

_______________________

Carl Hampe: Hello everyone. I am Carl Hampe, a lawyer with the firm of Baker
&amp; McKenzie LLP in Washington DC. From 1983 to 1991, I was Counsel to the
Senate Immigration Subcommittee. We passed legislation addressing illegal and
legal immigration reform. Happy to join the conversation.

_______________________

Relief for Legal Immigrants: What provision are being made for legal immigrants
to deal with ridiculous processing times, other avenues of gaining Green Cards,
H1B quotas etc? It seems to me that illegal immigrants get preferential
treatment above those immigrants who have followed the rules but find it next to
impossible to become legal residents and eventually American citizens

Liz Stern: This is frankly one of our greatest concerns. At Baker &amp;
McKenzie, we work with the global business community, and the most significant
worry our clients have is that the queues -- both due to agency backlogs and
actual quota restrictions -- will become intolerable with the new volume of visa
processing for guest workers. This is an issue we are encouraging the business
sector to be very vocal about.

_______________________

Fairfax, Va.: Three comments: First, the focus of the debate is morphing into
more of a national security one. This seems to be the buzz word/idea now.
Second, is there discussion anywhere of "fixing" the source countries so that
their citizens won't feel the desparate need to come here in droves? Third, I am
distressed by the under current of intolerance and hatred I hear in the more
rabid comments. Racist to say the least.

Carl Hampe: Fairfax, I think since 9/11 that national security and immigration
are inextricably linked. They will be linked for the foreseeable future. The
question is how do we continue to be a nation of immigrants will taking the
national security issues into account.

_______________________

West Orange, N.J.: Exactly what change in employer sanctions would the new law
enact? If enforced as meagerly as present laws, wouldn't this entail no real
change at all? If employers can spare expense, hire new illegals, and skirt any
rules or programs "on paper," don't we merely promote both demand and supply?

Carl Hampe: West Orange: The problem with employer sanctions in the 1986 Act is
that it relied on current documents, which are very easily defeated. The Senate
bill relies on an electronic database of information to confirm an individual's
identity and work authorization. It won't take effect immediately, so that is
why the drafters are "triggering" some of the benefits to the time when all
employers have enrolled in the new electronic system.

_______________________

Germantown, Md.: In your opinion, what are the potential benefits to this
country, if any, to pass an immigration reform bill? Do you think that if aliens
are asked to leave the country, will they do it? I do not think so. Thanks.

Liz Stern: The legislation is clearly an attempt to address the realities of a
system that has not worked, and to refine our approaches to combine border
security with options for legal routes to immigration such that we avoid the
entry of foreign nationals without appropriate screening. These are laudable
goals, but the reality of the bill is that its compromise aspects -- an attempt
to obtain support on both sides of the political aisle -- have created a strain.
Control of decisions to bring workers into the US has moved from employers, who
are in the best position to understand true needs, to a government agency that
is widely known to be strained already.

_______________________

Indianapolis: I am a H-1B holder, and my priority date to file for adjustment of
status just became current. My husband (dependent on H-4 visa) performed
unauthorized employment for several years until March of this year, when we left
the country and returned after a vacation. How will the new legislation help
with cases like these to allow a clean adjustment of status? Is this being
addressed? Will this help us? Thanks for your time and consideration.

Liz Stern: The previous forgiveness provisions to allow adjustment despite
lapses in status or unauthorized work is not yet a part of the bill. If your
husband did not overstay the date on his I-94 card, however (which, as you have
traveled abroad and returned already, he seems not to have done), you can always
consider him filing for his residency via consular processing abroad.

_______________________

Potomac, Md.: What should corporations that use both skilled and unskilled
immigrant labor -- even executive level positions -- be doing right now to
prevent problems with the DHS, SEC and Congress?

Carl Hampe: Potomac: Good question. Companies with unskilled workforces are most
at risk of worksite enforcement from ICE, the immigration enforcement agency.
There are pilot programs and voluntary compliance initiatives that can minimize
the risk of a raid from ICE, and we have helped companies put these programs
together. But frankly, it is expensive and complex.

Companies hiring mostly skilled workers should ensure that they have a strong
compliance program that will keep workers in status and avoid repercussions from
DHS and its service agency, USCIS.

_______________________

Johnson City, Tenn.: Good Afternoon. I have two questions regarding the Senate
immigration bill. First, how is this bill not amnesty? The penalty for the
misuse or "making up" of a SSN is $250,000 and up to five years imprisonment,
which is considerably more than the $5,000 that the Senate bill is proposing.
The penalties for stealing a SSN or ID theft are justifiably harsher. Secondly,
if the U.S. cannot effectively enforce the present immigration laws, how will
they enforce these new immigration laws and avoid the endless cycle of illegal
immigration then amnesty? Thank you.

Carl Hampe: Johnson City: This is the toughest policy issue to resolve. You
observe correctly that amnesty rewards lawbreakers. And the 1986 Act, which
contained an amnesty, did not stop illegal immigration because the employer
sanctions provisions were defeated by document fraud. Congress was not
comfortable creating secure worker verification systems in 1986, but they appear
willing to do so now. They also plan to "trigger" the benefits only when there
is additional enforcement in place. The approach today is much more sound than
it was in 1986. Whether it will work, of course, remains to be seen.

_______________________

Dunn Loring, Va.: In your experience with the INS and now the ICE, would you say
that those agencies have carried out their then-current responsibilities in an
efficient and timely manner? What evidence have you seen that they will be able
to carry out the massive new responsibilities in a timely and efficient manner?

Liz Stern: The new benefits agency -- since the INS was disbanded in 2003 -- is
USCIS. There is no question that USCIS is already strained, and has had
difficulty succeeding in clearing its current processing backlogs, managing
ongoing needs, and aligning decisions with policy. While the agency has made
strides to improve its adjudication record and timetable since its restructuring
in 2003, it continues to suffer from many management and consistency lapses. The
ability to carry out this mission will not be feasible in the agency's current
state. At a minimum, very strong leadership from DHS for the benefits processing
-- not just for the border security (which is CBP and ICE, not USCIS) -- and the
establishment of separate application processing centers for Y and Z visas, will
be essential. Congress has not addressed this in the bill, and it's critical.
Under IRCA, where only 3 million aliens were ultimately offered amnesty, the
agency was able to process the cases only because of the establishment of such
separate processing facilities.

_______________________

West Orange, N.J.: Is it fair to say that the legal profession, as a whole,
earns far more by sponsoring visa applicants, or job discrimination plaintiffs,
than as counsel in deportation or illegal hiring litigation? Consequently, don't
attorneys (who also include a lot of lawmakers) represent a rather potent lobby
in favor of greater immigration?

Carl Hampe: West Orange: When I was a Senate staffer many years ago, most of the
Senators were lawyers. But I can honestly say that they did not consider the
benefits to their prior profession when setting national immigration policy. The
current immigration bill would severely curtail judicial review of denied
immigration benefits, which is where the biggest money can be made for lawyers,
so that theory really doesn't hold together.

The Senate tends to be more generous on immigration benefits. The House is less
so -- perhaps because House members represent smaller districts and are more
conscious of the local impacts of immigration. When the House takes up the
issue, I imagine the generosity of the some of the Senate's proposals might be
curtailed.

_______________________

Rockville, Md.: Thank you for your time and information. How do you see the
ongoing political debates regarding immigration affecting corporate reaction?
Will delays in passing these new measures help or hurt businesses?

Liz Stern: The corporate sector has faced a great deal of adversity from our
immigration laws, in particular our dated quota system (dates back to 1990), in
the past several years. Many businesses have slowed down or eliminated campus
recruitment for international workers -- including top scientific and tech
talent -- because of the shutdown of the H-1B visa category. This new law offers
some hope that there will be a more realistic nexus between the quota amounts
for nonimmigrant and immigrant visas for the highly-skilled, but also includes
the concerns we've been discussing today. One, how will the agency respond to
the exponential volume placed before it as a result of the new laws. Two, how
will the agency administer a residency system that is exclusively tied to the
candidate's credentials and ties to the US -- and not at all wedded to the
demands of the employer. Three, to what extent will legitimate workers in the
executive and professional corps be ill-affected in recruiting because of
employer's concerns about what could easily become an unduly-aggressive
employment verification approach? The business world is very adaptable, but we
don't want our leading economic strength -- corporate America -- to adapt by
shifting base operations abroad.

_______________________

Washington: If I were an undocumented person in this country and examined the
Senate proposal so as to proceed to my best advantage, I believe I would
immediately try to find a part-time farm or agricultural job (or keep the one I
have). Just a $100 fine, other small fees and a criminal records check, and,
presto, I am in the U.S. legally for years to come. That's a very attractive
route to take, correct?

Carl Hampe: Washington: It is inevitable that the analysis you describe will be
made by many foreign nationals. The fine is more like $3,000, but still
certainly worth it in return for legal access to the US labor market. The
dilemma for US lawmakers is that these people will try to be here whether they
are legal or not. So on balance, is it better for the country to have them here
legally or illegally? There is honest disagreement on this question.

_______________________

Chicago: The Selective Service Law requires all U.S. Male Citizens to register
within 30 days of turning 18 years old. It also requires all males between the
ages of 18-25 (with the exception of foreign students and members of a foreign
diplomatic core) to register as well. If an illegal alien has been here between
the ages of 18-25 and never registered (which is a responsibility of
citizenship) are they still eligible for the Z visa? I don't feel they should
be, because their committment to this country wasn't demonstrated by their lack
of registration.

Carl Hampe: Chicago: In order to qualify for a Z visa, I believe a draft-age
alien must register with Selective Service before being issued the visa.

_______________________

College Park, Md.: How will legal students who recently have graduated (with a
non-science BA) and who are authorized to work for a year thereafter, benefit
from such an overhaul?

Liz Stern: The clear advantage in the new law as currently proposed, and as seen
in a number of competing bills that both the Senate and House introduced prior
to this May compromise legislation, is an augmentation of the H-1B quota. With
an enhanced amount more closely tied to the realities of the pool of new H-1B
workers that businesses recruit -- including recent graduates of our
universities -- candidates would face a much more realistic chance of obtaining
a longer-term option to work in the U.S. The compromise legislation would raise
H-1Bs from 65,000 to 115,000 for FY 2008, and in FY 2009 going forward a market
escalator would be available each year with a ceiling of 180,000.

_______________________

Anonymous: As a U.S.citizen my children have to pay full tuition to an
out-of-state school. Why should illegal aliens get to pay in-state tuition?
Adding insult to injury, my federal taxes/state taxes are being used to
subsidize the schools. Can you explain to me why illegal aliens' are forgiven
when U.S. citizens' are not? Do you believe some of the Senators are being paid
off by the immigrant lobbies? I ask this question because bribery appears to
have reached the House already(Cunningham)?

Carl Hampe: The recent congressional bribery scandals are truly unfortunate,
because they make the public wonder whether improper behavior is the source of
many policy decisions. No, I don't believe Senators are being paid off by
immigrant lobbies, any more than they might be taking political contributions
from PACs that support reduced immigration. I think public education is where
the impacts of immigration are the most profound and can be the most troubling.
The 1986 immigration act granted federal dollars to state and local governments
to offset the increased burdens of, for example, public education expenses. I
imagine the current bill will do the same.

_______________________

Princeton, N.J.: I am a highly-educated working professional and a Canadian
citizen living in central New Jersey. I work under an employer-sponsored H-1B
visa. My employer, who wants to keep me for the long-haul, is sponsoring my
application for a green card. This application was made more than two years ago
and still is bogged down in the "labor certification" phase. My file is
somewhere in a euphemistically-named "backlog reduction center" in Philadelphia.
How will this bill, as currently written, affect me if it becomes law?

Liz Stern: The bill would not impact cases already filed and pending. Your case
has been subjected to Department of Labor queues that became absurd precisely
because a forgiveness program in 2001, which was much more limited than the
challenges we now face with a pool of some 12 million people who are integrated
in our society, created a complete bottleneck for DOL. That pool in 2001 was
about 300,000. The good news for you is that the Backlog Elimination Centers are
expected to complete processing by the Fall - a deadline that is tied to funding
and could of course change. The reality is, however, that we at Baker &amp;
McKenzie are seeing much greater movement on labor certification cases filed as
early as 2001, and have moved literally dozens of our clients' employees to the
next stages of residency due to the BEC's acceleration.

You also would of course have options to file a new residency case under the new
points system -- assuming it remains part of the compromise, but most likely,
you'll have the answer from DOL by the time the points system would be
activated.

_______________________

Boca Raton, Fla.: I'm currently on my seventh year H1 visa and I've been waiting
for more than two years for my Labor Certification to be approved. How does this
law being discussed affect me?

Liz Stern: Please see the answer we just posted to the viewer in a similar
situation, waiting for the Backlog Elimination Center of the Department of Labor
to progress through the lingering cases.

_______________________

Virginia: Would the Z visa apply to all illegal aliens that meet the
requirements, even if they have an order of deportation from the Department of
Homeland Security?

Carl Hampe: Virginia:

The current draft would say "no," but I can assure you the issue hasn't been
decided yet. This consumed much time when we drafted the 1986 law. If the order
of deportation were for illegal residence only, I could see maintaining Z visa
eligiblity. If the deportation order were for, for example, a criminal offense,
then a Z visa would likely not be available.

_______________________

Annandale, Va.: What is going to happen to those who came in this country with
legal visa and filed for green card under emplyment base. I-40 has been approved
and I'm waiting for I-485 to apply. Are they considered undocumented illegals,
or a diffirent catagory?

Liz Stern: Legal candidates -- who have maintained their status throughout their
tenure in the U.S. -- will remain eligible to conclude their process under their
previously-filed applications. They will not be required to file new cases under
the new system. If you are already in the adjustment of status stage, you are
very protected, as you maintain your eligibility for ongoing work (EAD) and
travel (Advance Parole) authorizations as an adjustment applicant. So stay in
your job occupation, and you should be fine.

_______________________

Northwest Washington: If the bill is passed as currently written, will it
require undocumented immigrants eligible for the proposed Z visa to then meet
the eligibility requirements for family- or employer-based permanent residency?
Many, many undocumented immigrants are here illegally precisely because they
have no hope of obtaining a green card through the current system. It seems that
unless a new category of eligibility is created for Z visa applicants, we won't
solve the problem.

Carl Hampe: NW DC: The Z visa would allow currently illegal residents who
entered prior to January 1, 2007 to remain in legal, but temporary, status.
After the current legal immigrant backlog is cleared, then Z visa holders could
apply for a "merit-based" permanent visa under the point system. The point
system tries to take into account the variety of skills that different
immigrants have, so that they have a chance at permanent residence. This is a
tricky question, and I'm not sure the current draft has perfected the answer,
but Congress clearly understands this to be a problem.

_______________________

Alexandria, Va.: Under this proposed legislation, will there be an opportunity
for homeowners who have hired the undocumented to clear their record and
legalize the same employees so that work can continue?

Carl Hampe: Alexandria: A homeowner can always clear their record by executing
the proper immigration forms (I-9) and paying any back taxes (plus penalties and
interest) to the IRS. Under the new system, the employer would not sponsor the
household employee, but the employee him or herself could apply for a Z visa,
which provides temporary legal status, and after a period of years perhaps could
qualify under the points system for a green card.

_______________________

Dunn Loring, Va.: So readers can understand any potential bias you may have,
will the new legislation increase or decrease your billings?

Liz Stern: That's a good question, as the corporate community will need to
assess how to manage their US-based international workers, to determine how much
of a role to play in residency proceedings. If a merit-based points system goes
forward, the employer is no longer the driver to "sponsor" workers for
immigration. Yet, the employer's interests in retaining top talent remain
essential. Will this mean more or less work for the lawyers who represent
corporate America? Hard to say, but it will certainly require a revisiting of
corporate policies and some problem-solving to respond to the unpredictability
of a system that is not employer-driven.

On other fronts, the increased aggressiveness of worksite management, the types
of compliance raids that ICE has engaged in, certainly add this area of
corporate compliance to the ongoing diligence list that General Counsel and
C-suite compliance officers in corporate American need help with. There is no
question that a white collar component is now part of worksite management, and
will only be enhanced with the stricter focus of this bill.

_______________________

Des Plaines, Ill.: What impact does this law have on those individuals who live
abroad and have been found inadmissable under Section I-212(a)(9)(c) (prior
immigration violation)?

Carl Hampe: Des Plaines: If the individual currently resides abroad and is
subject to a ground of inadmissibility, this bill will probably not help them.

_______________________

Harrisburg, Pa.: This is more of a national security question than a business
question. What is the point of requiring people to return to their home country
before they may become a legal citizen? Doesn't this make such people a greater
potential security risk, as any criminal interests back in their home country
would know which people were applying for American citizenship? They would know
know which people to contact while they were back in their home country in hopes
of recruiting them to engage in criminal activity when they return to America.
Wouldn't it make more sense not to require people to return to their home
countries?

Liz Stern: The home country return allows for security checks to occur in full
before return to the U.S., hence that's part of the current political
compromise. Remember this is only for folks who have not been in legal status,
or are in the pool of guest workers that is now being created and which, in a
sense, have to earn the ability to return. The professional corps will still
have the ability to adjust status in the US, provided they have maintained their
status throughout their tenure in the U.s.

_______________________

New York: Is the provision that current illegal immigrants (Z visas) must return
to their countries to apply for a green card likely to survive?

Liz Stern: It's much too early to tell, but that aspect has been a pivotal
source of negotiation, and is unlikely to die easily.

_______________________

Seattle: It seems to me that one of the main assumptions of the immigration bill
is clearing the backlog of cases and applications. I haven't read the actual
bill; does it address this issue of not having enough immigration judges and
administration workers to handle the current backlog?

Carl Hampe: Seattle: Backlogs are created by both: (1) excess demand for visas
(which is a problem only Congress can address by allocating more visas or
reducing the number of visa categories), and (2) insufficient resources to
process the number of applications received. The current bill addresses all
three scenarios: (1) it allocates more visas, particularly in the temporary visa
categories, (2) it reduces the number of family-based categories, to avoid
continued high demand in the more distant family-connection categories (such as
siblings of US citizens), and (3) it allocates more money to the immigration
service and the immigration judges to clear the backlogs of pending cases. The
fear some have, however, is that the additional money for agency resources is
not sufficient to handle the Z visa program, which alone could be available to
millions of aliens without status.

_______________________

Rockville, Md.: With the Z visa, will they still require applicants to pay back
taxes? Because of the Earned Income Tax Credit, wouldn't new immigrants earning
low wages essentially owe nothing in taxes? Could they even earn refunds?

Carl Hampe: Rockville: Z visa holders would have to report income and file
taxes. If they owe back taxes, they would have to pay them. If they are eligible
for tax benefits going forward, they would be eligible for those as well.

_______________________

Piquant Bouquets, Ala.: Well, I wonder ... why is it that the people who are
already living here are being ignored? The citizens. Outsourcing, which followed
downsizing and internationalization, has decimated the middle class, both in
manufacturing and white-collar work. Those people are working retail, odd jobs,
construction or trade -- if they can. Why do you want to invite in a group of
people that are undercutting them for the only jobs left in-country? Wiring
money out of the United States is what they are doing.

If you really want to solve the illegal alien problem, why aren't you addressing
it using the laws that already exist and arrest the employers? Jose and Maria
will be in Juarez by the weekend when you put a lid on the dolleros ... do that.
In additiona to regulating outsourcing, bring customer service back in-country,
and start addressing economic and infrastructure needs as national security
issues that are magnitudes more important than Iraq or Iraq's oil.

Liz Stern: These are the viewpoints that the Hill is looking at -- and part of
the basis for compromise. The House has been very reluctant to allow for any
"regularization" of undocumenteds. So speak your mind to your Congressperson.

The sourcing issue you raise is a different one. From a business standpoint,
regulating immigration, including legal immigration, in a way that is not
conducive to economic growth won't stop outsourcing. That phenomenon is one that
is attractive to the commercial world, and is reflective of our much more
borderless commercial globe -- so our experience is that facilitating fluid
movement across borders -- of people, goods, technology, and money -- helps to
build our economy. The greater success we create for US businesses, the more
they expand operations here, even if they source certain aspects of their
business. If we make it unattractive to conduct business here, they'll just
build more plants offshore.

_______________________

Virginia Beach, Va.: My sister has an order of deportation dating back to 2000.
She is still in the U.S. illegally. My U.S. Citizen parents have an approved
I-130 petition for her with a current priority date. Because of the order of
deportation, she cannot adjust her status without first reopening her
deportation case. Will the new laws make it easier for her to adjust her status
and obtain the I-130 visa?

Carl Hampe: This case is complicated enough that you would really need
immigration counsel to advise your sister.

_______________________

Confused in Maryland: There is so much back-and-forth talk surrounding the
possible immigration legislation that I am totally confused. What does this mean
for illegal immigrants currently in the country? Specifically, what does this
mean for those immigrants who already have filed for permanent status and are
awaiting decision?

Liz Stern: The new law won't change current applications. Folks who are already
in the process can stay in it, and if their (your) cases are sound, they'll be
processed under the current rules, not the new bill's rules. But the rules going
forward will be dramatically different. We'll be publishing an analysis of the
full bill soon, and will share with the editor of this segment so viewers can
get a bit more detail on the actual provisions.

_______________________

Fayetteville, Ark.: I have read nothing in this proposal that relates to
mixed-status families (i.e. U.S. citizens with undocumented spouses). Heads of
undocumented households have to return to their country of origin to petition
for residency for the entire family, but what if the spouse is already a U.S.
citizen? How do they determine who is the "head of the household?" Can I (the
U.S. citizen wife) be the head of the household, and if so, does my husband not
have to leave? Can he adjust status here?

Carl Hampe: Fayetteville: The drafters probably haven't thought through all of
the possible scenarios, such as yours. Because your husband has a US citizen
spouse, there should be better treatment available to you, but that probably
won't be clarified until after the law gets passed and the agency comes up with
implementing regulations.

_______________________

Wheaton, Md.: This may seem to be a stupid question, but why not just enforce
the current immigration laws instead of creating new legislation?

Liz Stern: I think your question is quite an astute one. Enforcement of the
current laws has frankly failed -- in that we have not secured the border or
stemmed the entry of workers without any legal status. The bill is an admission
that the old system is not working, and needs more realism in both the border
security measures and in the provision of viable avenues for incoming foreigners
to obtain lawful status. At the end of the day, reform of some sort is
essential, both to know who enters the country and what they do once they
arrive, and to provide options to incentivize the entry by the top talent that
other countries are now luring away from the U.S. In our world at Baker &amp;
McKenzie, we see the global circulation of top talent, and we find the U.S. has
been outpaced in recent years by the UK, Canada, Australia, and now parts of
Asia-Pac, in attracting premier contributors to commerce.

_______________________

Maryland: I have a hard time believing that any change in law will change the
immigration picture in America for one simple reason: many, many employers are
making record-breaking profits because they have access to workers willing to be
paid low wages under the table. They will not begin hiring workers that have to
be documented. Can you address what in this legislation will make it
"impossible" for employers to continue this practice?

Carl Hampe: Maryland:

The requirement that all employers within 3 years enroll in the electronic
employment verification program is a real sea-change. At that point, it will be
very difficult for employers to avoid their immigration-law responsibilities.
Yes, some employers will continue to work "off the books," but this group will
provide a very small portion of the total number of available US jobs. The whole
theory of employer sanctions -- if it works -- is to turn off the magnet that
draws illegal aliens to the US. A secure worker verification system could
actually achieve that.

_______________________

Washington: A follow-up on the agriculture "blue cards" -- that section of the
bill specifies only the $100 fine, but there would be other fees charged? Are
you saying the other fees would total about $3,000? I expect that even $100 is a
lot of dough for people who work for $9-$10/hour -- and then only seasonally,
after which they get laid off. I am just trying to learn more about it.

Carl Hampe: The $3,000 fee is for the Z visa. The Y and H-2A visa programs have
lower, different fees, but the number of eligible users is much lower for the
latter two programs.

_______________________

Indianapolis: If the immigration compromise goes through, why should 12 million
people who chose to come to this country be considered for any minority
set-asides, seeing that this country doesn't really owe them anything?

Liz Stern: The issues on resolving the benefits offered to 12 million people who
ducked the law in coming here are very complex. But once you have 12 million
here, integrated into the very fabric of our society, recognizing that many are
working 2 or 3 jobs to survive, how do we handle it? No matter how much we balk
at potentially rewarding folks who ignored our laws, we need to recognize that
we failed to provide the right means to secure the border (and perhaps keep them
out) or to provide legal avenues for them to enter in better circumstances
(minimum wage, possible temporary periods of entry rather than an indefinite).
Does that mean we consider them for minority set-asides or other benefits? Not
necessarily, but we also have some need to make sure if we create vehicles for
them to stay, that we help them be successful contributors. My personal feeling
is immigrants add value at all levels -- but a "hidden" class raises much more
problems than a more open system with the right screens and regulations.

_______________________

Torrance, Calif.: Why can't a worker in U.S bring his spouse to live with him
after he or she obtains a Z visa?

Carl Hampe: The spouse has to be physically present in the US to qualify for a
derivative Z visa. I believe Congress chose this because the flood of consular
appointments for out-of-country spouses could overwhelm the system.

_______________________

Manhattan, N.Y.: I don't understand what they said about the head of the
household having to go back home to apply for green card. I came into the
country legally and then I went out of status (illegal) and I only have a social
security number and a driver's license for identification. I've been in this
country for 10 years,working hard and paying taxes every year. I support my
daughter (American) who turned two this past March, and my wife is a green card
holder. I am the head of the household, and they gonna tell me to go back home
after 10 years in this country? I think they need to review that part of the
bill, bcause I'd rather die here than going back.

Liz Stern: There is no question that your thoughts are a significant part of the
debate. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce has taken a leading role in raising these
types of issues. But again, the return abroad of the head of household is part
of the delicate compromise that led to bipartisan support in the Senate. Keep an
eye on the ongoing amendments to the bill and you'll see this issue hit the
debate.

_______________________

Liz Stern: We have enjoyed our session greatly and thank you for your
interesting comments and questions. Baker &amp; McKenzie thanks the Post for
this opportunity.

_______________________

Laurel, Md.: If the head of the household has to return to his/her home country,
who is going to provide for the rest of the family staying here? I know he/she
is guarateed back in, but can the head of the household apply and come back, or
does he/she have to wait outside the U.S. until the process is over? Are there
any changes to the current visa system in this new legislation? What about those
people who are here legally for years but with no luck on getting a sponsor? Are
they going to be allowed to apply for residency? They talk comprehensive, but
they only look at the illegal immigrants ... thank you!

Carl Hampe: Laurel: I believe the head of household must return to the home
country to file the adjustment of status application, but then may re-enter the
United States. This is a controversial requirement, so I imagine it will change
many times before we see the final version. Keep watching for it.

_______________________

Carl Hampe: I am signing off now. Thanks everyone for this very interesting
exchange.

Best regards.

Carl

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over Live
Online discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts;
guests and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not
responsible for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2007 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        June 1, 2007 Friday 1:57 PM EST

Bush Addresses Immigration Reform

BYLINE: CQ Transcripts Wire

LENGTH: 1534 words



HIGHLIGHT: SPEAKER: PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH


SPEAKER: PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH

[*]

BUSH: Thank you all. Please be seated.

First, I thank you very much for your hard work on a comprehensive immigration
bill and your concern about our country. And the two go hand in hand.

I believe that now's the time to address the issue of immigration. I think it's
in our national security interest. And I think it's in the interest of making
sure America never loses sight of who we are.

This is a difficult issue for a lot of folks. I understand that. But because
it's difficult probably means we need to work doubly hard to get it done. And
now's the time to get it done.

No matter how difficult it may seem for some politically, I strongly believe
it's in this nation's interest for people here in Washington to show courage and
resolve and pass a comprehensive immigration reform.

My administration is deeply involved in this issue. I feel passionate about the
issue. I believe it's in this country's interest to solve the problem.

I believe it's in our interest when we find a system that is broken to fix it.
And the immigration system today is broken.

And I've asked Michael and Carlos Gutierrez to work the issue on the Hill. And
these men are doing good work.

They understand the issue. They understand the bill. And they understand they
need to work with Republicans and Democrats to get the job done.

I say the system isn't working because there's a lot of Americans who say that
the government is not enforcing our border.

I say the system is broken because there are people coming into America to do
work that Americans are not doing. And there are good, decent employers who
unknowingly are hiring them, which is against the law.

The system is broken in my judgment because there are 11 million to 12 million
people living in the shadows of a free society.

The system is broken because there are people who are exploiting human beings
for material gain. There are coyotes -- those are human smugglers -- charging
decent people large sums of money to come and work to put food on the table for
their families.

There are -- there's a document forgery industry in place because the system is
broken, providing people with false documentation so they can do work that
Americans are not doing in order to provide for their families.

There are so-called innkeepers, providing substandard hovels for people who are
smuggled into our country. In other words, we have got a system that is causing
people -- good, decent people -- to be exploited. And therefore now's the time
to get it fixed.

For those concerned about border security, this bill focuses on border security.

For those concerned about making sure that we have workers available to do jobs
-- decent jobs to make sure our economy continues to grow, this bill addresses
that issue.

For those concerned that we must enable 11 million to 12 million people to come
out of the shadows of our society, this bill addresses that.

For those concerned about whether or not America will still have the capacity to
assimilate the newly arrived, it addresses that issue, too.

This is a good piece of legislation. I'm sure some of you in the audience here
will say, "Well, it's not perfect. There are some aspects of the bill that I
would like to see changed."

On a piece of legislation this complicated, the question people have to answer
is, are we going to sacrifice for the good for the sake of the perfect?

BUSH: And my call to you is that we need to work on a comprehensive bill
together. And first of all, I know you're already doing that, so I'm really here
to thank you.

I want to address a couple of the key issues that people are addressing. If you
want to kill a bill, then you just go around America saying, "This is amnesty."
Those are some words that elicit strong reactions from our fellow citizens.
Amnesty is when a person breaks a law and is completely forgiven for having done
so.

This bill isn't amnesty. For those who call it amnesty, they're just trying to,
in my judgment, frighten people about the bill. This bill is one that says we
recognize that you're here illegally and there's a consequence for it. We can
argue about the consequences, but you can't argue about the fact that there are
consequences in this bill for people who have broken our law.

People say, "Well, the bill is really not going to do much to enforce the
border." Well, the truth of the matter is, certain aspects of the law don't come
in to be until certain border measures are taken.

But I would remind people that you cannot fully enforce the border so long as
people are trying to sneak into this country to do jobs Americans aren't doing.
You can try, but doesn't it make sense to help the Border Patrol do their job by
saying, "If you're going to come and do a job, there is a legal way to do it so
you don't have to sneak across in the first place?"

If you're interested in border security, you've got to recognize that giving
people a chance to come and work here on a temporary basis makes it more likely
the border will be enforced.

There are some who -- I don't know if they say this explicitly, but they
certainly allege or hint that probably the best way to deal with 11 to 12
million people is to get them to leave the country.

BUSH: That's impossible. That is a -- that's the kind of statement that
sometimes happens in the political process, aimed to inflame passion. But it's
completely unrealistic. It's not going to happen.

And therefore the fundamental question for those who disagree, and there's some
good folks who disagree -- on both political parties, I might add -- is, what's
the solution?

With this bill, it is not amnesty. But it recognizes that it is impossible for
this country to route people out of our society and, you know, quote, "send them
home." It's just not going to happen.

So good people have come together and derived a solution, based upon
compromises, that addresses this problem in a humane way.

I recently gave a speech at the Coast Guard Academy. And I was preceded by a
young man, a Latino, who stood up as the head of his class, addressing his
classmates and their families and the president of the United States.

And he talked about his migrant grandfather, how proud the migrant grandfather
would be. It struck me again what a remarkable country it is, where a person
with a dream for his immediate family and future family could come to this
country, work hard, make sacrifices and have his grandson address the president
and his class.

This has been the American story for decades and decades -- waves of people
looking for a better life, seeking something better for themselves and their
families, willing to sacrifice and work hard. And we've got to understand -- and
great successes have been -- have resulted from that spirit.

And this country must never lose sight that what has made us unique and in my
judgment great is that we welcome people like that in a legal way, that
throughout our history there have been the stories of people who have enriched
our soul and lifted our spirit by coming to America.

BUSH: One of the great things about our country, we just had the capacity to
welcome people throughout our history.

And we've become all Americans. We've got different backgrounds, different
heritages, our forefathers may have spoken different languages, but we're all
American. We've been able to assimilate under the -- under the -- under the laws
and traditions of our country. As a result, we're a stronger nation for it.

America must not fear diversity. We ought to welcome diversity. We ought to have
confidence in what we have done in the past and not lose confidence about what
we will do in the future.

And so, I want to thank you all for joining on a really important piece of
legislation. It's the right thing do. It's the right approach to take.

It is right to address the problem. It is right to work with people in both
political parties. It is right to argue for what you believe and recognize that
compromise might be necessary to move the bill along. It is right to take
political risk for members of the United States Congress.

I say political -- I don't think this is risky, frankly. I don't view this as
risk-reward. I frankly view it as doing what you ought to do.

See, people ought to be running for office to do what's right for the United
States of America. That's what I believe people run for office for.

And so, I want you to know that you've got an administration that looks forward
to working with people. I will do my best to make sure that this debate does not
denigrate into name calling and finger pointing.

And we'll spend the energy and time and effort to help you advance a really
important piece of legislation for the good of this country.

I've come by to say thanks. Chertoff and Gutierrez can tell you how the bill has
gotten this far and what we see in the future.

BUSH: But I'm looking forward to signing a bill, and I think we will. I truly
believe that when people with goodwill, and good heart, and with a focus on
helping this country come together, that we can a good piece of legislation out.
I'm looking forward to signing it. I hope you'll be there when I do.

God bless. Thank you.

(APPLAUSE)

END

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2007 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              206 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 30, 2007 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Lazy, Job-Stealing Immigrants?;
Nativist Nonsense Distorts a Critical Issue

BYLINE: Sebastian Mallaby

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 801 words


President Bush is doing his pragmatic best to secure immigration reform. He is
honorably laboring to revive some version of the bipartisan bill that got 62
votes in the Senate last year. But watching this torturous process is enough to
make a sane person scream. The livelihoods of millions are at stake, yet most
immigration pronouncements are nonsense.

People accuse immigrants of gang violence, drunken driving and a general
contempt for the law. But in 2000 the incarceration rate for immigrants was just
one-fifth the rate for the population as a whole, according to Kristin Butcher
of the Federal Reserve and Anne Morrison Piehl of Rutgers University.

People say immigrants are feckless and lazy. But in California in 2004, 94
percent of undocumented men ages 18 to 64 were in the workforce, compared with
82 percent of native-born men. Far from being part of a shiftless underclass,
the act of coming to the United States makes immigrants among the most upwardly
mobile groups in the nation, only a bit behind hedge-fund managers.

People say, contrariwise, that immigrants steal jobs from native-born Americans.
But economists have patiently explained for years that there is no finite "lump
of labor" in an economy. The presence of migrants causes new jobs to be created:
Factories that might have gone abroad spring up in Arizona or Texas. Hasn't
anyone noticed that California, where fully one-third of the adult population is
foreign born, has an unemployment rate of less than 5 percent

People say that immigrants burden social services while not paying taxes.
Actually, undocumented immigrants are ineligible for welfare, food stamps and
Medicaid; and although they do use hospital emergency rooms and schools, they
also pay sales taxes and payroll taxes, and one in three pays income tax. The
net result is that immigrants cost the average native U.S. household an extra
$200 in taxes each year, according to a study of 1996 data. Once you take into
account the boost to pretax incomes caused by immigrants' contribution to
growth, the total effect of undocumented workers on native-born Americans is
roughly zero, according to Gordon Hanson of the University of California at San
Diego.

People say that immigrants cause wage losses even if they don't cause job
losses. Here the story is subtle: Some studies find no evidence that immigrants
pull down wages, while others find that native-born high school dropouts lost as
much as 9 percent of their earnings between 1980 and 2000 as a result of
immigration. But -- and here comes the sane scream -- there's no way that even a
9 percent wage loss can justify the policies that immigration hawks advocate.

Really, how much could draconian enforcement restore those wages? Between a
quarter and two-fifths of undocumented workers originally enter legally, so
stringent border enforcement could only affect about two-thirds of new arrivals.
Moreover, arrivals are only part of the issue; the alleged downward pressure on
wages comes less from the 400,000 illegal immigrants who show up each year than
from the 35 million immigrants already here, two-thirds of them legally. And
migrants will continue coming even if the entire southern border is walled off.
Europe has a wall called the Mediterranean. It still has illegal immigrants.

Thanks to intensive enforcement over the past year, illegal immigration from
Mexico is thought to have fallen by a quarter. Suppose even more spending could
cut the number of illegal entrants from 400,000 to 200,000 a year, so that 2
million arrivals could be prevented over a 10-year period. Add in an aggressive
deportation program that ejected 1 million illegals, and you are still only
scratching the surface. Even if immigration has driven down wages for high
school dropouts by 9 percent, it's hard to see how truly vicious
counter-immigration policies could drive them up by more than about 2 percent.

That simply can't be worth it. Border security does not come cheap: We could
save money on unmanned aerial drones and use it to help high-school dropouts
with a more generous earned-income tax credit. And although the concern for
high-school dropouts is welcome, it must be weighed against the aspirations of
migrants. Is it right to push native workers' pay up by 2 percent if that means
depriving poor Mexicans of a chance to triple their incomes?

Of course it isn't, and given that the total economic effect of immigration on
U.S. households is a wash, the big ramp-up in enforcement spending beloved by
immigration hawks is an egregious waste of money. But no politician is going to
say that. Candidates with a good record on immigration -- Rudy Giuliani, Hillary
Clinton, John McCain -- are trying to avoid the issue. And the demagogues and
nativists are allowed to spout unchallenged nonsense.

smallaby@cfr.org

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              207 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 3, 2007 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Bruce Is Spoiling For a Fight Over Immigration Issue

BYLINE: Bill Turque; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. VA05

LENGTH: 727 words


Carol Bruce said she made a promise to herself last October, when the Herndon
Town Council passed a law requiring individual business owners to prove legal
immigration status before receiving a business license.

She wasn't going to do it.

"I said to myself, 'This is offensive, discriminatory and illegal,' " said
Bruce, 59, a former council member and acting mayor who owns a small
communications firm in Herndon. She lost her council seat last year after a
bitter community debate over the opening of a publicly funded assembly site for
immigrant day laborers.

So when Bruce filed to renew her license, she didn't submit the required sworn
statement. Her plan was to lose her license, kick up a debate over the ordinance
and, hopefully, get it rescinded.

Instead, the town mailed her a new license March 14.

"Someone decided that if they went ahead and quietly gave me the license I would
quietly go away," she said.

The ordinance is one in a series of measures undertaken by the Town Council to
crack down on illegal immigration. Business licenses have traditionally served
as revenue-raising tools, with governments charging owners a set percentage of
projected gross sales. But Virginia Attorney General Robert F. McDonnell said
local governments can withhold licenses from applicants who are not living
legally in the United States.

Town officials said that Bruce is one of about 20 residents who were mistakenly
issued licenses without providing the sworn statement and that most have since
voluntarily complied. They have given her until May 7 to produce the proof or
face revocation of her license. Bruce said she still has no plans to cooperate.
A lawsuit is a possibility.

"We'll see who blinks first," she said.

Town Attorney Richard B. Kaufman declined to comment.

Off-Duty Candidate

 Jeff McKay is a Democrat running for the Fairfax Board of Supervisors' open
seat in Lee District. He is also keeping his day job as chief of staff to
Supervisor T. Dana Kauffman (D-Lee), whose retirement is creating the vacancy.

Any problem here? Not according to Kauffman, County Attorney David P. Bobzien
and Commonwealth's Attorney Robert F. Horan Jr. They've all signed off on
McKay's remaining on the payroll. The county's personnel regulations say that as
long as Kauffman states that McKay's candidacy will not adversely his
performance of his official duties, he can stay. Kauffman, who supports McKay,
said losing him "would be tantamount to cutting off my right arm."

That hasn't always been the case with some other board staff members who have
aspired to office. Supervisor Sharon Bulova (D-Braddock) was abruptly fired in
1987 when she announced that she would run for the seat vacated by her
then-boss, Supervisor Audrey Moore, who had become a candidate for chairman.

"She said, 'You're out of here,' " recalled Bulova (D-Braddock) who won election
and has served for 20 years.

McKay, 31, who will face Republican Doug Boulter in November, said in a phone
interview that he's had no problem balancing the two roles. He keeps all of his
campaign materials at home and spends weekends fundraising and organizing.

"My personal schedule has changed dramatically, but my professional regimen
hasn't changed at all," he said.

Except perhaps for the day he spoke to The Washington Post. He'd taken it off to
interview potential campaign managers.

New GOP Chair

James E. Hyland has run and lost twice as a Republican in Fairfax County -- for
the Board of Supervisors in 2003 and the General Assembly in 2005. But the new
Fairfax Republican chairman, who described himself as "kind of a default choice"
to replace Eric Lundberg last month, said he sees the anti-GOP tide turning in
2007.

"A lot of that was a reflection of national politics," he said. "2007 is going
to be squarely based on state and local issues." Hyland, 46, is a Washington
lawyer who spent 18 years as a staffer on the Hill, working as an aide to Sen.
John W. Warner (R-Va.), legislative director for Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison
(R-Tex.) and for banking committees in the House and Senate. In his practice at
the firm Greenberg Traurig, he helps clients navigate the government regulatory
maze.

He sees Fairfax voters as "nervous" about increasing congestion and believes
that voters will reward state Republicans for passing a transportation funding
package that "Democrats were fighting every step of the way."

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Fairfax South

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Former Herndon council member Carol Bruce's plans to lose her
business license to renew the debate over immigration has misfired -- for now.
IMAGE; Republican leader James E. Hyland is optimistic about his party's hopes
this year.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              208 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 5, 2007 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

FBI Adds to U.S. Case Against Militant Posada

BYLINE: Curt Anderson; Associated Press

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 389 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, May 4


Authorities building an immigration case against anti-Castro militant Luis
Posada Carriles have filed an FBI document with the court that provides new
details about Posada's purported links to a wave of 1997 bombings in Havana.

The document, based on interviews conducted in the late 1990s with confidential
sources, says Posada frequently met with two men who ran a Guatemalan utility
company and indicates the bombings may have been planned in Guatemala.

A source told the FBI that a company employee discovered bottles labeled
"high-powered explosives" in a closet. With them was a note in Spanish: "The
tyrant has to be eliminated, regardless of how many others are killed."

The document was filed as part of the immigration case against Posada, 79, a
former CIA operative accused of plotting the deadly 1976 bombing of a Cuban
airliner. He is set to stand trial next week in Texas on allegations that he
lied to immigration authorities while trying to become a naturalized U.S.
citizen.

Posada, a fierce Castro opponent, is wanted in Cuba and Venezuela to face trial,
but the United States has refused to send him to either country.

The FBI document reveals details about the U.S. investigation into links between
Posada and the Havana bombings. The probe -- which was mostly dormant until
Posada's return to the United States in 2005 -- could provide an avenue for him
to be charged in connection with the bombings.

The document focuses on interviews conducted with confidential sources involved
in the utility company, where two men associated with Posada were principals.

One of the sources said that the men spoke about plans to assassinate Castro and
that he began to suspect they were involved in "illicit activities." He had a
listening device placed in one of the company's offices, the document says.

That device revealed discussions about smuggling a "putty-like explosive" into
Cuba in the shoes of people posing as tourists, the FBI document said.

The source also told the FBI that another employee of the utility company found
22 plastic tubes in a closet in August 1997 labeled "high powered explosives,
extremely dangerous." The employee also is said to have discovered that the
explosives were being mixed into shampoo bottles. A notepad with Posada's name
on it and the note were found in a carrying case, the source said.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              209 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 5, 2007 Saturday
                                 Met 2 Edition

U.S. Targeting Immigrant 'Absconders';
Sharp Increase Is Seen In Deportation Evasion

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman and Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1226 words


At 2:10 a.m., a fleet of dark SUVs surged from the garage beneath a federal
building onto the deserted streets of Fairfax County, carrying a raiding party
of flak-jacketed immigration agents.

Their quarry: illegal immigrants who have ignored and evaded deportation orders.
Called "fugitive aliens" or "alien absconders," they have nearly doubled in
number since 2001, now totaling more than 636,000.

The Fairfax operation was part of a stepped-up national effort that has
increased the number of fugitive arrests from 1,560 in 2003 to a projected
16,000 this year, U.S. immigration officials said.

As Congress ponders a sweeping overhaul of immigration laws, the hard
mathematics of eliminating the backlog of cases has become central to the
debate.

Conservatives say the White House has a credibility gap when it asks them to
support a temporary worker program and a path to citizenship for some illegal
immigrants in return for a promised crackdown on the worst offenders.

The failure to remove "low-hanging fruit" such as fugitives "may reflect the
fact that there's a complete neglect for enforcement, or that even in egregious
cases, they just can't get their act together," said Steven A. Camarota,
spokesman for the Center on Immigration Studies, a group that advocates less
immigration.

Immigrant advocates and some former federal authorities counter that the growing
backlog of fugitives -- who make up 5 percent of the estimated 12 million
illegal immigrants -- demonstrates the futility of relying on enforcement alone
to stop illegal immigration.

"The absconder population is exhibit number one," said Victor X. Cerda, former
chief of staff and general counsel for the Department of Homeland Security's
Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). "We haven't been able to handle the
600,000-plus who went through the legal system. What's going to lead us to
believe we're going to handle the 12 million?"

Federal officials became alarmed after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks
when they discovered they could not account for 314,000 immigrants who had been
ordered deported, including 5,046 from countries where al-Qaeda was present.

Since then, spending on fugitive operations has grown from $9 million to $183
million a year -- about $10,000 per arrest, according to a recent report by the
Homeland Security inspector general.

But the backlog continued to grow as immigration courts increased their
workloads, issuing far more deportation orders.

Meanwhile, because of a shortage of detention space, many immigrants from
nations other than Mexico who were caught sneaking across the border were freed
in the United States to await their court dates -- a practice dubbed "catch and
release." The vast majority never showed up for court, leading judges to order
their deportation in absentia.

Those factors, combined with a lack of resources for ICE's fugitive enforcement,
"contributed to the inability of . . . apprehensions to keep pace with the
increase in the backlog of fugitive aliens, not to mention reduce it," Homeland
Security Inspector General Richard L. Skinner reported in March.

Skinner concluded, "It is highly improbable that it will be eliminated in the
near future."

However, John P. Torres, ICE's director of detention and removal operations,
said the agency has made major improvements in recent months.

"Within a year, we'll see a big drop. . . . We're attacking on all fronts,"
Torres said, stopping short of a promise to eliminate the backlog.

The catch-and-release practice was terminated in September, he noted, and under
a new initiative, ICE since July has purged its fugitive rolls of 27,000 people
who died, left the country or obtained legal status.

Finally, ICE has boosted the number of fugitive teams from 18 in 2005 to a
projected 75 this year, each with a goal of 1,000 arrests a year.

The challenge facing those agents was apparent during the early morning raids by
the Fairfax team, which goes out three or four times a week.

The morning's first target was a middle-age Pakistani man who agents said was
wanted in connection with a slaying and bank robbery in his home country.
Through surveillance, team members had determined that he would probably be
working at a Shell gas station on Lee Highway in Arlington County.

As the motorcade approached the gas station, the team leader, a tall man with a
linebacker's physique, got on the radio and ordered all vehicles to stop a short
distance away so that an agent in plainclothes could drive up and determine
whether the target was there.

A few minutes later, the team leader's voice came back on the radio. "Okay, he's
not working there now. All units to the apartment."

The team converged on a three-story brick building a few blocks away. But once
again, it came up empty: Only the man's roommates were home.

"All units, the target is at work, apparently at a different Shell station," an
agent announced over the radio. "We're trying to determine where now."

Finally, at 2:45 a.m. the team set off for the second Shell station, whooshing
silently across darkened highways normally clogged with traffic.

This time, the plainclothes agent had good news to report.

Inside the station's convenience store, the Pakistani man frowned and shook his
head sadly as agents handcuffed his hands behind his back.

The next six targets proved almost as time-consuming to track down. A Salvadoran
man convicted of attempted grand larceny tried to bolt out the back door of his
tiny brick house, only to be tackled by an ICE agent lying in wait outside. A
woman who had shoplifting convictions dating to 1983 vanished from her elegant
high-rise apartment.

By the time the team reached its final destination, a white Colonial with a new
swing set in the front yard, it was starting to get light outside.

This time, the target was not a convicted felon but a Salvadoran couple with a
young child who had spent several years trying to persuade the immigration
courts to let them stay after they flew into the United States in 2002 without a
visa.

"I don't understand. I never got an order of deportation," the husband, Alcides
Mendez, 31, said in a later interview at the Fairfax detention facility.

His only consolation was that ICE agents allowed his wife to stay at home with
their toddler and a second child recently born in Virginia.

"I felt I was succeeding," Mendez said, burying his face in his gray sweat
shirt. "What am I going to do now?"

A few seats away, Jose Artica, 19, was also bemoaning his misfortune. The
Salvadoran bricklayer, who sneaked into the United States illegally two years
ago, hadn't been on ICE's fugitive list. But he was renting a room from his
cousin, the fugitive convicted of attempted grand larceny, and was arrested when
he couldn't produce legal papers.

Next to him, Osmarbyn Hernandez, 32, a Salvadoran who lost his legal status
after several DUI convictions, tried to enlist the sympathy of one of the ICE
agents.

"I've got a 9-year-old son here. I've got my wife here. Isn't there anything I
can do to solve this?" he pleaded.

The agent sighed.

"In this country, there are laws. If you'd followed the laws, you wouldn't be in
this situation," he replied.

Compared with some operations in which the team has spent hours without catching
a single fugitive, the outing had been a success, members said. The long night's
work had removed five more fugitives from the rolls.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photos By Sarah L. Voisin -- The Washington Post; Immigration
and Customs Enforcement agents approach a home in Arlington about 5 a.m. one
recent day in search of an illegal immigrant, who was taken into custody.
IMAGE; Jose Artica of El Salvador is handcuffed and removed from a house in
Alexandria after a 4 a.m. raid.
IMAGE; By Sarah L. Voisin -- The Washington Post; Alcides Mendez, left, and Jose
Artica, both from El Salvador, look out the window of a cell in the detention
facility. Mendez says he never got an order of deportation, and Artica was
caught when agents came looking for his cousin.
IMAGE; By Sarah L. Voisin -- The Washington Post; Osmarbyn Hernandez of El
Salvador, right, who lost his legal status after several DUI convictions, puts
on his shoes.
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              210 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 9, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Immigration Case Against Cuban Militant Dismissed

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 222 words

DATELINE: EL PASO, May 8


A federal judge on Tuesday threw out immigration fraud charges against Luis
Posada Carriles, the Cuban exile militant who was facing trial later this week,
saying the government manipulated his statement to investigators.

U.S. District Judge Kathleen Cardone said the interpretation of the April 2006
interview "is so inaccurate as to render it unreliable as evidence of
defendant's actual statement."

Justice Department spokesman Dean Boyd said prosecutors were reviewing the
ruling and considering whether to appeal it.

Authorities said Posada, a 79-year-old former CIA operative and fierce opponent
of Fidel Castro, confessed to sneaking across the Mexican border into Texas in
March 2005.

Posada's attorneys argued that the interview was just a way for the government
to get more information about the ongoing investigation against him.

Cardone agreed in her ruling, saying the naturalization interview was a pretext
for the criminal investigation. She dismissed the indictment after granting a
motion by Posada's attorneys to exclude all transcripts and tapes of statements
he made during the interview. Cardone agreed in her ruling.

Cuba and Venezuela want Posada extradited for the 1976 bombing of a Cuban
airliner. Posada has denied involvement in the bombing, which killed 73 people.
A judge has refused, saying he could be tortured.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              211 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 10, 2007 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Reid Forces New Senate Debate on Immigration;
He Would Revisit 2006, But GOP Is Warier Now

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 991 words


With bipartisan talks on immigration near a standstill, Senate Majority Leader
Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.) moved yesterday to bring last year's broad overhaul of
immigration laws back to the floor of the Senate next week, appealing to
President Bush to save what could be his last hope for a major second-term
domestic achievement.

The legislation -- which couples a border security crackdown with a guest-worker
program and new avenues for undocumented immigrants to work legally in the
country -- passed the Senate a year ago this month with the support of 62
members, 23 of them Republican, only to die in the House. With Democrats now in
control of Congress and with the president eager for an accomplishment,
immigrant rights groups believe the prospects for a final deal are far better
this year.

But Senate Republicans, even those who helped craft last year's bill, say the
political environment has shifted decisively against that measure and toward a
tougher approach. Four Republican architects of the 2006 bill released a letter
yesterday, pleading with Reid to hold off on the debate while bipartisan talks
continue on new legislation.

"Last year's bill is not the solution for this year," said Sen. Mel Martinez
(Fla.), one of those architects who is now general chairman of the Republican
Party.

But Reid decided to force the issue, devoting the Senate's next two weeks to
hammering out a comprehensive bill. If negotiators reach a deal on a new
proposal in the coming days, he promised to bring it to a vote. "There are all
kinds of excuses people could offer," Reid said. "But how can we have anything
that's more fair than taking a bill that overwhelmingly passed the Senate on a
bipartisan basis, and using that as the instrument" to build a new version?

Immigration poses political peril for both parties. It has badly split
GOP-leaning business groups eager for immigrant labor from party-base
conservatives furious at what they see as an invasion of illegal immigrants.
Democrats must bridge a chasm between old-line labor groups that fear that
immigrant workers are driving down wages and burgeoning service-worker unions
that see low-wage workers as the backbone of a new labor movement.

Both parties are battling for the allegiance of Latino voters. Indeed, Sen.
Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) offered immigrant groups virtual veto power over
this year's bill.

"Unless the stakeholders are going to believe that it's worthy of their support,
no matter what we do here in the United States Senate, it isn't going to work,"
he said.

And, this year, the issue is tangled in presidential politics. One White House
hopeful, Sen. Sam Brownback (R-Kan.), has all but renounced a career-long stance
favorable to immigrant rights. And the co-author of last year's bill, Sen. John
McCain (R-Ariz.), has been largely absent from this year's negotiations, as he
soft-pedals his pro-immigration stance.

McCain spokeswoman Eileen McMenamin said yesterday that the senator remains
committed to a bill that would strengthen border controls, back guest workers
and offer illegal immigrants a path to citizenship.

But Senate Majority Whip Richard J. Durbin (D-Ill.) said McCain's absence from
the negotiations has been "a big factor" in the rising tide of Republican
opposition. Another factor is a president whose authority on Capitol Hill is in
steep decline. "The president's approval ratings do not exactly create a dynamic
political force," Durbin said.

In that vacuum, Republican senators who opposed last year's bill have emerged as
key players in this year's battle, and they have already succeeded in raising
issues that were barely discussed in 2006. Sen. Jeff Sessions (Ala.), an ardent
opponent of last year's bill, said the measure got only so many GOP votes
because Republican senators expected the final bill to be far tougher after
emerging from negotiations with House GOP hard-liners. With Democrats now in
charge of the House, Senate Republicans are taking a tougher stand, he said.

Senators are nearing agreement on some of the most contentious issues. Once
again, an estimated 12 million illegal immigrants would probably get new avenues
to find legal work and earn citizenship once they have established a strong work
record, cleared a criminal-background check, and paid penalties and back taxes.
Beefed-up border security would be linked to tougher penalties for employers who
hire illegal immigrants and to new tools for businesses to screen job
applicants.

But Republicans and Democrats are deeply divided over the flow of new
immigrants. Republicans, with the White House's backing, are proposing a
three-year temporary-worker program that would allow 400,000 new workers to
enter the country each year, provided they return to their home countries once
their visas expire. A much smaller number, perhaps 20,000, would be able to
apply for a work visa that could lead to legal permanent residency.

Even more controversial is a GOP effort to change current laws that allow legal
U.S. residents to bring relatives into the country. Republicans want to drop
large categories from that family immigration system, blocking the inflow of
adult children and siblings of U.S. residents and capping the number of parents
allowed to migrate. That move would make room for more skilled workers and
educated professionals.

Last year's bill would have allowed guest workers to remain in the country
indefinitely and work toward citizenship.

With the divisions so deep, Republican Senate leadership aides privately said
that the bill is "on life support." Democrats were no more optimistic. Sen.
Patrick J. Leahy (D-Vt.), chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, said the
fate of comprehensive immigration legislation rests with Bush.

"The president has got to be personally involved," Leahy said. "He cannot just
send up Cabinet members and ask them to speak with a few members of the
president's party and think that that's going to get you through."

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Susan Walsh -- Associated Press; Senate Democrats announce
that the immigration bill passed by the Senate last year will be revived. From
left are Majority Leader Harry M. Reid, Robert Menendez and Edward M. Kennedy.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              212 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 19, 2007 Saturday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Immigrant Legislation Splits GOP;
Right Lashes Out At Bush and Senate Over Compromise

BYLINE: Michael Abramowitz; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1158 words


President Bush's embrace of compromise immigration legislation has split the
Republican Party, as several GOP presidential candidates quickly came out
against the deal and the conservative base reacted with fury.

Key figures on the right, including conservative talk radio hosts, analysts at
the Heritage Foundation and National Review columnists, derided the agreement as
a sellout of conservative principles, while GOP presidential candidates
criticized the plan as a form of amnesty -- a characterization rejected by the
White House.

Former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney, who last year said similar efforts
for a comprehensive immigration bill were "reasonable," called the deal reached
this week the "wrong approach."

"Any legislation that allows illegal immigrants to stay in the country
indefinitely, as the new Z Visa does, is a form of amnesty," he said.

Although the White House is also facing an uproar on the left, the conservative
reaction underscores both the volatile role immigration continues to play in GOP
politics and Bush's only mixed success in moving his party toward a vision of an
open, immigrant-friendly society, which he has promoted since he was governor of
Texas. Bush once hoped the vision might help realign American politics by
bringing Hispanics into the GOP tent, but as it is,  Republican opposition is a
key impediment to his realizing a final big domestic victory before the end of
his presidency.

White House officials said they fully anticipated the conservative reaction and
acknowledge they face a big challenge in educating even their strongest
supporters about a bill that would provide increased border security, create a
temporary-worker program and allow many of the estimated 12 million illegal
immigrants in the United States a chance to earn  green cards if they pay fines
and return first to their country of origin. The Senate will debate the measure
next week, and the House is expected to take up the issue sometime this summer.

Tensions have already run high among Senate Republicans who have been immersed
in negotiations over the bill. Presidential aspirant John McCain (R-Ariz.), one
of the Senate's strongest champions for the immigration bill, has been pilloried
by his rivals for pushing a comprehensive approach to the issue. In a bipartisan
meeting on the bill Thursday morning, the tensions apparently boiled over.

According to several sources, McCain and Sen. John Cornyn (R-Tex.) got into a
shouting match when Cornyn began voicing concerns about the number of judicial
appeals illegal immigrants could make. After McCain swore at Cornyn and accused
him of trying to blow up the pact, Cornyn accused the presidential candidate of
"parachuting" into the negotiations at the last minute. McCain, who helped craft
an immigration deal last year in the Senate but has been represented by staffers
in most meetings this year, blew up at Cornyn, saying, "I know more about this
than anyone else in the room."

McCain's camp denied that he claimed superior knowledge of the bill but
acknowledged that the two Republicans went at it. "These negotiations can be
very tense, and there was a spirited exchange. That's it," said Brian Jones,
McCain's presidential campaign spokesman.

Administration officials said they have addressed many of the concerns
conservatives had with previous immigration legislation: Under the proposal, for
instance, provisions making it possible for illegal immigrants to stay in the
United States would go into effect only after stringent new border-control
measures are in place. Such "triggers" won the support of Sen. Johnny Isakson
(R-Ga.), who opposed last year's Senate immigration bill, which never came up
for a vote in the House.

Another change from last year's bill would require immigrants participating in a
new guest-worker program to leave the country after their short-term work visas
expire, with no way to petition for permanent residence. That helped win over
Sen. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.), another past critic of immigration legislation.

"They're the things in this bill that Republicans and conservatives have wanted
for a long time," said Joel D. Kaplan, the deputy White House chief of staff,
who was a key negotiator on the bill. "The Republicans who know the most about
what the bill does are those who have been involved day in and day out in the
discussions of the drafting of the agreement, and we have seen encouraging
support among that group."

Another senior White House official said objections raised by Democratic leaders
pose as much danger to the legislation as the conservatives' concerns do. He
said he remains uncertain whether Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.)
and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) are willing to allow Bush a Rose
Garden signing ceremony on such a major issue.

"It is completely within the control of the Democratic leadership whether this
bill passes or not," said this official, speaking on the condition of anonymity
in order to discuss strategy.

The danger for the White House is that any change in the delicately crafted
compromise could cause the whole deal to collapse. The administration has
already angered traditional allies in the business community with the
concessions aimed at mollifying conservative senators.

Employers do not want a guest-worker program that would offer work visas for
only two years at a time. The visas could be renewed up to three times, but
workers would have to leave the country for a year between renewals. Business
groups said such interruptions would defeat the purpose of the program, which is
to attract and retain a stable workforce in industries in which U.S. workers are
scarce.

Meanwhile, most Republican candidates for president besides McCain strongly
condemned the deal. Former senator Fred D. Thompson of Tennessee, who is mulling
a White House bid, urged Congress to "scrap this bill and the whole debate until
we can convince the American people that we have secured the borders or at least
have made great headway." Former House speaker Newt Gingrich of Georgia, who
also may run, called the arrangement a "disastrous bill" and said the upcoming
Senate vote would be a "defining moment" for the Republican  Party.

"I can't imagine anybody running for president being nominated if they support
this bill," Gingrich said in an interview.

Former New York mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has been an outspoken immigration
advocate, speaking frequently to pro-immigration groups and opposing federal
measures to crack down on illegal immigration. But a statement from his
communications director offered no endorsement of the new bill and stressed the
security implications of immigration: "Rudy's top priority and main objective is
to ensure our borders are secure and to stop potential terrorists and criminals
from coming in."

Staff writers Jonathan Weisman, Spencer S. Hsu and Michael D. Shear and
washingtonpost.com staff writer Paul Kane contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              213 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 20, 2007 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Tech Firms Put Off by Immigration Fairness

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. F03

LENGTH: 240 words


For years, the technology sector has demanded that immigration policy enhance
economic competitiveness by favoring highly skilled, highly educated workers for
permanent residency.

But last week we discovered that high-tech businesses don't really care about
getting the best workers for the economy as a whole. What they actually prefer
is the right to choose the specific workers they want, for the precise jobs they
identify, at the lowest wages they can get away with.

We know this because the high-tech community has  come out against the
delicately balanced compromise on immigration reform announced last week by the
White House and a bipartisan group of senators. A central feature of the
legislation is a "merit-based" point system for choosing who will receive green
cards based largely on education, skills and family connections.

But while this sort of system has worked well in Canada and Australia, it is
apparently not good enough for American high-tech firms, which complain that it
would "take key personnel decision-making out of the hands of U.S. employers"
and replace it with -- egad! -- a "bureaucratic solution."

Imagine that -- an immigration policy driven by the desires and ambitions of
immigrants themselves, based on principles of fairness and objective criteria,
and shaped not by the free market to serve private interests but by a democratic
government to serve the public interest!

We wouldn't want that now, would we?

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              214 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 21, 2007 Monday
                                Regional Edition

An insider's guide to the upcoming week

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 444 words

A Congress Of Compromise

Congress will be engaged in heavy negotiations on two fronts this week.

The Senate is expected to begin debate today on an overhaul of the nation's
immigration policies. The White House and a bipartisan group of lawmakers have
agreed to a deal that would provide increased border security and create a
temporary worker program and a path to citizenship for most of the estimated 12
million illegal immigrants in the United States. But opposition has formed among
immigration hard-liners in the Senate and Democratic leaders reluctant to give
President Bush a major legislative victory.

House and Senate leaders will also discuss the bill to provide war funding.
Democrats remain steadfast in their demand that the legislation contain some
form of timeline or benchmarks with consequences, while President Bush and his
GOP allies will allow only for benchmarks without bite. Still, lawmakers have
pledged not to start their one-week recess -- scheduled to begin on Memorial
Day, next Monday -- unless a spending bill has been sent to Bush to sign.

? THE LOBBYING DISCLOSURE LOBBY: On the House agenda is a lobbying reform bill
that would require disclosure of the many ways lobbyists financially support
members of Congress, including through financing academic junkets and donations
to a member's nonprofit foundation. Still, watchdog groups are upset that the
bill does not require lobbyists to disclose how much in campaign funds they
solicit or arrange from individual donors, a process known as bundling.
Democrats plan to introduce an amendment to address that.

? THE OTHER WAR: Bush today will continue talks in Crawford, Tex., with NATO
Secretary General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer. They are expected to discuss NATO's
role in Afghanistan, where a resurgent Taliban and mounting civilian casualties
have hindered efforts to bring stability.

? SWORN IN AT LAST: Monica M. Goodling, the former Justice Department liaison to
the White House, will testify Wednesday before the House Judiciary Committee.
This appearance has been long in coming: Goodling first declined to testify in
the investigation into the firing of several federal prosecutors, citing her
constitutional right not to incriminate herself. She subsequently received
limited immunity in exchange for testimony.

? BLUEGRASS POLITICS: Kentucky holds primary elections tomorrow, and the battle
in the Republican gubernatorial campaign has been fierce. Gov. Ernie Fletcher
and challenger Anne M. Northup, a former congresswoman, have run ads questioning
each other's ethics. Two former lieutenant governors and a former gubernatorial
candidate are facing off in the Democratic primary.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Jason Reed -- Reuters; President Bush, with Homeland Security
Secretary Michael Chertoff and Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez, pushed hard
last week for an immigration deal, but Democrats may still deny him a
legislative victory.
IMAGE; Anne Northup is challenging Kentucky Gov. Ernie Fletcher.
IMAGE
IMAGE; By Michel Spingler -- Associated Press

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              215 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 21, 2007 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

An Advocate Rallies to Unify GOP

BYLINE: Krissah Williams; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 657 words


Immigration policy is one of the few issues that split conservatives and the
business lobby. It's the "shut the borders" pack vs. the "we need workers"
crowd.

Conservative activist Tamar Jacoby has dedicated herself to bringing the two
together. The outcome could determine whether key conservative members of
Congress stand back and allow an overhaul of immigration law this year.

Jacoby has been busy. She has helped to light a fire under previously disengaged
business owners in places such as Texas, Arizona and Colorado, where immigrants
-- legal and illegal -- are a large part of the workforce. She has flown to
those states to hold policy briefings and to encourage employers to tell their
tales to conservative lawmakers in Washington. She talks daily to small-business
owners.

Last week after a deal was reached in the Senate, Jacoby held a conference call
with 20 business owners Friday to explain the politics of the overhaul and what
may happen next. Debate on the bill is expected to begin tonight and run through
Thursday.

"She is a tireless advocate behind the scenes for trying to come up with
creative ideas to bring the various sides together," said Randel Johnson, a vice
president at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. "The best part is she has the time to
think about the ideas and meet with parties on the bill. We are all spread among
many issues, but that's her baby."

Jacoby sat at a table in the Senate Chef last week surrounded by two Texas
bankers, a cattle rancher and a guy who represents Rio Grande Valley orange
growers, all of whom had flown in to put a last-minute press on their
congressional representatives. She spent an hour rallying them.

"The most important thing is the temporary-worker program," Jacoby told them.
Lawmakers "are going to go all out to cut it in half and unless business goes
all out, like D-Day, they will surely win."

Ray Prewett, who lives in Mission, Tex., and runs a trade group for citrus
farmers, leaned in.

Without enough immigrant workers "all the farms will move to Mexico," said
Prewett, who was preparing to meet with Sen. John Cornyn (R). The senator has
said that he has serious concerns about the immigration deal, and last year he
voted against comprehensive restructuring. "We need to go into these offices and
say we need this now. . . . We know they won't vote for it, but we have to tell
them not to stand in the way," Prewett said.

That is the kind of argument that could ultimately win the votes to revise the
immigration law, lobbyists pushing to pass a bill say. Jacoby frames her desire
to see lawmakers legalize the nation's 12 million illegal immigrants and lift
the cap on temporary-worker visas as a means to allow "honest American business
owners" using illegal-immigrant laborers to get on the right side of the law.

She is willing to work with religious and civil rights groups, including the
Roman Catholic Church and the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic advocacy
group, to achieve the goal.

As the Texas business owners went off to meet with Cornyn and Republican
congressmen Jeb Hensarling and John Culberson, the leader of a Latino civil
rights group tapped Jacoby on the shoulder. Brent A. Wilkes, national executive
director of the League of United Latin American Citizens, told her that he was
in the Senate to drop off 1,000 petitions supporting legalization for the 12
million illegal immigrants.

Jacoby has also tried to rally conservatives with arguments that immigrants are
good for the economy and therefore good for the country. In the past two years
she has met with dozens of lawmakers and their staff members, published 20
opinion articles on the topic in major newspapers and used the clout of the
conservative Manhattan Institute, where she is a senior fellow, to spread her
stance on immigration.

"A healthy economy, legality, assimilation -- those are all things that
conservatives believe in," she said. "I'm not ceding  those values to anyone."

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Michael Williamson -- The Washington Post; "A healthy
economy, legality, assimilation -- those are all things that conservatives
believe in," says Tamar Jacoby.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              216 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 22, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Immigration Compromise Faces New Opposition;
Proposal Stays Alive, But Foes Lie in Wait

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1068 words


The Senate voted last night to move forward on an overhaul of immigration laws,
but even proponents of the delicate compromise proposal conceded that the furor
over the deal was surpassing their expectations and endangering the plan.

The 69 to 23 vote masked deep troubles from the right flank of the Senate, as
well as from the left. Opponents of even conducting a debate on the measure
included some unexpected voices, such as freshman Sens. Jon Tester (D-Mont.) and
Bernard Sanders, an independent liberal from Vermont. Several conservatives --
and some liberals -- made it clear that they cast a vote to proceed only in
order to fundamentally change the proposed legislation in the coming days.

With dozens of amendments planned, traps being laid by opponents could upset the
fragile coalition that drafted the measure. What's more, Senate leaders gave up
hope last night that they could pass the bill this week, ensuring it will be
left hanging over a week-long Memorial Day recess. That will allow the
opposition to gather strength before a final vote can be scheduled next month.

"Our plan is a compromise. It involved give-and-take in the best traditions of
the United States Senate. For each of us who crafted it, there are elements that
we strongly support and elements we believe could be improved. No one believes
this is a perfect bill," said Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (Mass.), the deal's chief
Democratic architect. "The world is watching to see how we respond to the
current crisis. Let's not disappoint them."

Senate leadership aides said yesterday that the proposal could probably muster
the support of about 30 Republicans and 30 Democrats -- just enough to beat a
filibuster, which was all but promised yesterday by conservatives.

The bill would grant legal status to virtually all the estimated 12 million
undocumented workers in the country, create a temporary-worker program, tighten
border controls, crack down on employers who hire illegal immigrants, and create
a point system for future immigration to de-emphasize family ties in favor of
educational attainment and work skills.

About a dozen senators who drafted the compromise are to meet every day this
week to review amendments.

"The grand bargainers will hold together," ventured Sen. Arlen Specter (R-Pa.),
a lead negotiator, "but there are not 51 of us."

Supporters had expected opposition from both ends of the political spectrum. But
they conceded they were taken aback by the furious response over the weekend,
especially from conservatives, who declared that the legislation is nothing
short of amnesty for lawbreakers.

"This bill is compromising to the country's economy, national security and very
foundation of a democracy rooted in the rule of law," said Sen. Jim Bunning
(R-Ky.).

Worse still, business groups expected to provide muscle to push the bill have
instead voiced opposition. Business groups have called the temporary-worker
program impractical. They have also protested a provision that would force
employers to verify the legal status of every worker in the country, and have
said a point system for permanent-residence visas, or green cards, would deprive
them of the ability to bring in foreign workers with distinct skills they need.

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) has signaled that any immigration bill
clearing the chamber this summer is likely to look considerably different from a
Senate bill designed to attract Republican votes.

Conservative opposition from think tanks such as the Heritage Foundation,
talk-radio hosts and GOP presidential candidates has been echoed by more than a
dozen Republicans and nearly half a dozen Democrats. Sen. Ben Nelson (D-Neb.), a
pivotal swing vote, said he is determined to reshape the legislation to ensure
that a crackdown on the border succeeds before additional job programs are
extended to undocumented workers and future immigrants.

One of the first Republican amendments, by Sen. James M. Inhofe (Okla.), would
seek to make English the official language of the United States.

An amendment by Sen. John Cornyn (R-Tex.) would impose a hefty surcharge on
illegal immigrants granted legal status to help states pay for the medical and
educational services such immigrants would claim. Another from Cornyn would
allow federal law enforcement agents to use information from visa applications
to investigate allegations of fraud in the legalization process.

Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Tex.) said she wants any immigration legislation to
require illegal immigrants to return to their home country to apply for legal
status.

On the other side of the aisle, the biggest threats revolve around a
temporary-worker program that would grant two-year work visas, renewable up to
three times, as long as foreign workers leave the country between each two-year
stint. Labor unions contend that the program would depress U.S. wages and create
an underclass of abused foreign workers. Business groups say the structure of
the program is unrealistic, since it guarantees instability in the labor supply.

Sen. Jeff Bingaman (D-N.M.), with the backing of Senate Majority Leader Harry M.
Reid (D-Nev.), will move as soon as today to slash in half the number of
temporary work visas, to 200,000 a year. Sens. Byron L. Dorgan (D-N.D.) and
Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.) will try to strike the program from the bill
altogether, and they are likely to pick up support from the Senate's most
liberal and most conservative members.

Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick J. Leahy (D-Vt.) and Sen. Robert Menendez
(D-N.J.) promised to try to change the bill's provisions on the issuance of
permanent residence status. Under the deal, the current green-card system
reserves such visas almost exclusively for immigrants with family ties in the
United States or an employer sponsor.

The new system would grant applicants points based in part on family ties but
also on education, work skills and experience, and English-language proficiency.
Leahy and Menendez would preserve the point system but grant more weight to
applicants with family members in the United States.

Another provision in the compromise would give the Department of Homeland
Security eight years to clear a backlog of 567,000 applicants who have been
waiting since before May 2005 for family-unification green cards. Menendez will
push to move to grant visas to an additional 800,000 applicants who applied
between May 2005 and January 2007.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Matt Rourke -- Associated Press; Sen. Arlen Specter said he
and the other negotiators will stand by the deal, "but there are not 51 of us."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              217 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 22, 2007 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Don't Fear The A-Word

BYLINE: Eugene Robinson

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 753 words


Ted Kennedy, John McCain, George W. Bush and others who want sensible,
real-world immigration reform -- yes, I just used the president's name in the
same sentence with "sensible" -- are going to have to stop running from the word
"amnesty." The new Senate immigration deal is going to get chased clean out of
town unless its supporters stand and fight, even if the semantic battlefield
isn't one they would choose.

Opponents of the Senate plan are going to shout "amnesty" until they're hoarse.
That one word may be so powerful that it doesn't just scuttle this deal -- which
has many flaws -- but also forecloses any possibility of ambitious immigration
reform for the rest of Bush's term.

Just try telling Phoenix Mayor Phil Gordon, California Gov. Arnold
Schwarzenegger and other front-line officials to wait patiently in limbo for a
couple more years. By then, public pressure will have forced border states and
gateway cities to develop their own  immigration policies. The Bush
administration is fond of letting difficult, expensive tasks roll downhill to
state and local governments -- hence the refusal to take federal control of
rebuilding New Orleans and the Gulf Coast. But even this White House recognizes
that defining citizenship is a job for the federal government.

There are plenty of explosive words in this debate. When we talk about the 12
million or so people who are in this country on expired visas, or who never
bothered to get visas at all, do we call them "undocumented migrants," which
implies that the thing to do is get them proper documents? Or do we call them
"illegal aliens," which implies that they are criminals who need to be punished?

I'm in the "undocumented migrants" camp, basically on aesthetic grounds -- I
think it's dehumanizing to use the same noun for a Mexican day laborer who
sneaked across the border that one would use for a six-armed visitor from
another planet. Let's be honest, though. Coming into the United States on a
tourist visa and staying for months or years after the visa expires is a
violation of U.S. law. Crossing the border with no visa at all is another
violation of U.S. law. "Illegal" is a harsh word, but accurate.

It's also accurate to point out, however, that those 12 million or so people are
already settled here, that for the most part they are doing jobs our society
wants done, and that any serious attempt to drive them out of the country --
even "temporarily," so they could apply to be let back in -- would be
indistinguishable from a pogrom.

Would SWAT teams of immigration officers descend on neighborhoods and go door to
door? Would they snatch children out of schools? Where would they take these
people? To special camps? To the nearest border?

That is the unthinkable scenario that advocates of a reasonable immigration
solution should invoke when opponents yell "amnesty." Yes, according to the new
Senate bill, the vast majority of undocumented or illegal migrants would be able
to remain in the United States, if they wanted to, without first leaving the
country. They'd have to get to the "back of the line," wherever that is, and
they'd have to pay fines, and they'd have to have a clean record -- but they
could stay here. I think I could make a good argument that technically this is
not amnesty, but I probably wouldn't convince Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.) or
other diehard opponents. Nor should I have to.

It should be enough to point out that their  alternative -- round 'em all up,
kick 'em all out -- is truly insane. It would be lunacy to order the deportation
of 12 million people, assuming you could find them, and it would be impossible
to actually do such a thing.

We can and should argue about the impact of so many undocumented workers on
wages, working conditions and job security in this country. We can and should
argue about border security and immigration quotas. We can and should argue
about issues of culture and assimilation -- I happen to believe that those
cultural issues are a crock and that recent Latino immigrants are strengthening
this nation, as did previous waves of Irish, Italian, Eastern European and Asian
immigrants, but it's legitimate to debate that proposition.

What's crazy is to fantasize about hunting down millions of men, women and
children and forcing them to leave. That's what realists should say, in plain
English (or Spanish), when fantasists yell "amnesty."

The writer will answer questions at 1 p.m. today at
http://www.washingtonpost.com. His e-mail address is eugenerobinson@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              218 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 22, 2007 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

On Behalf of the 'American People'

BYLINE: Dana Milbank

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 848 words


Hours before the great immigration debate began in the Senate yesterday, Sen.
Jeff Sessions was polishing his arguments at a news conference in a park across
from the Capitol.

"This bill," the Alabama Republican told the cameras, "is not going to save
Social Security. It's not going to save Medicare. And it's not going to balance
the budget."

Well, that's true, Senator. It also won't end the war in Iraq, cure cancer or
cause the Nationals to win the pennant. It is, after all, an immigration bill.

Still, that non sequitur was as good a way as any to kick off what is becoming
Congress's annual immigration debate -- a celebration of legislative futility.

The need to change the nation's immigration laws cannot be doubted: Last week, a
Gallup poll confirmed that Americans consider it the most important issue after
Iraq and the economy, putting it ahead of health care and terrorism. The method
is also fairly obvious: The Bush administration has crafted a blend of border
enforcement and legalization that has majority support in both chambers. And yet
the ferocity of opponents on the far right and the far left makes it unlikely
that new immigration legislation will be enacted.

The assault on the latest immigration package began  on a freshly mulched patch
of the Upper Senate Park yesterday morning. In what sounded like an audition to
be guest anchor on "Lou Dobbs," Sessions and colleagues outlined their
objections to the yet-to-be-introduced proposal.

"The problem with it is that lower-skilled people with low education don't speak
English, have very difficult problems of being productive at the level that they
would pay taxes, and, in fact, often draw more in benefits than they pay into
the government," Sessions asserted.

Sen. Jim Bunning (R-Ky.) had a similar pitch: "This bill is compromising to the
country's economy, national security and very foundation of a democracy rooted
in the rule of law."

Heritage Foundation scholar Robert Rector, joining the lawmakers, reported that
the bill would cost taxpayers as much as it would to buy each of the immigrant
households "an automobile each and every year for their lives."

Fox News's Major Garrett pointed out that "the left seems to dislike it much
more than last year's bill," because those lawmakers consider it too tough on
immigrants. "Does any of that suggest to you that there might be some underlying
merit to this bill?"

Bunning was stumped. "I don't know the answer to your question," he said.

Opposition on the left will undoubtedly materialize, but it wasn't as well
organized yesterday. A coalition representing trade unions and immigration
groups scheduled a teleconference for  the afternoon but promptly canceled it.
That left the likes of Sessions unchallenged as he made his way from news
conference to television studio to the Senate floor. He took three hours of the
Senate's time to argue against the compromise, illustrating his argument with a
poster of an educational cartoon titled "How a Senate Bill Becomes a Law."

"So, Mr. President, how does a bill normally become law?" Sessions inquired.

The presiding officer, Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), didn't answer; he was
signing letters on his official stationery. All other senators had left the
chamber, as had all but three or four staffers. This left Sessions as the sole
spokesman for what he repeatedly referred to as "the American people."

"There's no way that we could and should produce this bill after one week's
debate," Sessions maintained. "If that's so, the American people can know we've
had a railroad job for sure."

Sessions went on to outline an expanded Bill of Rights for the American people.
"The American people have a right to be nervous about this," he said. "They have
a right to be cynical."

As for the negotiations that led to the immigration compromise, he said, "I will
tell you who was not in those meetings: It was the American people." In fact,
negotiators "would listen to everybody, I guess, but the American people."

Not surprisingly, Sessions argued that this exclusion "should cause the American
people to be troubled." The senator found this all the more disappointing
because "the American people, for the last 40 years, have had the right
instincts."

"The American people do care," Sessions continued. And public meetings about
immigration "might have really made the American people feel better." Instead,
there was "an attempt to mislead the American people," and, as a result, "the
American people are cynical on this point."

Sessions briefly yielded the floor to others who expanded on the theme. Sen.
David Vitter (R-La.) asserted that "if the American people fully understood what
was buried in this bill, there would be a massive outcry."

Nobody, however, could speak for the American people as well as Sessions could.
"It's time for us to listen to the American people," he lectured. "Their heart
is right on the subject. They believe in immigration. They believe in a lawful
system of immigration that should serve our national interest."

So, will Congress do something about it? The American people are skeptical.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Chip Somodevilla -- Getty Images; From left, Voice of the
American People Jeff Sessions, Rep. Brian Bilbray and Sen. Jim Bunning.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              219 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 23, 2007 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Chertoff Emerges as Linchpin

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 854 words


As senators unveiled a proposed immigration overhaul last week, many said they
received an unexpected escort toward compromise from Homeland Security Secretary
Michael Chertoff.

"He was the sherpa that guided us through the maze of how the law was broken,"
said supporter Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.). "His role in this was
indispensable in many ways."

The bill's sponsor, Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), said Chertoff's "mastery
of the issues and determination to reach compromises really made this agreement
possible."

At a time when the Bush administration's credibility with Congress is severely
strained over differences on Iraq and embattled Attorney General Alberto R.
Gonzales, Chertoff's standing on Capitol Hill is on the rise, members of both
parties said.

However fleeting -- and the fate of the immigration bill is far from clear --
the domestic security czar's emergence as a trusted player behind the scenes of
one of this year's most difficult issues is striking for a White House that has
enjoyed few big legislative victories or high-profile Cabinet successes.

Chertoff has gained that status by vouching for the performance of immigration
agencies viewed as some of the most dysfunctional in government, just two years
after DHS's botched response to Hurricane Katrina.

"His biggest contribution was giving us confidence in terms of how the new
program would work," said Graham. "He provided the bricks we used to build this
wall."

In an interview, Chertoff credited "intense, personal participation" with
senators by Commerce Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez, Bush deputy chief of staff
Joel D. Kaplan and domestic policy adviser Karl Zinsmeister.

"This was unique. You had two secretaries putting enormous care into this. The
president was very deeply engaged in this," Chertoff said. "It is very, very
important that they can trust you, that you build trust in working together. . .
. That's been a great lesson to me looking over the last two years."

Chertoff also warned critics that while the deal could be fine-tuned, it was
crafted to leave them with no alternatives if they want to change the system.

"This is the sweet spot," he said. "Efforts to blow up one part are going to
blow up the whole deal. . . . People who think they can in the end turn this
radically to the left or right are going to find there's no space there."

That combination of credibility and calculation was cited by senators, aides,
lobbyists and immigration analysts. They said Chertoff, a former federal appeals
court judge and Justice Department official, helped broker months of talks,
checking details and presenting policy options based on the real-world
capabilities of U.S. agencies at the border and in the workplace.

"He was exceptionally effective," Kaplan said.

Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.), who called for Chertoff to resign
in January 2006 after DHS dropped Las Vegas from a list of high-risk cities
eligible for increased security grants, had praise for the White House's
involvement in the negotiations.

Reid criticized several provisions in the guest-worker and legalization proposal
but told reporters yesterday, "I do say this about the White House: They said
they would get involved in this, and they have. And I appreciate that."

Several Republicans who have called for stronger enforcement but oppose the bill
declined to comment. But Rep. Peter T. King (R-N.Y.), ranking Republican on the
House Homeland Security Committee, said that while the Senate "amnesty proposal"
will weaken national security, Chertoff "has approached it in a rational way,"
adding: "He's articulate when he describes it, and he makes a good case for a
bad law."

Former immigration officials said Chertoff has for two years carefully navigated
between critiques from the right and left that the U.S. government could not be
trusted to enforce the laws, and that existing laws are failing.

Sen. Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.), for example, had reservations about the proposal.
But a two-day trip with Chertoff in April helped cement his support for the
bill, as long as it delays the new visa programs until progress is made on
border control measures.

Carl W. Hampe, immigration subcommittee counsel under former senator Alan K.
Simpson (R-Wyo.), who championed 1986 immigration legislation, said Chertoff
also helped shape the political environment via DHS's "criminal law-focused
enforcement of immigration law," which "certainly scared some employers." He
attributed the trend to Chertoff's tenure as former assistant attorney general
for the Justice Department's criminal division.

Bill Yates, chief of operations for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services in
DHS until last year, agreed that Chertoff's grasp of the debate is crucial, but
said that will require him to stay deeply involved if the programs are enacted.

"He's got to dedicate a considerable amount of time to these issues," Yates
said, because Chertoff's subordinates who oversee immigration agencies have
little experience themselves. "I think very highly of him. I think it's just an
enormous task, and he doesn't have that kind of knowledge base beneath him."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              220 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 25, 2007 Friday
                                Regional Edition

One Short Amendment;
The Amnesty Compromise Needs a Caveat

BYLINE: Charles Krauthammer

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 774 words


As the most attractive land for would-be immigrants, America has the equivalent
of the first 100 picks in the NBA draft. Yet through lax border control and
sheer inertia, it allows those slots to be filled by (with apologies to Bill
Buckley) the first 100 names in the San Salvador phone book.

The immigration compromise being debated in Congress does improve our criteria
for selecting legal immigrants. Unfortunately, its inadequacies in dealing with
illegal immigration -- specifically, in ensuring that 10 years from now we will
not have a new cohort of 12 million demanding amnesty -- completely swamp the
good done on legal immigration.

Today, preference for legal immigration is given not to the best and the
brightest waiting on long lists everywhere on Earth to get into America, but to
family members of those already here. Given that America has the pick of the
world's energetic and entrepreneurial, this is a stunning competitive advantage,
stunningly squandered.

The current reform would establish a point system for legal immigrants in which
brains and enterprise count. This is a significant advance.  But before we get
too ecstatic about finally doing the blindingly obvious, note two caveats:

(a) This new point system doesn't go into effect for eight years -- eight years
of a new flood of immigrants chosen not for aptitude but bloodline. And who
knows if a different Congress eight years from now will keep the current
bargain?

(b) It's not enough to just create a point system in which credit is given for
education, skills and English competence. These points can be outweighed by
points given for -- you guessed it -- family ties, which are already built into
the proposed point system. There are already amendments on the Senate floor to
magnify the value of being a niece rather than a nurse. (Barack Obama is
proposing to abolish the point system entirely in five years.) A point system
can be manipulated to give far more weight to family than skills -- until it
becomes nothing but a cover for the old chain-migration system.

As for the bill's provisions about illegal immigration, let's not quibble: It
grants the essentials of amnesty. True, there is a $5,000 fine (for a family of
five!) attached to registering for legal status in the United States. But the
truly significant penalty for illegal immigration is deportation -- which undoes
everything the immigrant has built in America. When the feds raid a sweatshop,
the fear is not that the agent will grab you and yell, "We are here to collect a
fine." The fear is that he will yell, "We are here to deport you back to the
subsistence and misery you fled in China."

From the moment this bill is signed, every illegal alien who does not have a
criminal record can register with the U.S. government for temporary legal
status. Moreover, as soon as the president certifies that certain border
enforcement triggers have been met, this cohort of 12 million becomes eligible
for the new Z visa -- renewable until death -- which allows them to stay and
work and travel and reenter.

This is amnesty -- and I would be all in favor of it if I believed in the border
enforcement mechanisms in this bill. If these are indeed the last illegal
immigrants to come in, let us generously and humanely take them out of the
shadows. But if we don't close the border, that generous and humane gesture will
be an announcement to the world that the smart way to come to America is
illegally.

In this bill, unfortunately, enforcement at the border is all bureaucratic
inputs and fancy gadgets: principally, a doubling of the Border Patrol to
28,000, lots of high-tech sensors and four unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs). And
370 miles of fence -- half of what Congress had mandated last year.

Does anyone imagine these will stop the flood? Four UAVs? And how does 370 miles
of fence close a border of 2,100 miles? And if fences work (of course they do:
look at the San Diego fence), why not build one all the way?

The amnesty is triggered upon presidential certification that these bureaucratic
benchmarks are met -- regardless of what is actually happening at the border.
What vacuous nonsense. The trigger must be something real. I propose a single
amendment, short and very concrete: "The amnesty shall be declared the morning
after the president has certified (citing disinterested studies) that illegal
immigration across the southern border has been reduced by 90 percent." That
single provision would guarantee passage of this comprehensive reform because
most Americans would be glad to grant a generous amnesty -- if they can be
assured it would be the last.

letters@charleskrauthammer.com

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              221 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 25, 2007 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Worker Visas Intensify Debate on Immigration;
Skilled Foreigners Embraced, Envied

BYLINE: Pamela Constable; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1373 words


In a sleek, spartan office overlooking Tysons Corner, three young men in shirt
sleeves hunch over computer screens. Paul Murphy is designing a site for golf
tournaments. Pranay Gujjeti is creating an image-editing program. Darren Gibney
is producing a commercial for fire alarms.

These foreign-born software engineers -- from Northern Ireland, India and
Ireland -- are legal immigrants, spending several years in the United States on
special work visas. They say they thrive on the exposure to America's
cutting-edge technology and competitive culture. Their boss at Virtual Atlantic
Inc., Austin Farshi, says they bring an eager attitude and exceptional talent.

But as the emotionally charged issue of immigration consumes the U.S. Senate and
the nation this month, skilled foreign professionals are almost as contentious a
part of the restructuring debate as impoverished illegal immigrants who sneak
across the Mexican border to harvest crops or hang drywall.

In many ways, the proposed legislation favors high-skilled immigrants and the
industries that employ them. It would increase the ceiling on new H-1B
professional visas, which allow one- to six-year stays, from 65,000 to 115,000 a
year. More important, it would shift the historic emphasis in U.S. immigration
law from family-reunification to educational and skill levels in determining who
is eligible for permanent residency.

Companies that rely on skilled foreign workers say they desperately need more of
them, but opponents see their proliferation as an invisible blight on the
economy. They argue that the H-1B visa program displaces tens of thousands of
U.S.-born professionals, depresses wages and exploits programmers from other
countries.

"This is a cheap labor program, a 20th-century version of importing cheap tomato
pickers," said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Washington-based Center
for Immigration Studies. Older American professionals seeking decent salaries
and benefits, he said, are being "squeezed out" of high-tech fields by young
immigrants who are "willing to sleep on the floor and work 18 hours a day
because they get something else:  a shot at living in the United States."

In a study released last week, the center found that "very few" H-1B workers
could be called highly skilled. It also found that wages for such workers were
on average $12,000 below their U.S.-born counterparts and that employers often
said the "prevailing" wage in a variety of skilled fields -- which the law says
all H1-B visa holders must be paid -- was significantly lower than it actually
was.

Groups representing U.S. workers in several industries say they have suffered
from the H-1B phenomenon, especially electrical engineers and computer
programmers. John Bauman, president of a Connecticut professional workers rights
group, said many members once held skilled jobs in the state's huge insurance
industry but were gradually laid off and replaced by low-cost foreigners.

"Our co-founder once earned more than $100,000 with an insurance firm. Now he's
driving an 18-wheeler," Bauman said.

Critics of skilled labor visas say high-tech firms in particular use a variety
of tricks to replace domestic workers with foreigners and pay them less than the
law allows. One such practice is to use subcontracting firms to sponsor their
visas so the actual employers are not subject to the same legal restrictions.
Another is to hire foreign students, who are exempt from visa ceilings if they
have a graduate degree from a U.S. institution.

"If someone gets a master's degree in basket weaving from a fourth-rate diploma
mill, should that be a fast track to immigration?" demanded John Miano, a
software industry analyst affiliated with Krikorian's organization. "Where do
you draw the line?"

Somewhat surprisingly to the bill's supporters in Congress and the White House,
advocates of skilled immigrants and the high-tech field have heaped criticism
instead of praise on the proposal. They say that the higher visa ceiling is
still too low and that the new rules would make it more cumbersome for companies
to hire foreign workers, removing their ability to select individual workers to
sponsor for visas.

"This bill is pretty much a disaster for high-tech employers," said Stuart
Anderson of the nonprofit National Foundation for American Policy in Arlington
County. He said the proposed rules, which would require employers to prove a
temporary foreign worker has special skills and would not displace a U.S.
worker, are "so onerous and vague that you would start shackling fast-moving
companies. The risk is that they may decide it is better to expand outside the
United States."

A study released this week by the policy group found that, contrary to
allegations that foreign workers are flooding a number of high-skilled
industries, new H-1B visa holders account for only 0.07 percent of the total
U.S. workforce and that 57 percent of them have advanced degrees. It also found
that, contrary to fears that Americans are being displaced, computer and math
professions in the United States are at "virtual full employment," with jobless
rates of 2.4 percent.

But many employers of skilled visa workers, in a variety of fields, say they
genuinely need their abilities and are not just looking to save money. They
insist that U.S. universities produce nowhere near enough highly qualified
graduates in a number of technical fields and that H-1B visas are their only
relief.

"It's not mostly about the salary; it's about the attitude," said Farshi, of
Virtual Atlantic. "They do the same work Americans do, and they earn the same
amount. But they have more technical expertise than many Americans coming out of
college, and they see working in this field as a prestigious opportunity instead
of taking it for granted. We are getting the best of the best."

This year, the demand for H-1B visas was so great that April 2, when the
government opened its doors to applicants for the annual quota, all 65,000 slots
were claimed the same day and thousands more were rejected. Industry advocates
and lawyers said that even if the ceiling were increased to 115,000 as the
Senate bill proposes, next year's quota would also be immediately filled.

"I had 24 candidates this year, and we didn't get a single hit," said Ali
Saberi, a Bethesda man whose company provides technology and management for
public utilities. "It's not fair. I have made commitments to so many customers
and contracts, and I won't have people to support them. It is hard to find
people in the U.S. who know the new technology, and training them is a lot
tougher than bringing someone in who already knows it."

Although most skilled visa positions are in highly specialized fields, employers
sponsor foreign workers for jobs as diverse as hotel managers, exotic cuisine
chefs and public accountants. In every case, they say -- but do not have to
prove -- they cannot find an U.S.-born worker with the specific skills they
seek.

Jerry Love, a partner in a Texas accounting firm and an industry advocate for
H-1B visas, said his field has been experiencing an enormous demand for young
accountants that U.S. colleges cannot fill. He said the profession is far more
attractive to foreign-born students than U.S. natives even though firms such as
his offer equal salaries and benefits to both groups.

"In accounting, we have more than enough demand for every single person who
graduates today," Love said. "A lot of large universities are at maximum
capacity in accounting, and a large percentage of those students are already
foreign." U.S. students, he said, "may not think they are good in math, or they
don't see accountants on TV the way they see doctors and lawyers."

At Virtual Atlantic, U.S.-born software workers outnumber the handful of foreign
visa holders, but the three young immigrants seem to infuse the enterprise with
a go-getting professional spirit -- as well as a passion for music and soccer.

"If you're smart and want to work hard, this is the best place," said Murphy,
26, who has a master's degree in engineering and makes more than $60,000 a year.
"At home, you start with the same salary, but then it takes a long time to
rise," he said. "In America, you get recognized, you move faster. It's great."

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE
IMAGE; By Richard A. Lipski -- The Washington Post; Austin Farshi, head of
Virtual Atlantic, oversees foreign workers Paul Murphy and Pranay Gujjeti,
foreground, and Darren Gibney. Legal immigrants offer more "expertise than many
Americans coming out of college," Farshi says.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              222 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 26, 2007 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Officials Say Justice Dept. Based Hires on Politics Before Goodling Tenure

BYLINE: Dan Eggen; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 689 words


The Justice Department considered political affiliation in screening applicants
for immigration court judgeships for several years until hiring was frozen in
December after objections from department lawyers, current and former officials
said yesterday.

The disclosures mean that the Justice Department may have violated civil service
laws, which prohibit political considerations in hiring, for as long as two
years before the tenure of Monica M. Goodling, the former aide to Attorney
General Alberto R. Gonzales who testified about the practice this week.

Goodling told the House Judiciary Committee on Wednesday that she "crossed the
line" in considering political affiliation for several categories of career
applicants at Justice, including immigration judges.

The attorney for D. Kyle Sampson, Gonzales's former chief of staff, said
yesterday that Sampson and other officials also forwarded names of politically
connected applicants for the immigration courts, based on legal advice that
Sampson was given and on common historical practice in the department.

"Based on this understanding, Kyle Sampson and others in the department believed
it appropriate to forward names of qualified candidates who enjoyed political
support," Bradford A. Berenson, Sampson's attorney, said in a statement.

Sampson began working at Justice in late 2003, and officials said the practice
probably began in early 2004. Goodling became Gonzales's counsel in October
2005, and his senior counselor and White House liaison in April 2006. The
Justice Department said yesterday that its administrative immigration courts are
covered by civil service laws that prohibit political considerations in hiring.

The department's hiring practices have come under scrutiny in the furor over the
firings last year of nine U.S. attorneys. A Justice Department investigation of
the dismissals has been expanded to include whether Goodling and other Gonzales
aides improperly took politics into account in hiring for nonpolitical jobs.

Goodling testified that Sampson told her that the department's Office of Legal
Counsel had concluded that immigration judges were not covered by civil service
rules. The Justice Department said after her testimony that it had "located no
record" of an OLC opinion that reached that conclusion.

Goodling's attorney, John M. Dowd, said in a statement yesterday that Goodling
was referring in her testimony to the verbal advice from Sampson, not to any
formal opinion from OLC.

Berenson said the legal debate over whether immigration judges are covered by
civil service rules "was highly uncertain and legally complex."

The nation's 226 immigration judges are civil service employees appointed by the
attorney general. Gonzales has appointed 26, while his predecessor, John D.
Ashcroft, appointed 49, Justice officials said.

A number of the judges appointed over the past two years have strong Republican
or Bush administration ties, including former senior Justice officials and a
former GOP counsel on Capitol Hill, records show.

One judge appointed in 2005, Garry D. Malphrus, was associate director of the
White House Domestic Policy Council from 2001 to 2004, records show. Another,
appointed last year, Mark H. Metcalf, is a former Justice and Defense
department lawyer who unsuccessfully ran as a GOP congressional candidate in
Kentucky.

Officials said yesterday that the debate over immigration judges came to a head
late last year when, in response to a lawsuit, department lawyers concluded that
political considerations were improperly used in the selection process. Hiring
was suspended from December until April, when a new merit-based personnel
process was put in place, the department said.

Also yesterday, the House Judiciary panel announced that it would seek testimony
from outgoing Deputy Attorney General Paul J. McNulty and a second round of
testimony from William E. Moschella, a senior McNulty aide. Goodling alleged
that McNulty was "not fully candid" with Congress about his knowledge of White
House involvement in the prosecutor firings and other issues. McNulty, who is
resigning in the summer, denied the allegations.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Linda Davidson -- The Washington Post; D. Kyle Sampson,
above, who began working at Justice in 2003, is the former chief of staff for
Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              223 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 28, 2007 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Minor Offenses Make Up Most Immigration Cases

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 378 words


Most of the Department of Homeland Security's immigration enforcement work is
consumed not with stopping terrorists and unraveling their support networks, but
with relatively minor administrative violations, according to a new analysis of
federal records.

DHS authorities filed charges against more than 800,000 people in U.S.
immigration court between 2004 and 2006, but only 126 of them were accused of
terrorism- or national-security-related crimes, according to the study by the
Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse (TRAC) at Syracuse University.

Of that number, 41 were removed from the country, four of them on terrorism
charges.

Routine violations, such as entering the country illegally or overstaying a
visa, made up 86 percent of deportation cases, the study found.

Thirty-one other people were referred for federal prosecution in U.S. criminal
courts as terrorists or terrorist financiers by Homeland Security investigators
or by the FBI with DHS assistance.

"Traditional regulation of immigration to this day remains central to the
activities of both" of DHS's main enforcement agencies -- U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement and U.S. Customs and Border Protection -- study authors
David Burnham and Susan B. Long wrote.

Homeland Security spokesman Russ Knocke called the report politically motivated,
ill-conceived and fundamentally mistaken about how the department's enforcement
strategy targets "security risks and criminals in a post-9/11 world."

"Terrorists do not show up at ports of entry to say, 'I'm here, I'm a terrorist,
take me into custody,' " Knocke said. "By being tough and being serious about
enforcing the rule of law, you make it increasingly difficult for security risks
to exploit the system."

Department officials noted that U.S. authorities often charge suspects with
less-serious crimes in immigration proceedings because tougher charges are
harder to prove and the ultimate penalty of deportation is the same. In other
cases, defendants may face relatively minor charges in exchange for cooperating
in terrorism probes. Tougher U.S. screening overseas of visitors may also weed
out suspects before they arrive.

For the report, TRAC analyzed millions of Justice Department immigration court
and U.S. prosecutor records dating to 1992.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              224 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 30, 2007 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Ted Kennedy Gets a Little Republican Respect

BYLINE: Elizabeth Williamson; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 921 words


In a recent speech to a Mississippi civic group, Sen. Trent Lott brought up Sen.
Edward M. Kennedy's role on important domestic legislation, including Kennedy's
latest push to overhaul the nation's immigration laws.

When Lott was finished, a man in the audience came up to him and said: "You did
real good. But that part about Kennedy -- don't say that no more."

"He is the number one boogeyman for conservative Republicans," Lott said later
of the longtime Democratic senator from Massachusetts. But, Lott added, "he is a
good legislator, and you can't take that away from him."

That Lott would praise a liberal icon of the Democratic Party might seem odd.
But Kennedy's work on the immigration bill is, in fact, the third time he has
thrown himself behind a major initiative of President Bush's. Kennedy gave
crucial support to two of the president's key first-term domestic achievements,
the No Child Left Behind education law and a Medicare prescription drug bill.
That he helped Republicans burnish their record on such trademark Democratic
issues as education and health care mystified some in both parties. But his
alliance with Bush on immigration is simply a matter of necessity.

"Senator Kennedy's name has been on every major immigration reform bill since
1965, and he has always teamed up with Republicans," said Cecilia Mu?oz, senior
vice president of policy for the National Council of La Raza, a Latino civil
rights and advocacy organization. "The fact that President Bush is pro-reform .
. . creates the political opportunity."

In an interview, Kennedy said that the possibility of providing millions of
illegal immigrants with a road to legal status was too important to ignore.
"It's a defining issue about the kind of country we are," he said. "It's a moral
issue. It's how we treat people."

Bush and Kennedy have discussed immigration issues for years, but when they met
in January at a White House event marking the fifth anniversary of No Child Left
Behind, it seemed that the time was right for both men. "He spoke about this
issue knowledgeably," Kennedy said. "And he was willing to take some political
hits on this. That caught my eye."

Kennedy, now in his 75th year and his 45th in the Senate, is the
third-longest-serving senator in history -- the only current senator who beats
his record is fellow Democrat Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia. Kennedy has
served on education panels since he entered the Senate, and today he chairs its
committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions. In 2001, Kennedy was the
lead Senate Democrat behind No Child Left Behind because he said it promised the
measurable achievement for the poor that he had envisioned for years. He
stressed to Bush his desire that the homeless, immigrants and other
traditionally weak performers get special assistance. But, Kennedy says, program
budgets have since shortchanged those students, leaving him deeply disappointed.

"With the program now up for renewal, he said, "I want to get a reauthorization,
but we want to work with the administration and we want a give and take."

In 2002, Kennedy sponsored a bipartisan Medicare drug bill, a precursor to one
he backed the next year. Then Republicans shut him out of the conference to
write a final bill, while AARP, which had not split with the senator before,
switched sides. The legislation that emerged favored the health-care industry
more than seniors, in the view of Kennedy and many other Democrats.

"We went in with our eyes wide open, and we passed a very good prescription drug
bill with 76 votes in the Senate," he said. "Virtually overnight, we were
isolated."

Bush touted both domestic programs in his reelection campaign, while Kennedy
characterized the president's record this way in a 2004 speech: "Iraq, jobs,
Medicare, schools, issue after issue -- mislead, deceive, make up the needed
facts, smear the character of any critics. Again and again we see this cynical,
despicable strategy playing out."

Despite the harsh rhetoric, Kennedy says he and Bush have "a good professional
relationship." He rejects any idea that he might not have entertained another
alliance with Bush without a Democratic majority in Congress.

"I'm not trying to be cute with anybody about this. I want to get things done
[on] challenging public policy issues that affect real people," he said,
pointing out his cooperation with Republicans on issues including overhauling
the Food and Drug Administration to hate-crimes legislation. Sometimes, he said,
"all sides can win." The immigration bill is modeled, at least in part, on one
that Kennedy and Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) wrote and moved through the Senate
last year, although it died in the House. All sides credit Kennedy for keeping a
dozen senators and administration officials at the table until they reached an
agreement.

"He was very determined," said Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), reminding
lawmakers that immigration is "what we all harken back to." Last week, Kennedy
dominated the Senate floor, blocking amendments sponsored by fellow Democrats in
the name of preserving the deal.

Early on, some Republicans wondered whether his commitment was sincere. But over
time, said Sen. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.), "you really saw his skills at just getting
people together and banging out an agreement."

The bill -- called by some critics the "Kennedy-Bush Amnesty Program" -- may yet
fail. But Kennedy remains hopeful.

"If people want to make progress," he said, "you can find common ground."

Staff researcher Madonna Lebling contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Chip Somodevilla -- Getty Images; Sen. Edward M. Kennedy
(D-Mass.), joined, from left, Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff;
Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez; and Sens. Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.), Johnny
Isakson (R-Ga.) and Ken Salazar (D-Colo.) at a news conference this month to
announce a compromise on immigration legislation with the White House.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              225 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 1, 2007 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Get in Line, Einstein

BYLINE: Charles Krauthammer

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 776 words


Beware legislative behemoths. Beware "comprehensive immigration reform." Any
bill that is 380 pages long is bound to have nooks and crannies reflecting
private deals, quiet paybacks and ad hoc arrangements that you often don't learn
about until it's too late.

The main provisions of the immigration reform monster are well known. But how
many knew, before reading last Saturday's Post, that if Einstein were trying to
get a green card, he would have to get in line with Argentine plumbers and
Taiwanese accountants to qualify under the new "point system" that gives credit
for such things as English proficiency and reliable work history? Good thing
Albert was a patent office clerk, and that grooming isn't part of the point
system.

Until now we've had a special category for highly skilled, world-renowned and
indispensable talent. Great musicians, athletes and high-tech managers come in
today under the EB-1 visa. This apparently is going to be abolished in the name
of an idiotic egalitarianism.

I suspect this provision is a kind of apology for one of the few very good ideas
in the bill -- taking skill, education and English proficiency into account
rather than just family ties, thus cutting back on a chain migration system in
which a Yemeni laborer can bring over an entire clan while the engineers and
teachers desperate to get here languish in the old country.

The price for this lurch into rationality appears to be the abolition of the VIP
fast track, which constitutes less than 2 percent of total immigration and, from
the point of view of the national interest, is the most valuable. This
staggeringly stupid idea is reason alone to vote against the immigration bill.
Beyond stupidity, the bill offers farce. My favorite episode is the back-taxes
caper. John McCain has been going around telling everyone that in order to be
legalized, illegal immigrants will, among other things, have to pay back taxes.
Such are the stern requirements on the "path to citizenship."

Problem is, McCain then discovered that back taxes were not in the bill. The
Department of Homeland Security had argued that collecting on money paid under
the table -- usually in cash, often with no receipts -- is pretty much
impossible. Indeed, the cost of calculating and collecting the money would
probably exceed the proceeds.

Now, nonpayment of taxes is not the kind of thing you want to defend when trying
to sell immigration reform to citizens who do pay their taxes -- back and
otherwise. So last week John McCain proposed an amendment to restore the
back-taxes provision. A somewhat sheepish Senate approved this sop --
unanimously.

But the campaign for legalization does not stop at stupidity and farce. It adds
mendacity as well. Such as the front-page story in last Friday's New York Times
claiming that "a large majority of Americans want to change the immigration laws
to allow illegal immigrants to gain legal status."

Sounds unbelievable. And it is. A Rasmussen poll had shown that 72 percent of
Americans thought border enforcement and reducing illegal immigration to be very
important. Only 29 percent thought legalization to be very important. Indeed,
when a different question in the Times poll -- one that did not make the front
page -- asked respondents if they wanted to see illegal immigrants prosecuted
and deported, 69 percent said yes.

I looked for the poll question that justified the pro-legalization claim. It was
Question 61. Just as I suspected, it was perfectly tendentious. It gave the
respondent two options: (a) allow illegal immigrants to apply for legalization
(itself a misleading characterization because the current bill grants instant
legal status to all non-criminals), or (b) deport them.

Surprise. Sixty-two percent said (a). That's like asking about abortion: Do you
favor (a) legalization or (b) capital punishment for doctor and mother? There
is, of course, a third alternative: what we've been living with for the past 20
years -- a certain tolerance of illegal immigrants that allows 12 million to
stay and work but that denies them most of the privileges and government payouts
reserved for legal citizens and thus acts as at least a mild disincentive to
even more massive illegal immigration.

Indeed, unless the immigration bill is fixed, that alternative is what the
country will in essence choose when the bill fails. My view is that it could be
fixed with a very strong border control provision. But let's make sure we know
what's really in the bill and not distort what the American people are really
demanding, which is border control first. And for God's sake, keep Einstein on
the fast track.

letters@charleskrauthammer.com

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              226 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 3, 2007 Sunday
                                 Met 1 Edition

Rally Draws Thousands of Immigrants to Capitol;
As Senate Debates Complex Bill, Some Cite Simple Rights

BYLINE: Pamela Constable; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 854 words


Waving tiny American flags, a crowd of several thousand people -- almost all of
Central American or Mexican origin -- rallied yesterday at the U.S. Capitol on a
humid afternoon to call for immigration reform and demand a fair path to
legalization for the country's estimated 12 million illegal immigrants.

Although the peaceful gathering on the West Lawn was organized to give
immigrants a voice in the current debate on a complex Senate immigration reform
bill, the message of many speeches from the stage and comments in the crowd was
a simpler, more universal appeal for respect and rights.

"We want people to know we did not come here to steal jobs from Americans. We
came to work hard and make a life for our children," said Jose Rosa, 37, a
father of six from El Salvador who waits tables at a Fairfax restaurant. "Back
home there is no way I can support my family on $3 a day. Their future is here."

"We are cleaners, construction workers, restaurant workers. . . . We are also
doctors, lawyers, soldiers who defend our country," Jaime Contreras, president
of the National Capital Immigration Coalition, shouted from a loudspeaker on the
stage, as cheers rose from the crowd. "We are workers, not criminals!"

When it came to addressing the bill before Congress, the coalition -- composed
of area churches, labor unions and immigrant advocate groups -- had a more
complicated message that was lost on some of the rally participants. Although
the groups generally support immigration reform, they are critical of many
aspects of the bill.

Yesterday, the coalition distributed fliers saying the bill, the result of
arduous negotiations between the Bush administration and a bipartisan Senate
group, had "deeply problematic" aspects. They said that the process for
legalizing undocumented immigrants was far too costly and would unfairly
separate families and that the proposal for an expanded temporary "guest worker"
program would condemn immigrants to "permanent servitude."

Because of the complexities, as well as the hot sun that drove many people under
shady trees on the far edges of the lawn, it was not easy for rally leaders to
get a strong chant-and-response going. Speakers repeatedly shouted, "What do we
want?" But it was not always clear what answer they expected. People gamely
mumbled a variety of responses, including "Work!" and "Legalization!"

According to some organizers at the rally, it was difficult to persuade people
to attend because of a widespread mistaken belief among local immigrants that
the bill had already passed or was a fait accompli. Coalition leaders had hoped
to draw tens of thousands, but by mid-afternoon there were only several thousand
people on the lawn.

The Senate proposal, which also calls for increased border controls, a crackdown
on firms that employ illegal workers and a shift from family-oriented to
skill-oriented legal immigration, has survived two weeks of often rancorous
debate and several amendments that could have killed it. The measure will be
taken up again when Congress returns from a brief recess next week.

Although not always familiar with such details, many immigrants in the crowd
offered clear opinions about why they believe the government needs a workable
legalization program, and they strongly disputed critics' claims that this would
amount to amnesty for lawbreakers who had sneaked into the United States.

"We work hard, we pay taxes and we have kept a clean record, but we have
absolutely no way to become legal," said Roberto, 28, a father of two from
Guatemala who asked that his last name not be used. He and his family arrived
early at the rally, and both children had red, white and blue flags painted on
their faces.

"I would like to go home for my parents, but I must stay here for my children,"
Roberto explained. "We are not asking for any amnesty. We are asking for a
chance to come out of the shadows and show we are good people. We want to work
honorably, live peacefully and become integrated into this country."

Many families included members with varying legal standing. Some parents with
temporary status in the country from past amnesties had children who are U.S.
citizens; there also were couples in which one spouse is legal and the other is
illegal. Ana Espinoza, 31, from El Salvador, came to the rally with her mother,
who is a legal resident, and her two children, one of whom is a U.S. citizen and
the other of whom is in the country illegally.

"We need legalization. I need legalization. We have to get all of this in
order," said Espinoza, an office cleaner who has been here six years and owns a
townhouse in Germantown.

"I like this country, because it has good rules and rights," she said. "If we
had to leave, we would lose our home. We would lose everything we have worked
for."

Leonardo Gonzalez, 50, a Mexican immigrant who came with a church group from
Baltimore, said he prayed for legalization because it would give him the courage
to ask for a raise. "I earn $9 an hour remodeling rooms, and I send $200 home
each month," he said. "I know my work is worth more than that, but until I
become legal, I am worth nothing."

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photos By Ricky Carioti -- The Washington Post; Francisco Ortiz
of Woodbridge and thousands of others, mostly Latino, rally at the Capitol for
immigration reform. "We are workers, not criminals!" one speaker said.
IMAGE; Priscilla Placido, 5, of Lanham rests as she and her mother, Denise
Martinez, participate in the immigration reform rally. The crowd faced a hot,
humid afternoon.
IMAGE; A Senate immigration reform bill was at the heart of yesterday's rally.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              227 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 4, 2007 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

The Hurdles to Come

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 253 words


The bipartisan coalition that forged the Senate compromise on immigration
legislation has held together to stave off amendments, from liberals and
conservatives, that could upset the delicate deal. But this week the group faces
the biggest challenges to its cohesion. Here are some of the pending amendments:

Sen. John Cornyn (R-Tex.) would expand the number of crimes defined as
aggravated felonies, creating new grounds to deport illegal immigrants and make
prospective immigrants inadmissible.

Sen. Robert Menendez (D-N.J.) would force the Department of Homeland Security to
process all family-based immigration applications that have been backlogged
since January of this year. The compromise bill clears up the backlog that
formed before May 2005.

Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) would require those voting in
person to present photo identification.

Menendez and Sen. Christopher J. Dodd (D-Conn.) would raise the cap on green
cards for the parents of U.S. citizens from 40,000 to 90,000 a year.

Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.) would prevent newly legalized undocumented workers
from earning the earned-income tax credit.

Sens. Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-N.Y.) and Chuck Hagel (R-Neb.) would allow
reunification green cards to be granted to the spouses and minor children of
lawful permanent residents, not just U.S. citizens.

Menendez and Sen. Barack Obama (D-Ill.) would attach a sunset date to the new
point system that awards green cards based more on education and skill levels
than on family connections.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              228 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 4, 2007 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Immigrants Equal Growth . . .;
Reform isn't just humane. It's self-interest.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 579 words


THE SENATE'S rancorous debate over immigration reform has for the moment muffled
an equally contentious dispute about immigrants' economic impact. The quarrel is
in some respects a theological one, enlisting think tanks, scholars, researchers
and statisticians whose irreconcilable and sometimes ideologically loaded
conclusions fuel the broader political battle. Amid the blizzard of data
concerning immigrants' effects on wages, welfare and municipal budgets, the
essential point is this: The latest wave of immigrants -- legal and illegal,
skilled and unskilled -- has stimulated enormous economic activity and wealth
generation in this country, and it is implausible that the American economy
would fare as well without them.

A recent study using data collected through 2004 found that Hispanics in North
Carolina (many of them immigrants, both legal and illegal) contributed $756
million in state taxes while costing about $817 million in public education,
corrections and health care. That nets out to a modest $61 million drain on
state coffers. But the study, by researchers at the University of North Carolina
at Chapel Hill, also found that that deficit was dwarfed by the fact that
Hispanics contributed more than $9 billion, or some 3 percent, to the state's
economy in 2004, an amount projected to double by 2009.

The North Carolina study further found that adults of prime working age (18-44)
comprised a much larger portion of Hispanic households than non-Hispanic ones;
that the state's 9,000-plus Hispanic-owned businesses were poised for rapid
expansion; and the state's exports to Latin America, which account for 70,000
jobs, are booming, thanks partly to the swift growth of the Hispanic population.
Little wonder that the study was conducted for the North Carolina Bankers
Association; immigrants are good for business. Similar studies in Arkansas,
Texas and elsewhere have arrived at like-minded conclusions.

The flip side is that immigrants are said to add to the poverty rolls, strain
public services and, in some high-immigrant states such as California, increase
the tax burden on non-immigrant households. But even here the evidence is mixed.
Since most immigrants come when they are young and working (55 percent of
Hispanics in the North Carolina study were 18 to 44), they tend not to collect
Social Security or Medicare for many years -- even while paying into the systems
with payroll taxes, in many cases with phony Social Security numbers (meaning
they will contribute but not collect).  In fact, illegal immigrants do not get
federal welfare benefits of any kind. At the same time they often pay income tax
(through paycheck withholdings) and sales tax, thereby helping directly or
indirectly to underwrite transportation, health care, education and other
services. And while immigrants surely have contributed to some extent to the
ranks of the poor, that was also true of previous waves of immigrants; the point
is, most of those immigrants didn't stay poor.

Most members of Congress realize that deporting 12 million illegal immigrants is
a non-starter. But the real reason to find a humane solution that will enable
those immigrants to stay legally and work toward citizenship, and to construct
some workable system by which future newcomers can come and work, is that they
make important contributions to the vibrancy of America's economy and social
fabric. That's been true of immigrants throughout the nation's history and
remains so today.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              229 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 4, 2007 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Backers of Immigration Bill More Optimistic;
Lawmakers Cite Sense of Urgency

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1005 words


After a week at home with their constituents, the Senate architects of a
delicate immigration compromise are increasingly convinced that they will hold
together this week to pass an overhaul of the nation's immigration laws, with
momentum building behind one unifying theme: Today's immigration system is too
broken to go unaddressed.

Congress's week-long Memorial Day recess was expected to leave the bill in
tatters. But with a week of action set to begin today, the legislation's
champions say they believe that the voices of opposition, especially from
conservatives, represent a small segment of public opinion. Sen. Jon Kyl
(R-Ariz.), who led negotiations on the bill for his party, said the flood of
angry calls and protests that greeted the deal two weeks ago has since receded
every day.

"You just have to recognize you will get 300 calls, you'll get conflicts at town
hall meetings -- all of them negative," said Rep. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.), who
consulted with Kyl and hopes to carry a similar deal through the House in July.
"The last few days have really turned things around."

Public opinion polls seem to support Kyl's contention that Americans are far
more open to the deal than the voices of opposition would indicate. In a
Washington Post-ABC News poll released today, 52 percent of Americans said they
would support a program giving illegal immigrants the right to stay and work in
the United States if they pay a fine and meet other requirements. Opposition to
that proposal was 44 percent.

So far, the dozen senators who cut the deal have been able to hold their
compromise together. They have beaten back amendments that the group deemed to
be coalition-killers, such as one to strike the bill's temporary-worker program
and another to remove its provisions to legalize the nation's estimated 12
million illegal immigrants.

This week's amendments are more subtle, and therefore, more threatening to the
coalition.

Sen. Robert Menendez (D-N.J.) will push to make the Department of Homeland
Security consider more of the family-based immigration applications that have
already been filed, adding 833,000 immigrants. Kyl said he will withdraw his
support for the bill if the amendment passes.

He also said he will walk away if Menendez and Sen. Christopher J. Dodd
(D-Conn.) win passage of an amendment that would more than double the number of
green cards available under the bill for the parents of U.S. citizens. Kyl said
conservatives believe today's family unification system is being misused by
illegal immigrants, whose U.S.-born children are citizens.

Such amendments will be difficult to resist for the compromise's chief
Democratic architect, Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (Mass.), who helped create the
family unification system in 1965 and whom conservatives are now counting on to
help dismantle it.

Republicans in the coalition will be expected to oppose amendments that put them
in equally difficult positions. One, sponsored by Sen. John Cornyn (R-Tex.),
would expand the list of crimes making illegal immigrants ineligible for
legalization. Cornyn has emphasized infractions such as gang activity and
"aggravated felonies."

Democrats say the list would virtually wipe out the legalization program by
barring undocumented workers who ignored deportation orders, overstayed their
visas or otherwise evaded immigration authorities.

In addition, Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.) would like to prohibit illegal
immigrants who are legalized under the law from obtaining the earned-income tax
credit to bolster low-income work.

For Republicans in the coalition, opposing such amendments will only increase
the pressure they are facing at home. Over the break, Sens. Lindsey O. Graham
(R-S.C.) and Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) were booed at their state party conventions.
And President Bush's attempt to give Republicans political cover by praising the
deal may have backfired. Republican opponents in the House now call the proposal
the "Kennedy-Bush Amnesty" bill.

"I just know that we've got a tough week ahead of us," Kyl said.

But Kyl and several immigration lobbyists also point to a different dynamic. The
bill's authors, as well as advocates of comprehensive immigration legislation,
have been arguing that flawed as it is, the measure must go forward
legislatively and eventually it will be fixed.

That dynamic is driven by certain realities: a two-year backlog of legal
immigration applications, a workforce in the United States that is as much as 5
percent illegal, and a growing patchwork of conflicting state and local
immigration ordinances that threaten to paralyze business.

"The glue that is keeping this process going is the absolute agreement by all
the disparate groups that the current system is absolutely dysfunctional," said
Bruce Josten, chief lobbyist for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.

But as it moves forward, the deal has taken on a life of its own. Senators from
both parties have already taken political hits over their stands on the bill and
on amendments to it. Even if advocacy groups withdraw their support, politicians
will be loath to come out of the fight empty-handed.

If he pulls his support for the bill over a "killer" amendment, Kyl said, he
will be accused of succumbing to right-wing threats, and he is not sure he can
persuade enough colleagues to bolt with him. Brent Wilkes, national executive
director of the League of United Latin American Citizens, said his group is in
the same position, saying it would bring the bill down if the Senate does not
restore the family reunification system and give temporary workers a chance to
appeal for citizenship. But such threats may carry no weight.

"We've been saying, 'Go forward, go forward, keep the process running' for so
long, it's not realistic to think we can stop this after we've already made
people take such difficult votes," Wilkes said. "I don't know how we got into
the box that we've gotten into, but I don't see how we can find a winning hand."

Polling Director Jon Cohen and polling analyst Jennifer Agiesta contributed to
this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE
IMAGE; "I just know that we've got a tough week ahead of us," Sen. Jon Kyl said.

IMAGE; Sen. Robert Menendez (D-N.J.) would tackle the application backlog.
IMAGE; Sen. John Cornyn (R-Tex.) would expand the list of aggravated felonies.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              230 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 4, 2007 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

An insider's guide to the upcoming week

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 418 words

The Debate Resumes

Congress is back in session,  and the focus will be on the immigration overhaul
bill moving through the Senate.

The legislation, backed by President Bush and a bipartisan coalition including
Sens. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) and Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.), faces challenges from
both the right, which derides the bill as "amnesty," and the left. Liberals and
labor unions are opposed to the terms of a temporary-worker program and the
emphasis on job and language skills for prospective immigrants.

So far, the bill is holding up, but a number of amendments may be considered
this week that could collapse the deal. They include one to expand the number of
green cards for legal immigrants and another to restore family connections as a
top criterion for awarding residency.

Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.) will control the agenda and could
schedule a vote for as soon as Thursday or Friday.

Scientific methods: On another legislative front this week, Bush is expected to
veto a bill that would expand federal funding for stem cell research, a decision
that Congress appears to lack enough votes to override. Meanwhile, the House
Government Oversight and Reform Committee will examine the Food and Drug
Administration's handling of the diabetes drug Avandia, which has been found to
increase the risk of heart attacks.

Questions and answers: On the heels of last night's Democratic debate, Sens.
Hillary Rodham Clinton (N.Y.) and Barack Obama (Ill.) and former senator John
Edwards (N.C.)  will appear tonight at George Washington University for a
candidate forum. It is part of the conference "Pentecost 2007," sponsored by the
Christian organization Sojourners. Other questions will be raised tomorrow night
in New Hampshire, where the GOP candidates will gather for their third debate.

A meeting of minds: Bush will travel this week to Germany for the G-8 summit, a
meeting of leading industrial nations. Prime topics at the
Wednesday-through-Friday summit will include global climate change and
development in Africa.

He is arguably unique in the Republican presidential field for his war stance.
He battled with former New York mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani in the second GOP
debate, when he suggested that U.S. policy in the Middle East contributed to the
Sept. 11, 2001,  attacks. He has a huge Internet support network, and today he
will face what sometimes seems to be the ultimate test of a 21st-century
campaign: Rep. Ron Paul (R-Tex.) will appear on "The Daily Show With Jon
Stewart."

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Susan Walsh -- Associated Press; Back in the spotlight this
week: immigration legislation, sponsored by Sens. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.),
center, and Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.), left. The overhaul plan, which is backed by
President Bush, faces a tough road in the Senate.
IMAGE; By Mary Ann Chastain -- Associated Press; Rep. Ron Paul

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              231 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 4, 2007 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Out of Unenforceable Laws, Amnesties Are Born

BYLINE: Shankar Vedantam

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 905 words


The ambitious immigration overhaul package that Congress is studying has drawn
criticism from conservatives who say it offers amnesty to lawbreakers, and from
immigration advocates who say it will not do enough to bring millions of people
out of the shadows.

But to Douglas Husak and Lawrence Solum, the elephant in the room is that the
existing immigration law that underlies the debate has no connection with
reality.

Husak and Solum, legal theorists and philosophers, argue that laws on
immigration are part of a broad pattern. In recent decades, they say, Congress
has passed innumerable laws that no one seriously expects will be enforced. Such
laws largely seem to serve symbolic purposes and are often designed to placate
some powerful constituency -- conservatives in the case of immigration, or the
entertainment industry in the case of laws that seek to deter people from
swapping copyrighted music and movies.

The yawning divide between reality and what such laws say should happen is what
produces the dilemmas that lead to amnesties. Immigration law has produced a
situation where an estimated 12 million people in the country -- most of whom
look, sound and act like law-abiding citizens -- are supposed to be apprehended,
prosecuted and deported, a job that is not only well beyond the capacity of the
police and courts, but would wreck substantial parts of the economy were it
attempted.

"No one is so stupid as to think police are going to go out and round up 12
million illegal immigrants," said Husak, at Rutgers University. "Ninety million
living Americans have used illegal drugs. It is inconceivable you can punish
them. Downloading copyrighted music [without paying for it] -- half or more of
all teenagers are guilty. No one is going to enforce such laws."

The consequence of symbolic lawmaking is over-criminalization, which turns out
to be as difficult a problem to deal with in the long run as crime itself. It
might sound good for a politician to sternly declare that draft dodgers are in
violation of the law and at risk for prosecution, but how do you deal with
thousands of Americans who evaded the draft during the Vietnam War -- after the
country had concluded the war was lost and a ghastly mistake? You offer them
amnesty, of course.

Federal laws that make it a crime to include false information on a mortgage or
car-loan application have turned tens of thousands of people into potential
felons -- because they say that their parents gave them money for a  down
payment, rather than lent it to them, Solum says. Saying the money is a gift
makes the borrower seem like a better risk.

"People commit perjury all the time," added Solum, at the University of Illinois
College of Law. "People in civil cases shade the truth in depositions and on the
stand all the time -- and we know that because there are radically inconsistent
stories being told all the time -- but we almost never prosecute perjury that
arises in a civil lawsuit. It probably happens hundreds of times a day."

When laws are passed that cannot or will not be enforced, people quickly come to
understand that the law does not mean what it says. This is why, if you actually
happen to drive at the 55 mph speed limit on the Capital Beltway, you seriously
run the risk of getting rear-ended by the flood of vehicles that are whizzing by
5, 10 or even 20 miles per hour faster.

There is a law about speeding, but it is not the law that is on the books.
Exceed a certain speed -- it might be 60 or 65 or 70 mph -- and you are going to
get a ticket. What Solum and Husak are arguing is that, if the cops are going to
give you a ticket when you cross 65 but not when you cross 55, set the speed
limit at 65. Get the law to mean what it says.

"When we set up laws that are intended to express symbolic disapproval, but that
we are not willing to enforce, we send a message that we are not expecting
people to obey the law," Solum said. "The immigration laws are a perfect example
of that."

The problem is not just that when people start interpreting the law on their
own, they come up with wildly different interpretations-- some people drive 5
mph over the speed limit, others think the magic cushion is 15 mph. The bigger
problem with setting the bar too low, so that large numbers of people become
lawbreakers, say Solum and Husak, is that it greatly enhances the discretionary
powers of police, prosecutors and the executive branch.

The vast majority of people punished for speeding, drug violations or
downloading music, or for perjury, prostitution or illegal immigration, are not
targeted merely because they are breaking the law -- only a tiny fraction of
those who break such laws, after all, ever get punished. Most people who get in
trouble are the ones who police and prosecutors decide, for whatever reason,
should be punished, Husak says. Enacting impractical laws that have largely
rhetorical value, in other words, leads to selective enforcement -- with all the
attendant risks of unfairness and bias.

"The myth is that legislators are the most important people in the criminal
justice system," Husak said. "But when legislators draft laws that are very
broad, they abdicate their roles and give prosecutors the power to decide who
will get punished and who should not."

Regardless of your political affiliations or your views on immigration,
speeding, perjury or downloading music, Solum and Husak say, that's no way to
run a country.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              232 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 6, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

McCain Sets Self Apart in Debate;
Senator at Odds With GOP Rivals On Immigration Bill

BYLINE: Dan Balz and Michael D. Shear; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1339 words

DATELINE: MANCHESTER, N.H., June 5


Sen. John McCain of Arizona found himself isolated  Tuesday night as he
staunchly defended controversial immigration legislation against a barrage of
criticism from his rivals for the Republican presidential nomination, who argued
that the bill is deeply flawed and should not be approved by Congress.

The Senate will begin voting on Wednesday on the fragile compromise, which  has
the support of President Bush but is opposed by a majority of Republicans and
has become a flash point in the contest for the GOP nomination.

"The problem with this immigration plan is it has no real unifying purpose,"
former New York mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said. "It's a typical Washington mess.
It's everybody compromises. . . . And when you look at these compromises, it is
quite possible it will make things worse."

Former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney joined in attacking the bipartisan
bill McCain helped write.

"Every illegal alien, almost every one, under this bill, gets to stay here," he
said. "That's not fair to the millions and millions of people around the world
that would love to come here, join with family members, bring skill and
education that we need."

McCain stood his ground as Giuliani, Romney and virtually all the other
candidates criticized the bill. Calling immigration reform a national security
issue, McCain said that inaction represents "de facto amnesty" for the estimated
12 million illegal immigrants in the country.

Challenging his rivals to offer a better solution that could pass Congress,
McCain defended the bill as the best compromise on an issue that has deeply
divided the Republican Party. "It's our job to do the hard things," he said,
"not the easy things."

At one point, Rep. Tom Tancredo (Colo.) called for suspending most legal
immigration, which drew rebukes from many on stage. McCain called the idea
"beyond my realm of thinking" and said that the United States must remain a
beacon for the rest of the world. "And the lady that holds her lamp beside the
golden door is still the ideal and the dream," he added.

The third gathering of 2008 Republican presidential candidates, this time at
Saint Anselm College here, did not produce the flashes of anger that
characterized the second meeting two weeks ago. Instead, the 10 men offered
criticisms that rarely seemed like personal attacks, except when targeted at
Democrats -- as when McCain pointedly chided  Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton
(N.Y.), the Democratic front-runner, for calling Iraq "Mr. Bush's war."

Actor and former senator Fred D. Thompson (Tenn.), who is exploring a
presidential bid, did not participate in the debate but used the moment to
launch his campaign Web site, http://www.imwithfred.com.

Immediately after the debate, he appeared on Fox News Channel's "Hannity &
Colmes." Thompson  said he would support a preemptive strike against Iran to
knock out its nuclear capability and accused  Democratic candidates of speaking
in decade-old "cliches" about the challenges facing the country.

Asked about his previous statements that he had never hungered to run for
president, Thompson  said, "More and more, I wish that I had the opportunity to
do the things that only a president can do."

Commenting on Thompson's potential campaign, former Virginia governor James S.
Gilmore III said the actor would have to prove his conservative credentials. "We
don't know what Fred Thompson is," he said. Former Wisconsin governor Tommy G.
Thompson said: "If you're talking about a reliable conservative, it is this
Thompson -- Tommy Thompson -- not the other, that's the conservative."

The three GOP front-runners -- Giuliani, McCain and Romney -- each had moments
in which they shined, providing voters in New Hampshire and nationwide glimpses
of their potential strengths.

Responding to the first question from the audience, McCain rose to address a
woman whose brother was killed in Iraq. Looking at her, he used the moment to
underline his argument for continuing to fight against insurgents there, saying:
"I believe we have a strategy which can succeed, so that the sacrifice of your
brother would not be in vain."

Romney offered an eloquent answer to questions about his Mormon faith, and
Giuliani effectively used the recent alleged plot to bomb fuel tanks at New
York's John F. Kennedy International Airport to emphasize his experiences after
the  attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. "Iraq is part of the overall terrorist war
against the United States," Giuliani said. "The problem the Democrats make is
they're in denial."

The candidates said they would not remove the option of using nuclear weapons to
prevent Iran from obtaining such weapons, and they also fielded questions about
abortion, religion, health care and global warming. All said they agreed with
the president's troop increase in Iraq except Rep. Ron Paul (Tex.), who flatly
declared: "It was a mistake to go, so it's a mistake to stay."

But the group joined together in criticizing Bush. The president  remains
popular among a sizable majority of Republicans, but his  overall approval
ratings make him a potential liability in a general election.

When the GOP candidates were pressed to say how they might use the president in
their administration,  Tommy Thompson replied, "Well, I certainly wouldn't send
him to the United Nations."

Brownback suggested that he preferred former presidents to stay in the
background, and criticized Bill Clinton for "injecting" himself into national
policy debates.

Tancredo attacked Bush for what he considers turning his back on conservative
principles. Recalling that White House senior adviser Karl Rove once told him
not to "darken the doorstep of the White House," Tancredo said, "As president, I
would have to tell George Bush exactly what Karl Rove told me."

Former Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee blamed the Bush administration and
congressional Republicans for the Democratic takeover of Congress last fall.

"We've lost credibility," he said, "the way we bungled Katrina, the fact that
there was corruption that was unchecked in Washington."

Giuliani, McCain and Romney were criticized by Rep. Duncan Hunter (Calif.) for
standing now or in the past with Bill Clinton and Sen. Edward M. Kennedy
(D-Mass.) on issues such as immigration, gun control and health care. "I think
the guy who's got the most influence right here with these three gentlemen is
Ted Kennedy," Hunter said.

The candidates all said the military should not be asked to change its policy of
barring openly gay service members from active duty, and they all endorsed
English as the nation's official language. They also fielded questions about
religion, morality and other social issues.

Speaking about being a Mormon, Romney said he shares values common in many
faiths, including a belief in God, the Bible and Jesus. "I also believe that
there are some pundits out there that are hoping that I'll distance myself from
my church so that that'll help me politically. And that's not going to happen,"
he said.

Giuliani was asked about criticism from a Roman Catholic bishop in Rhode Island
about his support of abortion rights.

At that point, lightning crackled outside the debate hall as a thunderstorm
passed through and zapped the public address system, providing a humorous moment
as the other candidates stepped away from Giuliani in mock fear.

Giuliani, who went to parochial school all his life, joked: "This is a very
frightening thing that's happening right now."

Huckabee was asked about an answer he gave in a previous debate in which he said
he does  not believe in evolution. A former preacher, he offered a thoughtful
sermon on the role of God in public life.

"Well, let me be very clear: I believe there is a God," he said. "I believe
there's a God who was active in the creation process. Now, how did he do it and
when did he do it and how long did he take, I don't honestly know. And I don't
think knowing that would make me a better or a worse president."

Tuesday's debate was sponsored by CNN, WMUR-TV and the Manchester Union Leader.
CNN's Wolf Blitzer served as moderator.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              233 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 8, 2007 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Immigration Overhaul Bill Stalls in Senate;
Bipartisan Compromise Collapses; Reid Says Measure May Return

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1122 words


A tenuous compromise to overhaul the nation's immigration laws collapsed last
night when senators from both parties refused to cut off debate and move to a
final vote, handing the unlikely alliance of Democratic leaders and President
Bush a setback on a major domestic priority.

The defeat came after months of painstaking negotiations and weeks of debate as
a 45 to 50 procedural vote fell well short of the 60 votes needed to break the
filibuster. Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.) then pulled the bill
from the floor, while holding out hope that the Senate could resurrect the
measure within weeks.

"There's no reason to be upset. I think that we have to look toward passing this
bill," Reid said after 9 p.m., even as he catalogued a long list of futile
efforts at compromise. "It's something that needs to be done."

But he was quick to place responsibility for the defeat on Bush, who had made
passage of the measure a top legislative goal. "The headlines are going to be,
'The President Fails Again,' " Reid said. "It's his bill."

With Bush out of the country this week, he left the lobbying on the bill to key
aides, including Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff and Commerce
Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez. They watched from Vice President Cheney's
ceremonial office just off the Senate chamber last night as the bill stalled.

Thirty-seven Democrats, seven Republicans and independent Sen. Joseph I.
Lieberman (Conn.) voted to break the filibuster. Thirty-eight Republicans, 11
Democrats and independent Sen. Bernard Sanders (Vt.) voted against it.
Maryland's two Democratic senators voted yes. Virginia's Republican senator,
John W. Warner, and its Democratic senator, James Webb, voted no.

White House spokesman Scott Stanzel said that the issue is far from dead and
that administration officials are taking heart from the fact that both Reid and
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) indicated they would bring the matter back
up for consideration.

"The process has demonstrated that there is a strong bipartisan majority in the
United States Senate that wants to see bipartisan, comprehensive reform,"
Stanzel said. "We will continue to work with members of the United States Senate
to address concerns and ensure that we secure our borders, strengthen the
interior enforcement, enact a temporary-worker program and address the millions
of undocumented workers that are already here in this country."

Legislative advocates also declared the battle not over. "Hope is a powerful
thing, and it will not be deterred," said Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (Mass.), the
deal's chief Democratic negotiator. "The issue will not go away, and we will not
give up the fight."

But Democratic leaders were quietly pessimistic. House Democratic Caucus
Chairman Rahm Emanuel (Ill.) said Bush could count on 175 to 180 Democrats to
support a similar comprehensive immigration bill in the House, leaving the White
House to deliver at least 40 Republicans in a body that has been far more
polarized.

"If Bush could not get the votes in the Senate, what was he going to do in the
House?" Emanuel asked.

The Senate measure would have coupled tighter border security and a crackdown on
the hiring of illegal immigrants with generous new avenues for such immigrants
to stay and work legally. But the bipartisan compromise suffered a fatal blow
just after midnight yesterday when the Senate voted to end a new guest-worker
program after five years.

That measure was backed by most Democrats, who, along with their trade union
allies, have been concerned  that a guest-worker program would depress wages and
displace Americans from jobs. But four conservative Republicans who had opposed
the amendment two weeks ago were pivotal, changing their positions to secure its
passage by a single vote -- a move they knew would jeopardize a bill that they
had turned firmly against.

"I've been trying to kill it since the beginning," said Sen. Jim Bunning
(R-Ky.).

"My preference is to stop it and start again," said Sen. Jim DeMint (R-S.C.),
who also switched his vote.

Democratic and Republican negotiators scrambled for the rest of the day to
salvage the legislation, drafting lists of amendments to consider that would
satisfy conservative opponents of the deal and trying to find a way to undo the
guest-worker vote. But each time Reid presented an offer, DeMint and his allies
rebuffed it. Their intransigence angered leaders from both parties.

"I've about had it," declared Minority Whip Trent Lott (R-Miss.). "I will not be
a part of a protracted filibuster. We are not going to let this bill die by
endless amendments."

Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) made a last-ditch offer to try to
persuade GOP conservatives to reduce  their expansive list of amendments if Reid
put off the vote to end debate, but Reid declined.

McConnell, Lott and even Sen. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.), the bill's chief GOP architect,
voted to sustain the filibuster -- a measure of Republicans' frustration with
what they saw as heavy-handed Democratic efforts to deprive them of a chance for
votes on the floor.

Most of the GOP negotiators, including presidential hopeful John McCain (Ariz.),
stuck with the deal and sided with the Democrats.

"The Democrats were wrong" to cut off debate so quickly, said Sen. Arlen Specter
(R-Pa.), another negotiator, "but Republicans were wronger."

In the end, the passions that swept the country, especially among conservatives,
after the deal was unveiled last month proved too  hard to resist. DeMint said
calls to his office were running 99 to 1 against the bill, especially from
vociferous opponents of the legalization of immigrants who came here illegally.

"Our neighborhoods across our country have spoken loud and clear, and the United
States Senate heard their concerns. This bill is dead," said Rep. Brian P.
Bilbray (R-Calif.), a strong opponent of Bush's approach.

Democrats and their allies were never enamored with the deal, either, and the
bill  had grown more conservative before its defeat. The Senate adopted GOP
amendments that would have forced illegal immigrants to disclose information on
their legalization applications that originally was to be kept confidential.

Newly legalized  workers would not have been eligible for the earned income-tax
credit, and they could not have received Social Security benefits they had
earned while working illegally. Under one amendment, English could have become
the national language, nullifying most rights to government documents in other
tongues.

"It's becoming increasingly difficult to support this bill," said Sen. Robert
Menendez (D-N.J.), a staunch advocate of expanding immigrant rights, shortly
before the final tally.

Staff writer Michael Abramowitz contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Brendan Smialowski -- Getty Images; "The headlines are going
to be, 'The President Fails Again,' " said Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid,
blaming President Bush for the bill's defeat.
IMAGE; By Carol T. Powers -- Bloomberg News; Senate Minority Leader Mitch
McConnell (R-Ky.), right, offered to try to bring conservatives on board if Reid
put off the procedural vote, but Reid declined.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              234 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 9, 2007 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Talk of Resurrecting Immigration Bill Begins as Autopsy Goes On

BYLINE: Shailagh Murray and Jonathan Weisman; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1175 words


Supporters of immigration reform launched new talks to save their tattered bill
yesterday, with the chief architects of the bipartisan compromise confident that
they could resurrect it -- even as recriminations flew over its stunning
collapse.

The rescue mission was dispatched moments after the vote was tallied Thursday
night. Sixty votes were needed to end debate and pave the way for final passage,
but only 45 senators voted yes. Republican and Democratic negotiators believe
they can reach agreement by early next week on the official sticking point:
which conservative amendments would be considered before final passage. The list
must be short enough for time-conscious Democrats, yet substantive enough for
Republicans demanding to be heard.

But a second act will come only if Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.)
allows the immigration issue to return to the floor. And exactly where Reid
stands on the bill is one of the many mysteries left smoldering after Thursday's
defeat.

Another is why the White House -- which regards immigration reform as key to
reviving public support for President Bush -- offered backing that was too
little, too late to keep the legislation moving. Though Bush could not control
the debate's timing, and was in fact in Europe all week, administration
officials did not show up on Capitol Hill until the bill was teetering on the
brink.

Reid's motives have been a question mark from day one. Spokesman Jim Manley said
his boss was prepared to support the immigration bill on final passage. But
advocates had their doubts, given Reid's determination to limit debate, and the
green light he gave to one of the bill's Democratic critics to twice offer an
amendment to end a guest-worker program after five years. Supporters of the
immigration bill viewed the measure, which passed on the second try, as a poison
pill.

Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) also drew criticism, both internally and
from Democrats, for not quelling a conservative rebellion that ultimately
delivered the death blow to the bill.

In the end, the determination of the bill's opponents simply proved more
overwhelming than the will of its supporters to tackle such a difficult issue.
Within policy circles, immigration reform is viewed as vital, addressing both
the growing demand for workers and the social costs of an illegal underclass.
The public also generally supports the idea. In last week's Washington Post-ABC
News poll, a narrow majority of voters -- 52 percent -- said they supported
allowing illegal immigrants to remain in the United States, as long as they are
penalized, while 44 percent opposed the idea.

But the two most obvious remedies -- the guest-worker program and a path to
citizenship for illegal residents -- drew opposition from two of the most
powerful forces on the political landscape. On the Democratic side, labor unions
protested the guest-worker program as a threat to American jobs. Many
conservatives loathed the path-to-citizenship provision, deriding it as
"amnesty" for lawbreakers.

An Optimistic Start

After a halting start this week, the Senate began churning through amendments at
a rapid clip by Wednesday. The bill's architects believed they were on track for
passage, certainly by early next week.

But Reid continued to insist that debate be cut off by Thursday, with a final
vote on Friday night.

Then, late Wednesday, he allowed a second vote on sunsetting the guest-worker
program. The measure, offered by Sen. Byron L. Dorgan (D-N.D.), had previously
failed by a single vote, but Dorgan was given a second chance just before
midnight. This time, with the help of conservatives opponents -- who were
seeking to kill the bill by any means -- Dorgan obtained a one-vote win.

Reid bristled when he was asked why he gave Dorgan a second chance. "This is a
killer amendment? After five years, you'll take a look at how the program is
working? I can't fathom why this is a bad amendment," he said.

Not until midday Thursday did it dawn on both sides that Reid was serious about
finishing quickly. Across the Capitol, leaders of the House's Congressional
Hispanic Caucus were wrapping up their presentation on immigration reform when
an aide broke in with the news that the Senate leader would seek a second vote
to end debate.

Rep. Joe Baca (D-Calif.), the caucus chairman, and Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez
(Ill.), the chief Democratic author of a major House immigration bill, dashed
over to the Senate. But Reid did not see them until 6:30 p.m. Gutierrez implored
him not to pull the bill from the Senate floor. To the millions of illegal
immigrants in this country, it was "a matter of life and death," he said.

But Reid made it clear his mind was made. "His demeanor was, how should I say,
decided on," Gutierrez said reluctantly. "That's all I'm going to say about it."


GOP Worries

Republicans were no less panicked. For several hours Thursday afternoon,
McConnell huddled in his office with Sen. Jon Kyl (Ariz.), the bill's lead
Republican backer, along with more than half a dozen hard-line opponents. The
idea was to allow the conservatives to vent and determine whether the GOP
leadership could reach an accommodation. But it quickly became clear that there
would be no deal.

Although the Senate had already accepted his amendment to make English the
national language, Sen. James M. Inhofe (R-Okla.) demanded another vote on a
tougher version. Sens. Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) and Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.) wanted
votes on about 10 amendments each, even though McConnell had told Reid that
Republicans would accept a total of 13 additional amendments.

DeMint then went to the Senate floor to refuse every offer Reid would make on
further amendments. Republican aides believed that the Reid strategy was clear:
Democrats would cycle through GOP amendments all day long, then move to cut off
debate, hoping to paint Republicans as intransigent if they said no. DeMint
decided to head off the effort by refusing to let any amendments come up to a
vote.

The move infuriated some senior Republicans, including Minority Whip Trent Lott
(Miss.), who was urging the GOP leadership to take a harder line with the
conservatives. But McConnell was reluctant to push too hard.

Then word spread that Reid planned a no-confidence vote on Attorney General
Alberto R. Gonzalez Monday. No longer were Republicans willing to accept Reid's
assertion that the Senate could not spare one more day of debate. Commerce
Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez and Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff
rushed to the Capitol, arriving at 7:15 p.m. to meet with senators in Vice
President Cheney's office just off the Senate chamber. But the administration's
efforts were fruitless: The second vote was a fait accompli.

Chertoff rejected the suggestions that the administration had not hustled. "They
are going to have to fumigate the room because we were basically living there.
Anyone who says we weren't engaged is ignorant of the facts." Bush will speak to
Senate Republicans on Tuesday about immigration in a previously scheduled lunch.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              235 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 10, 2007 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

Effort to Resurrect Immigration Bill Begins;
2nd Chance Depends on Whether Reid Will Allow It

BYLINE: Shailagh Murray and Jonathan Weisman; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1151 words


Moments after senators shot down an immigration reform bill Thursday night, a
rescue mission for the bipartisan compromise was dispatched, even as
recriminations flew over its stunning collapse.

The chief architects of the bill are confident that they can resurrect their
deal, and Republican and Democratic negotiators believe that they can reach
agreement by early this week on the official sticking point: which conservative
amendments would be considered before final passage. The list must be short
enough for time-conscious Democrats, yet substantive enough for Republicans
demanding to be heard.

But a second act will come only if Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.)
allows the immigration issue to return to the floor. And exactly where Reid
stands on the bill is one of the many mysteries left smoldering after Thursday's
defeat.

Another is why the White House -- which regards immigration reform as key to
reviving public support for President Bush -- offered backing that was too
little, too late to keep the legislation moving. Though Bush could not control
the debate's timing, and was in fact in Europe all last week, administration
officials did not show up on Capitol Hill until the bill was teetering on the
brink.

Reid's motives have been a question mark from day one. Spokesman Jim Manley said
his boss was prepared to support the immigration bill on final passage. But
advocates had their doubts, given Reid's determination to limit debate, and the
green light he gave to one of the bill's Democratic critics to twice offer an
amendment to end a guest-worker program after five years. Supporters of the
immigration bill viewed the measure, which passed on the second try, as a poison
pill.

Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) also drew criticism, both internally and
from Democrats, for not quelling a conservative rebellion that ultimately
delivered the death blow to the bill.

In the end, the determination of the bill's opponents simply proved more
overwhelming than the will of its supporters to tackle such a difficult issue.
Within policy circles, immigration reform is viewed as vital, addressing both
the growing demand for workers and the social costs of an illegal underclass.
The public also generally supports the idea. In a recent Washington Post-ABC
News poll, a narrow majority of voters -- 52 percent -- said they supported
allowing illegal immigrants to remain in the United States, as long as they are
penalized, while 44 percent opposed the idea.

But the two most obvious remedies -- the guest-worker program and a path to
citizenship for illegal residents -- drew opposition from two of the most
powerful forces on the political landscape. On the Democratic side, labor unions
protested the guest-worker program as a threat to American jobs. Many
conservatives loathed the path-to-citizenship provision, deriding it as
"amnesty" for lawbreakers.

An Optimistic Start

After a halting start last week, the Senate began churning through amendments at
a rapid clip by Wednesday. The bill's architects believed they were on track for
passage, certainly by early this week.

But Reid continued to insist that debate be cut off by Thursday, with a final
vote on Friday night.

Then, late Wednesday, he allowed a second vote on sunsetting the guest-worker
program. The measure, offered by Sen. Byron L. Dorgan (D-N.D.), had previously
failed by a single vote, but Dorgan was given a second chance just before
midnight. This time, with the help of conservatives opponents -- who were
seeking to kill the bill by any means -- Dorgan obtained a one-vote win.

Reid bristled when he was asked why he gave Dorgan a second chance. "This is a
killer amendment? After five years, you'll take a look at how the program is
working? I can't fathom why this is a bad amendment," he said.

Not until midday Thursday did it dawn on both sides that Reid was serious about
finishing quickly. Across the Capitol, leaders of the House's Congressional
Hispanic Caucus were wrapping up their presentation on immigration reform when
an aide broke in with the news that the Senate leader would seek a second vote
to end debate.

Rep. Joe Baca (D-Calif.), the caucus chairman, and Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez
(Ill.), the chief Democratic author of a major House immigration bill, dashed
over to the Senate. But Reid did not see them until 6:30 p.m. Gutierrez implored
him not to pull the bill from the Senate floor. To the millions of illegal
immigrants in this country, it was "a matter of life and death," he said.

But Reid made it clear his mind was made. "His demeanor was, how should I say,
decided on," Gutierrez said reluctantly. "That's all I'm going to say about it."


GOP Worries

Republicans were no less panicked. For several hours Thursday afternoon,
McConnell huddled in his office with Sen. Jon Kyl (Ariz.), the bill's lead
Republican backer, along with more than half a dozen hard-line opponents. The
idea was to allow the conservatives to vent and determine whether the GOP
leadership could reach an accommodation. But it quickly became clear that there
would be no deal.

Although the Senate had already accepted his amendment to make English the
national language, Sen. James M. Inhofe (R-Okla.) demanded another vote on a
tougher version. Sens. Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) and Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.) wanted
votes on about 10 amendments each, even though McConnell had told Reid that
Republicans would accept a total of 13 additional amendments.

DeMint then went to the Senate floor to refuse every offer Reid would make on
further amendments. Republican aides believed that the Reid strategy was clear:
Democrats would cycle through GOP amendments all day long, then move to cut off
debate, hoping to paint Republicans as intransigent if they said no. DeMint
decided to head off the effort by refusing to let any amendments come up to a
vote.

The move infuriated some senior Republicans, including Minority Whip Trent Lott
(Miss.), who was urging the GOP leadership to take a harder line with the
conservatives. But McConnell was reluctant to push too hard.

Then word spread that Reid planned a no-confidence vote on Attorney General
Alberto R. Gonzalez for Monday. No longer were Republicans willing to accept
Reid's assertion that the Senate could not spare one more day of debate.
Commerce Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez and Homeland Security Secretary Michael
Chertoff rushed to the Capitol, arriving at 7:15 p.m. to meet with senators in
Vice President Cheney's office just off the Senate chamber. But the
administration's efforts were fruitless: The second vote was a fait accompli.

Chertoff rejected the suggestions that the administration had not hustled. "They
are going to have to fumigate the room because we were basically living there.
Anyone who says we weren't engaged is ignorant of the facts." Bush will speak to
Senate Republicans on Tuesday about immigration in a previously scheduled lunch.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              236 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 10, 2007 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Getting to No;
Senators from both parties torpedoed the immigration compromise. Here's who will
pay the price.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 656 words


HAVING DERAILED immigration reform favored by a clear majority of Americans, the
Senate may want to consider the effects of its resolute inaction.

Proponents say that they have not given up. But assume, for a moment, that
efforts to repair the nation's broken immigration system will not be revived for
at least two years. Given current trends, that means 800,000 to 1 million
additional immigrants will enter the country illegally or overstay their visas,
drawn by the great magnet of the American economy to fill jobs that most
Americans won't do. That will swell the number of undocumented aliens, now
estimated at 12 million, to nearly 13 million. Between 800 and 1,000 other
people, mostly Mexicans and Central Americans, are likely to die trying to enter
the country in the absence of the legal channels for immigration that the Senate
bill would have established.

That tragedy will be compounded by another: the anguish of several million
American citizens and legal permanent residents whose fervent hope to be
reunited with their relatives will continue to be frustrated by a years-long
backlog in visa applications. The Senate bill would have shrunk the backlog and
eased the pain for some of those families, who now wait a minimum of five to
seven years for their family members to be issued U.S. visas.

Meanwhile, border security will continue to be laughably inadequate. The Senate
bill would have added thousands of border patrol agents and several hundred
miles of fencing, but that, too, is dead for the time being. Elsewhere,
immigrants who entered the country as young children, including college students
and members of the armed forces serving in Iraq and Afghanistan, will get no
fast track to permanent resident status as the Senate bill would have provided.
And employers in factories, farms and service industries will continue to roll
the dice whenever they hire foreign-born workers, unable to easily verify their
legal status or be certain that the workers will not be arrested and deported by
federal officials.

In towns, cities and states, politics will become increasingly poisoned by
venomous debates over how to deal with immigrants, given the federal
government's failure to act. Under pressure from constituents, state and local
officials will increasingly be at each other's throats over measures to restrict
how, where, when and under what circumstances immigrants can gather, live,
study, drive and work. Already overburdened state and local police forces will
be enlisted in the effort, diverting them from more serious crime problems.

Let's not forget the likely political fallout of the Senate's failure as voters
assess a Republican Party whose elected officials have too often demonstrated
hostility to Hispanics, among the fastest-growing segments of the electorate, as
well as the Democrats' failure to parlay their control of both houses of
Congress into resolving a festering domestic problem.

There's plenty of blame to go around. Blame George W. Bush, a president whose
self-inflicted wounds have left him too politically incapacitated to deliver his
own party. Blame Republicans like Jim DeMint of South Carolina, John Cornyn of
Texas and Jeff Sessions of Alabama, senators more focused on generating sound
bites and 30-second attack ads than on solving the nation's immigration
problems. And blame Democratic senators such as James Webb of Virginia, who
ducked the hard vote while hiding behind a phony compromise proposal that had no
chance. Although it was Republican senators who bear primary responsibility for
killing off immigration reform, all of them conspired to reinforce and justify
the public's disdain for politics as usual. They abdicated their responsibility
to deal with one of the nation's knottiest problems and perpetuated a system
rife with injustice, illogic and inhumanity. Having been offered the best chance
in a generation to make a fix on immigration, the Senate blew it.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              237 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 11, 2007 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Met 2 Edition

Immigration Judges Often Picked Based On GOP Ties;
Law Forbids Practice; Courts Being Reshaped

BYLINE: Amy Goldstein and Dan Eggen; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1718 words


The Bush administration increasingly emphasized partisan political ties over
expertise in recent years in selecting the judges who decide the fate of
hundreds of thousands of immigrants, despite laws that preclude such
considerations, according to an analysis by The Washington Post.

At least one-third of the immigration judges appointed by the Justice Department
since 2004 have had Republican connections or have been administration insiders,
and half lacked experience in immigration law, Justice Department, immigration
court and other records show.

Two newly appointed immigration judges were failed  candidates for  the U.S. Tax
Court nominated by President Bush; one fudged his taxes and the other was deemed
unqualified to be a tax judge by the nation's largest association of lawyers.
Both were Republican loyalists.

Justice officials also gave immigration judgeships to a New Jersey election law
specialist who represented GOP candidates, a former treasurer of the Louisiana
Republican Party, a White House domestic policy adviser and a conservative
crusader against pornography.

These appointments, all made by the attorney general, have begun to reshape a
system of courts in which judges, ruling alone, exercise broad powers --
deporting each year nearly a quarter-million immigrants,  who have limited
rights to appeal and no right to an attorney. The judges do not serve fixed
terms.

Department officials say they changed their hiring practices in April but defend
their  selections. Still, the injection of political considerations into the
selection of immigration judges has attracted congressional attention in the
wake of controversy over the Bush administration's dismissal last year of nine
U.S. attorneys.

The Post analysis is the first systematic examination of the people appointed to
immigration courts, the relationships that led to their selection and the
experience they brought to their position. The review, based on Justice records
and research into the judges' backgrounds, encompassed the 37 current judges
approved by Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales or his predecessor, John D.
Ashcroft, starting in 2004.

That year is when the Justice Department began to jettison the civil service
process that traditionally guided the selections in favor of political
considerations, according to sworn congressional testimony by one senior
department official and a statement by the lawyer for another official.

Those two officials, D. Kyle Sampson and Monica M. Goodling, have said they were
told the practice was legal. But Justice spokesman Dean Boyd said that
immigration judges are considered civil service employees who may not be chosen
based on political factors,  unlike judges in  federal criminal courts.

All the judges appointed during this period who arrived with experience in
immigration law were prosecutors or held other immigration enforcement jobs.
That was  a reversal of a trend during the Clinton administration in which the
Justice Department sought to balance such appointees with ones who had been
attorneys representing immigrants, according to current and former immigration
judges.

Boyd said in a written statement that  judges appointed during the Bush
administration are "well qualified for their current positions" and that
"outstanding immigration judges can come from diverse backgrounds." Boyd also
said that race and ethnicity are not factors in hiring but cited statistics
showing that immigration courts are "considerably more diverse" than other kinds
of courts.

The department launched a new hiring program in April that requires public
announcements of open positions and detailed evaluations and interviews, with a
final decision still in the hands of the attorney general. The action came
partly in response to a lawsuit by a veteran immigration counsel who alleged
discrimination when she was passed over for two judgeships.

Some judges and other immigration experts  are highly critical of the
administration's practice of placing political allies on the courts. "When we
start seeing people who look like [they're fulfilling] someone's political debt
get these positions, it starts to become disturbing," said Crystal Williams, a
deputy director of the American Immigration Lawyers Association.

"Immigration law is very complex," said Denise Slavin, an immigration judge
since 1995 in Miami, who is president of the National Association of Immigration
Judges, a union. "So generally speaking, it's very good to have someone coming
into this area with [an] immigration background. It's very difficult, for those
who don't, to catch up."

Mike Hethmon, general counsel of the Immigration Reform Law Institute, which
advocates stricter border policies, said, however, that a strong legal
background is more important than immigration experience. "The qualities of a
good adjudicator don't necessarily focus on the subject matter," he said.

Since  Sept. 11, 2001, the Bush administration has said it is employing the
nation's 54 immigration courts, with 226 judges,  as a central tool of its
anti-terrorism policies, using them to deport hundreds of  noncitizens who were
detained as terrorism  suspects but were not charged with crimes.

In 2002, it created stiffer guidelines for appeals and wrote new rules sharply
reducing the number of judges who hear them, partly to reduce a large case
backlog.  That has made it harder for people deemed unwanted by the government
to stay in the country.

The infusion of politics into the selection of judges began in the midst of this
transformation of the court system. Sampson and Goodling, who participated in
the prosecutor firings, did not say which immigration judges had been selected
for their political leanings. But records and interviews reveal the Republican
ties of many.

One was Glen L. Bower, whom Bush initially nominated  to the tax court. He was
never confirmed  because lawmakers noted that his amended tax returns showed he
had taken inappropriate deductions for entertainment, gifts and meals for three
consecutive years. A former Republican state legislator, Bower was the revenue
director to then-Illinois  Gov. George H. Ryan (R), who  would be convicted on
racketeering and fraud charges.

A few months earlier, another failed tax court nominee, Francis L. Cramer, a
former campaign treasurer for Sen. Judd Gregg (R-N.H.), was appointed as an
immigration judge. Cramer's bid for a seat on the tax court foundered after the
American Bar Association's taxation section wrote a rare letter to the Senate
Finance Committee, saying: "We are unable to conclude that he is qualified to
serve."

Cramer was then hired by the Justice Department's tax division and was briefly
lent  to the department's  Office of  Immigration Litigation. Ashcroft approved
him as an immigration judge in March 2004. The Government Accountability Office,
a legislative watchdog, criticized the appointment, saying, "Converting a
Schedule C [political] appointee with less than 6 months of immigration law
experience to an immigration judge position raises questions about the fairness
of the conversion."

Another politically connected lawyer, Garry D. Malphrus, was appointed to
Arlington's immigration court in 2005. He had been associate director of the
White House Domestic Policy Council and, before that, a Republican aide on two
Senate Judiciary Committee subcommittees.

During the Florida recount  after the 2000 presidential election that brought
Bush to office, Malphrus took part in the  "Brooks Brothers riot" -- when GOP
staffers from Washington chanted "stop the fraud" at Miami's polling
headquarters.

Other appointed Republican loyalists include lawyer Dorothy A. Harbeck, who
represented New Jersey's last GOP candidate for governor; Mark H. Metcalf, an
unsuccessful Republican candidate for the state  Senate and U.S. Congress from
Kentucky who went on to several positions at the Justice Department unrelated to
immigration; and Chris A. Brisack, a former Texas county GOP chairman who had
been named by  Bush, the governor at the time, to the state's  Library and
Archives  Commission.

Bruce A. Taylor, who was appointed as an immigration judge in Arizona last year,
was general counsel for two conservative anti-pornography groups,  Citizens for
Decency Through  Law and the National Law Center for Children and Families.
Taylor also worked as a senior counsel in the Criminal Division at the Justice
Department, but his r?sum? does not indicate  immigration-related experience.

Like other immigration judges contacted last week, Taylor declined to comment.
He said the Executive Office  for Immigration Review, which oversees immigration
courts, had instructed immigration judges to refer questions to the main office
in Falls Church. A spokeswoman there referred questions to Justice headquarters.

The recent pattern of hiring for immigration judges provoked a 2005 lawsuit by
the government's chief immigration lawyer in El Paso for 22 years. Guadalupe
Gonzales -- no relation to the attorney general -- alleged she was denied a
judgeship twice in favor of less-qualified white men who were hired without an
open application process.

Her suit alleged that, between 2001 and late 2005, only two Latinos were
appointed nationwide as immigration judges.  Justice  Department records make
clear that the  immigration bench is overwhelmingly male and white, even though
Spanish-speaking  people from Latin America make up at least 70 percent of the
caseload.

The Justice Department responded in court papers that Gonzales's lawsuit should
be thrown out; it argued that she had not identified a discriminatory practice
and that immigration judges did not have be hired as part of a competitive
process. It said that all but four immigration judges chosen during the period
in contention -- from late 2003 to 2006 -- were hired without public
competition.

In September,  Judge Emmet G. Sullivan of the U.S. District Court for the
District of Columbia ruled against the department, finding that Gonzales "had
identified a particular policy that has a discriminatory effect on a particular
group." Sullivan said that one  judge hired in El Paso did not meet the minimum
qualifications for the job. Neither, the judge said, had Gonzales's level of
experience.

Research director Lucy Shackelford contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

CORRECTION-DATE: June 13, 2007



CORRECTION: A June 11 Page One article on the hiring of immigration judges
misspelled the name of El Paso immigration counsel Guadalupe R. Gonzalez.

GRAPHIC: IMAGE
IMAGE; By Ross D. Franklin -- Associated Press; Suspected illegal immigrants in
Tucson. The Bush administration's hiring of immigration judges based on
political ties has drawn Congress's attention.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              238 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            June 13, 2007 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Senators Unmoved by Bush Bid to Save Immigration Bill

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 918 words


In a rare visit to Capitol Hill, President Bush pressed Republican senators
yesterday to resurrect the compromise overhaul of the nation's immigration laws,
but many of the senators instead demanded that his administration first show a
more determined commitment to border security.

The visit was the first time in five years that Bush had come to the Capitol for
the Republican senators' weekly policy luncheon. He and senior administration
officials painted the meeting -- coming five days after the collapse on the
Senate floor of the tenuous compromise on immigration -- as a rescue session.
Bush made an impassioned plea for the legislation, saying "the status quo is
unacceptable."

"Now is the time to move a comprehensive bill that enforces our borders and has
good workplace enforcement, that doesn't grant automatic citizenship, that
addresses this problem in a comprehensive way," he said after the lunch.

Although senators described the meeting as cordial, even jovial, they also said
the president's efforts to rally GOP support did not win any converts. "We're
off the bill. We ought to stay off the bill for a while," said Sen. Jeff
Sessions (R-Ala.), one of the bill's sternest critics.

Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) marveled at the president's
passion and commitment. But, he added: "We didn't expect anyone to stand up and
holler that they had an epiphany."

And, apparently, nobody did.

"We . . . have lost credibility in Washington on the issue, and I think before
the American people will really ever get behind an immigration policy, they're
going to have to feel that Washington is truly going to follow through on what
it says," said Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.).

The last time Bush attended a Tuesday policy lunch, another domestic priority
was in deep trouble. His signature No Child Left Behind education measure was
under assault by conservatives, who were demanding the inclusion of a provision
to allow states to opt out of its strictures on testing and curriculum. At that
time, a leader of the revolt was one Rep. Jim DeMint (R-S.C.).

Now in the Senate, DeMint is again accusing Bush of straying from conservative
principles.

"The president was determined to pass No Child Left Behind. He's determined to
pass this immigration bill, and he's willing to come up here and work it,"
DeMint said. "I admire that. He's going to fight."

Much of the conversation revolved around steps Bush could take now to convince
the public that his administration is serious about border security laws already
in the books. Georgia's senators, Republicans Saxby Chambliss and Johnny
Isakson, appealed to Bush to quickly send over a multibillion dollar emergency
funding request not only for the border security provisions in the pending bill,
such as for global positioning radars and unmanned aerial vehicles, but also for
the detention beds, border fencing and vehicle barriers approved last year. The
provisions in this year's bill alone would cost $6.2 billion. The total would be
$10 billion to $15 billion, GOP aides said.

"A lot of the problems we're facing now come from a low level of confidence in
the Congress and a low level of confidence in the administration," said Isakson,
who was part of the immigration deal but now favors an enforcement-only
approach. "Sometimes you have to put the left foot in front of the right foot
and back again to start to walk forward before you run."

Nine other Republican senators delivered a letter to the president, suggesting
that a push to secure the borders could yield political dividends for a future
bill.

"We respectfully ask that your Administration enforce the border security laws
that have already been authorized by Congress regardless of whether the Senate
passes the immigration reform bill," the letter said. "Securing the border is
the best way to restore trust with the American people and facilitate future
improvements of our immigration policy."

Bush did not indicate whether he would request more money or change his border
policies. Instead, he used charm to try to disarm his opponents. He told
Sessions, for instance, that he plans to show up at a political fundraiser for
him, despite the senator's dogged stance against his immigration policies.

Cabinet officials were not so polite. As Bush was meeting with senators,
Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff adamantly defended the
administration's record on border security. His department is on track to hire
18,000 additional Border Patrol agents and complete 370 miles of fencing along
the southern border by the end of next year, he said. He added that a series of
workplace raids in recent weeks has yielded more controversy among immigrant
rights groups than praise from conservative critics.

Yesterday, federal agents raided the offices of a food-processing plant in
Oregon, placing about 100 workers under administrative arrest for possible
deportation.

But, Chertoff said, a broader crackdown on illegal immigration "is a hostage" to
Senate intransigence.

The beleaguered immigration bill contains authorization for a computerized
employment verification system that is crucial to stopping the hiring of
undocumented workers, he said. He noted that because 40 percent of illegal
immigrants come in legally but overstay their visas, no amount of border
security could stem that tide.

"The biggest help I could give to our guys on the border is attacking interior
enforcement and the magnet that draws people here," Chertoff said. "And that is
a hostage to this bill."

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              239 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            June 13, 2007 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

Harry Reid's Sham

BYLINE: George F. Will

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 824 words


Harry Reid, the Senate's majority leader and resident Uriah Heep, affected
'umble and syrupy sadness about the Senate's inability to pass the immigration
bill that he pulled from the floor last Thursday evening for a transparently
meretricious reason. Saying the Senate's time was too precious to expend on what
would have been limited debate on a limited number of Republican amendments to
the bill, Reid vowed: "Everyone that's been home, there are two issues that are
foremost in their minds: Number one is the Iraq war and number two are gas
prices. We're going to deal with that as soon as we finish with this immigration
legislation."

So the Senate took Friday off, wasted Monday in the predictable futility of
failing to pass a nonbinding nullity, a resolution expressing constitutionally
irrelevant lack of confidence in the attorney general, then debated lowering
gasoline prices -- or cooling the planet, or something -- by spending taxpayers'
money to raise food prices. It took up legislation to quintuple the mandated use
of mostly corn-based ethanol, which already has increased Americans' food bills
$14 billion in the past 12 months. For such silliness, Reid scuttled the
bipartisan attempt to improve the eminently improvable immigration status quo.

Senators from both parties who are trying to resuscitate the bill surely read
last weekend's Rasmussen poll recording public approval of Reid (19 percent) far
below the president's pathetic 36 percent. Democrats who control this
floundering and roundly disapproved Congress are paying a painful price for the
pleasure of defeating everything that could be construed in any way as an
achievement by the president.

Granted, Reid is just one reason for the immigration legislation's parlous
condition. Another reason is that lessons from 14 years ago have been forgotten.

In his new biography of Hillary Clinton, "A Woman in Charge," Carl Bernstein
recalls April 23-25, 1993, the 94th, 95th and 96th days of the Clinton
administration, when the president and Mrs. Clinton attended a retreat with
Senate Democrats in Williamsburg. It was already clear that the Clintons were
not going to fulfill their promise to present "comprehensive" health-care
legislation within their first 100 days. Bernstein reports that two of the most
respected and, for Mrs. Clinton's purposes, most important senators, Pat
Moynihan and Bill Bradley (both were on the Finance Committee, which would
handle her legislation; Moynihan was chairman), were appalled by her
highhandedness.

Bradley asked her  whether the tardiness in delivering her bill would complicate
passage by making the bill competitive with other legislative goals, and he
suggested that some substantive changes in her proposal might be necessary.
Bernstein writes:

"No, Hillary responded icily, there would be no changes because delay or not,
the White House would 'demonize' members of Congress and the medical
establishment who would use the interim to alter the administration's plan or
otherwise stand in its way."

Bradley and Moynihan heard this, Bernstein says, "with disgust and distrust."
Her plan never even came to a vote in a Congress controlled by her party.

Like her plan, the recent immigration legislation had three handicaps. First, it
was drafted in secret -- and unlike her bill, the immigration bill was not the
subject of hearings that could have clarified such fundamental matters as
whether immigrants are net drains on, or contributors to, the fiscal health of
federal, state and local governments. Second, like many comprehensive
"solutions" to large, intricate problems that are susceptible to incremental
ameliorations, the immigration bill, like the Clintons' health-care bill, was
presented as a package so finely calibrated and exquisitely balanced that any
significant change would, as Shakespeare said:

Take but degree away, untune that string,

And, hark! what discord follows.

Third, people skeptical about the legislation were, if not demonized, cast as
bigots or, at best, people uninterested in doing "the right thing for America"
(President Bush).

Perhaps Reid, in his rush to truncate debate, was being chivalrous toward
Speaker Nancy Pelosi. Suppose Senate Republicans agree to expedited handling of
the legislation so the Senate can get on with whatever folly Reid next considers
urgent business. And suppose 60 senators can force a final vote on a bill that
retains the most important provisions -- increased border security and
electronic identity verification. Many businesses, which profit from being
magnets for illegal immigration, think being part of law enforcement is an
intolerable nuisance, which is heartening evidence that workplace enforcement
might work.

If the Senate passes a bill, immigration then becomes a hot potato for the
House, where 61 of Pelosi's Democrats represent Republican-leaning districts
(Bush carried them). Hark! what discord will follow. What fun.

georgewill@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              240 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 15, 2007 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Immigration Bill Has New Life In Senate;
Parties Compromise On Amendments

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 929 words


Senate leaders, under pressure from pro-immigration groups and facing a
determined push by President Bush, agreed last night to bring a controversial
overhaul of the nation's immigration laws back to the Senate floor as early as
next week.

The bipartisan negotiators working on the immigration bill whittled hundreds of
amendments down to a package of 11 amendments from Republicans and another 11
from Democrats and then presented their compromise to Senate Majority Leader
Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.). Senate Minority Whip Trent Lott (Miss.) indicated
earlier that he could produce enough GOP votes to clear the 60-vote threshold to
get the bill back to the floor and push it to a final vote.

With Reid's demands satisfied, he and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell
(R-Ky.) issued a terse statement: "We met this evening with several of the
Senators involved in the immigration bill negotiations. Based on that
discussion, the immigration bill will return to the Senate floor."

Members of both parties cautioned that passage is still anything but certain.

"I'm sure senators on both sides of the aisle are being pounded by these
talk-radio people who don't even know what's in the bill," Lott said. He added
that the "leadership will have to be prepared to do what needs to be done."

The breakthrough was a clear victory for Bush, whose visit to Capitol Hill on
Tuesday appeared to come too late to resurrect a measure that had been pulled
from the Senate floor five days earlier.

"We are encouraged by the announcement from Senate leaders that comprehensive
immigration reform will be brought back up for consideration," said White House
spokesman Scott Stanzel. "We look forward to working with senators as the
process moves forward."

Administration officials worked hard to mobilize business groups and immigrant
rights organizations to counter a furious response from the bill's opponents.

Spanish-language radio personality Eddie "Piolin" Sotelo delivered to the Senate
yesterday more than 1 million letters from U.S. citizens and legal residents
supporting the measure, and Roman Catholic leaders launched a push to revive the
bill.

For his part, Bush sought to reassure conservatives that the controversial bill
would provide resources for more effective border control, endorsing a new plan
to devote $4.4 billion in fees raised by the legislation to bolstering border
surveillance and preventing illegal immigrants from being hired in workplaces.

"We're going to show the American people that the promises in this bill will be
kept," Bush told members of the Associated Builders and Contractors who gathered
for a conference downtown.

By endorsing the plan, proposed by Sens. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.) and Jon Kyl
(R-Ariz.), the president was sending another signal to conservatives to rethink
their opposition to the comprehensive immigration measure.

"That $4 billion is a tremendous help," said Sen. Mel Martinez (R-Fla.), one of
the bill's negotiators and the chairman of the Republican National Committee.
"It gives people confidence that security really will be there."

Negotiations on the bill stretched over five months, and the floor debate has
already consumed two weeks of a packed Senate schedule. The bill would link new
border controls and a crackdown on employers who hire illegal immigrants with
provisions to grant legal status to the 12 million illegal immigrants already in
the country, to clear the backlog of hundreds of thousands of immigration
applications, and to shift the emphasis of future immigration from family ties
to job skills and higher education levels.

Reid has absorbed withering criticism for his decision to yank the bill from the
floor last week after a vote to cut off debate received just 45 votes, well
short of the 60 needed to move to a vote on final passage. But he said he could
not continue to push the legislation if opponents persisted in offering
amendment after amendment to, in effect, filibuster the bill.

With a finite list of amendments in hand, Reid promised last night to bring the
bill back after the Senate completes work on an energy bill, probably by next
Thursday.

Senate opponents showed no sign of acquiescing to the deal. "I appreciate the
effort to fund border security, but there's simply no reason why we should be
forced to tie amnesty to it," Sen. Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) said of the president's
pledge.

Sen. Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.), a bill negotiator who has edged away from it, said
he, too, wants to "decouple" funding for border security from the broader issues
of immigration, saying Bush should send up a separate emergency spending bill
before the full package comes back to the floor.

But the bill's Republican supporters in the Senate said they are confident that
they will win final passage. The measure, however, still has a steep road ahead.
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) has said she is committed to move on an
immigration plan next month if the Senate bill passes. But she has made it clear
that Bush would have to deliver at least 70 GOP votes to win passage for
legislation that is sure to split the Democratic caucus.

House Republicans showed no sign of tempering their opposition yesterday, even
after senators backed the immediate infusion of funds for border security.

"Only in Washington would people believe that throwing money at the problem is
going to solve it," said Rep. Brian P. Bilbray (R-Calif.), who is leading the
opposition. "This is a blatant attempt by senators to extort votes so they can
fast-track an amnesty plan."

Staff writer Michael Abramowitz contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Nikki Kahn -- The Washington Post; Claudia Hanson of Sebring,
Fla., left, participated in a Mall rally against illegal immigration yesterday.
IMAGE; By Stephanie Kuykendal -- Bloomberg News; Sen. Mel Martinez (R-Fla.), one
of the bill's negotiators, said a plan to devote more than $4 billion to border
security measures will help.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              241 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 17, 2007 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

The 'Grand Bargain': Round II;
Upfront cash and an eye on the big picture may grease the skids for immigration
reform.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 507 words


GIVE CREDIT to the advocates of broad immigration reform and to President Bush
for helping to revive what looked like moribund legislation in the Senate. Now
comes the hard work of securing approval in both houses of Congress for a bill
so sweeping that it contains something for everyone to dislike.

Backers in the administration and the Senate are repackaging the bill as a law
enforcement measure, amending it to   provide $4.4 billion in guaranteed,
upfront funding for tighter border security, expanded detention facilities and a
crackdown on employers who hire illegal workers. That may be a shrewd way to win
over some skeptical Republican senators who were instrumental in shelving the
bill just over a week ago, and it's a justified move toward making the nation's
border less porous.

At the same time, keeping the bill's broader purpose in mind is critical. Trying
to seal the border without recognizing the reality that the U.S. economy relies
on immigrant labor is a recipe for failure. Immigrants account for one-seventh
of the American workforce; undocumented ones represent about 5 percent of all
employees nationally. A large majority of workers who entered the country
illegally or who overstayed their visas did so not only for the chance of living
better lives and supporting loved ones at home but because the great engine of
this country's commerce and industry needs them to do jobs that are shunned by
most native-born Americans, whose education levels have risen steadily. The idea
apparently cherished by anti-immigrant hard-liners -- that undocumented workers
can be deported, hounded and policed into invisibility -- is a pipe dream.

On top of the economic facts, there are political ones. Just as everyone loathes
some facet of the immigration bill, practically everyone wants something from
it, too. Advocates of security-first, who want a border crackdown and an
employee verification system before addressing existing and future immigrants,
may be correct that many reformers care more about legalization for the nation's
12 million undocumented aliens. But the legalization-first crowd is right that
the problem of undocumented immigrants will only mushroom, regardless of new
fencing and agents at the border; after all, 40 percent of illegal immigrants
enter the country on a valid visa. The immigration bill's "grand bargain" builds
on those twin realities -- the need to secure the borders and to accommodate
immigrant workers drawn by the American job market.

If the Senate bill can overcome the barrage of procedural obstacles still
certain to impede its progress, it may emerge with any number of toxic features,
which this page will identify and oppose. Ditto whatever bill may be taken up by
the House. With luck the worst bits can be redacted or defanged in House-Senate
negotiations. But the big-picture goals of border security, employment
verification, and legalization for existing and future immigrants remain worth
the fight, if only because they promise an improvement on an intolerable status
quo.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              242 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 18, 2007 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

A weekly roundup of the buzz from the Sunday talk shows

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 295 words


As an immigration overhaul bill is poised to return to the Senate this week,
lawmakers from both parties showed little interest in compromise.

On CBS's "Face the Nation," Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (Ky.) called
the situation a "mixed picture," saying the failure to eliminate the "Z visa," a
provision that would allow illegal immigrants to get legal status, "amounts to
amnesty."

Another Republican, Sen. John Cornyn (Tex.), said on CNN's "Late Edition" that
the inclusion of the Z visa makes the bill bound for failure. "The problem is
this bill, I don't think, yet meets the standard of actually, Will it work?"
Cornyn said.

He said he would support debate in which Republicans could offer as many
amendments as they desire. "I think people are profoundly skeptical with . . .
this big, complex bill that was negotiated behind closed doors."

But a prominent Democrat appeared unwilling to back away from his party's
insistence that debate be limited. "Last Congress, we passed in the Senate,
through amendment process and through debate, a comprehensive immigration reform
bill. . . . We didn't insist upon indefinite amendments," said Sen. Jack Reed
(R.I.).

Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.), an architect of the bill, made an impassioned
plea for its passage on ABC's "This Week." "To my Republican colleagues, this is
the best deal we're ever going to get," he said. "It's so easy to disagree with
Ted Kennedy as a Republican because we disagree 90 percent of the time, but what
we've done here is Republicans and Democrats  sat down to solve a problem that
no one party can solve by itself."

Most of the news on the Sunday shows came from appearances by Ryan C. Crocker,
the U.S. ambassador to Iraq, and Gen. David H. Petraeus [story, A11].

By Zachary A. Goldfarb

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              243 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 19, 2007 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigrant Lobbyists Take the Train;
Revival of Bill Draws Multinational Advocates to Capital

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 539 words


The Amtrak trains arrived at Union Station yesterday afternoon, and out streamed
an Iraqi refugee, a former circus performer from Chile, a nurse's assistant from
Haiti and nearly 100 others at the last stop of a cross-country tour to press
for new immigration laws.

Along the way, the travelers -- from nations on nearly every continent -- held
rallies to tell their stories of run-ins and hassles with the U.S. immigration
system and about their hope that change would come soon.

"I wait three years to get my wife to the United States," Tonio Antonioni, 32,
an Iraqi refugee who hopped on the train in Tucson, said at a small rally under
the burning summer sun outside the train station. "They tell me: Be patient."

The "Dreams Across America" tour began last week in San Francisco and stopped in
10 U.S. cities to pick up riders en route to Washington, where travelers plan to
share their experiences with lawmakers. Participants said the trip gained
urgency last week with the revival of the bipartisan Senate immigration bill,
which had appeared to die earlier this month.

Although the tour included small rallies at each stop, it also displayed a shift
to quieter methods for the modern immigrant rights movement, which last year
mobilized major demonstrations that brought attention to the cause but that some
observers say sparked a backlash. The tour's Web site,
http://www.dreamsacrossamericaonline.org, offered written and video immigrant
testimonies and encouraged others to upload their stories.

It was also an attempt by activists to broaden the focus of the immigration
debate from illegal immigration to the general dysfunction of an overburdened
immigration system. With the exception of one Baltimore high schooler, all the
speakers at yesterday's rally were in the country legally.

"We have marched, we have voted and we'll continue to vote. We have come in
trains; we have come in buses," said Jaime Contreras, president of the National
Capital Immigration Coalition, of the immigrant, religious and labor groups that
sponsored the tour. "We're here to press until we get immigration reform this
year."

Antonioni, a former professional soccer player in Iraq, said he fled his
homeland in 2000 after repeated beatings by men loyal to dictator Saddam
Hussein's son Uday, who was angry with Antonioni for refusing to join the
national team. Antonioni -- who said he changed his given name, Abdul Kadhim
Khashan, after experiencing discrimination in the wake of the terrorist attacks
of Sept. 11, 2001 -- returned to Iraq to marry in 2003. Now, he says, his
citizenship application and his petition for his wife are stuck in the
immigration system's backlog, one problem the proposed Senate bill would tackle.

Another train rider was Richmond fourth-grader Iria Gomez-Garcia, who wore
several medals -- honors for her schoolwork, she said -- as she spoke to the
crowd about the early morning that immigration agents came for her parents,
illegal immigrants from Guatemala. Her parents escaped capture by not answering
the door, she said, but she is not so sure they will next time.

"I have a dream to be a lawyer, to represent people who have no voice and young
people like me who live in fear," she said. "And it was terrifying."

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Katherine Frey -- The Washington Post; Dozens of immigrants
from countries as diverse as Cameroon, Iraq and Peru arrive at Washington's
Union Station to tell Congress their personal stories in hopes of winning
passage of a controversial immigration bill.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              244 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 25, 2007 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigration Bill: One More Shot

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 557 words

Immigration Bill: One More Shot

 An immigration overhaul -- the chief domestic initiative of President Bush's
second term -- will take center stage a final time this year as the Senate
returns to a bipartisan bill that stalled a few weeks ago. Bush is expected to
discuss the bill on Tuesday.

After five months of negotiations, backers of the bill are confident they can
get the 60 votes necessary to end debate and move toward a final vote. But
passage is far from guaranteed.

Both parties will be allowed to submit about a dozen amendments; however, a
number that are being considered may be "poison pills," designed primarily to
kill the bill.

Republicans are focused on skepticism among many of the GOP faithful -- aired
loudly on talk radio -- that the measure will accomplish anything in the way of
border enforcement. Democrats are concerned about the bill's emphasis on job
skills over family ties in deciding who gets residency priority.

Also on the Senate's schedule are the Employee Free Choice Act, which backers
say would strengthen union workers' rights, and a defense authorization bill.
The House will tackle the interior and environment appropriations bill. Both
chambers will leave at week's end for a week-long July 4 recess.

2008 DASH: It will be an intense week on the presidential campaign trail,
foremost because of Saturday's  deadline on second-quarter fundraising. The big
questions are whether Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) and former senator John Edwards
(D-N.C.) were able to raise respectable sums and whether Sen. Barack Obama
(D-Ill.) raised more than Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-N.Y.).

Big Republican speeches are scheduled. Former New York mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani
will address Pat Robertson's Regent University tomorrow. It will be an important
moment for Giuliani, a supporter of abortion rights and gay rights whose hope of
winning the GOP nod rests partly on whether he can persuade Christian
evangelicals to support him. Meanwhile, former senator Fred D. Thompson (Tenn.),
perhaps planning to get into the race early next month, will speak to the South
Carolina GOP on Wednesday.

PBS will host a debate of the Democratic candidates at Howard University on
Thursday. The Democrats will speak to the National Association of Latino Elected
and Appointed Officials on Saturday in Orlando; the Republican candidates
declined to take part, the group says.

And -- don't forget him -- Rep. Dennis J. Kucinich (D-Ohio) will appear on "Late
Show With David Letterman" on Friday.

TRAVELING WHITE HOUSE: Much of the White House's energy this week will be spent
propping up the immigration bill, but also on Bush's agenda are remarks on the
No Child Left Behind law today and a visit to the Naval War College in Newport,
R.I., on Thursday. On Sunday, he will welcome President Vladimir Putin of Russia
to Kennebunkport, Maine.

First lady Laura Bush will have a busy week of her own, with a trip to Mali,
Zambia, Senegal and Mozambique to highlight the president's AIDS program. [See
At the White House, Page A17.]

OPEN SEAT: California will hold a special election on Tuesday to fill the seat
left vacant by the death of Rep. Juanita Millender-McDonald (D). Top candidates
in the staunchly Democratic district include state Rep. Laura Richardson;
Valerie McDonald, daughter of the late congresswoman; and state Sen. Jenny
Oropeza.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              245 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 25, 2007 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigration Gatekeepers

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 233 words


Avoiding a filibuster on the immigration bill will be largely up to Senate
Republicans. Moderates Susan Collins, Olympia J. Snowe and Norm Coleman are
essential votes, but also influential are three conservatives who have been
active on immigration reform: Saxby Chambliss, Johnny Isakson and Larry E.
Craig.

Sen. Saxby Chambliss (Ga.)

"If we don't seal the border . . . I don't care what kind of reform package we
pass, it means nothing."

Sen. Norm Coleman (Minn.)

"Many folks think we are not credible about enforcement

of our borders. Without

public trust and confidence,

we may get this bill

through the Senate,

but not further."

Sen. Susan Collins (Maine)

"The most important provisions . . . will strengthen border security. Otherwise,
a decade from now we will be wondering what we are going to do about an
additional

12 million people."

Sen. Larry E. Craig (Idaho)

"The bill . . . has all three legs of the immigration reform stool: increasing
border security, reforming

our guest-worker programs and addressing

the workers already in our country."

Sen. Johnny Isakson (Ga.)

"The public just doesn't believe that . . . [enforcement] is going to get done.
. . . Doing nothing is not an option."

Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (Maine)

"The final bill to be voted on must secure our borders yet also reduce the
incentives for people to enter the country illegally, such that we're not in
this position years down the road."

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE
IMAGE
IMAGE
IMAGE
IMAGE
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              246 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 26, 2007 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

In House, a Bottom-Up Immigration Push

BYLINE: Paul Kane; washingtonpost.com Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 617 words


Rep. James Clyburn (D-S.C.) looks across the Capitol and sees a mess on
immigration reform, something that was caused by a senatorial process that shut
too many players out of what is hailed as the "grand bargain."

Clyburn, the House majority whip, is concluding a series of "listening sessions"
this week with all 233 members of his caucus. The goal is to build a consensus
among House Democrats on a comprehensive package of immigration changes before
the issue hits the floor, which could happen next month.

"In the Senate, I guess you can kind of do things from on high or you can allow
things to trickle down. Over here I believe in bubbling up," Clyburn said in an
interview.

He said the listening session approach, crafted by Speaker Nancy Pelosi
(D-Calif.) and being carried out by Clyburn and Rep. Xavier Becerra (D-Calif.),
was designed as an implicit rejection of how things are often done in the other
chamber, where a small number of senators iron out the differences in a bill
behind closed doors -- as was the case with the immigration legislation. Senate
Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) is trying to resuscitate that bill and will
need 60 votes to resume debate.

There is still some uncertainty about whether Pelosi will bring the contentious
immigration debate to the House if the "grand bargain" falls apart in the
Senate. "Everything's interrelated," Becerra said. "I don't think we have a set
game plan on how we proceed."

Republicans note that the immigration overhaul probably would pose the most
difficult challenge yet to Pelosi and Clyburn's whip operation. Leaders such as
Rep. Rahm Emanuel (D-Ill.) have publicly suggested that more than 50 Democrats
might oppose a plan similar to the one being considered by the Senate, requiring
more than a third of Republicans to support a bill drafted by Democrats. "Before
anyone can start talking about reaching across the aisle, Democrats have to have
their own ducks in a row," said Brian Kennedy, spokesman for House Minority
Leader John Boehner (Ohio).

To placate concerns in their diverse caucus, Clyburn and Becerra are holding six
meetings with members of Congress from different regions, give-and-take sessions
slated to last at least 90 minutes. Their first meeting, last Wednesday,
included the huge collection of California Democrats as well as representatives
from Hawaii and delegates from Pacific Island commonwealths, who at one point
delved into a lengthy discussion of labor practices on the island of Micronesia.

Becerra acknowledged that he and Clyburn are learning not just from the Senate's
handling of immigration but also from their own failings earlier this year on
the Iraq supplemental spending bill and a South American trade deal. In those
instances, he said, the leadership drove the process and presented plans to
rank-and-file members after the deals were pronounced, infuriating some
lawmakers.

Clyburn called those rookie mistakes in the early days of the new majority. "We
were all dancing around trying to figure out who I can best dance with, who I
can keep rhythm with," he said.

If they are successful, Clyburn and Becerra will pass off the heavy lifting of
drafting immigration legislation to the Judiciary Committee, which could then
send a bill to the House floor late next month before Congress departs for its
month-long August recess. The pair hopes to turn the listening sessions into a
regular occurrence for legislative hurdles down the line, including on energy
and health-care bills.

"It's my job not just to count votes but to create a climate within which people
will feel they have got a stake in the outcome," Clyburn said. "It is very, very
important for people to buy into the process."

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Gary Fabiano -- Religion News Service; House Majority Whip
James Clyburn is soliciting rank-and-file input.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              247 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            June 27, 2007 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Senate Revisits Immigration Bill;
Foes Vow to Kill Measure Within Days

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 701 words


Legislation to overhaul the nation's immigration laws cleared a key hurdle
yesterday when the Senate voted 64 to 35 to take up the measure again after a
nearly three-week break. But opponents of the proposal insisted they would
scuttle it by week's end.

The procedural vote squeezed past the 60-vote threshold needed to bring the bill
back for debate, but even advocates said that was the easy part. The immigration
bill must run a gantlet of 26 politically charged amendments and clear another
60-vote hurdle tomorrow to cut off a filibuster before a final vote Friday.

The bill's most ardent opponents forced the Senate clerk last night to read all
26 of those amendments in their entirety as a delaying tactic. "This is going to
begin some very heavy trench warfare," Sen. Arlen Specter (R-Pa.) said. "It's
going to be like World War I."

Still, Bush administration officials who have championed the proposal insisted
that a bill once left for dead was now on its way toward passage.

"We are confident in Senate passage, because we look at the alternative, and the
alternative is nothing," Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said.

"In the end, logic, common sense and wisdom will prevail," added Commerce
Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez, in a shot against detractors, who continue to say
the immigration bill's border security provisions are unworkable and its path to
citizenship for 12 million illegal immigrants amounts to "amnesty" for
lawbreakers.

Privately, White House officials were less boastful. Even if it clears the
Senate, the bill faces a wall of GOP opposition in the House. House Republicans
took the unusual step in a closed-door conference meeting yesterday of debating
a resolution opposing the Senate bill, even before the Senate completed action
on it. House Republicans voted 114 to 23 to oppose the Senate bill, and GOP
leadership aides said that not even those opposed would necessarily support
similar legislation -- that they opposed taking a vote at all.

That low number is significant, suggested Rep. Lincoln Diaz-Balart (Fla.), one
of the few outspoken Republicans who back a comprehensive immigration overhaul.
It is well short of the 70 Republicans that House Speaker Nancy Pelosi
(D-Calif.) has said she needs to pass a bill.

Rep. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.) called the gathering an obvious and unseemly attempt
to influence the Senate vote a few hours later. "I think it demeans us in the
House to comment on a Senate bill that's still under consideration," he said.

But House GOP leaders denied that. House Minority Leader John A. Boehner
(R-Ohio) said he informed the White House of the effort last night. "I won't say
they were happy about it," he said, but added, "You can't throttle back debate
in the House or debate in the conference."

The Senate's vote a few hours later struck a few ominous notes. Among the 35
senators opposing taking up the bill for debate again were nine Democrats and a
Democratic-leaning independent, Sen. Bernard Sanders (Vt.), who are likely to
oppose final passage. That number could grow as the bipartisan coalition that
drafted the compromise bill tilts it toward conservative positions on some
issues to try to garner more Republican votes.

The senators in the "grand bargain" spent much of the afternoon finalizing a
get-tough amendment that would put up $4.4 billion for border security,
establish a tracking system to watch participants in the bill's new guest-worker
programs, and, perhaps most significant, force illegal immigrants to leave the
country temporarily to get the "Z visas" that would allow them to live and work
legally in the United States. Sen. Dianne Feinstein (Calif.), one of three
Democratic authors of the bill, expressed misgivings over that last provision
yesterday, but Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.), its author and another key
architect of the bill, said he would not vote for final passage without it.

"There will be some who think this is too tough," he said. "But there are many
who believe we won't ever do anything to change the problem. I'm trying to talk
to those who don't believe that this bill corrects the mistakes of the past, and
to those who think we're too tough -- it's all perspective and application."

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              248 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 28, 2007 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigration Measure Appears Imperiled Again;
Defeat of Amendments Briefly Raised Hopes

BYLINE: William Branigin and Jonathan Weisman; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 776 words


The Senate yesterday turned back a series of amendments from both parties aimed
at substantially altering controversial immigration legislation, but the bill
shed supporters as it became mired in procedural problems that left backers
concerned about its prospects.

The legislation faces a make-or-break vote this morning when senators will
decide whether to cut off debate and move to a final vote tomorrow. If it does
not get the 60 votes necessary, Majority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.) has said
he will pull the bill, all but dashing hopes for any meaningful legislation this
year.

Top legislative aides in both parties predicted today's vote would be very close
but would fall short of keeping the proposal alive.

Sen. Jim DeMint (R-S.C.), a key opponent, crowed last night that "they tried to
railroad this through today, but we derailed the train." Another opponent, Sen.
Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.), said, "I would say to my colleagues: Let's end this
thing."

Key Democrats who were on the fence also raised questions. Sen. Robert Menendez
(D-N.J.) said the failure of his amendment to bolster family reunification visas
"makes it more difficult to vote in favor" of ending debate. The reunification
provision was voted down 55 to 40.

Last night's stall came after a day that had left the bill's proponents
optimistic. The defeat of provisions intended to toughen the bill or soften its
restrictions suggested that the core of the "grand bargain" was holding in the
Senate's second attempt to pass an immigration bill supported by the White
House.

One key amendment rejected yesterday was a Republican proposal to require all
adult illegal immigrants to return to their countries temporarily to qualify for
a special new visa.

The provision, an amendment offered by Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Tex.), was
defeated, 53 to 45. But a similar amendment that would require only heads of
households to return to home countries is expected to fare better if it comes to
the floor, after the vote to shut off debate.

The defeated amendments were among at least 26 measures up for consideration.
Some are designed to stiffen the bill in response to criticism from
conservatives, while others are aimed at weakening provisions that immigrants'
rights advocates or employers consider too burdensome.

The overall bill would create a path to U.S. citizenship for the nation's 12
million illegal immigrants and establish a new guest-worker program that would
allow hundreds of thousands more to enter the country to take jobs that
President Bush says Americans do not want. It also would pour billions of
dollars into an effort to tighten border security.

A number of Republican senators have bucked the White House on the bill, vowing
to kill it because its legalization provisions amount to "amnesty" for illegal
immigrants, a deeply unpopular concept among many conservatives. The bill also
has come under attack from liberals and immigrants' advocates, who oppose some
of its restrictions and its emphasis on awarding visas based more on skills than
on the family connections that are given primacy under the current system.

One of the defeated amendments, offered by Sen. Christopher S. Bond (R-Mo.),
would have denied citizenship to all illegal immigrants. It lost, 56 to 41.
Another amendment introduced by Sen. James Webb (D-Va.), which would have given
legal status to only those illegal immigrants who have lived in the United
States for at least four years, went down 79 to 18. The bill would extend
eligibility for legalization to those who arrived by Jan. 1, 2007.

An attempt to liberalize the bill also failed, as senators voted 56 to 41
against an amendment by Sen. Christopher J. Dodd (D-Conn.) that would have
increased the availability of green cards for relatives of those already here.
Republicans strongly opposed the amendment because it would have violated a key
tenet of the "grand bargain" behind the bill: shifting the allocation of green
cards to the skills-based system favored by employers.

Hutchison's amendment would have required all adult illegal immigrants eligible
to work to return to their home countries within two years after receiving a
temporary permit to remain in the United States. It would have applied to those
seeking a new "Z Visa," a category designed to give probationary status to
illegal immigrants before they become eligible to apply for green cards, which
denote permanent legal resident status.

Considered more likely to pass is an amendment offered by Sen. Lindsey O. Graham
(R-S.C.) that would require heads of households with Z Visas -- rather than all
adults -- to return home before reentering the United States legally.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Susan Walsh -- Associated Press; Los Angeles Mayor Antonio
Villaraigosa, second from right, is applauded by Capitol Hill Democrats during a
news conference on immigration.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              249 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 30, 2007 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                                Suburban Edition

Some Immigration Bills Aim for Little Victories;
Individual Remedies a Controversial Last Resort

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 1218 words


Congress has repeatedly snubbed plans that would hand out green cards to
millions of illegal immigrants. But how about one for Genevieve Vang?

Vang's 17-year quest to gain political asylum through normal channels has been
frustrated at every turn. But under Senate Bill 1648, permanent U.S. residency
would be granted to Vang, her husband and two of their children -- Laotians
living in Michigan -- and to them alone.

The bill, sponsored by Sen. Carl M. Levin (D-Mich.), is one of nearly 60 pending
"private" bills that would grant permanent residency, or green cards, to
specific immigrants battling deportation, including a Bangladeshi man facing a
death sentence in his homeland, a Kenyan woman whose American husband died
before he could make her a legal resident and a German teen who has spent half
his life in Ohio.

"He's still in danger of being deported, and so we want to get him some kind of
legal status," said Rep. Paul E. Gillmor (R-Ohio) of his bill on behalf of the
German teen, Manuel Bartsch, who was brought to America by his step-grandfather
and jailed two years ago after contacting immigration authorities for records he
needed to take a college entrance exam.

For those whose  requests have been denied by federal officials and rejected by
immigration judges, Congress is the court of last resort. Touched by their
stories and convinced of the need for occasional flexibility, lawmakers have
introduced more than 500 private immigration bills since 1996.

The method has critics. Conservative blogger Michelle Malkin calls it "instant
amnesty." Some immigrant advocates call it special treatment for people with
common problems. Those concerns have contributed to a low success rate. Since
1996, just 36 private immigration bills have passed.

Still, dozens of bills are introduced, sometimes several sessions in a row.
Immigration authorities typically postpone deportation while a private bill
awaits action.

Common beneficiaries are foreign children adopted by U.S. citizens after their
16th birthdays, making the adoption  irrelevant for immigration purposes,  and
immigrants whose American spouses perished. Many have attracted media attention
to the point that they are local celebrities.

"Some have been working for a number of years, and the family is getting ready
to be broken up," said Rep. Bobby L. Rush (D-Ill.), who has sponsored a bill for
the second year that would give legal residency to 34 Mexican, Polish, Tanzanian
and Serbian immigrants, not all of whom Rush has met. "I was inspired by the
harm that would take place in the families."

Private bills were once more popular -- and fruitful. Thousands  were enacted
during the first hundred Congresses. But today's heated immigration debate and
other factors have led to a decline, experts say.

A 1965 law emphasized  family reunification as a criterion for immigration, and
that previously was the basis of many private claims. At the same time, scandal
has been a deterrent to private bills. In the 1980 Abscam sting, FBI agents
posing as Arab sheiks offered payments to members of Congress for private
immigration bills, leading to the ouster of seven lawmakers. Two decades later,
Rep. Bill McCollum (R-Fla.) faced censure for  a private bill to aid the son of
a state Republican Party leader.

Some members of Congress refuse to sponsor private bills because they fear "an
onslaught of requests," said Christopher Nugent, a Washington immigration lawyer
who represents Malik Jarno, a mentally retarded teenager from Guinea.

Rep. Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.), who sponsored two unsuccessful private bills to
help Jarno in previous sessions,  said he wanted to send "a very strong signal
to immigration authorities" that Jarno had "not received just treatment."
Jarno's case is now back in court.

No pending private immigration bills are sponsored by members of the Washington
region's congressional delegation.

The most prolific sponsors are Democrats. Levin has eight pending; Sen. Dianne
Feinstein (D-Calif.) has nine. Feinstein's cases include three her staffers say
were botched by immigration  lawyers and the case of Jacqueline W. Coats, a
Kenyan whose American husband died saving two children from drowning in San
Francisco Bay days before Coats's green card application was filed.

"In the immigration world, there are heartbreaking stories of people who face
hardship through no fault of their own," Feinstein said in a statement.
"Sometimes it is important to step back, be human and act with compassion."

Among the Republican sponsors is Sen. Saxby Chambliss (Ga.), who helped  prepare
this year's Senate immigration bill and later cast a vote that  contributed to
its defeat. Another is  Rep. Duncan Hunter (R-Calif.), an outspoken critic of
"amnesty" for illegal immigrants and champion of the Mexican border fence.
Hunter, a presidential candidate, sponsored Fouad Yousef Hakim Mansour and
Saheir Gamil Shaker Mansour, Coptic Christians who fled religious persecution in
Egypt, overstayed visitor visas and lived illegally in the United States for 10
years before applying unsuccessfully for asylum. They recently won permanent
residency in Canada.

Asked if the private bill would have granted the Mansours "amnesty," Hunter's
spokesman, Joe Kasper, said Hunter decides private bills on a "case-by-case
basis."

Hunter "couldn't knowingly turn his back on the Mansours," Kasper said. "This is
one of those situations where the end result quite possibly could have been
death."

Some observers say plenty of immigrants have similarly compelling reasons to
stay but lack access to lawmakers. That disparity is one reason private bills
should be axed, said Jonathan Turley, a George Washington University law
professor.

"Awarding special treatment often leaves the legal or administrative problem
untouched," Turley said. "If a person was unable to get relief, then new avenues
of relief should be created for all such persons."

Gillmor said private bills should be "very rare." To help  people like Bartsch,
Gillmor said, he has sponsored  legislation that would provide green cards to
some illegal immigrants who entered the United States as children.

Jason Peltz, the Vangs' attorney, said their case is without parallel.

Genevieve Vang, 42, and her husband fled Laos's communist government for France
in the 1970s.  After Guy Vang learned that his siblings were in the United
States, the Vangs came to this country with their two daughters in 1990. They
applied for asylum and were told for the next decade that their case was
pending. When their file was unearthed, Peltz said, the Vangs were told that
their application was rejected because they were already citizens of a "safe
haven" -- France.  Their appeals were denied.

Meanwhile, they opened a popular Dearborn, Mich., restaurant and had two more
children. The delay forced them to put down roots, Peltz said. "When an
immigrant messes up, the government can deport them," Peltz said. "When the
government messes up, there's no remedy."

Vang said she is not sure whether other illegal immigrants should be helped. But
she is sure about her family, which she said has no ties to France. "This is a
mistake of paperwork, but it's not from my side," Vang said in a telephone
interview. "They should know that and just fix it."

Staff researcher Meg Smith contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

CORRECTION-DATE: August 2, 2007



CORRECTION: A July 30 A-section article incorrectly said that former Florida
state representative Bill McCollum (R), now the state's attorney general, faced
official condemnation for sponsoring a private immigration bill. McCollum was
criticized for the proposal, but he did not face official censure.

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Courtesy Of International Friendship House; Rep. Donald M. Payne
(D-N.J.) with Malik Jarno, a teen from Guinea on whose behalf private bills have
been filed. The bills did not pass.
IMAGE; Kgo-tv; Jacqueline Coats's husband died days before her green card
application was filed.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              250 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           August 15, 2007 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

Living With the Newcomers Among Us

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 498 words


Regarding  David Walsh's Aug. 12 letter,  "A Culture Clash is Not 'Racism' ":

It is clear that Mr. Walsh supports the kind of racism that is being enacted
into anti-immigration law in Prince William County. Mr. Walsh asserts that the
quality of life of county residents has been diminished by immigrants, thereby
turning, in his words, "Pleasantville" into  "Little Tijuana."  His evidence for
this is that Prince William County  is  plagued by "squawking chickens in back
yards, a half-dozen cars in front, music blaring in the night, beer-induced
brawls . . . and catcalls to women."

Surely Mr. Walsh can't believe that immigrants are the only people in Prince
William  who  turn the music up too loud, start  brawls or make catcalls to
women. Even if such occurrences have increased as the county's population has
exploded, these actions should not be stereotypically attributed only to
immigrants. Mr. Walsh's support of Prince William County's  new immigration laws
is misguided.

JENNIFER DeCAMP

Fairfax

David Walsh  tried to make the point that Prince William County's tough
immigration laws do not stem from  racist sentiments on the part of county
residents. I don't know about the motivations of Prince William's residents, but
Mr. Walsh makes his own attitudes quite clear with a  portrayal of Latinos based
on  some of the ugliest, most racist stereotypes  imaginable. Ironically, the
tone of his letter indicates that he doesn't recognize his own prejudice, much
less that of like-minded people in  Prince William County. This cultural
ignorance is sad and embarrassing.

MARIAN CONDON

Ellicott City

Regarding the Aug. 13 editorial "English, S?":  As a teacher of English to
nonnative speakers for over 30 years, I can attest that most immigrants deeply
want to learn English.  English-only laws aren't necessary for immigrants to see
that living successfully  in this country requires knowing English.

For those Americans who have not experienced an immigrant's desperation about
feeding a family in a hopeless situation and learning  a new language and
culture as an adult with little education, I would ask that they imagine
themselves in similar circumstances and show compassion instead of scorn.

English isn't learned overnight.  It takes years to develop adequate fluency to
read government documents  and communicate clearly.

English classes are in demand all over the area, and in some places there are
waiting lists of eager learners. To deny public services to illegal immigrants
is a spiteful, hurtful response that is out of proportion to the crime of
entering the country illegally. What these new residents of our community need
is education and acculturation to avoid the culture clashes that have
understandably upset other residents. If given basic services, the children of
these new immigrants will consider themselves Americans and follow the pattern
of all who came to this country as hopeful, brave immigrants and became
acculturated citizens.

GAIL SCHMITT

Rockville

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              251 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 23, 2007 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 610 words

Heat Wave Takes Toll In Southeast and Midwest

KNOXVILLE, Tenn. -- A fire at a power substation on Wednesday forced the
nation's largest public utility to ask major industrial customers to reduce
their electricity use as a heat wave continued.

The fire caused a partial shutdown at a Tennessee Valley Authority plant in
Kentucky as temperatures were predicted to rise to near 100 degrees through
Friday in the Knoxville-based utility's seven-state territory.

In Nashville, Tuesday marked the 12th day of 100 degrees or above this month --
the most recorded in any month for the city. Nashville set a daily record of 102
on Wednesday, while Memphis matched a 2000 record of 100.

Meanwhile, the regional heat wave's death toll grew Wednesday to at least 50,
with one new death reported in Missouri and two in Alabama.

* * *

? TRENTON, N.J. -- After a review driven by a brutal triple homicide, New Jersey
Attorney General Anne Milgram ordered state law enforcers to notify federal
immigration officials whenever an illegal immigrant is arrested for an
indictable offense or drunken driving. Milgram reviewed the state's policy in
light of the killings of three Newark college students and the wounding of a
fourth victim on Aug. 4. One of the six suspects is an illegal immigrant who had
been granted bail on charges of child rape and aggravated assault without
immigration officials being alerted to his presence.

? PITTSBURGH -- A doctor was charged with involuntary manslaughter in connection
with administering a chemical treatment that state police say killed a
5-year-old autistic boy. The child, Abubakar Tariq Nadama, went into cardiac
arrest at Roy E. Kerry's medical office immediately after undergoing chelation
therapy on Aug. 23, 2005. Chelation is approved by the Food and Drug
Administration for treating acute heavy-metal poisoning but not for treating
autism. Some people who believe autism is caused by a mercury-containing
preservative once used in vaccines say chelation may help autistic children. The
boy's parents had moved from England to the Pittsburgh area to seek treatment
for his autism. They have filed a wrongful-death lawsuit against Kerry, and the
state is trying to revoke his medical license.

? ST. PAUL, Minn. -- In addition to heavy traffic, missing bolts and cracking
steel, the failed interstate bridge over the Mississippi River faced a less
obvious enemy: pigeons. Inspectors began documenting the buildup of pigeon dung
on the span near downtown Minneapolis two decades ago. Experts say the corrosive
guano deposited all over the Interstate 35W framework made the steel beams rust
faster. Investigators have not identified the cause of the Aug. 1 collapse.

? KENNEBUNKPORT, Maine -- An 81-year-old houseguest suffered a fatal heart
attack at the summer home of former president George H.W. Bush. John C. Jansing,
the husband of Bush's cousin Shelley Bush Jansing, was taken by paramedics to
the emergency room at Southern Maine Medical Center in Biddeford late Tuesday.
Efforts to revive him were unsuccessful. The Jansings lived in Harbor Springs,
Mich., and Hobe Sound, Fla.

? WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. -- Florida's top police agency said its investigation
into former congressman Mark Foley's lurid Internet communications with teenage
boys has been hindered because neither Foley nor the House will let
investigators examine his congressional computers. The Florida Department of Law
Enforcement says it hopes to conclude its investigation within 10 days. Foley
resigned from Congress on Sept. 29 after being confronted with the computer
messages he sent to male teenage pages who had worked on Capitol Hill.

-- From News Services

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              252 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 1, 2007 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigrant Crackdown Halted;
Judge Delays DHS Plan to Check Social Security Numbers

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 506 words


A federal judge yesterday barred the Bush administration from launching a
crackdown Tuesday on U.S. employers who hire illegal immigrants while she
considers a lawsuit by the AFL-CIO that charges that the plan will harm citizens
and other legal workers.

The ruling, issued by U.S. District Judge Maxine M. Chesney in San Francisco,
prohibits the Department of Homeland Security from starting to mail notices to
140,000 employers about suspect Social Security numbers. The "no- match" letters
warn of  penalties employers face by having discrepancies in their paperwork.

The order was a victory for the labor federation and the American Civil
Liberties Union, which filed suit alleging that DHS is overstepping its
authority to enforce immigration laws and is misusing a Social Security
Administration database. They allege that the letters are an effort to pressure
businesses to fire workers whose documents are flagged and could expose
countless immigrant workers -- including law-abiding citizens and legal
residents -- to job discrimination.

Chesney granted the request for a temporary restraining order against the
government, saying the court needs "breathing room" before issuing  a decision
on the DHS plan. She set  a hearing for Oct. 1.

The ruling dealt at least a temporary political setback to President Bush, who
announced the workplace initiative Aug. 9 as the centerpiece of a renewed
enforcement push. The White House acted after its drive for a broad immigration
overhaul failed in Congress this summer.

"We're disappointed by the delay and expect to prevail once the court has the
benefit of full briefing and argument," DHS spokeswoman Laura Keehner said,
adding that the department will continue other enforcement actions.

There are errors in the Social Security records of an estimated 12.7 million
native-born U.S. citizens, 250,000 foreign-born citizens and 4.8 million legal
immigrants, potentially creating a paralyzing bureaucratic nightmare for workers
and Social Security offices if their records are dragged into the sweep, union
representatives said.

In recent years, the Social Security Administration has found that up to 10
percent of workers have suspect numbers, whether because of fraud, innocent
typographical errors, confusion over name changes, multiple surnames or other
reasons. Under the  DHS proposal, starting Sept. 14 employers would have 90 days
to resolve questions concerning such employees' identities or to fire them. If
they do not comply, businesses face the possibility of fines and even criminal
penalties for knowingly violating federal law that bars employing illegal
workers.

Leading U.S. business groups say the letters will trigger extensive workplace
disruptions and plant and company closings this winter across the agriculture,
meatpacking, construction, lodging, hospitality and service sectors. They have
asked the Bush administration for a 180-day delay and for answers to 80
questions about how businesses can comply with immigration laws as well as
anti-discrimination statutes.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              253 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 9, 2007 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Justice Is Following Immigration Law

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 157 words


In the news story about  last Sunday's  protest march in Prince William County
["Latinos Join in Protest in N.Va.," Metro, Sep. 3], Sissi Curtin, recalling the
bigotry endured by her Irish immigrant forebears, noted that current immigrants
face similar bigotry. She was quoted as saying of prejudice, "It's the same old
people. You know that, and I know that."

Actually, we do not know that. We are the grandchildren of Irish and Polish
immigrants who came to the United States legally, and we feel very strongly that
all others who come should do so legally. Because many do not, we support
efforts to create and enforce  laws that will allow the identification and
removal of those here illegally so that those here legally can better enjoy
their rights as citizens, soon-to-be citizens or legal residents.

That's not bigotry. Rather, it's the pursuit of a just society, with fair laws
applied equally.

MARCIA GRABOWSKI

RICHARD KERCZ

Falls Church

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              254 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 19, 2007 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Legal but in Limbo, Skilled Immigrants Rally for Change

BYLINE: Pamela Constable; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 756 words


A brainy and buttoned-down crowd of about 1,000 legal immigrants, many of them
first-time protesters taking time off from research labs and computer consoles,
gathered on the West Lawn of the Capitol yesterday to politely demand a swifter
and surer track to permanent U.S. residency.

The participants, all skilled-worker visa holders from India, China and a
smattering of other countries, expressed anger and frustration with long
bureaucratic delays and strict numerical limits on employer-based U.S. green
cards. They said that their families are stuck in limbo and that their
professional ambitions have been stymied by an uncertain future.

"We come here to work in the land of the free, but the best and the brightest of
us are finding themselves prisoners of statutory walls," said Vivek Gupta, 39, a
neuroradiologist at the Mayo Clinic in Minnesota and a former medical resident
at Yale University. "I have received awards for my teaching and skills, yet I am
forbidden to get federal research grants, and I have to renew my visa year after
year after year."

The demonstrators, who waved American flags and carried bouquets of roses, said
they are asking Congress to change laws that limit the number of green cards
granted each year and set different quotas for each country, creating a backlog
of skilled workers waiting for residency.

Legal-immigrant groups had set their hopes on comprehensive immigration reform
proposals that circulated in Congress in the spring, but those measures
collapsed in June amid a wave of public opposition to provisions that would have
offered a path to legalization to an estimated 12 million illegal immigrants
living in the United States.

"Why should our problems be held hostage to the issue of illegal immigrants?"
asked Aman Kapoor, 35, a computer programmer from Florida who heads a national
advocacy group called Immigration Voice. "We are law-abiding, taxpaying future
Americans, and Congress is turning us into underachievers."

Most skilled visas, valid for up to six years, are granted to highly educated
immigrants working in medicine, engineering, technology and administrative
fields. Applicants must be sponsored by a U.S. employer.

The collapse of immigration reform dashed hopes that Congress would double the
number of new skilled-worker visas, now limited to 65,000 a year. In July,
skilled immigrants received a second blow when the government, which had
announced in June that it would accept thousands of new work-based residency
applications, abruptly reversed course and said it would reject them all because
the annual quota of 140,000 had been filled.

Rep. Jim McDermott (D-Wash.) told the protesters that he will continue pressing
for immigration reform and said that they should also put pressure on
presidential candidates to address the issue. McDermott's district includes
several major high-tech firms that employ highly skilled immigrants.

Although rally participants sought to differentiate themselves from illegal
immigrants, yesterday's event highlighted a tenuous new alliance between the two
largest groups of skilled-worker visa holders: those from India and China.
According to the U.S. Department of Labor, of 267,000 skilled-worker visas
approved in 2005, Indians received the most (118,500), followed by the Chinese
(24,500).

"There have been some differences between our communities, but it is time for us
to focus, unite and fight together," Robert Sun, a San Francisco economist and
leader of the Legal Immigrant Association, told the crowd. "Out in Silicon
Valley, we say that IC is built on IC: Integrated chips are built on Indians and
Chinese."

Perhaps the most dynamic speaker was a British software engineer and designer
named Mark Bartosik, 38, who wore a pinstripe suit and carried a sign that said
he had paid more than $385,000 in federal and states taxes since he arrived in
2000.

"I love it here. I have put down roots, and I want to stay," said Bartosik, who
lives in a solar-heated home on Long Island. "But after seven years, I am still
on probation. I can't change jobs without starting all over again, and I can't
test my inventions. It is a waste of intellectual capital."

The demonstrators marched silently from the Washington Monument to the Capitol,
then stood while one member sang "The Star-Spangled Banner" and cheered a folk
singer's pointed ditty: "We're your Microsoft, your eBay, your Google." Many
held up placards that emphasized their professional contributions to American
society. "A green card delay keeps the doctor away," read one.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photos By Jahi Chikwendiu -- The Washington Post; Legal and
highly skilled immigrants, described by one woman as "law-abiding, taxpaying
future Americans," urged Congress to address their plight.
IMAGE; Nadiya Bhat of New York City joined the crowd of about 1,000 at the
rally. Many held placards noting their contributions to American society.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              255 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 20, 2007 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Agency Seeks to Deport Man In Rape Case Under Appeal;
Effort Will Proceed Regardless of Court Outcome

BYLINE: Ernesto LondoÃ±o; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 696 words

DATELINE: BALTIMORE, Sept. 19


Immigration officials intend to deport a Liberian man who avoided trial in a
child-rape case this summer in Montgomery County primarily because of difficulty
in finding him a court interpreter, authorities said Wednesday.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement senior attorney Christopher R. Coxe
said the agency will seek to deport Mahamu Kanneh, who was in the United States
legally after being granted refugee status as a teenager, regardless of the
disposition of the rape case, which is under appeal. Kanneh was arrested in 2004
on charges of raping a 7-year-old relative and abusing another child.

"There is no indication that [Kanneh] would be eligible for relief from
removal," Coxe said in immigration court during a bond hearing. A hearing on the
deportation issue is scheduled for next month.

U.S. Immigration Judge Elizabeth A. Kessler said immigration officials revoked
Kanneh's refugee status last month. The charging document used to detain Kanneh
accuses him of entering the country without inspection, but officials provided
few details about his entry and refugee status. Refugees typically are able to
become permanent residents and U.S. citizens.

Immigration experts said that the government routinely revokes the refugee
statuses of people convicted of felonies but that it is unusual to place
refugees in deportation proceedings absent a conviction.

Coxe said the government might add immigration charges to the complaint but did
not elaborate.

Kanneh, 23, was taken into custody by immigration officials last month after a
Montgomery judge denied prosecutors' requests that he be detained pending the
appeal of the criminal case.

A county judge dismissed second-degree rape and sex-abuse charges in July filed
against Kanneh after finding that his right to a speedy trial had been violated.
The trial was repeatedly postponed because the Circuit Court clerk's office
struggled to find an interpreter fluent in Vai, the man's native dialect. The
case lingered in the court system for about three years before it was dismissed.

Kanneh, handcuffed and dressed in a blue jumpsuit Wednesday, appeared without a
lawyer during the immigration hearing. A court interpreter participated by
phone.

Kanneh asked the judge to release him on bond in the immigration case, saying
that he attended hearings in the rape case and does not pose a danger to the
community.

"When the court asked me to go, I went there," he said, speaking in Vai. He said
that he wants to return to work and go back to school.

Kanneh traveled to Philadelphia shortly after the criminal charges were dropped
but was soon arrested by U.S. marshals for failing to appear at a hearing in
Rockville, where the state was seeking to reinstate his bond in the rape case.
Kanneh was returned to Montgomery, where a judge reinstated bond but released
him. Kanneh was taken into the immigration agency's custody Aug. 28.

Montgomery officials have said Kanneh tried to flee when law enforcement
officials found him in Philadelphia.

Kessler declined to set bond in the immigration case, citing the seriousness of
the allegations in the criminal case and Kanneh's alleged attempt to elude
officers in Philadelphia. "I am concerned that you are a danger to the community
and you are a flight risk," the judge said.

The appeals process in the rape case could take more than a year. The case could
be difficult for prosecutors, because even if the decision to dismiss the case
is overturned, Kanneh's defense attorney would probably say that the additional
delay violated his constitutional right to a prompt trial.

Prosecutors said Wednesday that they will monitor the immigration case as they
consider whether to drop the appeal.

Montgomery State's Attorney John McCarthy said that "it would be premature" to
drop the criminal charges. A key consideration, he said, will be "any potential
that he may come back to the country" even if he is deported.

Maryland Deputy Attorney General Katherine Winfree said the state will move
forward with the appeal, which is to be heard in January. "We can't predict the
outcome or timing of the immigration case," she said.

Kanneh's next hearing in immigration court is set for Oct. 3.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Mahamu Kanneh, a legal U.S. immigrant from Liberia, was charged
with raping a child and abusing another. The case was dismissed after a court
interpreter could not be found.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              256 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 23, 2007 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Fairfax Won't Join the Bandwagon

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. B08

LENGTH: 589 words


Fairfax County's approach to illegal immigration is pretty straightforward: We
are taking action when we find people behaving illegally, regardless of their
immigration status. We are employing local resources in a strategic fashion to
address illegal situations in our neighborhoods. Like others in the region, we
are cooperating with the federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement Agency
(ICE), but we are doing so without the specter of racial profiling or inciting
fear in our immigrant communities.

Of course all residents of our community and this country ought to be here
legally. But the reality is that an estimated 12 million among us are not, and
local governments cannot substitute themselves for what the courts have
determined to be a federal responsibility.

We are focused on what we as local governments can control, and we are setting
clear expectations for delivering results. What we will not do is posture for
short-term political gains at  the long-term expense of driving a wedge into our
community, which cherishes its diversity.

Consider our accomplishments so far. Six years ago, 5.6 percent of our young
people reported having some form of gang involvement. The county stepped in to
provide after-school programs at every middle school and worked with our
community partners to provide more constructive opportunities for our youth.
Those efforts helped us cut that gang participation figure in half.

This spring I asked the Board of Supervisors to create a rapid-response strike
team to crack down on property owners who were willfully violating the law to
create illegal boardinghouses or commercial operations in our neighborhoods. So
far, 36 cases have been resolved, 18 are in litigation and 128 are under
investigation. We are restoring a sense of stability in communities that
reported being overwhelmed by these illegal conditions.

Our public safety agencies routinely cooperate with ICE. The Office of the
Sheriff, for example, reports as many as 50 illegal immigrants a month to ICE
for follow-up action, and in the past fiscal year, the sheriff housed 338
illegal immigrants at the request of ICE. We now are looking to expand that
partnership under the federal 287(g) program, with additional enforcement
authority.

With respect to provision of services, we require proof of legal residence for
numerous services including but not limited to housing assistance, food stamps,
job training, home energy assistance, medical insurance and refugee
resettlement. Some services, such as public education, have been exempted from
inquiry by the U.S. Supreme Court, and, of course, our public safety responders
are going to put lifesaving above all else.

This is a complex issue. Forty percent of Fairfax's population belongs to a
minority group, and the numbers are equally strong in other parts of our region.
As our minority population has tripled in the past quarter-century, we have
become the economic engine of the commonwealth, with the nation's highest median
income.

Our school system has become the envy of the nation, and our crime rate is the
lowest among the nation's large jurisdictions. There should be no arguing that
Fairfax County and this region have thrived because of that growing diversity.

We all can recognize the challenge posed by illegal immigration. However, we
must not allow politicians to engage in the demagogic politics of fear and
intimidation that have so divided us in Virginia's past.

-- Gerald E. Connolly

Fairfax

The writer is chairman of the Fairfax County Board of Supervisors.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              257 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 2, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Business Challenges Immigration Rule

BYLINE: Cindy Skrzycki

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 1129 words


Business groups are hoping that a U.S. court will block an immigration rule that
could affect millions of employers and workers, arguing that the government
didn't consider the new regulation's impact on small business.

Business associations joined labor unions in suing the Department of Homeland
Security over a plan that could lead companies to fire workers whose Social
Security numbers don't match their names in a federal database.

"Agencies must do their homework, and DHS did not" by paying "lip service" to
the required review, said Karen Harned, executive director of the National
Federation of Independent Business's Legal Foundation, one part of the
600,000-member small-business trade group.

The case is being closely watched because of its potential impact on the economy
and on a stalled federal policy aimed at preventing illegal immigration, as well
as because of the unusual coalition opposing the rule.

The AFL-CIO and civil liberties groups filed the suit in San Francisco on Aug.
29, alleging that the regulation "would commandeer the Social Security tax
system for immigration-enforcement purposes." Homeland Security was ready to
mail thousands of alerts to employers about "no match" documentation problems
with workers.

Business groups quickly joined the case. They contend that the rule, which aims
to identify about 12 million illegal immigrants, would result in forced firings
and more than $100 million in costs and liability for owners.

The San Francisco Chamber of Commerce and small-business trade groups
representing roofers, landscapers, restaurateurs, franchisees and produce
growers claimed the agency ignored the rule's financial impact on them.

Since 1980, federal agencies have been required to analyze how rules would
affect small businesses and to consider alternatives.

More than 80 lawsuits since 1996 have claimed that the government did not review
or inadequately reviewed a rule's impact on small business. About half the time,
agencies were ordered to conduct reviews while the rule was allowed to go into
effect, according to David Frulla, an attorney with Kelley Drye Collier Shannon
in the District.

Frulla, who has argued a dozen review actions against agencies, said judges in
at least four cases blocked rules because of the small-business review -- the
outcome the employer groups are seeking.

The Bush administration has argued that the rule doesn't impose new obligations
on employers because they already have to verify workers' eligibility to keep
them on the job. The government has already used employers' responses in
enforcement proceedings, the Department of Homeland Security said in court
filings.

It also said a small-business analysis of the rule was unnecessary because it
had no effect on such enterprises and clarified for all employers the meaning of
its "no match" letters.

The administration cited letters from Tyson Foods, the Springdale, Ark., meat
processor; Alston & Bird, an Atlanta law firm; and W.E. Welch & Associates, a
mechanical contractor in Ijamsville, Md., asking about "appropriate employers'
conduct" after receipt of a "no match" letter.

"The secretary properly concluded that there was no need to conduct a Regulatory
Flexibility Analysis because the regulation does not change the existing
obligations of employers -- small or large," when an employee's legal status is
called into question, the government's court documents said.

Business groups said it would cost them at least $100 million to resolve the
employment-verification discrepancies the government is expected to flag in its
first mailing of 140,000 letters regarding 8.7 million workers.

"The idea this imposes no additional cost is absurd on its face judging by
employers' concern about the regulation and the lawyers they are hiring," said
Randel Johnson, vice president of labor, immigration and employee benefits at
the District-based U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the nation's largest business
lobby.

Finding discrepancies in Social Security numbers is a long-standing problem. The
Social Security Administration has been sending "no match" letters since 1994 to
alert employees and companies about mismatched documents that could be a result
of misspellings, marriage, honest mistakes, or abuse of a Social Security
number.

Mark Lassiter, a spokesman for Social Security, said that the agency has 264
million "no match" files and that the annual growth rate is increasing.

Before the Department of Homeland Security issued the rule, some employers
regarded the notification as "purely advisory," according to the business
groups' court filing. The Social Security Administration made it clear that the
letters did not address workers' immigration status.

The new rule explains how employers can protect themselves from civil or
criminal sanctions if a discrepancy can't be resolved in 90 days. After that,
employers can terminate the worker or risk being charged with breaking
immigration laws.

Opponents of the rule said employers would be forced to resolve the mismatch and
incur the costs of tracking the letters. Employers could also face
discrimination suits if they avoided hiring workers because of their national
origin -- a point the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission raised during the
rulemaking.

Robert Dolibois, executive vice president of the American Nursery & Landscape
Association in the District, told the court the rule would affect his members'
hiring during peak seasons, when landscapers and growers increase their
payrolls.

The National Roofing Contractors Association, a trade group in Rosemont, Ill.,
said it would be "impractical and economically disruptive" to resolve
discrepancies in 90 days, particularly because construction companies often
don't have full-time administrative staff.

The Small Business Administration's Office of Advocacy provides guidance to
Congress and agencies on the Regulatory Flexibility Act, which requires the
review. In a Sept. 18 letter, it admonished the Department of Homeland Security
for not making the review.

Business has to comply with the rule "or suffer the consequences" said Thomas
Sullivan, the SBA's chief counsel for advocacy. "We believe this impacts small
business."

Some members of Congress also are critical of the rule. Rep. Nydia VelÃ¡zquez
(D-N.Y.), chairwoman of the House Small Business Committee, told the Department
of Homeland Security in a Sept. 25 letter that it should complete a review and
reconsider the rule.

And Rep. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.), co-sponsor of a broad immigration bill, said
recently that "no match" letters were never intended to be used for enforcement
and that the rule could have "significant and negative unintended consequences."

Cindy Skrzycki is a regulatory columnist for Bloomberg News. She can be reached
at cskrzycki@bloomberg.net

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Keith Bendis -- Bloomberg News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              258 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 10, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Frederick Votes Not To Deny Immigrants

BYLINE: Philip Rucker; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 575 words


In a 3 to 2 vote, Frederick County commissioners  rejected a proposal yesterday
that would have denied public services, including schooling, to immigrants in
the United States illegally, deciding not to follow the lead of Prince William
and Loudoun counties.

But the Frederick board unanimously approved resolutions to Congress and the
Maryland legislature calling on lawmakers to reform immigration policies. The
resolutions state that the rapid influx of immigrants is creating social tension
in Frederick and is taxing the local government, which is facing rising costs
for Spanish-language interpreters and other services.

"I think these resolutions are a more positive way to deal with what we've heard
so far rather than advance efforts to deny services, which I think is a very
negative approach," Commissioners President Jan H. Gardner (D) said at the
meeting.

The resolutions allege that the federal government has failed to address and
enforce immigration laws.

"We have a dysfunctional immigration policy at the national level," said
Commissioner David P. Gray (R), who introduced the resolutions. "That's
Congress's fault. It's the executive's fault. . . . Right now, it's such a
hodgepodge that it's putting people at each other's throats unnecessarily, and
that's just a sad, sad thing."

Since the Frederick proposal to deny services was introduced in August, it has
galvanized residents and divided the community, with some immigrants saying they
believe the county is trying to push them out. It also sparked racial tensions
in Frederick, about 40 miles north of Washington, where the immigrant population
has nearly tripled since 2000, the fastest-growing in Maryland.

Commissioner Charles A. Jenkins (R), who authored the proposal to deny services,
pleaded with his colleagues to support it as a symbolic statement about the need
for new immigration policies.

"If we don't do something and set a different course, we're going to continue to
have the status quo go on and on," Jenkins said.

Jenkins's proposal came as counties across the region have been debating how to
address those in the country illegally. This summer, county supervisors in
Prince William and Loudoun approved resolutions to deny certain public services
to illegal immigrants, but they have since run into legal and financial barriers
trying to enforce them.

In Frederick, some residents agreed with Jenkins that illegal immigrants are
sucking up public dollars, especially in the schools, where the cost to teach
English to Spanish speakers has soared.

Opponents argue that Jenkins's proposal is an unconstitutional violation of
civil rights. In addition, they charge that the county commissioners have no
business meddling with immigration policy, normally the province of Congress.

Because Frederick's government charter does not give its county board the power
to pass such laws, the five commissioners voted only on whether to recommend
that the county's state senators and delegates introduce the proposal as a bill
in the 2008 Maryland General Assembly. Opponents and supporters agreed that the
proposal would have stood little chance with the state's liberal legislature.

In light of the county commissioners' vote, State Del. Richard B. Weldon Jr.
(R), chairman of the Frederick delegation, said the state legislative delegation
is not likely to raise the illegal immigration issue in the General Assembly.
"It is dead," he said yesterday after the county board's vote.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              259 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 18, 2007 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

VIRGINIA BRIEFING

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B07

LENGTH: 509 words

STATE POLITICS

Sen. Colgan Proposes Employee Status Checks

State Sen. Charles J. Colgan (D-Prince William)  has proposed requiring Virginia
contractors to check the immigration status of their employees.

Colgan, who faces a stiff challenge from Republican Bob FitzSimmonds in the Nov.
6 election, said this week that contractors would be required to use a federal
database to check the  status of all potential employees. Colgan would become
chairman of the Finance Committee if Democrats take control of the Senate.

FitzSimmonds has said he favors punishing employers who hire illegal immigrants
and denying such immigrants in-state tuition at Virginia colleges,  which most
of the colleges already  do.

-- Tim Craig

PRINCE WILLIAM COUNTY

Math Teacher Wins $25,000 Milken Award

Amy Macaleer, a math teacher at Battlefield High School in Prince William
County, was given a $25,000 award from the California-based Milken Family
Foundation in a surprise ceremony Monday.

Macaleer, known for offbeat teaching methods, has boosted the performance of her
top students. Her students score an average of 4 out of 5 on the Advanced
Placement calculus test, above the national average of 3.73, school officials
said.

-- Ian Shapira

FAIRFAX COUNTY

Fire at Woman's House Rejected as Cause of Death

A woman whose body was found Monday night inside a burning house in Fairfax
County was identified yesterday as Carla LeClercq, 68, and fire authorities said
the fire did not kill her, as first thought.

Firefighters discovered LeClercq in a second-floor bedroom of her home at 8223
Treebrooke Lane, in the Mount Vernon area, after responding to the fire about
5:20 p.m. Investigators determined that improper disposal of smoking materials
sparked the fire, and no foul play was suspected.

But after an autopsy Tuesday, the medical examiner told investigators the fire
did not kill LeClercq. Fairfax fire spokesman Dan Schmidt said that more tests
were required to determine the cause of death but that LeClercq had a number of
serious medical issues.

-- Tom Jackman

Officer Is Hospitalized After Being Hit by SUV

A Fairfax County police officer, directing traffic at a busy intersection after
a crash, was hit by a sport-utility vehicle yesterday morning and hospitalized
with injuries that were not considered life-threatening.

The incident occurred at Route 123 and Braddock Road, at the edge of the George
Mason University campus near Fairfax City. A motorcycle driven by an off-duty
Fairfax City police officer had collided with a car making a left turn, and the
Fairfax County officer arrived to assist with traffic control, Officer Don
Gotthardt said.

While the county officer, a 44-year-old man whose name was not released, was
directing traffic, he was struck by a 2001 Toyota 4Runner trying to turn left
from Braddock Road onto Route 123, Gotthardt said. The officer was taken to
Inova Fairfax Hospital, and the driver of the 4Runner, Elizabeth Bernardo, 44,
of the Fairfax City area, was charged with failing to pay full time and
attention, Gotthardt said.

-- Tom Jackman

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              260 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 21, 2007 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Why I Resigned;
The Ugliness of Intolerance in Virginia

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. B08

LENGTH: 523 words


The controversy that erupted around my appointment by Gov. Tim Kaine to the
Virginia Commission on Immigration highlights the very issues we need to address
in America ["Va. Muslim Activist Denies Urging Violence," Metro, Sept. 29]. I
still believe that I am highly qualified to serve on the commission. I am an
immigrant, as well as an accomplished surgeon, a community leader, a person of
faith, a passionate activist and a good representative of America's growing
community of Muslims. I am disappointed that I was unable to defeat propaganda
and partisan politics.

Partisanship has already paralyzed Congress and failed to allow the passage of a
comprehensive immigration reform bill last year. In Virginia, the Republicans of
the General Assembly had been looking for an opportunity to undermine the work
of the governor on this important 20-member panel. (The group is examining the
issue of illegal immigration and its effect on the commonwealth.)

From its very first session, Democrats and Republicans had widely divergent
views as to whom to elect chairman. It was a right-wing Republican who sent a
letter to the governor demanding my resignation and using allegations to
undermine my aptitude to serve on the commission. I agreed to resign swiftly so
as to not allow partisan politics and a drummed-up controversy to derail the
commission or to undermine the good work of the governor to bring some sanity to
a General Assembly bent on creating a police state in Virginia for immigrants.

Politics aside, another important issue arose  during this controversy. I was
attacked for comments I made regarding Israeli military force against
Palestinian civilians in Lebanon and the occupied territories and the Lebanon
war, a conflict that has been condemned worldwide. Yet we still fail in America,
the land of the First Amendment and the melting pot of plurality, to accept
differing political views. And we are still willing to stifle dissent while we
claim that we want to achieve tolerance and inclusion. Our inability to
appreciate the inherent goodness of people and the very powerful tool of
dialogue and exchange of ideas will limit our capacity to achieve unity. We
should be embracing differences. After all, this rich diversity is the framework
of our Constitution.

America remains a celebration of the greatest experiment of mankind and
humanity, a nation founded by immigrants, attracting the brightest and
hardest-working from all over the world. Celebrating their differences and
diversity in a way that does not undo their humanity will keep this country as
great as ever. As for me, I will continue to embody what is great about America:
an immigrant who is striving to attain the American dream while rising above the
challenges of integration and intolerance. Because, after all, that is what
keeps me and millions of immigrants going: our belief and trust in the inherent
goodness of America and its citizens.

-- Esam Omeish

Fairfax

The writer, who recently resigned from the Virginia Commission on Immigration,
is national president of the Muslim American Society, America's largest
grass-roots Muslim organization.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              261 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        May 14, 2007 Monday 5:06 PM EST

Dropping Out to Take Day Jobs;
Many Immigrant Students Miss Out on Education to Maintain Standard of Living

BYLINE: Ashley Lau, Washington Post Scholarship Winner, washingtonpost.com

LENGTH: 1120 words



HIGHLIGHT: At 18, high-school junior Kelvin Villalobos shares more disparities
with his classmates than a three-year age difference. While other students begin
every morning waiting for the school bus to arrive, Villalobos stands at a
street corner further down, awaiting the arrival of a contractor-any
contractor-that will offer him employment sufficient to secure a day's wages.


At 18, high-school junior Kelvin Villalobos shares more disparities with his
classmates than a three-year age difference.  While other students begin every
morning waiting for the school bus to arrive, Villalobos stands at a street
corner further down, awaiting the arrival of a contractor-any contractor-that
will offer him employment sufficient to secure a day's wages.

A recent immigrant from El Salvador, Villalobos has been in and out of school
since last November when his immigration status cost him his steady night job
and required him to turn to day labor to make up for lost income.

But Villalobos is just one of many-a largely invisible population of young
immigrants forced to take on day jobs in order to maintain a stable income and
standard of living.  According to a Nnational Day labor Study, the day-laborer
workforce is predominantly immigrant and relatively youthful, 83 percent of whom
rely on day-labor work as their sole source of income.  And after Montgomery
County announced in March the plans for a pilot program to aid immigrants with
little formal education, more light is being shed on students like Villalobos,
those who are missing out on education altogether.

At Montgomery Blair High School in Silver Spring, where Villalobos is enrolled
as a junior, English for Speakers of Other Languages (ESOL) teacher Jane Winter
says that the issue has been on and off over the past few years.  It is not
uncommon, according to Winter, that students enroll older than most and leave
part way through the year as a result of extenuating circumstances.  "There are
a number of [ESOL] teachers that may have had one or two students leave in the
past year," Winter says.

For Villalobos, the situation began when his former employer discovered he did
not have a green card, but that Villalobos was instead here on "immigration
status," a classification the Immigration and Naturalization Service gives to
international visitors when they enter the U.S., according to the U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services.  But because Villalobos currently lives
with his sister and her husband, he must pay his share of the rent-and so he is
seeking financial solace in a construction day job.

Jennifer Tanner, Villalobos's environmental-science teacher at Blair, first
began noticing that Villalobos was missing a lot of class and having problems at
home, financially.  But, according to Tanner, Villalobos was a junior on track
for graduation.  "Had he finished this year, he would have graduated," Tanner
says.  "It seems like he wants to be here.  He seems motivated."

Such is the conflicting issue as many educationally-potential young immigrants
are being stripped of their shot at a solid education-the critical last few
years of high school.  According to Abel Valenzuela, associate professor of
Chicano studies and urban planning at the University of California, Los Angeles,
many day laborers arrive with some education.  His study of the day-labor
culture in the greater Washington, D.C. region and parts of Baltimore concluded
that 50 percent of day laborers have only at least some middle-school education
while a lower 39 percent have at least a high-school education.

In Montgomery County, some initiatives are being taken to assuage the
predicament of students being forced to drop out of school.  At Blair, Winter is
also instructor of the school's Multidisciplinary Education, Training and
Support (METS) program, a county initiative to help students who have
experienced an interruption in their schooling receive daily instruction in
basic skills and ESOL.  At his school, Villalobos was taking a full seven-period
day of on-level subjects similar to other students-including the county's
National, State and Local government course, principles of algebra and geometry
, and Spanish class--in an effort to assimilate to his new education in America.

But such efforts are easily lost in the move to maintain financial stability.

The same situation has burdened brothers Marlen Cortez-Hernandez, Wilson Cortez,
and Wilber Hernandez-Cortez (whose last names were variably changed after
arriving in the U.S.).  The  three brothers, all students at Blair, have been in
and out of school, taking on day jobs to support their family.  Currently, only
one of the three-Wilber-is left at Blair, while both Marlen and Wilson are
taking on day jobs.  Classmates of Villalobos, they are also relied upon for a
sizeable portion of the family income.

According to the National Day Labor Study, most day laborers were born in Mexico
and Central America and consequently arrive with little command of the English
language.  For Villalobos, his broken English has been a barrier to
communicating with non-Spanish speakers.

The increased frequency of immigrant day laborers prompted CASA de Maryland, a
community organization aimed at improving the quality of life and fighting for
"equal treatment and full access to resources and opportunities for low-income
Latinos and their families," to open a permanent day-laborer center in 1993.
the center is located in East Silver Spring-not far from Blair High-where
employers register before hiring workers.

According to the CASA, the presence of day laborers is increasing nationwide.

And because state law only mandates that minors be actively enrolled in school
until the age of 16, there remains a small gap of high school, of the junior and
senior years, during which students like Villalobos, Hernandez-Cortez, Cortez,
and Cortez-Hernandez are able to forgo their official graduation and leave
school to pursue day labor-adding a younger demographic to the already
burgeoning population.  But many argue what is legal is not always ethical.
"This has happened before," Tanner says.  "I'm not officially sure whether he
would like to come back [now], but it's an unfortunate circumstance."

The issue has also entered the legal sector where lawmakers and government
officials have been working to protect the large portion of the labor market.
U.S. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez (D-IL) promoted the "Day Laborer Fairness
and Protection Act," while just this past Tuesday, eastern Long Island lawmakers
defeated a bill that would have banned those seeking day jobs from congregating
on public roads.

For Villalobos, such a road is necessary before he can achieve the financial
stability he left school to pursue--a road that, for many unable to receive a
high-school diploma, often remains in a continual cycle of earning wages by the
day.  "He seems really motivated to learn and come to class," Tanner says,
recalling that his teenage years would be better spent in a classroom rather
than at a construction site.

Ashley Lau is a senior at Montgomery Blair High School.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2007 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              262 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       May 17, 2007 Thursday 5:05 PM EST

Senate Conference on Immigration

BYLINE: CQ Transcripts Wire, washingtonpost.com

LENGTH: 6142 words



HIGHLIGHT: SEN. EDWARD M. KENNEDY, D-MASS.: Good afternoon.


SEN. EDWARD M. KENNEDY, D-MASS.: Good afternoon.

First of all, I want to thank all of our colleagues that are here for their
extraordinary effort in terms of the helping to fashion national policy on an
extremely complex, difficult, very emotional issue and where there's been a lot
of divisions.

Here on this platform now are senators that come from different regions,
different philosophical views on a wide range of issues, but we have at least
tried, tried, tried to come together to deal with something that is of central
concern to our country and to the country's future.

And I'm very personally appreciative and grateful to each and every one of them
for all that they -- the time that they've taken, the efforts they've taken and
their willingness to try and find some common ground on this extremely important
issue.

Year after year, we've had broken borders that aren't secure and a system that
is broken. Year after year, we've had people dying in the desert because they
want a better life for themselves and for their families.

Year after year, we've had millions of people living in fear day after day
worrying that they could be deported like the hundreds of people that were
deported that lived in New Bedford, Massachusetts.

Year after year, we've had an underground economy that hurts American workers
and abuses hard-working families.

Year after year, we've all heard talk about reforming our system. We've heard
the bumper sticker solutions, the campaign ads, and we know how divisive it is.

Well, now, it's time for action. 2007 is the year we must fix our broken system.
We must strike while the iron is hot.

I've been around here long enough to know that opportunities like this don't
come very often. The American people are demanding a solution. The president is
committed. Senator Reid has made this a priority. Senators from both parties are
now determined to solve this crisis.

Politics is the art of the possible. And the agreement we just reached is the
best possible chance we will have in years to secure our borders, bring millions
of people out of the shadows and into the sunshine of America.

We all want to secure our borders and strengthen our national security. There is
broad agreement on the doubling of border guards, securing our perimeters,
increasing the number of inspectors, cracking down on smugglers and employers
who break the law.

There's broad consensus that 12 million undocumented workers who are here should
be offered the chance to earn their legalization. If this bill becomes law, it
will provide an historic opportunity for millions of people right away.

On family immigration, as someone who comes from a large family, I couldn't be
more committed to upholding our policy of supporting families that want to stay
together. This proposal includes family backlog reduction in eight years for
most of the 4 million in the family backlog, a backlog that currently stretches
some 22 years.

It also maintains that more than a majority of future immigration will be based
on family ties. That couldn't be more important. Family reunification has been
the cornerstone of our immigration policy for decades and under this proposal it
still will be.

KENNEDY: About 20 percent will be given to refugees who desperately need asylum
in this country. And the remaining third will be based on a point system that
factors in preferences for both high- skilled, low-skilled workers as well as
extended family ties.

The bill includes temporary workers that will have strong labor protections.
This will help people who risk their lives crossing the border for a job -- will
have the chance to apply for good jobs in the United States and it helps
strengthen the backbone of our economy.

This plan isn't perfect, but it's a strong bill and it is a worthy solution.
Only a bipartisan bill will become law, and I believe we owe it to the American
people to stop talking about immigration and start acting. We owe it to them to
solve this crisis in a way that upholds our humanity and our tradition of a
nation of immigrants.

We'll hear from our friend and colleague, Senator Specter, Senator Salazar,
Senator Kyl, and others.

SEN. ARLEN SPECTER, R-PA.: It has been a prodigious effort over the past three
months with two-hour meetings virtually every day consisting of some eight, 10
and 12 senators. Hard to get 10 senators in one room for two-and-a-half hours,
but that has been done as we have molded a 380- page document which provides the
core of what we believe will be a comprehensive immigration reform bill.

We have started off with the proposition of securing the borders, with fencing,
with additional Border Patrol. We have moved to very strong employer sanctions
to stop the magnets and so employers will be able to tell who is legal and who
is illegal. You can have tough sanction if they hire illegals.

We have moved for a temporary workers' program, which is temporary, coming to
this country, working and then returning. We have structured a plan to provide
for the 11 million to 12 million undocumented immigrants. We will require that
they earn the right to citizenship at the end of the line.

Immigration has become a third rail in American politics. It may be even more of
a third rail than Social Security. And no matter what we craft, it's going to be
attacked from both the right and the left. The bill hasn't even bill presented,
and it has already drawn criticism as being amnesty -- although the critics
don't know what is in the bill -- on one side, and on the other, not
sufficiently humanitarian.

We have required that the undocumented immigrants earn their right to
citizenship.

SPECTER: It is not amnesty. This will restore the rule of law. Without
legislation, we will have anarchy.

Some 90 cities have tried to legislate to deal with the undocumented immigration
problem, and they can't handle it. It is a national program. We have a point
system which is balanced. It is balanced among high-skilled workers, low-skilled
workers, and family considerations.

This is the best, I think, that can be done, with an enormous effort, on a
bipartisan basis.

And I salute all of my colleagues who have worked so hard, and especially the
staffs, which have been up really, around the clock, this past weekend, the
weekend before. My chief of staff had an hour's sleep last night and five hours
the night before. And we're all dragging. But I think we've produced a
reasonably good product.

SEN. KEN SALAZAR, D-COLO.: I want to thank President Bush and Secretary
Gutierrez and Secretary Chertoff for their work and all their staffs, along with
my Democratic and Republican colleagues, because this truly has been an effort
long in the making.

And at the end of the day, where we are today is to say that we have reached
broad agreement on a very complicated bill. But it is a bill that addresses the
fundamental questions that we have been discussing here in the United States
Senate for the last year.

First, it will make sure that our borders become secure. We've had broken
borders in this country for 20 years. It's time that we get them fixed, and this
bill will do that.

Secondly, we need to enforce our laws here in the United States of America. We
cannot afford to have a country that just looks the other way at the enforcement
of our laws. This bill is strong on interior enforcement.

And thirdly, what we do in this legislation is move forward with a pathway for
the 12 million people who are undocumented here in this country, to move from
the shadows of society into the sunlight of society, by making sure that they
pay a fine, by requiring that they learn how to speak English, and doing a
number of other things so that, at the end of the day, if they are able to live
through a very long, probationary period here, then they would be eligible for a
green card some eight years on down the road.

I think this is tough, fair and practical solution to one of the most important
national security issues that faces our country today. And I'm thankful that I
have the colleagues behind me that were willing to work so hard on this for the
several months.

SEN. JOHN MCCAIN, R-ARIZ.: I'm here primarily to thank this bipartisan group of
senators, who have worked long and hard, under the leadership of the president
and Secretaries Chertoff and Gutierrez, who have done enormous work on this
issue.

MCCAIN: I'm here to thank them, and I'm also here to reiterate, the American
people expect us to work in a bipartisan fashion to resolve compelling issues
that affect our nation. This is the first step, but important step, in moving
forward with comprehensive, overall immigration reform.

Not only will this legislation finally accomplish the extraordinary goal of
securing our borders, but it will also enhance interior enforcement and put
employers on notice that the practice of hiring illegal workers will no longer
be tolerated.

Before we can look at any program to deal with the undocumented workers
currently in the U.S., or future workers wishing to enter, we must meet certain
enforcement and security triggers that will let everyone know that we are
serious about enforcing our laws and that we're not going to repeat the 1986
amnesty.

Senator Isakson, long ago, had a proposal that we had to take certain steps in
order to make sure the American people know that our border enforcement is as
complete as much as possible before we move forward with any other issues.

I want to thank you, Senator Isakson, and Senator Chambliss and others who are
not here who've worked on the DREAM Act, who have worked on the Ag Jobs Act
which will be included -- portions of which and most of which will be included
in this legislation.

This is the first step. We can and must complete this legislation sooner rather
than later. We all know that this issue can be caught up in extracurricular
politics unless we move forward as quickly as possible.

This is a product of a long, hard trail of negotiation, and I'm sure that there
are certain provisions that each of us would not agree with.

MCCAIN: But this is what the legislative process is all about. This is what
bipartisanship is about. When there is a requirement for this nation and its
security that transcends party lines, I'm proud to have been a small part of it.

SEN. DIANNE FEINSTEIN, D-CALIF. : Well, I've learned one thing about Senator
Kennedy: When he's determined, he's really determined. And I've watched a very
determined Senator Kennedy, Senator Specter, and virtually everybody standing
behind us.

So I want to say thank you to the administration, Secretary Chertoff, Secretary
Gutierrez, and to my colleagues on both sides of the aisle.

To the American people I'd like to say please, please, please don't let the good
be -- the perfect be the enemy of the good. This is the most difficult arena in
which to legislate because it's a highly emotional area of human endeavor, and
people have strong, well- entrenched beliefs.

What we have tried to do here is listen to both sides, take into consideration
arguments made by both sides, and try to come together in a bill that will not
certainly please everyone, but a bill which will solve the basic problems that
Senator Kennedy and others have enumerated here today.

They are strong border security, a stable border. Secretary Chertoff is
dedicated to do that.

It is a certain trigger that these things plus adequate border patrol have to be
in place, adequate employer sanctions in place before the legalization of the
undocumented begin.

Every poll that I have seen in my state, California, which has approximately 3
million people in undocumented status, indicates that 80 percent of the people
want to see a pathway so that people can come out of the shadows, work legally,
work honestly, and prevent this sub rosa workforce.

I think we have it in this bill. Some of us have been very involved -- Senator
Craig and I, Senator Leahy, House Member Berman -- in trying to see that we have
a consistent labor force for agriculture, the one industry in America that
almost solely depends on an undocumented workforce.

I believe we have achieved it in this bill. The ag jobs bill is part of this
bill. We have a few things which some of us will get together later today to try
to work out.

But this is a good bill. This is a deserving bill. This is a balanced bill. And
I believe it is fair to the best interests of the United States of America.

SEN. JON KYL, R-ARIZ.: Everybody's said it, but not exactly the same way. So let
me try another way. I just finished a tough campaign a few months ago. And if
there was any message from Arizona voters, it was: Do something about illegal
immigration.

Now, you get 100 people together and say what, and you'd have 100 different
ideas. But they wanted us to do something, to act, to stop what has been a
horrible, horrible problem for our nation and most especially for my state.

The second question they would always ask is, why should we believe that you're
going to enforce some future law when the law today is not being enforced?

So we set out to try to ensure that the mistakes of the past, the fact that the
1986 law was not adequately enforced, for example, and the fact that the border
has not been adequately protected, that employees are not required to ensure and
to demonstrate that they're eligible to work when they're hired, that these
kinds of problems would be resolved, that the rule of law would be restored. And
we've tried very hard in a bipartisan way to achieve those results.

The administration is very committed to enforcing this new bill. And we have to
demonstrate that to the American people if we are to gain their confidence that
we have done the right thing with this legislation.

It is very easy to sit on the sidelines and say no, I want it my way. All of you
know that in the legislative process, no one gets 100 percent of what they want
if you're going to get something done.

So you can either get in the game and try to make it as good as you can, or you
can sit on the sideline and complain.

There will be folks that have different points of view, that will complain about
the legislation not being perfect, as Senator Feinstein said.

And from my perspective, it's not perfect. But it represents the best
opportunity that we have in a bipartisan way to do something about this problem.
And if we had not gotten together as Republicans and Democrats to develop this
bipartisan consensus, we can be assured that there would not be a bill passed
this year and probably not next year.

So, to my constituents who said do something about this problem, I can say I
have tried my best to craft a bill that won't repeat the mistakes of the past
and will deal with the problems of today so that we can all have a brighter
tomorrow.

GRAHAM: The people, the process and the substance. About the people, we started
off with Secretary Gutierrez and Secretary Chertoff. Now, it's Mike and Carlos.
We have been in rooms together, this group and others, for hours.

GRAHAM: And I have never been more proud to be a member of the Congress, be a
member of the Senate. This is what my ninth grade teacher told me government was
all about, and I finally got to experience it a bit.

We've been in rooms together early in the morning, late at night, going line by
line, trying to figure out what started to be how to deal with illegal
immigration and wound up being what it means to be an American.

Everybody had a family story to tell that just -- I learned something about each
person I didn't know before, because every time a problem would come up of "What
do you do with this group or how do you award this amount of points based on the
value this person has," someone would tell a story about their family that was
very moving.

So this started out as a process to deal with illegal immigration, and I think
we've got a bill that reflects who we are as Americans.

And the people who will get to participate in this program will get a chance to
be American on our terms, not their's. And we will have a labor force in the
future to make this country competitive with the world. America needs an
immigration system that can compete for the best minds that exist in the world.
The new system does it better than the old system.

America needs hardworking people, Ken Salazar, who come here with big eyes and
big hearts and big hopes and strong backs. America is going to make sure that
those hardworking people just like all of our ancestors, have a chance to
experience the American dream. From the Ph.D. to the landscaper, there is a
chance for you to participate in the American dream on our terms in a way that
will make this country better.

As to Senator Kennedy, I promise never to work with you again for the people of
South Carolina.

(LAUGHTER)

I have enjoyed our time together. You have a reputation of being a serious
legislator, as Dianne says, who knows how to get things done. That has been
absolutely true.

To my friend Jon Kyl, without him there would have been no bill. Jon opposed
last year's legislation, and he came this year to solve the problem, and he has
made all of this possible.

To my friend Johnny Isakson, you gave this pathway forward. The DREAM Act is in.
Ag Jobs we hope to be in. This is not about 12 million people...

(UNKNOWN): Ag Jobs is in.

FEINSTEIN: Ag Jobs is in.

GRAHAM: Is in. Is in.

(LAUGHTER)

GRAHAM: OK. I stand corrected because I didn't want to put words in her mouth.

GRAHAM: I've been waiting to hear that. AgJobs is in. The DREAM Act is in. And
I'll shut up here.

The bottom line is, this is no longer about 12 million people. This is about
America being competitive. It's about a lot of issues facing real people, with
big hopes and dreams. It's about the law that works.

And if the law has any purpose at all, it's to render justice. We have a bill
that will render justice.

Thank you.

SEN. JOHNNY ISAKSON, R-GA.: When I came to Washington two and a half years ago,
there was really one message from the people of Georgia. And that is, "We have
got to fix our broken border. It's the number one domestic issue."

And so last year I offered what became known as a trigger: measurable,
achievable things that had to be done to trigger the reform of immigration.

I'm very thankful that the members of this working group have agreed to
precisely the triggers that it will take to secure our border.

And equally, you should understand the pressure is on us. Because if we don't do
the funding -- if the secretary doesn't install the barriers, doesn't hire the
agents, doesn't get the unmanned aerial vehicles, doesn't get the
ground-positioning radar -- if we don't have a verifiable, biometric
identification for all people coming in, you have no bill.

This bill is a two-step process. And the first step is cure the problem: Stop
the insecurity on the border. And stop the leak on the border. And let's return
to respect America's dream of a legal immigration system that works.

And lastly, out of respect for my grandfather Anders Isakson, who came to
America in 1903 because of the potato famine in Scandinavia, worked 23 years to
become a citizen. We've always had a pathway to citizenship. And it's called
legal immigration. And this bill restores that if you want to become a citizen
or get a green card, you're going to get at the back of the line. You're going
to do everything else everybody's had to do. And it respects the legal
immigration system of the United States of America.

And for those two differences between this year's bill and last year's bill, we
have found a broad agreement that can be the foundation for a meaningful change,
and for security of our borders and respect for our immigration process.

SEN. MEL MARTINEZ, R-FLA: Well, I have a unique perspective on this issue,
because I am an immigrant and have a great respect for what this nation means
and what it stands for -- which I believe is a nation of laws and also a nation
of immigrants.

And I have been delighted to have had the opportunity to work with colleagues on
both sides of the aisle. I also want to commend the members of the Cabinet and
the president for their steadfast support of this process, to move it forward to
get to a conclusion.

I'm delighted to have had a part of it -- part in it. I know there's much work
that still lies ahead of us, as we try to move this bill through the Senate and
then through the House and get it to the president's desk for signature.

But I cannot tell you what a joy it is for me to be able to stand here today and
say, "We've got a deal."

MARTINEZ: I have always been very, very optimistic in thinking that we would get
there. Because I knew there was a lot of good will in this room, if we could
just harness all that good will into moving in the same direction.

And it's a very, very complicated piece of legislation. I'm delighted that we
are going to secure the border. I'm delighted that we -- some of us who have
previously didn't include it as part of our thinking saw the light for the need
for triggers, and what confidence that builds on people about knowing that we're
serious about enforcing the border.

I think it's essential to have a worker verification ID -- and then, beyond
that, to have a guest worker program that actually is a guest worker program,
while, at the same time, looking to the people that are here today and allowing
them to know that they are going to have a future, that they need not fear the
migra (ph) is going to come get them anymore.

And I think that is a tremendous accomplishment, for us to be able to let those
people know that they will have an opportunity to live lives that are outside
the shadows and not to have the fear of having to be deported.

Now, some will call this amnesty. I want to define amnesty in a way that I think
is different.

When people that are here will have to get a probationary period of time and
will pay fines, I believe that ceases to be amnesty. And when those people will
have to return to their country before they can apply for citizenship and apply
outside the country, in the legal process, and then go to the back of the line,
I don't call that amnesty.

So I believe it is a balanced bill. It is a bill that is going to, I think,
going to get through both houses of this Congress and go to the president's
desk.

And on that day, I think we can all truly celebrate. Because you know, I have
been, probably -- I don't want to call myself the poster child for the division
of this country, but I have been assailed from both sides.

I've been attacked from those who sent countless bricks to my office a year ago,
and also from those who believe that we've not gone far enough. And so I believe
there's always a sweet spot.

And you know, as an old baseball player, the bat has a sweet spot, and in
legislating, there's also a sweet spot. And I think we've about hit it here.

So I think we've struck it down the middle. It's a good bill. And I hope that
we'll have the support of members of both sides of the aisle, and then move it
down the hall to the House, and we can get it to swift passage.

It is a problem that America must deal with, and we need to resolve it. And the
time to resolve it is now. Thank you.

(UNKNOWN): In my now going on 13 years in the United States Congress, I've never
seen a more emotional, more sensitive, a more politically charged issue than the
issue of immigration reform.

You know, when I came to the United States Senate, I wanted to try to have the
opportunity to make good laws. And the way you make good laws is to have people
on both sides of the aisle come together in a bill that none of us would think
would be perfect, but a bill that is perfect for the American people.

(UNKNOWN): And that's exactly what has happened here.

I didn't support the legislation last year. I did not think it was appropriate.
I didn't think it was in the best interest of the American people.

But now, thanks to the leadership of Senator Kennedy, Senator Kyl, Senator
Graham, Senator Specter and others, I think we've seen a bill that is truly good
for the American people.

One major difference is there is no guaranteed pathway to citizenship for
anybody in this bill, but anybody who is going to become a citizen is now going
to have to have a real appreciation for what it means to be an American and why
it's important to be an American.

That is a critically important issue for me and has been since we began these
discussions.

Senator Feinstein, we still have some language to work out on Ag Jobs, but we're
going to get there, because I have never seen...

(UNKNOWN): It's in.

(LAUGHTER)

(UNKNOWN): Your language is in.

(UNKNOWN): My language is in. Thank you.

I appreciate that, Dianne.

FEINSTEIN: That's not entirely true.

(LAUGHTER)

(UNKNOWN): I have never seen a more committed group than this group to making
sure that something was done. And the reason everybody has been so committed is
because it's not in the interest of Republicans or Democrats, it is in the
interest of the American people.

KENNEDY: There's rules about administration officials being in the Senate press
gallery, but those have been waived today. And I don't know whether Secretary
Chertoff might want to tell us a little bit how someone downtown's looking at
this bill.

Have we got any news?

SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY MICHAEL CHERTOFF: Secretary Gutierrez and I had
the opportunity shortly before we came here to talk to the president to tell him
that an agreement had been reached on this very historic bill, something the
president has advocated for several years now publicly, and a real testament to
the bipartisan, very hard, detailed and passionate work of everybody who stands
here.

CHERTOFF: The president described this as a historic moment. And he looks
forward to signing this bill when it makes its way through Congress.

Speaking for myself, I would say this is a bill that is strong on the border,
tough on enforcement in the interior, fair with respect to those who are here
and realistic. It gives an honest solution to a problem that has bedeviled this
country for decades. And I think the members of Congress here deserve a lot of
credit -- as do others who are not currently on the podium.

Finally I'd like to observe, just as a citizen, it has been a privilege to
participate in this process. As Senator Graham said, this is pretty much what I
was taught in grade school about the way the process works -- not that everybody
gets what they want, but that everybody works together to achieve the best
result for the most people.

And I think what's been produced here really is a testament to that.

GUTIERREZ: Thank you.

I want to thank first and foremost our president, who had a vision and a -- and
saw the need for immigration reform back from the days when he was governor of
Texas. And I'm just so proud to be here today knowing that we have a very
important step forward.

I also want to thank the senators who have been part of this process. I have
been in awe at the way they have rolled up their sleeves, taken the time, paid
attention to detail and at every moment tried to do what was good for their
country. And I think any American who was in that room would be awfully proud to
have these members of the Senate representing the country.

Secretary Chertoff, who has been just absolutely great at this whole process --
it has been an honor for me to be his partner, the members of the White House
staff, the members of the staff. This is a great moment.

Every country in the developed world in the 21st century is going to have to
address immigration. And every country who wants to grow and prosper is going to
have to embrace immigration.

By moving forward with this initiative, we can do this right and we can have an
advantage -- not just for the next five or 10 years, but for the next century.

That's what's at stake here, and that's what's at our grasp. So, again, I'm
extremely thankful for the opportunity to just contribute a bit to making this
not just continuing to be the best economy in the world, but without question,
the best country in the world.

KENNEDY: We're going to rotate back and forth in answering some questions.

QUESTION: Senator Kennedy, could you tell us what the agreement is on the H1B
visas that is in the bill?

KENNEDY: Well, there's provisions in here for H1B, and there's been others that
have indicated that they wanted to see an expansion of that program. There have
been some members who have been concerned about the fact that some of the
existing H1B now that are in existence have been more involved in shipping jobs
overseas rather than creating jobs here.

And there's been some concern about whether there's been a depression about
workers that have gotten the H1B on American workers.

But we understand, I think, all of us do that we're going -- this is an evolving
issue. I'm not sure that we've sort of reached our final position on it. There's
still a few items such as this, but I think Senator Kyl and others, all of us
have talked about this, and I expect that there will be probably -- perhaps a
proposal will be offered on behalf of those of us that are here on the floor.

It's being sort of being reviewed at the current -- at the time. I think there's
a sense that there's going to be an enhanced, obviously, traction and an
enhanced posture and position for very skilled workers to enter the United
States under this legislation...

KENNEDY: Want to talk about H1B?

KYL: Sure. I'm sorry.

KENNEDY: H1B...

QUESTION: H1B visas...

KYL: In the legislation itself, it goes from the 65,000 a day to 115,000.

QUESTION: How does this process work for illegal immigrants to be here legally
working, whether or not they become citizens? For all the 10, 12 illegal people
living here and working, what's next for them?

KYL: You're talking about the illegal immigrants here today.

QUESTION: Right. What's the process?

KYL: To make it very succinct, all of the people who are here illegally today
will have an opportunity to present themselves to our government. And if they
have not committed serious crimes, will be able to receive a probationary
document which enables them to be in the United States legally.

When the triggers that Senator Isakson mentioned are achieved, at that point,
they can then apply for and would receive a four-year temporary visa which is
renewable every four years assuming they have met the conditions for that visa.

At the end of eight years, for those who wanted to make application for green
cards under the procedure outlined, I believe, my Senator Kennedy and Senator
Martinez, they would be able to apply for a green card under this merit-based
system, and depending upon how that application went, then, if they receive
that, after five years if they wanted to become a citizen, they would then be
eligible for their citizenship.

SEN. LINDSEY GRAHAM, R-S.C.: After five years, if they wanted to become a
citizen, they would then be eligible for their citizenship.

QUESTION: How confident are you that this is going to pass both of your
caucuses? How confident are you that you are going to get a majority...

KYL: I'll let others address that. I was just -- you know, when you try to
summarize 800 or 900 pages in a few words, you're going to leave a lot of things
out.

There are many other requirements to get to the end stage before the green card
that I discussed.

For example, like any other applicant for green card, you have to wait in line.
You can't cut in line.

Secondly, you'd have to apply not here in the United States, but from your
country to get that green card.

You have to pass an English test. You have to have paid your fines. There are
other fees that would have to be paid and so forth.

So I -- you know, when you answer a question like that about a complex bill, you
run some risk of leaving some things out. And I'm sure that none of our answers
are going to be totally complete.

(CROSSTALK)

GRAHAM: It'll be overwhelming. As long as the agreement holds together -- it's
got to be drafted. The language does matter.

But the consensus that we've reached on a variety of issues -- I think it'll be
overwhelming. I think when our colleagues listen to the product -- and many of
them have been involved that are not here -- that there will be an overwhelming
view that this is the last, best chance to pass immigration reform on our terms
as a nation to make us competitive, to deal with 12 million people living in the
shadows and not repeat it in the future and to be competitive with the world.

And to my colleagues, this is the last, best chance we'll have as a Congress. If
this somehow collapsed, it would be years before you could recreate this.

So I think it's going to be overwhelming.

SPECTER: Let me add an attendant to what Senator Kyl -- or Senator Graham just
said.

SPECTER: You have among this working group senators from all parts of the
political spectrum. And the positions that have been taken from all parts of the
political spectrum I think will draw support from the Senate as a whole.

So I think that Senator Graham is right. We'll have very substantial support.

KENNEDY: Let me just add to that. It's very important that this legislation get
on the floor of the United States Senate, because different members have read
different stories and have different understandings and then different
interpretations.

And language will be available, we're hopeful, by mid- or late afternoon or
first thing in the morning. We had set that so Friday, so people will be able to
go on over that, and we start in on Monday.

But as someone who's been involved in immigration, when we get out on the floor
of the United States Senate and we have an opportunity to go through these
various provisions and to emphasize and stress, respond to the questions that
are out there, my own sense is that this is going to be -- our position is going
to be enhanced immeasurably.

I think it will be.

The question was about stakeholders. This is extraordinary. This is
extraordinary, for example, in the ag jobs area. I mean, I remember being here
at the time we had the bracero program, for 22 years, and the difficulty we had
freeing -- getting away from it.

And I remember being out there with Cesar Chavez. And I understand the
complications and the difficulties that they're having even today.

The idea that you have 800,000 workers, farm workers, primarily in California,
half of them undocumented and that kind of thing, are going to continue to have
to work and work and work and work, but are going to be protected and are going
to have some opportunity for the American dream is a change that is
breathtaking.

The idea that we have a DREAM Act in here that's going to permit the outstanding
young students, when only less than half of all Hispanic students are graduating
from college today, and those individuals are going to be able to go on in and
continue -- and it will be the sons or daughters of those who were brought here
or been here for a period of years -- have an opportunity to go in the service
of the United States and then have a path for citizenship or continue their
education. What that offers for young Hispanics is breathtaking.

And let alone the -- whatever the number, the 12 million people, that today are
living in fear -- they're living in fear. And I can tell you from what we saw in
New Bedford, Massachusetts, and to know that they're legal and they can continue
to work.

And they have to follow -- they can get the status and --they have to follow the
process and procedure that's in it. But they know that tonight they go to bed
and they're safe and secure, an they know their children are safe and secure --
I think it is breathtaking.

KENNEDY: And I think the facts that we have a more secure border, something that
we've agreed on, I think the Isakson projections in terms of the triggers makes
sense. I think this is a strong -- this is a strong bill. And we look forward to
making the case on the floor of the United States Senate.

GRAHAM: I just would like to build -- the question maybe should be asked a
different way: What happens if we fail?

If we fail to pass this bill then the 12 million continue to live in fear, not
less fear, but more fear. Our borders continue to be broken in a time when we
need to secure our country. We lose ground against the world because we're going
to lose the best and brightest minds because they can't come here in a rational
way.

So I hope any member of Congress that would think about voting against this bill
would understand that a failure to reach an agreement and deal with illegal
immigration the way we've done means a disaster for future generations of
Americans.

SPECTER: There will be a staff briefing to be announced later this afternoon
where you'll be able to get the specifics on all the semicolons.

Thank you, all.

END

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2007 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              263 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        May 18, 2007 Friday 2:08 PM EST

Bush's Immigration Challenge

BYLINE: Dan Froomkin, Special to washingtonpost.com, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 4419 words



HIGHLIGHT: The immigration issue offers President Bush a chance to leave behind
a significant legacy other than the war in Iraq. But unless he can execute a
turnaround in both his political fortunes and his political strategy, his
leverage on Capitol Hill is almost nonexistent.


The immigration issue offers President Bush a chance to leave behind a
significant legacy other than the war in Iraq. But unless he can execute a
turnaround in both his political fortunes and his political strategy, his
leverage on Capitol Hill is almost nonexistent.

It's not just that he's an unpopular lame duck, although that's part of it.
Almost every success Bush has had as president, he owes to polarization. It's
not clear that he has the political dexterity to lead from the middle. Nor is it
clear the middle has any desire to follow him.

On immigration, Bush's few die-hard supporters aren't going to back him up. The
hard-right, law-and-order fans who give him what little support he still has in
Congress and in the polls are also the people most opposed to the sort of
bipartisan compromise that Bush favors on immigration. (They call it "amnesty.")

Then again, it's never wise to entirely dismiss the president's power to effect
public discourse. Bush's microphone on Iraq may be dead, a victim of his loss of
credibility, but on other issues his voice can still be powerful -- particularly
if it resonates with public sentiment.

The immigration debate has thus far been dominated by blowhards who promote a
fear- and hate-driven faux populist agenda against illegals. So by simply
talking about the problem in sympathetic and pragmatic ways, the president may
succeed in contributing to the passage of legislation that would give him
something other than Iraq to be remembered for.

Here is the text of Bush's remarks yesterday afternoon: "Immigration is a tough
issue for a lot of Americans. The agreement reached today is one that will help
enforce our borders, but equally importantly, it will treat people with respect.
This is a bill where people who live here in our country will be treated without
amnesty, but without animosity."

Jonathan Weisman writes in The Washington Post: "The Bush administration and a
bipartisan group of senators reached agreement yesterday on a sprawling overhaul
of the nation's immigration laws that would bring an estimated 12 million
illegal immigrants out of society's shadows while stiffening border protections
and cracking down on employers of undocumented workers.

"The delicate compromise, 380 pages long and three months in the making,
represents perhaps the last opportunity for President Bush to win a major
legislative accomplishment for his second term, and it could become the most
significant revision of the nation's immigration system in 41 years. Bush hailed
the agreement . . .

"But the compromises needed to win the support of a liberal lion such as Sen.
Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) and a conservative illegal-immigration foe such as
Sen. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) have made the bill extremely complex and have opened it
to attacks from all sides.

"Democratic leaders were leery of three pivotal concessions to the
conservatives. The first would make illegal immigrants' access to long-term
visas and the new guest-worker program contingent upon the implementation of the
border crackdown. . . .

"Another sticking point came from the proposed replacement of an immigration
system primarily designed to reunify families with a point system that would
give new emphasis to skills and education. . . .

"Finally, immigrants coming into the country under the temporary work program
would have to leave when their permits expire, with no chance to appeal for
permanent residence. Labor unions say such a system would depress wages and
create an underclass."

The critique from the right is less subtle: "The president is so desperate for a
legacy and a domestic policy win that he is willing to sell out the American
people and our national security," Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.), told Weisman.

Robert Pear and Jim Rutenberg write in the New York Times: "The deal sets the
stage for a rare victory for Mr. Bush, who set a goal of establishing a new
immigration system at the start of his presidency but saw it stymied by his own
party.

"As the governor of Texas, Mr. Bush had seen firsthand the challenges of border
security and the lengths to which impoverished Mexicans were willing to go to
enter this country illegally. What he depicted as 'a rational immigration
system' -- one that would offer a temporary-worker program and a way for those
who have set up working lives here illegally to become citizens -- was a major
part of his 'compassionate conservative' agenda.

"But the Sept. 11 attacks derailed his plan, and by the time he set out to enact
it in his second term conservatives were livid over what they called deplorably
inadequate efforts to secure the border. That anger, repeated nightly on talk
radio and by the CNN host Lou Dobbs, remains, and is seen within the Republican
Party as a motivating force for conservative voters in the next presidential
election."

As Pear and Rutenberg note: "Tony Snow, the White House press secretary,
defended the proposal in a television appearance on 'Lou Dobbs Tonight,' whose
host has become one of the most vocal critics of Mr. Bush's immigration policy.

"Mr. Dobbs opened the program by calling the deal an apparent victory for 'the
pro-illegal-alien lobby.' The administration was 'hellbent on creating a North
American union without the consent of the American people,' he said, and the
plan could 'threaten national sovereignty and security as well.' "

Here's the CNN transcript. In a nod to the audience, Snow didn't emphasize the
humanitarian or pragmatic aspects of the compromise -- he talked about how the
rules required immigrants to "keep their noses clean."

And rather than challenge Dobbs, Snow praised him: "And Lou, I'll tell you. You
can congratulate yourself in this sense. People now spend a lot more time
thinking seriously about security."

Carolyn Lochhead writes in the San Francisco Chronicle: "The bipartisan 'grand
bargain' on immigration announced Thursday -- promising the most sweeping
changes to U.S. immigration law in more than two decades -- met a swift
onslaught from the no-amnesty right and a warm, if qualified, embrace from
leading pro-immigrant groups on the left."

The Washington Post editorial board describes the bill's central political
trade-off this way: "Legalization for 12 million immigrants already here in
return for second-class status for hundreds of thousands of future low-skilled
workers the U.S. economy needs each year."

I wrote in yesterday's column about the continuing fallout from former deputy
attorney general James Comey's hair-raising testimony Tuesday about the 2004
revolt by top Justice Department officials against President Bush's warrantless
wiretapping program. (Here's the video.)

And I noted that in Bush's joint press availability with British Prime Minister
Tony Blair, Bush refused to answer a question on the topic. Here's the
transcript.

"Q Thank you, sir. There's been some very dramatic testimony before the Senate
this week from one of your former top Justice Department officials, who
describes a scene that some senators called 'stunning,' about a time when the
wireless -- when the warrantless wiretap program was being reviewed. Sir, did
you send your then Chief of Staff and White House Counsel to the bedside of John
Ashcroft while he was ill to get him to approve that program? And do you believe
that kind of conduct from White House officials is appropriate?

"PRESIDENT BUSH: Kelly, there's a lot of speculation about what happened and
what didn't happen; I'm not going to talk about it. It's a very sensitive
program. I will tell you that, one, the program is necessary to protect the
American people, and it's still necessary because there's still an enemy that
wants to do us harm.

"And therefore, I have an obligation to put in place programs that honor the
civil liberties of the American people; a program that was, in this case,
constantly reviewed and briefed to the United States Congress. And the program,
as I say, is an essential part of protecting this country.

"And so there will be all kinds of talk about it. As I say, I'm not going to
move the issue forward by talking about something as highly sensitive -- highly
classified subject. I will tell you, however, that the program is necessary.

"Q Was it on your order, sir?

"PRESIDENT BUSH: As I said, this program is a necessary program that was
constantly reviewed and constantly briefed to the Congress. It's an important
part of protecting the United States. And it's still an important part of our
protection because there's still an enemy that would like to attack us. No
matter how calm it may seem here in America, an enemy lurks. And they would like
to strike. They would like to do harm to the American people because they have
an agenda. They want to impose an ideology; they want us to retreat from the
world; they want to find safe haven. And these just aren't empty words, these
are the words of al Qaeda themselves.

"And so we will put in place programs to protect the American people that honor
the civil liberties of our people, and programs that we constantly brief to
Congress. "

The Washington Post editorial board writes: "It doesn't much matter whether
President Bush was the one who phoned Attorney General John D. Ashcroft's
hospital room before the Wednesday Night Ambush in 2004. It matters enormously,
however, whether the president was willing to have his White House aides try to
strong-arm the gravely ill attorney general into overruling the Justice
Department's legal views. It matters enormously whether the president, once that
mission failed, was willing nonetheless to proceed with a program whose legality
had been called into question by the Justice Department. That is why Mr. Bush's
response to questions about the program yesterday was so inadequate....

"Yes, Mr. Bush backed down in the face of the threat of mass resignations, Mr.
Ashcroft's included, and he apparently agreed to whatever more limited program
the department was willing to approve. In the interim, however, the president
authorized the program the Justice lawyers had refused to certify as legally
permissible, and it continued for a few weeks more, according to former deputy
attorney general James B. Comey's careful testimony before the Senate Judiciary
Committee. Under the Constitution, the president has the final authority in the
executive branch to say what the law is. But as a matter of presidential
practice, this is breathtaking.

"These are important topics for public discussion, and if anyone doubts that
they can safely be discussed in public, they need look no further than Mr.
Comey's testimony. Instead of doing so, Mr. Bush wants to short-circuit that
discussion by invoking the continuing danger of al-Qaeda."

Dahlia Lithwick writes in Slate: "The story isn't who picked on a sick guy or
even who did or didn't break laws. The story is who gets to decide what's legal.
And the president's now-familiar claim, a la Richard Nixon, is that it's never
illegal when he does it. . . .

"The psychodrama in Ashcroft's hospital room boils down to a rift between the
people at Justice (Ashcroft, Comey, and Goldsmith) who believed even the
president can cross a line into lawless behavior and those who simply don't."

And as if to illustrate her point, former Reagan and Bush 41 Justice Department
official Douglas W. Kmiec writes in a Washington Post op-ed: "Comey's
testimonial flourish is actually yet another rehashing of whether the
president's responsibility as commander in chief (under Article II) and the
broad grant of all 'necessary and appropriate' power given in military
authorization by Congress trumps the ill-fitting FISA statute, which was drafted
in peacetime and whose leisurely espionage structure arguably contemplates
exceptions to its warrant regime premised on 'other statutes.'

"The FISA-presidential power spat invites reasonable legal minds to disagree, as
Comey and Attorney General Alberto Gonzales do."

Deciding whether it was legal or not was "the president's call," Kmiec writes.

Daniel Klaidman and Michael Isikoff chat about the significance of Comey's
testimony on the Newsweek Web site.

Says Isikoff: "[I]t's hard to judge since we simply don't know for sure what
precisely Comey was objecting to -- and what precisely Bush did to assuage
Comey's concerns. And let's remember, there has to be a significant paper trial
here. . . . So far, the White House and Justice Department have essentially
refused to turn anything over. But my guess is that the Senate Judiciary
Committee now has the hook it needs to force the issue. . . . This could shape
up as a major constitutional confrontation."

He adds that so far, "the debate over what is arguably the biggest single legal
issue of the Bush presidency--whether the president engaged in large scale
domestic spying outside the orbit of the law--is taking place entirely in the
dark."

Dan Eggen and Amy Goldstein write in The Washington Post: "Two leading Senate
Democrats called for a vote of no confidence in Attorney General Alberto R.
Gonzales yesterday as political pressure for his resignation intensified in the
wake of revelations about the plan to dismiss U.S. attorneys and Gonzales's role
in a 2004 government crisis."

David Johnston and Neil A. Lewis write in the New York Times: "Mr. Gonzales's
already shaky position eroded after reports this week about an episode in 2004
when as White House counsel he was involved in an apparent effort to circumvent
Justice Department officials who had refused to renew authority for a secret
domestic eavesdropping program. . . .

"And Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, the top Republican on the Senate
Judiciary Committee, who has not called for Mr. Gonzales's dismissal, came
closer to saying that he was finished. 'I have a sense that when we finish our
investigation, we may have the conclusion of the tenure of the attorney
general,' Mr. Specter said at a meeting of the committee on Thursday."

The White House is dismissive of the plans for a no-confidence vote. White House
spokesman Tony Fratto told reporters this morning it was just part of "the
bottomless bag of tricks that Democrats in the Senate would like to pull out on
a weekly basis, regarding the Attorney General. The Attorney General has the
full confidence of the President."

Margaret Talev and Marisa Taylor write for McClatchy Newspapers: "McClatchy
Newspapers has learned that the top prosecutors in Macon, Ga., and Roanoke, Va.,
landed on a proposed firing list weeks after the White House and Justice
Department traded notes about the potential for voter-fraud cases in central
Georgia and Appalachia. They were added to a list just days before last
November's midterm election, but ultimately not fired."

Carol D. Leonnig writes in The Washington Post: "Attorneys for Vice President
Cheney and top White House officials told a federal judge yesterday that they
cannot be held liable for anything they disclosed to reporters about covert CIA
officer Valerie Plame or her husband, former ambassador Joseph C. Wilson IV.

"The officials, who include senior White House adviser Karl Rove and Cheney's
former chief of staff, I. Lewis 'Scooter' Libby, argued that the judge should
dismiss a lawsuit filed by the couple that stemmed from the disclosure of
Plame's identity to the media. . . .

"The lawyers said any conversations Cheney and the officials had about Plame
with one another or with reporters were part of their normal duties because they
were discussing foreign policy and engaging in an appropriate 'policy dispute.'
Cheney's attorney went further, arguing that Cheney is legally akin to the
president because of his unique government role and has absolute immunity from
any lawsuit.

"U.S. District Judge John D. Bates asked: 'So you're arguing there is nothing --
absolutely nothing -- these officials could have said to reporters that would
have been beyond the scope of their employment,' whether the statements were
true or false?

" 'That's true, Your Honor. Mr. Wilson was criticizing government policy,' said
Jeffrey S. Bucholtz, deputy assistant attorney general for the Justice
Department's civil division. 'These officials were responding to that
criticism.'"

James Vicini writes for Reuters: "Lawyer Michael Waldman, representing [former
deputy secretary of state Richard] Armitage at the hearing before U.S. District
Judge John Bates, cited a 'myriad of legal reasons why each claim fails' and
said the lawsuit should be thrown out.

"'Put bluntly, your honor, this suit is principally based on a desire for
publicity and book deals,' Waldman said. Plame has signed a book deal reportedly
worth more than $2.5 million.

"Attorney John Kester, representing Cheney, said that allowing the case to
proceed would result in the examination of CIA activities, including how Plame's
duties changed after the disclosure of her identity.

" 'This is a fishing expedition, inevitably, about the duties at the CIA,'
Kester said. 'The courts just don't go there and the court should not go
there.'"

Bates didn't say when he would rule.

Peter S. Goodman writes in The Washington Post: "World Bank President Paul D.
Wolfowitz resigned yesterday, effective June 30, yielding to demands from
governments around the world that he leave to end the ethics controversy that
has consumed the institution. . . .

"Staff members described a celebratory mood inside the World Bank's headquarters
near the White House, with people embracing, singing songs and hoisting flutes
of Champagne. . . .

"According to bank and Bush administration sources briefed on the negotiations,
the White House on Wednesday demanded that Wolfowitz be allowed to stay for
three months, fearing that otherwise an acting president would be put in place
from within the bank. That could threaten the traditional American prerogative
to select the head of the institution.

" 'They don't want to lose control,' a bank official said.

"Most of the board, and particularly the Europeans, wanted Wolfowitz to leave
immediately, asserting that he has lost the trust of the staff. The
administration ultimately settled for a compromise, the June 30 departure date,
fearing that otherwise a caretaker president might be inserted by the board over
American wishes."

Jeannine Aversa writes for the Associated Press: "The White House said it would
move quickly to name a new candidate to run the bank.

"Bush 'will have a candidate to announce soon, allowing for an orderly
transition that will have the World Bank refocused on its mission,' White House
spokesman Tony Fratto said."

Edward Luce writes in the Financial Times: "Tony Blair joined George W. Bush
yesterday for his final White House appearance as British prime minister, an
exercise that outdid its many precursors in the intensity of praise the two
embattled leaders showered upon each other."

Dana Milbank writes in The Washington Post: "Six years and three months ago, the
president and the prime minister met for the first time at Camp David and
instantly proclaimed themselves smitten...

"It was a grayer Blair and a silver-maned Bush who walked from the Oval Office
yesterday. Even the Rose Garden appeared uncharacteristically worn: Paint was
chipping and peeling above the colonnade, and a couple of the shrubs had turned
brown. Even the normal protocol was lacking. Several American reporters wore
sunglasses -- a no-no in Bush world. The front row of British reporters didn't
even rise with the crowd when the two leaders approached."

Ken Herman blogs for Cox News about Ann Wright and her megaphone: "The two of
them combined today to make Wright the rare protester outside the White House
who gets noticed by people on the other side of the fence.

" 'And you know,' British Prime Minister Tony Blair said during a Rose Garden
news conference with President Bush, 'we can hear as we speak at this press
conference -- I mean, I can't make out the words that they're shouting over
there, but I bet they're not totally complimentary to either of us.'

" 'Wait a minute,' Bush said. 'I don't know about that.'

"Blair was correct. Wright believes Bush and Blair are war criminals."

John Ward Anderson writes in The Washington Post: "More than 60 people were
killed and dozens wounded in mortar strikes, drive-by shootings, roadside
explosions, suicide bombings and other violent attacks in Iraq on Thursday, as a
new study warned that the country was close to becoming a 'failed state.' . . .

"A report released Thursday by Chatham House, a foreign policy research center
in Britain, challenged the notion that violence in Iraq has subsided since the
buildup of U.S. troops, saying, for instance, that car bombings had not
diminished and arguing that radical groups were simply lying low.

" 'It can be argued that Iraq is on the verge of being a failed state which
faces the distinct possibility of collapse and fragmentation,' the report said."

From the report's introduction: "There is not 'one' civil war, nor 'one'
insurgency, but several civil wars and insurgencies between different
communities in today's Iraq. Within this warring society, the Iraqi government
is only one among many 'state-like' actors, and is largely irrelevant in terms
of ordering social, economic, and political life. It is now possible to argue
that Iraq is on the verge of being a failed state which faces the distinct
possibility of collapse and fragmentation."

Peter Baker writes in The Washington Post: "President Bush signaled yesterday
that he is open to legislation imposing consequences on the Iraqi government if
it does not meet certain benchmarks for progress and expressed confidence that
he can soon reach agreement with congressional Democrats on a war spending bill.

"In response to reporters' questions, Bush twice declined to rule out penalizing
the Iraqis for failing to achieve goals aimed at economic and political
reconciliation, a concept advanced on Capitol Hill not just by Democrats but
also by many Republicans. White House aides privately have said such
accountability measures are on the table in their negotiations with Congress."

But what sorts of consequences are we talking about for failure to meet those
benchmarks? Democrats want the consequences to include the withdrawal of
American troops. But the White House only appears willing to accept financial
sanctions.

Carl Hulse and Jeff Zeleny write in the New York Times: "Congressional leaders
and the White House began what they said they hoped were the final talks on an
Iraq war spending bill on Thursday as Democrats braced for potential defections
by lawmakers leery of any compromise with President Bush.

"The likelihood that any final agreement will specify no withdrawal date for
American troops from Iraq raised the possibility that antiwar Democrats will not
support it, particularly in the House, and that the measure will need
substantial Republican support to pass."

Paul Krugman writes in his New York Times op-ed column (subscription required):
"Mr. Bush has degraded our government and undermined the rule of law; he has led
us into strategic disaster and moral squalor.

"But the leading contenders for the Republican nomination have given us little
reason to believe they would behave differently. Why should they? The principles
Mr. Bush has betrayed are principles today's G.O.P., dominated by movement
conservatives, no longer honors. In fact, rank-and-file Republicans continue to
approve strongly of Mr. Bush's policies -- and the more un-American the policy,
the more they support it. . . .

"What we need to realize is that the infamous ''Bush bubble,'' the
administration's no-reality zone, extends a long way beyond the White House.
Millions of Americans believe that patriotic torturers are keeping us safe, that
there's a vast Islamic axis of evil, that victory in Iraq is just around the
corner, that Bush appointees are doing a heckuva job -- and that news reports
contradicting these beliefs reflect liberal media bias."

Joseph L. Galloway writes in his opinion column for the McClatchy Washington
Bureau: "As of May 17th, there were 613 days left until Jan. 20, 2009, and the
end of our long national nightmare as President George W. Bush and his Rasputin,
Vice President Dick Cheney, shuffle off to their necessarily well-guarded
retirement homes and onto the ash heap of history. So much of what they talked
about doing in a new century and a new and different world never came to pass.
So much of what they did to grow the power of the presidency and prune the
constitutional safeguards crafted by our Founding Fathers, they never talked
about. . . .

"The question is: How did such ordinary-looking men -- seemingly unable to carry
out even the smallest non-political tasks of governing -- succeed in doing such
extraordinary and lasting damage to our country, our military and our body
politic in so few years? . . .

"The agencies of government -- the CIA, FBI, Treasury, Department of Defense and
who knows who else -- use secret executive authority to suck up databases of
personal information about ordinary Americans, without regard to their privacy
rights, in a search for suspected terrorists.

"Have they found any using that information? Have they unearthed terror cells
with more potential than the ones in Florida and New Jersey that were penetrated
and perhaps manipulated by FBI informants? That sort of terrorist isn't half so
frightening as George W. Bush and Dick Cheney.

"Over in Iraq, 150,000 American troops soldier on, attempting, at the cost of
their own lives and limbs, to follow the orders of a president who still thinks
he can pull victory out of defeat. A democratically elected but hopelessly
divided Iraqi parliament feuds and dithers and contemplates its summer vacation
while Americans and Iraqis die in increasing numbers in the streets outside the
Green Zone, and the mortar and rocket fire lands inside that sanctuary with
increasing frequency.

"Six-hundred-fourteen days, and counting. Nineteen months. It doesn't seem
possible or even bearable."

Rex Babin on the conductor guy; Walt Handelsman on the twilight zone.

Jon Stewart on the Comey testimony: "Holy [expletive]! Apparently the president
of the United States sent his chief of staff and legal counsel to an ICU to
convince a drugged-up, pancreatically-inflamed John Ashcroft to subvert the
Constitution!"

Stewart shows Sen. Charles Schumer's reaction: "The story is a shocking one. It
makes you almost gulp."

To which Stewart responds: "ALMOST? ALMOST GULP? What is it going to take to
make you actually gulp? Do these guys have to sodomize the Declaration of
Independence in front of you?"

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2007 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              264 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        May 22, 2007 Tuesday 1:20 PM EST

Has Bush Given Up on Immigration?

BYLINE: Dan Froomkin, Special to washingtonpost.com, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 4124 words



HIGHLIGHT: The much-anticipated immigration compromise cobbled together last
week by the White House and a bipartisan group of senators isn't going anywhere
without a lot of aggressive campaigning by the president.


The much-anticipated immigration compromise cobbled together last week by the
White House and a bipartisan group of senators isn't going anywhere without a
lot of aggressive campaigning by the president.

But where is President Bush? Not exactly out on the hustings.

Where's the full-court press? Where's the barnstorming? Where are the famous
White House theatrics?

There's something in the immigration compromise for everyone to hate -- and the
haters are coming out in full force, dominating (thus far at least) the
political discourse. Offsetting them would require Bush to seize his White House
bullhorn and give it everything he's got.

Here's the problem, however: Bush's usual political style -- appealing to
partisanship and stoking fear -- isn't going to work on this issue. This time,
those are the tools of choice of his opponents. What Bush needs to do is appeal
to people's reason and conscience -- and then back up his arguments with
detailed and informed explanations of why the various tradeoffs reflected in the
final agreement were necessary.

Bush often calls himself the educator-in-chief. But what he calls education has
too often consisted of repeating simplistic sound bytes over and over. When he's
faced with a tough question, he typically doesn't take it in, mull it, and
explain his thinking -- he just goes into his mental database of previously-used
talking points and picks one out, whether it's responsive or not.

But this bill needs an educator-in-chief. Or else it's dead on arrival.

After the compromise was announced, Bush showed up in front of the cameras for
exactly two minutes on Friday afternoon. "I really am anxious to sign a
comprehensive immigration bill as soon as I possibly can," he said. Then he
recited a rote radio address for Saturday delivery.

Yesterday, Bush left the topic to spokesman Tony Fratto, who gamely insisted
that immigration "is a very high priority for the president." But Fratto
couldn't offer up any evidence to support the argument. Consider Bush's public
schedule for the coming week:

He has no public events today. Tomorrow, Bush delivers the commencement address
at the Coast Guard Academy where, he told Reuters yesterday, he intends to make
the momentous announcement that "al Qaeda is public enemy number one in Iraq and
is public enemy number one for America."

Thursday, Bush's only public event will find him at a photo opportunity related
to trade exports. The only glimpse you'll see of him on Friday will be boarding
Marine One for a flight to Camp David. And so on.

Has the president lost his enthusiasm for the issue? Is he just biding his time?
Or does he realize he doesn't have what it takes to move the ball?

Jonathan Weisman writes in The Washington Post that "even proponents of the
delicate compromise proposal conceded that the furor over the deal was
surpassing their expectations and endangering the plan. . . .

"With dozens of amendments planned, traps being laid by opponents could upset
the fragile coalition that drafted the measure. . . .

"Supporters had expected opposition from both ends of the political spectrum.
But they conceded they were taken aback by the furious response over the
weekend, especially from conservatives, who declared that the legislation is
nothing short of amnesty for lawbreakers."

Carolyn Lochhead writes in the San Francisco Chronicle: "The powerful interest
groups whose backing is critical to an overhaul of U.S. immigration policy are
fracturing over the new bipartisan 'grand bargain' in the Senate, setting up a
brawl over changes that could tear the fragile deal apart...

"Add to that the withering fire from conservatives, a tepid welcome from House
Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-San Francisco, and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid's
faint praise of the bill as a 'starting point,' and what has been billed as a
'grand bargain' on immigration appears to be unraveling before the debate even
begins."

Robert Pear and Michael Luo write in the New York Times: "From the moment debate
started, the crosscurrents buffeting the bill were evident. The intense lobbying
since the bill emerged last week from three months of bipartisan negotiations is
likely to be just a sample of what lawmakers will hear as they return home to
their districts for the Memorial Day recess."

Of course, if you believe Al Gore, appealing to reason is not exactly Bush's
strong point.

Michiko Kakutani writes in a New York Times review of Gore's new book: "In 'The
Assault on Reason' Al Gore excoriates George W. Bush, asserting that the
president is 'out of touch with reality,' that his administration is so
incompetent that it 'can't manage its own way out of a horse show,' that it
ignored 'clear warnings' about the terrorist threat before 9/11 and that it has
made Americans less safe by 'stirring up a hornets' nest in Iraq,' while using
'the language and politics of fear' to try to 'drive the public agenda without
regard to the evidence, the facts or the public interest.' . . .

"Mr. Gore's central argument is that 'reason, logic and truth seem to play a
sharply diminished role in the way America now makes important decisions' and
that the country's public discourse has become 'less focused and clear, less
reasoned.' This 'assault on reason,' he suggests, is personified by the way the
Bush White House operates. Echoing many reporters and former administration
insiders, Mr. Gore says that the administration tends to ignore expert advice
(be it on troop levels, global warming or the deficit), to circumvent the usual
policy-making machinery of analysis and debate, and frequently to suppress or
disdain the best evidence available on a given subject so it can promote
predetermined, ideologically driven policies."

Joe Conason writes in a Los Angeles Times book review: "As [Gore] explains in
his new book, the American political system has degenerated into a rigged game
that suppresses honesty and rewards deception. . . .

"[A]lthough he clearly identifies other culprits, placing special emphasis on
the baneful hypnotic power of television and the irresponsibility of the
networks, he provides in this book one of the most comprehensive indictments of
the Bush administration that has ever appeared in print. He goes so far as to
hint that, in their abject service to power and their quest for dominance both
at home and abroad, the president and his associates have imperiled their
souls."

At his joint appearance with the head of NATO yesterday, Bush was asked about
former President Jimmy Carter's critiques of his administration. (See
yesterday's column.)

Michael Abramowitz writes in The Washington Post that Bush "chose to turn the
other cheek."

It's true Bush didn't respond with a personal attack -- but I wouldn't call it
turning the cheek, either. The clear implication in Bush's long-winded and
familiar-sounding non-response was that people who criticize him, such as
Carter, are weak and hate freedom.

From the transcript:

"Q Mr. President, Jimmy Carter unleashed some fairly harsh criticism of you over
the weekend. We're you surprised by this, and do you take much stock in what he
said?

"PRESIDENT BUSH: Steve, you know, I get criticized a lot from different
quarters, and that's just part of what happens when you're President. And I will
continue to make decisions that I think are necessary to protect the American
people from harm. I will continue to make decisions based upon certain
principles, one of which is my strong belief in the universality of freedom.

"We're at war with an enemy that is relentless and determined, and it's
essential that the decisions I make protect the American people as best as we
can. And it turns out my presidency is such that we talk about how -- with
strong allies -- how to defend ourselves. I firmly believe that in order to
protect America we must go on the offense against radicals, extremists,
murderers in order to protect not only ourselves, but our allies.

"And I also realize that we're involved in an ideological struggle, that these
murderers, these radicals, these extremists have got a point of view. If you
want to find out what their point of view is about, look what happened in
Afghanistan under the brutal relationship of the Taliban and al Qaeda. On the
one hand, if you're a woman and spoke out, or a woman and tried to advance, you
were suppressed, in brutal fashion sometimes. And in the meantime, an enemy that
hates America, plotted and planned.

"And so, look, I understand some people are -- may not agree with the decisions
I make. But what the American people need to know, I'm making them based upon
what's best for this country."

And for the record, Mark Leibovich writes in the New York Times that "there have
been several instances of 'when ex-presidents attack' over the years. As
recently as a few months ago, former President Gerald R. Ford criticized Mr.
Bush's Iraq policy, albeit from the grave. In an article in The Washington Post,
Bob Woodward quoted from an interview he conducted with Mr. Ford with the
understanding that he could only publish Mr. Ford's remarks after he died.

"Eisenhower was critical of John F. Kennedy's domestic policies, the first
President Bush pounded on Bill Clinton, now his pal, for his Haiti policy, and
Nixon chided the first President Bush (for comparing himself to Harry Truman in
his 1992 re-election campaign)."

Bush sat down with Reuters White House correspondent Steve Holland for an
interview on Air Force One yesterday, on the way back to Washington from
Crawford. Here is the full transcript.

Bush didn't make much news related to Iraq. Holland writes: "President George W.
Bush said on Monday he believes September will be an "important moment" to
assess the extent of progress in Iraq under his much-criticized troop buildup
plan."

But he did say some surprising things about Russia. In a separate story, Holland
reports: "President George W. Bush said on Monday a lot of tensions exist
between the West and Russia and voiced skepticism about Russia's path to
democracy under President Vladimir Putin. . . .

"Bush said he still is close to Putin personally but said 'it's a very complex
relationship' between the U.S. and Russian governments.

"'He thinks they've got a democracy emerging there in Russia. Obviously there's
a lot of suspicion about that, and I look forward to continuing to talk to him
as to why he thinks his country is on the path to democracy. It looks like at
times it's not to me,' he said."

More from the interview transcript: "It looks like some of the decisions he has
made aren't leading the country to democracy. He, on the other hand, says it's a
special kind of democracy that we in the West don't understand, and therefore
I'd be willing to listen more about why he thinks that what he's doing is
democratic in nature. But, yes, it's -- there's some positives and some
negatives. Some positives in Russia is there's a middle class beginning to
develop that is gaining purchasing power, which will help their economy.

"Obviously, some of the negatives are the different changes of rule of law, the
diminution of a free press; just some of the decisions he's made have sent mixed
signals to the West and mixed signals to me."

Reuters also reports Bush "said on Monday that extremists trying to topple
Lebanon's government 'need to be reined in.' . . .

"Bush, deeply distrustful of Syria's role in Lebanon, stopped short of accusing
Damascus of being involved in the conflict. Syria has denied accusations that it
had links to the Fatah al-Islam group battling the Lebanese army.

"'I don't know about this particular incident. I'll be guarded on making
accusations until I get better information, but I will tell you there's no doubt
that Syria was deeply involved in Lebanon. There's no question they're still
involved in Lebanon,' he said."

And Reuters also reports Bush "said on Monday he wants an American to succeed
Paul Wolfowitz as president of the World Bank, playing down speculation he might
turn to departing British Prime Minister Tony Blair for the job."

Bush told Holland that "if you're doing big things, it takes a while for history
to be able to fully analyze your presidency. There's no such thing as accurate
short-term history of a President."

Yet that didn't stop him from offering thoughts of his own on his legacy: "I
hope it is that George Bush fought the war, he laid out a strategy for America
and her allies to ultimately defeat these ideologues; he recognized the nature
of the enemy, he spoke clearly about the nature of the enemy; he went on the
offense in order to protect his own country; he put in place a variety of
measures to help deal with this threat, and he had great faith in the capacity
of liberty to ultimately conquer this ideology."

It's exchanges like this that show how averse Bush is to actually engaging the
arguments of his critics.

Holland asked Bush about a recent visit from a group of Republican lawmakers who
bluntly warned him that his pursuit of the war in Iraq is risking the future of
the Republican Party and that he cannot count on GOP support for many more
months. (See my May 10 column.)

Bush's reply: "I'm not going to talk about what any specific member said. But it
was a very good session because it was a very frank discussion about my views
and the importance of the decision I made, as far as achieving success, and
their views and their hopes that we can succeed. Very few people come to the
White House and say, gosh, I hope we fail. Most people are saying, well, I hope
this works, and I am concerned about the situation there."

The issue is not that anyone is hoping for failure. It's responding to those who
are worried that we are failing.

From the transcript:

"Q: The Iraq funding bill seems to have been stymied a bit on Friday. What
happens now?

"THE PRESIDENT: Well, we just need to watch and see. There is a way forward,
there's a compromise to be had. My hope is that the Democrat [sic] leader sees
it. I don't support timetables, artificial timetables. But I do support
benchmarks with consequences. And Josh is going to work very closely with the
leadership to see if we can't reach an agreement."

Jeremy Jacobs writes in The Hill: "In a letter to White House Counsel Fred
Fielding Monday, Reps. John Conyers Jr. (D-Mich.) and Linda Sanchez (D-Calif.)
expressed their 'extreme disappointment' in the White House's unwillingness to
cooperate in their investigation into the firings of U.S. attorneys and
threatened a 'compulsory process' if the White House continues to be
unresponsive.

"'Even without a single document or witness interview provided by the White
House,' the congressmen wrote, 'it is clear that the White House played an
important role in the events concerning the U.S. Attorney controversy.'

"'If the White House persists in refusing to provide information to the House
Judiciary Committee, or even to discuss providing such information, on a
voluntary basis,' they wrote, 'we will have no alternative but to begin to
resort to compulsory process in order to carry out our oversight
responsibilities.'"

Dan Eggen writes in The Washington Post: "President Bush said yesterday that
Democrats in Congress are engaging in 'pure political theater' by preparing
resolutions of no confidence in Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales, and he
repeated his support for his embattled aide and longtime friend.

"Bush told reporters at his ranch near Crawford, Tex., that the attorney general
'has done nothing wrong' in the dismissals of nine U.S. attorneys last year."

James Gerstenzang notes in the Los Angeles Times: "But the president did not
respond directly when asked whether he expected Gonzales to serve until Bush's
term ends on Jan. 20, 2009."

David Gregory reported on the NBC Nightly News: "The White House felt the
President had to go out there and say something pretty tough today -- really his
strongest statement of support in several weeks.

"Top White House advisers saying tonight the message from the president to
Republicans in particular is this: Don't let Democrats get away with this kind
of vote, this kind of measure, or else they'll only do it on other issues. . . .
Whether it's the war or other issues, they'll have similar no-confidence votes."

From the transcript: "I stand by Al Gonzales and I would hope that people would
be more sober in how they address these important issues. And they ought to get
the job done of passing legislation, as opposed to figuring out how to be actors
on the political theater stage."

Jim Rutenberg and David Johnston write in the New York Times: "In addressing
Congress broadly, his remarks also seemed aimed at some fellow Republicans, five
of whom have called on Mr. Gonzales to resign. Others have expressed
reservations about his leadership.

"But with the president's appointed head of the World Bank, Paul D. Wolfowitz,
recently resigning amid accusations that he arranged a raise at the bank for his
girlfriend, White House officials seem more intent than ever to stand by Mr.
Gonzales. . . .

"Kevin Sullivan, the White House communications director, said that Mr.
Gonzales's situation was unlike that of Mr. Wolfowitz and that Mr. Bush's
support for Mr. Gonzales 'has never wavered.' (Mr. Bush maintained his support
for Mr. Wolfowitz until the end, as well.)"

Via washingtonpost.com's Editorialist blog, the St. Petersburg Times editorial
board writes: "Now that it has been arranged to have Paul Wolfowitz walk out the
door at the World Bank, there is one bit of unfinished business: Alberto
Gonzales. The attorney general is a cooked goose, except he and President Bush
don't recognize the oven's been turned on. The revelations keep coming about
Gonzales' lack of candor and his incompetence. The sooner he goes, the sooner
professionalism and credibility will return to the Justice Department."

And the Des Moines Register editorial board writes: "He no longer has the
support of a growing number of members of Congress, including from within the
Republican Party. He does not deserve the support of the American people. If he
will not resign, and if the president will not fire him, Congress should begin
proceedings to impeach him.

"That should be just the beginning of the work of Congress, however. Based on
new details that emerged before the Senate Judiciary Committee last week, more
questions must be asked of Bush administration officials, including whether
President Bush personally -- and in contradiction of the advice of his attorney
general and the Justice Department's top legal adviser -- directed spying on
American citizens in violation of the law."

Rutenberg and Johnston write in the Times that "the Justice Department on Monday
released several hundred pages of internal communications and other documents,
including previously withheld e-mail messages, that provided fresh insights into
the Gonzales situation. Specifically, the documents showed the scramble by White
House and Justice Department officials to limit damage caused by the uproar over
the dismissals of United States attorneys as Congress was starting its inquiry
into the firings this year.

"The department turned over the documents to House and Senate investigators
before Wednesday's appearance at the House Judiciary Committee by Monica
Goodling, the department's former White House liaison, who is testifying under a
grant of immunity."

The readers at TPM Muckraker are combing through the documents.

Tim Grieve, in Salon, finds this fascinating and troubling e-mail chain:

"On March 3, [Justice Department spokesman Brian] Roehrkasse forwarded to his
Justice Department colleagues a copy of a Washington Post story on the purge
that he said was 'far better than most recent Post stories on this subject.' The
piece minimized White House involvement in the purge; quoting sources, it said
that the White House had approved the list of prosecutors to be fired only after
'senior Justice Department officials identified the prosecutors they believed
were not doing enough to carry out President Bush's policies on immigration,
firearms and other issues.' For the folks working the issue at the Department of
Justice, that amounted to a victory. Deputy Attorney General Richard Hertling
declared the Post's piece 'by far and away the best story I've seen on the
subject' and expressed relief that an accompanying Post editorial-- 'The Justice
Department's firing of a group of U.S. attorneys is neither as sinister as
critics suggest nor as benign as the department would have you believe' -- was
'not a bad beating, though against our interests.'

"'Great work, Brian,' [then-Gonzales chief of staff Kyle] Sampson said in an
e-mail to group. 'Kudos to you and the [deputy attorney general].'"

Three different potential Plan Bs in the news today.

David Ignatius writes in his Washington Post opinion column: "President Bush and
his senior military and foreign policy advisers are beginning to discuss a
'post-surge' strategy for Iraq that they hope could gain bipartisan political
support. The new policy would focus on training and advising Iraqi troops rather
than the broader goal of achieving a political reconciliation in Iraq, which
senior officials recognize may be unachievable within the time available."

Stewart M. Powell writes for Hearst Newspapers: "The Bush administration is
quietly on track to nearly double the number of combat troops in Iraq this year,
an analysis of Pentagon deployment orders showed Monday.

"The little-noticed second surge, designed to reinforce U.S. troops in Iraq, is
being executed by sending more combat brigades and extending tours of duty for
troops already there."

Robert H. Reid writes for the Associated Press: "Iraq's military is drawing up
plans to cope with any quick U.S. military pullout, the defense minister said
Monday. . . .

"On Monday, Defense Minister Abdul-Qader al-Obeidi told reporters Iraq's
military was drawing up plans in case U.S.-led forces left the country quickly.
. . .

"It was unclear whether al-Obeidi's comment referred to routine contingency
planning or reflected a feeling among Iraqi leaders that the days of U.S.
support may be numbered even though President Bush blocked an effort by Congress
to set a withdrawal timetable."

Gary Kamiya writes for Salon: "Even if there were a mass popular movement to
impeach Bush, it's far from clear that Congress, which alone has the power to
initiate impeachment proceedings, would do anything. . . .

"The main reason is obvious: The Democrats think it's bad politics. Bush is
dying politically and taking the GOP down with him, and impeachment is risky. It
could, so the cautious Beltway wisdom has it, provoke a backlash, especially
while the war is still going on. Why should the Democrats gamble on hitting the
political jackpot when they're likely to walk away from the table big winners
anyway? . . .

"But there's a deeper reason why the popular impeachment movement has never
taken off -- and it has to do not with Bush but with the American people. Bush's
warmongering spoke to something deep in our national psyche. The emotional force
behind America's support for the Iraq war, the molten core of an angry,
resentful patriotism, is still too hot for Congress, the media and even many
Americans who oppose the war, to confront directly. It's a national myth. It's
John Wayne. To impeach Bush would force us to directly confront our national
core of violent self-righteousness -- come to terms with it, understand it and
reject it. And we're not ready to do that."

Amy Argetsinger and Roxanne Roberts write in The Washington Post: " After a
long, twinless spring, Jenna and Barbara Bush are back in town! The first
daughters (Jenna in a maroon sleeveless dress, Barbara in a silver-white dress)
spent Saturday night with two female friends at Hook, the new 'sustainable
seafood' restaurant in Georgetown. . . .

"Spirits were high: Jenna got into a friendly chat with former Wizards/now
Knicks player Jared Jeffries and his pals at a nearby table -- one diner saw the
men send shots over to the twins' table."

I'll be Live Online tomorrow at 1 p.m. ET. Come join the fun.

David Letterman, via U.S. News: "In a recent interview Jimmy Carter lashed out
with unprecedented criticism of the current administration's policies. But
George W. Bush will not respond with his own criticism of the Carter
administration because he believes such attacks are inappropriate and also
because he can't remember anything from the years 1977 to 1981."

Stephen Colbert: "Carter, I used to like you: Weak, ineffective, cowardly, you
were the perfect Democrat. Now you're acting like you've grown a pair -- of
peanuts."

Walt Handelsman on secure borders; Ben Sargent on the war czar; Jeff Danziger on
what the 'W' stands for; Bill Mitchell and John Sherffius on former presidents
speaking out.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2007 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              265 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       May 30, 2007 Wednesday 1:00 PM EST

Bush Fears for Nation's Soul

BYLINE: Dan Froomkin, Special to washingtonpost.com, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 4071 words



HIGHLIGHT: President Bush said yesterday he fears that the backlash against
immigration being incited by opponents of his legalization proposal could result
in the nation losing its soul.


President Bush said yesterday he fears that the backlash against immigration
being incited by opponents of his legalization proposal could result in the
nation losing its soul.

His comments came in an intense interview aboard Air Force One with McClatchy
Newspapers. "I'm deeply concerned about America losing its soul," Bush said.
"Immigration has been the lifeblood of a lot of our country's history." He
added: "If we don't solve the problem it's going to affect America. It will
affect our economy and it will affect our soul."

My earlier doubts that Bush would not fully engage in this heated debate now
appear to have been unfounded. (See my May 22 column, Has Bush Given Up on
Immigration? Answer: No.)

In a speech yesterday at a law-enforcement training facility in Georgia, Bush
promoted the compromise legislation worked out between the White House and a
bipartisan group of senators. He charged opponents of the bill in his own party
with fear-mongering and said they "don't want to do what's right for America."

But in his interview with McClatchy's Ron Hutcheson, a fellow Texan, Bush spoke
about the issue in even more personal and metaphysical terms.

"I feel passionate about the issue," Bush told Hutcheson.

"Q Where does the passion come from?

"THE PRESIDENT: Look, when you grow up in Texas like we did, I did -- leave you
out of the story here -- like I did, you recognize the decency and hard work and
humanity of Hispanics. And the truth of the matter is a lot of this immigration
debate is driven as a result of Latinos being in our country. . . .

"My only point is, is that I have seen firsthand the beautiful stories of people
being able to take advantage of opportunity and make solid contributions to our
society.

"Secondly, I'm deeply concerned about America losing its soul. Immigration has
been the lifeblood of a lot of our country's history. And I am worried that a
backlash to newcomers would cause our country to lose its great capacity to
assimilate newcomers. And I believe that a newly arrived adds to the vigor and
the entrepreneurial spirit, and enhances the American Dream.. . . .

"Q How invested are you on it?

"THE PRESIDENT: I'm going to work it hard.

"Q How?

"THE PRESIDENT: Well, obviously, speak out publicly on the issue. But I'm
working the members a lot, too. So is the whole administration."

Bush also spoke about the political courage required to back his proposal --
implicitly calling his opponents cowards. He mentioned courage six times in his
speech, and seven times in his interview.

"The question is, is there a mind-set that says, I'm willing to make the
courageous decisions necessary to solve the problem? If so, we'll get a bill
passed," he told Hutcheson.

Here is Hutcheson's story on the interview. Here is the text of Bush's speech.

Peter Baker writes in The Washington Post: "President Bush lashed out at critics
within his own party Tuesday, accusing Republican opponents of distorting the
immigration deal he negotiated with leading congressional Democrats and playing
on the politics of fear to undermine public support.

"In stern tones normally reserved for the liberal opposition, Bush said
conservatives fighting the immigration proposal 'haven't read the bill' and
oppose it in some cases because 'it might make somebody else look good.' Their
'empty political rhetoric,' he said, threatens to thwart what he called the
last, best chance to fix an immigration system that all sides agree is broken. .
. .

"Bush's trip to Georgia opened a campaign intended to undercut the criticism
that has consumed conservative talk shows and Web sites and to educate the
public about a complicated bill."

Jim Rutenberg writes in the New York Times: "President Bush took on parts of his
conservative base on Tuesday by accusing opponents of his proposed immigration
measure of fear-mongering to defeat its passage in Congress. . . .

"'If you want to kill the bill,' he said, 'if you don't want to do what's right
for America, you can pick one little aspect out of it. You can use it to
frighten people.'

"A senior official said later, 'In no way was he questioning anyone's patriotism
or desire to do what's right.'

"It was a rare case of the president's taking on the coalition that helped him
win and keep the Oval Office, the same conservative radio hosts, bloggers,
writers and members of Congress who contributed significantly to the defeat of
immigration measures last year."

It's an unusual position for Bush in many ways. As Rutenberg explains: "Mr. Bush
and his allies have faced an important rhetorical disadvantage, particularly
from the right. Conservative opponents can use one word, amnesty, against the
bill.

"Supporters, the president included, are forced into the complex weeds of policy
and the nuances of legislative language."

Jon Ward of the Washington Times reports on response from opponents of the
legislation: "'That's hurtful language,' said Sen. Jeff Sessions, Alabama
Republican. 'If the bill did what they promised it was going to do, I'd support
it. I'm for comprehensive reform, but it has to serve the national interests,
not political interest.'

"'I don't think it's courage to support this flawed bill. I think sometimes it
takes a bit of courage to resist this kind of short-term reform, so we can
create a system that can actually work,' Mr. Sessions said. . . .

"Paul Weyrich, founder of the conservative Free Congress Foundation, said that
'there are legitimate reasons to oppose this legislation, and I don't think that
it behooves the president to call people names or make accusations against them
if they disagree with him.'

"'He is angering people beyond belief to the point that the Republican Party is
going to split in two, thanks to him. If this bill passes, the Republicans will
not recover from it,' Mr. Weyrich said.

"An aide to one Republican senator who is usually a close White House ally said
that Mr. Bush had questioned the patriotism of lawmakers who are concerned about
granting amnesty to illegal aliens.

"'[It] not only stretches the bounds of credibility with conservative
Republicans but in fact, it further erodes their confidence in this
administration,' said the aide, who asked that his name not be used."

White House Watch reader Stephen Neuman of Chicago writes: "The immigration
debate reminds me of the Dubai port deal. Those are the two situations where
President Bush had the position that was more difficult to explain, and his
opponents were better able to use demagoguery and sound bites....

"Regardless of how I might feel about the immigration debate (or the Dubai ports
deal), it's nice to see the President get a taste of his own medicine....

"I hope some Senators who are usually Bush allies, but who are on the receiving
end of his criticism on this one, take a minute to consider how much they like
being accused of not wanting to do what's right for America. Perhaps those
Senators will reflect on that before they lob their next criticism at Democrats
for wanting to hurt our troops."

Peter Baker filed a pool report to his colleagues about Bush's tour of the
training facility: "After a uniformed officer showed POTUS around the fake
border crossing . . . he was taken inside the building to a fake airport
passport control station, complete with six lanes, computers and uniformed
officers. POTUS was given fake documents to hand to the man in uniform, who
greeted him with a jaunty, 'Welcome to the United States, sir.' The officer then
appeared to question the president about who he was, why he was coming into the
country, where he had visited before landing here and why he has such a funny
name. . . . The agent dutifully took POTUS's fingerprint and his photograph.
POTUS evidently passed any instant check because the officer then stamped his
fake documents and allowed him in. POTUS, more grateful than most, then shook
the officer's hand and posed for pictures with him and a partner. He then posed
for pictures with others as the pool was led back to the vans to wait for him to
complete the tour."

Here are some of the photos.

Peter S. Goodman writes in The Washington Post: "President Bush today plans to
name Robert B. Zoellick, a career diplomat and trade negotiator, to head the
World Bank, seeking to dispatch the leadership crisis that has gripped the
institution under Paul D. Wolfowitz, senior administration officials said last
night.

"In selecting Zoellick, 53, to serve a five-year term as bank president, the
White House opted for a familiar choice, a former member of the Bush Cabinet and
a figure widely respected in foreign capitals, the officials said. Zoellick is a
former U.S. trade representative and deputy secretary of state who went to work
last year as an executive at Goldman Sachs. . . .

"But the insider credentials that make Zoellick favored in the Bush White House,
where loyalty carries enormous weight, could work against him at the bank as
they did with his predecessor. . . .

"'People think Zoellick is highly intelligent and has a pragmatic mind-set,'
said a senior World Bank official who spoke on condition that he not be named
for fear of alienating his new boss. 'But he's still from the same people who
brought you the Iraq war, the same people who brought you Paul Wolfowitz and
Donald Rumsfeld. There's immediate jaundice about his country of origin. Any
American appointed by this president would carry that stigma.'"

Deb Riechmann writes for the Associated Press: "It has taken President Bush
nearly three years to match his impassioned rhetoric about what he decries as
genocide in Darfur with tougher U.S. action against some of those blamed for the
suffering.

"When Bush announced sanctions on Tuesday, advocacy groups and lawmakers wished
the president had been harsher and wondered whether it was a case of too little,
too late for Darfur. The violence has killed 200,000 people and forced 2.5
million more from their homes since it began in February 2003."

Michael Abramowitz and Colum Lynch write in The Washington Post: "The
administration's strong rhetoric and new plan to squeeze Sudan was greeted with
immediate roadblocks yesterday. At the United Nations, China and Russia
displayed little interest in joining the U.S. drive to isolate Khartoum
economically and coerce its leaders into cooperating with international efforts
to stop the violence in Darfur.

"On the other end of the spectrum, lawmakers and advocacy groups that have
campaigned for tougher action on Darfur voiced disappointment with the
president's plan as being too little, too late. They questioned whether the
steps are tough enough to cause the Sudanese president, Lt. Gen. Omar Hassan
al-Bashir, to abandon tactics that have delayed the arrival of thousands of
additional U.N. peacekeeping troops."

Michael A. Fletcher writes in The Washington Post: "President Bush will call on
Congress today to provide $30 billion toward battling the global AIDS crisis
over the first five years after he leaves office, according to senior
administration officials, a doubling of the current U.S. commitment. . . .

"Bush will issue his request this afternoon, the officials said, during a Rose
Garden ceremony in which he is scheduled to be joined by supporters and
beneficiaries of the program, including a caregiver and an AIDS patient."

Scott Shane and Mark Mazzetti write in the New York Times: "As the Bush
administration completes secret new rules governing interrogations, a group of
experts advising the intelligence agencies are arguing that the harsh techniques
used since the 2001 terrorist attacks are outmoded, amateurish and unreliable. .
. .

"The psychologists and other specialists, commissioned by the Intelligence
Science Board, make the case that more than five years after the Sept. 11
attacks, the Bush administration has yet to create an elite corps of
interrogators trained to glean secrets from terrorism suspects. . . .

"The science board critique comes as ethical concerns about harsh interrogations
are being voiced by current and former government officials. The top commander
in Iraq, Gen. David H. Petraeus, sent a letter to troops this month warning that
'expedient methods' using force violated American values.

"In a blistering lecture delivered last month, [Philip D. Zelikow,] a former
adviser to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice called 'immoral' some
interrogation tactics used by the Central Intelligence Agency and the Pentagon.
. . .

"The Bush administration is nearing completion of a long-delayed executive order
that will set new rules for interrogations by the Central Intelligence Agency.
The order is expected to ban the harshest techniques used in the past, including
the simulated drowning tactic known as waterboarding, but to authorize some
methods that go beyond those allowed in the military by the Army Field Manual."

Law professor Marty Lederman blogs that the Times story buries the lede --
namely Zelikow's previously unreported statements and the imminent executive
order.

Andrew Sullivan blogs for the Atlantic that "the interrogation methods approved
and defended by this president are not new. Many have been used in the past. The
very phrase used by the president to describe torture-that-isn't-somehow-torture
-- 'enhanced interrogation techniques' -- is a term originally coined by the
Nazis. The techniques are indistinguishable. The methods were clearly understood
in 1948 as war-crimes. The punishment for them was death."

John Ward Anderson writes for The Washington Post: "The U.S. military announced
Tuesday that 10 American soldiers were killed in Iraq on Memorial Day, making
May the deadliest month for U.S. troops in 2 1/2 years, as insurgents continued
attacks on government and civilian targets. . . .

"U.S. officials have warned that the strategy of putting more American troops on
the streets and in small combat outposts, part of a security plan launched in
February, would lead to higher U.S. casualties. But Tuesday's carnage suggested
that the effort had not created a safer security environment."

CBS reports: "In his first American television interview since the U.S. troop
surge began in February, Iraq's prime minister told CBS News chief foreign
correspondent Lara Logan on Tuesday that the additional forces have prevented an
even greater catastrophe in Iraq.

"'If the Baghdad security plan had not been implemented, we would have a true
civil war in Iraq,' Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki said."

Susan Saulny writes in the New York Times about interviews with voters, elected
officials and others in Illinois, Minnesota, New York and Pennsylvania -- home
to 4 of the 11 Republican congressmen who recently met with Bush and delivered a
warning that conditions in Iraq needed to improve soon because public support of
the war was crumbling.

Those interviews "suggest that more Republican voters are opposing the war, and
that independents who might have voted Republican are moving toward supporting a
Democrat."

Harold Meyerson writes in his Washington Post opinion column: "Of all the
absurdities attending our unending war in Iraq, the greatest is this: We are
fighting to defend that which is not there.

"We are fighting for a national government that is not national but sectarian,
and has shown no capacity to govern. We are training Iraq's security forces to
combat sectarian violence though those forces are thoroughly sectarian and have
themselves engaged in large-scale sectarian violence. We are fighting for a
nonsectarian, pluralistic Iraq, though whatever nonsectarian and pluralistic
institutions existed before our invasion have long since been blasted out of
existence. . . .

"Every day, George W. Bush asks young Americans to die in defense of an Iraq
that has ceased to exist (if it ever did) in the hearts and minds of Iraqis."

Over the weekend, Andrew J. Bacevich, a prominent anti-war historian, wrote in
the wake of the death of his son in Iraq: "The people have spoken, and nothing
of substance has changed. The November 2006 midterm elections signified an
unambiguous repudiation of the policies that landed us in our present
predicament. But half a year later, the war continues, with no end in sight.
Indeed, by sending more troops to Iraq (and by extending the tours of those,
like my son, who were already there), Bush has signaled his complete disregard
for what was once quaintly referred to as 'the will of the people.'"

Politicians, he wrote, listen only to money.

"Money buys access and influence. Money greases the process that will yield us a
new president in 2008. When it comes to Iraq, money ensures that the concerns of
big business, big oil, bellicose evangelicals and Middle East allies gain a
hearing. By comparison, the lives of U.S. soldiers figure as an afterthought."

Michael Isikoff and Mark Hosenball write for Newsweek: "In new court filings,
special counsel Patrick Fitzgerald has finally resolved one of the most disputed
issues at the core of the long-running CIA leak controversy: Valerie Plame
Wilson, he asserts, was a 'covert' CIA officer who repeatedly traveled overseas
using a 'cover identity' in order to disguise her relationship with the agency.
. . .

"Libby's lawyers, and many conservative partisans of his cause, have argued that
Libby should be spared prison in part because there was no underlying crime in
the disclosure of Valerie Wilson's identity. . . .

"A major theme of Libby's defenders has been that, at the time of her outing,
Valerie Wilson was little more than a desk analyst who was not covered by the
Intelligence Identities Protection Act--the 1982 law making it a crime to
disclose the identity of a covert officer. Fitzgerald was originally appointed
to investigate whether this statute had been violated. But in two memos -- and
in a document entitled, ' Unclassified Summary of Valerie Wilson's CIA
Employment and Cover History' -- Fitzgerald attempts to shoot down the idea that
the agent's job was mostly analysis."

Salon blogger Glenn Greenwald links to some of the previous insistences from the
"right wing noise machine" that Plame was not covert. "Many people who listen to
right-wing commentators such as these get their 'news' about the world
primarily, even exclusively, from these sources," Greenwald notes. "And these
sources, knowing that, routinely create their own self-affirming though wildly
warped realities, in the process denying the most established facts or asserting
propositions for which there is no factual basis."

Even as the Libby case was about to go to the jury, the Washington Post
published a scathing opinion piece by Victoria Toensing in which she charged
Fitzgerald "with ignoring the fact that there was no basis for a criminal
investigation from the day he was appointed" because he "should have known (all
he had to do was ask the CIA) that Plame was not covert, knowledge that should
have stopped the investigation right there."

McClatchy's Hutcheson got one question in to Bush about the U.S. attorney
firings in yesterday's interview. Bush's answer, not surprisingly, was entirely
nonresponsive.

"Q How central a role did Rove play in the U.S. attorney business? That's what
everybody wants to know. Was he the main guy drawing up the list?

"THE PRESIDENT: Just look at the facts as they've come out.

"Q It's unclear.

"THE PRESIDENT: There has been plenty of testimony, plenty of hearings, plenty
of statements. And one thing is for certain, that there was no wrongdoing done."

The USA Today editorial board writes today: "While the department has never been
entirely insulated from politics, its backbone of career lawyers and 93 U.S.
attorneys, whom once appointed are rarely fired, can ensure a high level of
independence -- but only if the attorney general and the president keep
political meddling in check. Gonzales and President Bush have failed to do this.

"Despite bipartisan calls for Gonzales' resignation, he clings to his job,
supported by Bush, who says the attorney general hasn't done anything wrong. So
far as is known, Gonzales hasn't broken any laws, but to say he has done no
wrong is to say that it's fine to treat the Justice Department as an agent of
White House political operations. The nation's chief law enforcement officer
should be held to a higher standard than that."

The Sacramento Bee editorial board wrote over the weekend that "it seems more
and more apparent that behind the U.S. attorney scandal is a blatant effort of
the Justice Department to tamper with the U.S. election process, trumping up
voter fraud as an issue to intimidate voters and suppress voting in the United
States.

"The mention of voter fraud conjures up images of deceitful voters knowingly and
willingly voting illegally, or of sleazy political operatives stuffing ballot
boxes and paying voters for toeing the party line. But in this instance, the
phrase seems to refer to high-level officials in the Bush administration using
the machinery of government to corrupt the electoral process.

"This is a serious matter calling for investigation by an outside special
counsel. But there's the rub. Since the independent counsel act expired in 1999,
it's up to the attorney general to order an investigation. . . .

"If the attorney general and the White House can't put such an appointment in
motion, Congress will have no choice but to consider all the tools at its
disposal -- including the impeachment of the attorney general."

Democratic Rep. Silvestre Reyes, chairman of the House intelligence committee,
responds to a May 21 Washington Post op-ed by Mike McConnell, the director of
national intelligence, which was full of falsehoods about the nation's
wiretapping laws.

( Glenn Greenwald exposed McConnell's dishonesty that same day.)

Here are two follow-up questions for McConnell: How did those falsehoods appear
in your article? What does this episode do to your credibility?

Pete Yost writes for the Associated Press: "A lawyer for Vice President Dick
Cheney told the Secret Service in September to eliminate data on who visited
Cheney at his official residence, a newly disclosed letter states. . . .

"The Justice Department filed the letter Friday in a lawsuit by a private group,
Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, seeking the identities of
conservative religious leaders who visited Cheney at his official residence. . .
.

"The letter regarding the vice president's residence was in addition to an
agreement quietly signed between the White House and the Secret Service a year
ago when questions were raised about visits to the executive compound by
convicted influence peddler Jack Abramoff.

"That agreement, which didn't surface publicly until late last year, said White
House entry and exit logs were presidential records not subject to disclosure
under the Freedom of Information Act."

ThinkProgress notes that it's been exactly two years since Cheney declared that
the insurgency in Iraq was in its "last throes" and predicted "the level of
activity that we see today from a military standpoint, I think, will clearly
decline."

So what is Cheney, the ace prognosticator, predicting these days?

From a speech on April 27: "The reality is that if our coalition withdrew before
Iraqis could defend themselves, radical factions would battle for dominance in
that country. The violence would spread throughout the country, and be very
difficult to contain. Having tasted victory in Iraq, jihadists could look for
new missions. Many would head for Afghanistan to fight alongside the Taliban.
Others might set out for capitals across the Middle East, spreading more sorrow
and discord as they eliminate dissenters and work to undermine moderate
governments. Still others could find their targets and victims in other
countries on other continents."

Laura McGann writes for TPM Muckraker: "When a presidential directive appeared
on the White House's Web site on May 9, seemingly expanding the president's
powers after a catastrophic attack, readers began emailing us asking why there
had been no uproar in the media or amongst civil liberties groups.

"The consensus amongst experts seems to be that the directive, aimed at
establishing 'continuity of government' after a major disaster, is not new nor
does the policy seem to expand executive power.

"In fact, Mike German, the policy counsel to the ACLU's Washington office told
me that an executive continuity plan actually might 'not be that bad of an
idea.'"

Ann Telnaes on the Libby-Cheney connection (see yesterday's column); Tom Toles
on talking with Iran.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2007 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              266 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      June 6, 2007 Wednesday 12:00 AM EST

Importing America's Future

BYLINE: Jamie Metzl, Special to washingtonpost.com's Think Tank Town,
washingtonpost.com

LENGTH: 867 words



HIGHLIGHT: Although much of the debate about the immigration bill now being
considered in Washington is focusing on what type of people America should to
keep out, the real issue for our long-term security is not whom we should keep
out, but whom we must bring in.


Although much of the debate about the immigration bill now being considered in
Washington is focusing on what type of people America should to keep out, the
real issue for our long-term security is not whom we should keep out, but whom
we must bring in.

In the increasingly inter-connected global economy, America's competitive edge
will only be maintained by our ability to engage the most effective and
entrepreneurial workforce and establish the essential conditions for its
success. As our country's education system continues to fall in global rankings,
our immigration system will become an even more essential tool of national
competitiveness.

The United States has a distinguished history of spurring innovation and
economic growth through the targeted application of immigration policy. In the
years before, during and after World War II, for example, the U.S. gave refuge
to thousands of Jewish scientists from Europe who played a central role in
laying the scientific foundation for America's technology-driven post-war
economy. Today, America simply cannot maintain our competitive edge without
using strategic immigration as a fundamental driver of American competitiveness.

Much has been made of India's and China's growing ability to educate the highly
qualified scientists and engineers needed to drive those countries' growth well
into the future, while America's numbers of science and technology graduates
continue to dwindle. But the competitiveness of economies and societies in the
21st century will be measured less by how many students each graduates in
strategic fields than by the overall skill set of each population. Although the
United States probably cannot educate more scientists and engineers than China
or India, we can and must use our immigration policy to actively seek the best,
brightest, highest educated and most motivated people from around the world
through a much expanded H1-B visa program.

For almost two decades, one driver of skilled worker immigration has been the
H1-B visa program that allows for highly skilled temporary workers in
specialized occupations. Much of the growth of Silicon Valley and other U.S.
technology centers can be directly attributed to highly skilled and motivated
H1-B visa holders and other recent immigrants, most notably from India and
China. (A Duke University study has found that 25% of American technology
start-ups were founded by foreign-born entrepreneurs from 1995 to 2005; in
addition,  26% of technology start-ups founded by immigrants had CEO's,
presidents, founders or lead researchers from India.)

The current level of 65,000 H1-B visas granted annually is hardly enough to fill
our economy's need.  Employers like Microsoft's Bill Gates have pushed for
recruiting and retaining more foreign-born workers in information technology and
other fields, as opposed to "driving away the world's best and brightest
precisely when we need them most." The proposed legislation, expanding the H1-B
visa base to 115,000 visas per year with the potential to go to 180,000 is a
step in the right direction, but far more needs to be done with these visas and
in other areas of U.S. immigration policy to better leverage the magnetic pull
of our society -- our prosperity, tolerance, rule of law, diversity, democratic
system, etc. -- to actively build a population that can further enhance
America's competitiveness.

There is no reason that any graduate in the top twenty percent of his or her
class from India's world renown Indian Institutes for Technology (IITs) and
other comparable institutions should not be fast-tracked for U.S. citizenship
provided they meet other essential criteria and possess skills that match
America's needs. Here again, the proposed bill's merit-based points system for
immigration that takes educational levels, occupation, English proficiency and
other criteria into account is a positive step -- although the devil will be in
the details of how the points are allocated.

To further facilitate this process, however, the President and Congress should
also establish a national commission on strategic immigration and U.S.
competitiveness to develop an action agenda for recruiting people with needed
skills to come to the United States. Such a commission would bring together
corporate, academic and other leaders to outline the types of skills we will
need for the 21st century workplace. It would work towards a strategic
immigration policy that complements other education initiatives and worker
training programs to enhance our competitive edge in key sectors including
science and technology -- but by no means limited to these fields.

Immigration policy, of course, serves multiple critical purposes including
reuniting families, providing safe haven for refugees, fostering diversity and
keeping terrorists and other bad actors out. But alongside a just,
compassionate, and fair humanitarian immigration policy, the United States must
build a strategic immigration initiative that recruits those with needed skills
and helps lay the foundation for an even more prosperous and successful future.

Jamie Metzl is the Executive Vice President of the Asia Society. The views
expressed are his own.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2007 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              267 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        June 11, 2007 Monday 3:04 PM EST

How Lame a Duck?

BYLINE: Dan Froomkin, Special to washingtonpost.com, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 3967 words



HIGHLIGHT: After the apparent collapse of the compromise immigration bill in the
Senate last week, the political obituaries for the Bush presidency started
rolling in.


After the apparent collapse of the compromise immigration bill in the Senate
last week, the political obituaries for the Bush presidency started rolling in.

President Bush himself isn't giving up quite yet -- he's headed to Capitol Hill
tomorrow in a last-ditch attempt to revive the legislation. He'll be having
lunch with Republican senators.

But it's not clear that he still has the ability to change anyone's mind -- even
members of his own party.

Jim Rutenberg writes in the New York Times: "The breakthrough on the 'grand
bargain' on immigration a few weeks ago had brought new life to a White House
under siege, putting a long-sought goal suddenly within reach. After many grim
months, there was almost giddiness at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.

"But that early euphoria only made the grand bargain's grand collapse on
Thursday night all the more of a blow, pointing up a stubbornly unshakable
dynamic for President Bush in the final 19 months of his term: With low approval
ratings and the race to succeed him well under way, his ability to push his
agenda has faded to the point where he can fairly be judged to have entered his
lame duck period. . . .

"[E]ven some close allies were surprised by how Mr. Bush's advocacy for
immigration had seemed to hurt his cause within his party when, in a speech in
Georgia last week, he said those opposed to the bill didn't 'want to do what's
right for America.' The statement infuriated Mr. Bush's usually reliable allies
on talk radio, in blogs and in Congress, galvanizing the right against his plan
all the more."

Michael Abramowitz and Dan Balz write in The Washington Post: "Although
congressional aides and GOP strategists said it was unfair to blame Bush alone,
the collapse of the immigration bill late Thursday was a reflection of the
weakened state of his presidency. Those aides said the bill's troubles were
exacerbated by Bush's deteriorating relations with congressional Republicans and
his inability to combat an unexpectedly fierce attack on the bill by grass-roots
conservatives.

"'This is sort of what his life is going to be like for the rest of his term,'
veteran GOP strategist Ed Rollins said. 'There are Republicans defecting from
him now. He's not going to have any great success on anything that's
controversial.' . . .

"Bush has not been able to break through vehement opposition from grass-roots
conservatives, which was stoked by conservative talk radio. That vocal
opposition gave Republican elected officials little incentive to join with the
president in supporting the bill. Even when Bush was in a stronger position
politically, revising the immigration laws proved impossible. In his weakened
state, his ability to convert opponents proved limited."

Janet Hook and Nicole Gaouette write in the Los Angeles Times: "The collapse of
immigration legislation in the Senate this week is a monument to President
Bush's enfeebled clout on Capitol Hill, the searing power of hostility toward
illegal immigrants, and the difficulty of crafting a compromise on an emotional
issue that touches so many diverse economic and political interests."

Tom Raum writes for the Associated Press: "Derailment of President Bush's
immigration overhaul plan could be the death knell for his second-term domestic
legacy.

"With the president's bids to revamp Social Security, rewrite the tax code and
extend expiring tax cuts apparently doomed, the White House sees the immigration
bill as the last, best hope for a major domestic victory. . . .

"The president's influence is diminished by his low approval ratings and the
shadow cast over his presidency by the war in Iraq."

And Raum reminds us that "even if the president and his congressional allies
somehow manage to salvage the legislation in the Senate, prospects remain bleak
of getting it through the House, where opposition remains strong among core
Republican members."

Peter Spiegel writes in the Los Angeles Times: "The White House is poised to
begin a last-ditch effort this week to resurrect the compromise immigration bill
that was pulled off the Senate floor Thursday, with administration officials
insisting another two days of debate could ensure passage of the contentious
legislation.

"Calling the measure 'alive and well,' the administration blamed the Democratic
Senate leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, for prematurely abandoning efforts to get
the bill passed, and said President Bush would go to Capitol Hill on Tuesday to
lobby for the legislation.

"'Rather than doing finger-pointing, if Harry Reid is committed to this -- and
this is an historic bill dealing with a problem that a lot of people think has
to be solved, and it's got to be solved in a smart way -- why not go ahead and
set aside those two days for debate?' White House spokesman Tony Snow said on
'Fox News Sunday.' 'I think you're going to find the Republicans and Democrats
are willing to do it.'

"Reid decided to end the Senate's consideration of the bill Thursday evening
after a vote to cut off debate failed by 15 votes. Reid, who had allowed debate
to continue for two weeks, said he had offered to give Republicans the chance to
propose eight amendments to the bill, but GOP officials were seeking to raise as
many as 12. The move was seen by Democrats as an attempt to extend debate
indefinitely, in effect killing the bill by preventing it from getting to a
final vote."

Near the end of a European tour full of pomp and adulation -- Albania really
loves Bush! -- the president was reminded of the ugly domestic realities. From
the transcript of this morning's press availability in Bulgaria:

"Q Good morning, Mr. President. You've had a week in Europe, and I wonder, as we
head home, if I could ask you to turn to some domestic issues. Your Attorney
General is under fire in the Senate. General Pace has had a setback. The
immigration reform bill seems not to be moving very quickly. I won't even
mention the latest polls. So I'm just wondering, sir, as you head home, to what
extent do you still have the political clout and capital to get some of these
issues done? Do you have any left? If you do, how do you intend to use it?

"PRESIDENT BUSH: First of all, we've had a great trip, Ed. It's a chance for
America to talk about a liberty agenda, and a chance to talk to our allies about
how we can advance it and what we can do together to make our respective
countries better off.

"Listen, the immigration debate is a tough debate. I'm under no illusions about
how hard it is. There are people in my party that don't want a comprehensive
bill; there are people in the Democrat [sic] Party that don't seem to want a
comprehensive bill. I was disappointed that the bill was temporarily derailed.

"I, frankly, find it interesting that in -- a so-called important subject they
need to get to would be to pass a political resolution on my Attorney General
that's going to have no bearing on whether he serves in office, or not.

"I believe we can get an immigration bill. Now, it's going to require leadership
from the Democrat [sic] leaders in the Senate, and it's going to require me to
stay engaged and work with Republicans who want a bill.

"Last -- earlier in this trip, I called three members of the Senate from the
Republican Party, and said, what can we do together to get the bill back up?
What do we need to do to work with senators like Senator Ted Kennedy, who is
strongly committed to a comprehensive bill? And tomorrow I'll be going to the
Senate to talk about a way forward on the piece of legislation.

"It's important that we address this issue now. And I believe we can get it
done. Listen, there was -- a lot of progress was made between people in both
parties making hard decisions necessary to move a comprehensive plan. It's in
the nation's interest to get a comprehensive bill done. The political process
sometimes isn't pretty to look at it; there's two steps forward, one step back.
We made two steps forward on immigration, we took a step back, and now I'm going
to work with those who are focused on getting an immigration bill done and start
taking some steps forward again. I believe we can get it done. I'll see you at
the bill signing."

In his Saturday radio address, Bush indicated that he is open to amendments to
the bill that was so extensively negotiated by the White House and a bipartisan
group of senators: "I understand the skepticism some members of Congress have
regarding certain aspects of this legislation," he said. "Like any legislation,
this bill is not perfect. And like many Senators, I believe the bill will need
to be further improved along the way before it becomes law."

On Fox News, Tony Snow also indicated White House support for amendments: "I
think what you see in immigration reform right now is that we had a debate going
on on the Senate floor where people were issuing amendments and really having a
pretty thoughtful debate about how to try to take a bill that had been
negotiated between Democrats and Republicans with assistance from the White
House and the administration -- and they've been trying to revise it and improve
it.

"Well, we got about two-thirds through the process, and the -- it failed what's
called a cloture vote. And one of the reasons it failed that vote is that you
still have a dozen or so amendments that deserve to be heard. And our view is if
those can be heard, you're going to get a bill."

But how many amendments does the White House support? Which ones? And are any of
them considered "poison pills" by various factions?

Carol D. Leonnig writes in The Washington Post about five myths she has
encountered while covering the trial of Vice President Cheney's former chief of
staff. "[E]ven now, four years after Valerie Plame's name hit the papers, the
public still has some startling misconceptions about this fascinating, thorny
case," she writes.

Myth: "Valerie Plame wasn't a covert operative."

Fact: "Wrong. She was."

Myth: "Karl Rove would have been indicted in the Plame case if it hadn't been
for all the destroyed evidence."

Fact: Missing White House e-mails "may contain interesting stuff, but for now,
it's rank speculation to suggest that they hold information about the Plame case
or would have pushed Fitzgerald to charge Rove with perjury," Leonnig writes.
"Fitzgerald told the court just that. He was exercising standard prosecutorial
discretion when he decided not to charge Rove, according to sources close to the
investigation. He didn't think he had a strong enough case to prove that Rove
had intentionally lied to investigators (though some FBI agents disagreed)."

Myth: "Libby didn't leak Plame's identity."

Fact: "[T]he overwhelming weight of the evidence at the trial -- including
reporters' notes of their interviews with Libby -- showed that Libby had indeed
leaked classified information about Plame's identity, even though that wasn't
what put him in the dock."

The other two myths: "Bad press doesn't get under Cheney's skin," and "The White
House would fire any administration official who leaked classified information
about Plame."

E. J. Dionne Jr. writes in his Washington Post op-ed column: "At times, a single
legal case can come to embody an entire controversy, even an entire era. To
support pardoning Scooter Libby has come to mean endorsing an approach to
politics and a way of governing that most Americans have come to reject."

Robert D. Novak writes in his column: "The president's seeming indifference to
the sentencing of Scooter Libby was bad enough. But it coincided with Bush's
apparent determination to retain his friend Alberto Gonzales as attorney general
against congressional pressure to depose him.

"Prevailing opinion among Republican office holders, contributors and activists
could not differ more from Bush's posture. They regard Libby as a valuable
public servant who faces serious prison time thanks to prosecutorial abuse made
possible by Bush administration decisions. They see Gonzales as an embarrassment
to the party who presides over a hollow Justice Department while presidential
staffers search for Senate votes to block a no-confidence motion."

In his Washington Post opinion column, David S. Broder tries to have it both
ways, sort of: "This whole controversy is a sideshow -- engineered partly by the
publicity-seeking former ambassador Joseph Wilson and his wife and heightened by
the hunger in parts of Washington to 'get' Rove for something or other.

"Like other special prosecutors before him, Fitzgerald got caught up in the
excitement of the case and pursued Libby relentlessly, well beyond the time that
was reasonable.

"Nonetheless, on the fundamental point, Walton and Fitzgerald have it right.
Libby let his loyalty to his boss and to the administration cloud his judgment
-- and perhaps his memory -- in denying that he was part of the effort to
discredit the Wilson pair. Lying to a grand jury is serious business, especially
when it is done by a person occupying a high government position where the
public trust is at stake."

Over on Time's blog, Joe Klein writes in support of jail time for Paris Hilton
-- but not Scooter Libby: "His 'perjury' -- not telling the truth about which
reporters he talked to -- would never be considered significant enough to reach
trial, much less sentencing, much less time in stir if he weren't Dick Cheney's
hatchet man."

Glenn Greenwald responds in his blog on Salon: "It is difficult to recall a
single episode which has been more revealing of our political culture than the
collective Beltway horror over the plight of the poor, maltreated and persecuted
(and convicted felon) Lewis Libby. It is hardly surprising that the right-wing
movement of which he is a part operates from the premise that their comrades
ought to be exempt from political prosecution even when they commit felonies. .
. .

"But what the Libby case demonstrates is that so many establishment journalists
believe this just as religiously. . . .

"There is no class of people more defensive of the prerogatives of political
power than our 'journalist' class, even though, in a healthy and functioning
democracy, the exact opposite would be true."

Fouad Ajami outdoes everyone, writing to Bush from the Wall Street Journal op-ed
page: "Scooter Libby was a soldier in your -- our -- war in Iraq, he was chief
of staff to a vice president who had become a lightning rod to the war's
critics. . . .

"The prosecutor, and the jury and the judge, had before them a case that
purported to stand alone, a trial of one man's memory and recollections. But you
have before you what they and the rest of us don't -- a memory of the passions
and the panic, and the certitude, which gave rise to the war. And a sense, I am
confident, of the quiet and selfless man who sat in the outer circle when your
cabinet deliberated over our country's choices in Iraq, and in those burning
grounds of the Arab-Islamic world. Scooter Libby was there for the beginning of
that campaign. He can't be left behind as a casualty of a war our country had
once proudly claimed as its own."

Carol D. Leonnig writes in The Washington Post: "A dozen of the country's most
respected constitutional scholars have leapt to I. Lewis 'Scooter' Libby's aid.
. . .

"The group argued in a six-page brief that Libby, who was convicted of lying to
investigators probing the leak of Plame's identity, has a decent shot at appeal
on the question of Special Counsel Patrick J. Fitzgerald's appointment to
investigate that leak. That appointment was likely inappropriate, they argued,
because Fitzgerald lacked any supervision that would make his superiors
'politically accountable.'"

Here, courtesy of The Next Hurrah blog, is the brief; here is Judge Reggie
Walton's order allowing it to be submitted, complete with an extremely sarcastic
footnote:

"It is an impressive show of public service when twelve prominent and
distinguished current and former law professors of well-respected schools are
able to amass their collective wisdom in the course of only several days to
provide their legal expertise to the Court on behalf of a criminal defendant.
The Court trusts that this is a reflection of these eminent academics'
willingness in the future to step to the plate and provide like assistance in
cases involving any of the numerous litigants, both in this Court and throughout
the courts of our nation, who lack the financial means to fully and properly
articulate the merits of their legal positions even in instances where failure
to do so could result in monetary penalties, incarceration, or worse. The Court
will certainly not hesitate to call for such assistance from these luminaries,
as necessary in the interests of justice and equity, whenever similar questions
arise in the cases that come before it."

Is Peter Pace stepping down as chairman of the joint chiefs -- or was he fired?
Is the reason for his departure that Democrats threatened a fiery reconfirmation
hearing -- or that Gates is cleaning house of boot-lickers from the previous
regime?

Josh White and Thomas E. Ricks write in The Washington Post: "Defense Secretary
Robert M. Gates announced yesterday that Marine Gen. Peter Pace will step down
as chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in September, a move that Gates said
will avert the contentious congressional hearings that would be needed to
reconfirm the nation's top military officer. Pace will leave after just two
years in the post, the shortest stint as chairman in more than four decades.

"The surprise announcement yesterday at the Pentagon amounts to Pace being fired
before a customary second two-year term. . . .

"Gates said that his decision was rooted in political considerations and that he
took guidance from members of Congress who warned that Pace could face a
maelstrom on Capitol Hill, where lawmakers would dissect the military's failures
in Iraq. . . .

"Pace's departure -- along with the simultaneous retirement of Adm. Edmund
Giambastiani, his vice chairman -- completes a nearly clean sweep of top
military advisers linked to the tenure of Donald H. Rumsfeld as defense
secretary. Both military officers were close to Rumsfeld and have been
criticized for not challenging him."

The New York Times editorial board writes: "The Senate has scheduled a
no-confidence vote today on Attorney General Alberto Gonzales. No one who has
followed the news needs to be told why it is necessary. Mr. Gonzales is the
Michael Brown of the Justice Department, smilingly presiding over incompetence,
chaos and malfeasance, while President Bush insists that he is doing a heck of a
job. Today's vote should get the support not only of Democrats, but of every
Republican senator concerned about the American justice system."

USA Today reports: "The White House on Sunday dismissed Senate plans to hold a
no-confidence vote on Attorney General Alberto Gonzales today and said the
outcome will not undermine President Bush's support of him.

"'Not a bit. Purely symbolic vote,' presidential spokesman Tony Snow said. He
was asked on Fox News Sunday whether Bush might reconsider his decision to
support Gonzales should a sizable number of Republican senators vote for the
no-confidence resolution."

Ron Hutcheson writes for McClatchy Newspapers: "President Bush is signing up
legal help as he girds for battle with the Democratic-led Congress.

"Faced with a flurry of document requests and expanding congressional
investigations, the White House announced Friday that Bush had hired nine
lawyers, including five who'll fill new jobs in the president's legal office.
The recruits have solid experience in white-collar crime, government
investigations and constitutional law.

"Legal experts said the hires indicated that Bush was gearing up to fight
congressional inquiries that he considered an encroachment on presidential
power. . . .

"After six years with a compliant Republican-led Congress, the White House is
facing a host of congressional investigations and demands for top presidential
advisers to testify."

Here's the White House announcement.

Michael A. Fletcher writes for The Washington Post that Bush on Sunday
"reiterated his support for the independence of Kosovo, a Serbian province under
U.N. supervision. Ethnic Albanians make up the vast majority of Kosovo's
population.

"'At some point in time, sooner rather than later, you've got to say: Enough's
enough -- Kosovo is independent,' Bush said.

"Responding to a reporter's question in Rome on Saturday, Bush had said a
deadline should be set for a U.N. resolution on Kosovo's independence. 'In terms
of the deadline, there needs to be one,' he said. 'This needs to come -- this
needs to happen.'

" Asked Sunday about when he would like that deadline set, Bush seemed
flummoxed. 'I don't think I called for a deadline,' he said. Told that he had,
Bush responded: 'I did? What exactly did I say? I said, 'Deadline'? Okay, yes,
then I meant what I said.'"

The Associated Press reports: "Vice President Dick Cheney's routine checkup on
Friday revealed no new blockages in his heart, but doctors said he needs a new
battery for a special pacemaker he has in his chest, a spokeswoman said.

"The battery in his implanted cardiac defibrillator is reaching its limit, said
Megan McGinn, deputy press secretary for the vice president. She said doctors
must replace the entire device to replace the battery, and that the surgery will
be scheduled this summer at a convenient time for the vice president."

Americablog's John Aravosis catches Bush on Thursday drinking non-alcoholic beer
-- which, as he correctly notes, does actually contain some alcohol.

On Friday, Bush called in sick for several hours. Jennifer Loven writes for the
Associated Press: "An upset stomach kept Bush in his hotel room for several
hours, aides said later, forcing him to miss part of the third and final day of
work at the Group of Eight Summit of industrialized democracies, held in this
seaside resort."

On Saturday, reports Reuters, "Bush's limousine briefly stalled during a ride to
the American embassy in Rome and then could not squeeze through its gates,
prompting him to get out, wave to the crowd and enter on foot."

Among those receiving the blessing of the pope during Bush's visit: Chief of
Staff Josh Bolten, national security adviser Stephen Hadley, political adviser
Karl Rove, counselor Dan Bartlett and Deputy Secretary of State John Negroponte.

Sheryl Gay Stolberg writes for the New York Times from Albania: "His poll
numbers may be in the basement, but when he zipped through this small,
relentlessly pro-American nation on Sunday, President Bush was treated like a
rock star. . . .

"[W]hen the president jumped out of his limousine during a stop near the prime
minister's villa in the town of Fusche Kruje, the crowd, chanting 'BOOSH-Y!
BOOSH-Y!' went wild, turning a presidential visit into a virtual mosh pit.

"Hands were reaching for the president from all directions, grabbing his
sleeves, rubbing his graying hair. Women kissed him on both cheeks. Men jostled
to get close to him, as Secret Service agents encircled him. As he stood on the
running board of his limousine, waving before ducking back in the car, a second
limousine pulled up to protect him from the rear."

And William J. Kole writes for the Associated Press today: "The Bulgarian
capital was aflutter with American flags to honor President Bush. There was just
one glitch to the patriotic welcome: Every second flag was facing the wrong
way."

Yes, that really was Karl Rove hopping around on the Sopranos last night. Tony's
son, A.J., and his new girlfriend were shown snickering as they watched a video
clip of Rove rapping at the Radio and Television Correspondents' Association
dinner in March. There was also a short clip of Bush dancing.

Jeff Danziger on the Cheneys and the Sopranos; Tony Auth on Libby; Ann Telnaes
on ballast. And an animation from Telnaes on Bush and global warming.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2007 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              268 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      June 13, 2007 Wednesday 1:28 PM EST

Bush Comes Up Empty

BYLINE: Dan Froomkin, Special to washingtonpost.com, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 3861 words



HIGHLIGHT: It used to be that he didn't even have to ask. Republican lawmakers
fell in line behind President Bush, pretty much no matter where he was heading.


It used to be that he didn't even have to ask. Republican lawmakers fell in line
behind President Bush, pretty much no matter where he was heading.

Not anymore. Bush went to Capitol Hill at lunchtime yesterday to beseech
senators from his own party to help him revive the near-dead immigration bill --
his last best chance at a significant legacy other than the war in Iraq.

They gave him a peanut butter and jelly sandwich, listened politely, then sent
him home with nothing to show for his efforts.

Jonathan Weisman writes in The Washington Post: "In a rare visit to Capitol
Hill, President Bush pressed Republican senators yesterday to resurrect the
compromise overhaul of the nation's immigration laws, but many of the senators
instead demanded that his administration first show a more determined commitment
to border security. . . .

"He and senior administration officials painted the meeting -- coming five days
after the collapse on the Senate floor of the tenuous compromise on immigration
-- as a rescue session. Bush made an impassioned plea for the legislation,
saying 'the status quo is unacceptable.' . . .

"Although senators described the meeting as cordial, even jovial, they also said
the president's efforts to rally GOP support did not win any converts. . . .

"Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) marveled at the president's
passion and commitment. But, he added: 'We didn't expect anyone to stand up and
holler that they had an epiphany.'

"And, apparently, nobody did."

Nicole Gaouette and Maura Reynolds write in the Los Angeles Times: "Republican
senators on Tuesday told President Bush that his administration's lack of
credibility in the fight against illegal immigration was a major hindrance to
passing overhaul legislation, and they urged him to ask for emergency funds to
ramp up enforcement."

Carl Hulse and Jeff Zeleny write in the New York Times: "In a trip to Georgia
two weeks ago, Mr. Bush angered critics of the bill when he suggested opponents
were spreading 'empty political rhetoric trying to frighten our citizens.' But
those who attended the lunch said that the questions to the president and the
exchanges were cordial and substantive and that the president did not take aim
at conservatives who helped torpedo the legislation last week.

"'He made clear that he wasn't there to threaten anybody or do anything that
would be hostile to anybody who disagrees with him,' said Senator Jeff Sessions
of Alabama, a leading opponent of the bill. 'He was there to appeal to our sense
of commitment to do the right thing.'

"But like several others, Mr. Sessions said that he had not been won over by Mr.
Bush and that he would oppose any move to bring the legislation back quickly for
a vote."

David Espo writes for the Associated Press: "One Republican widely viewed as a
potential convert, Sen. Bob Corker of Tennessee, said he was not yet persuaded.
'At the end of the day, I've got to be able to sit down and know myself that we
are going to secure our border,' he said. 'Today, I do not feel that way.'"

Stephen Collinson writes for AFP: "Asked whether Bush had made any
breakthroughs, Republican Senator Bob Bennett said simply 'No.'"

David Gergen told NBC's David Gregory: "George W. Bush has reached the point
where he's neither loved nor feared by people in his own party. And that leaves
him in a very weakened state."

Susan Milligan writes in the Boston Globe: "The president, often accused of
dominating the conversation when lawmakers in both parties are summoned to the
White House to discuss policy, was gracious and open to hearing senators'
concerns, according to those who attended the luncheon yesterday.

"Instead of using threats or demanding the loyalty the president prizes, Bush
used charm, allowing them to vent their objections and answering a few
questions."

Jay Newton-Small writes for Time: "Alabama Senator Jeff Sessions stood up at
Tuesday's lunch for Senate Republicans and baldly told President George W. Bush
what was wrong with his immigration proposal: it would give amnesty to 12
million illegal immigrations, it would reduce illegal immigration by only 13%,
and it doesn't go far enough to enforce border security. Bush acknowledged that
Sessions, like many conservative Republicans, has serious issues with the
immigration bill, but he also managed to diffuse the tension over the issue that
has split his party for the last two years. 'Even though we disagree on this
bill, I look forward to being in Alabama,' Bush joked to Sessions, whose
fundraiser the President is due to attend in Alabama on Friday, and the room
burst out laughing."

But did Bush bring anything new to the table? Evidently not.

Newton-Small writes: "Bush spent half his time at lunch listening to senators
like Sessions complain and the other half making an impassioned plea, telling
senators that the immigration problem has become one of national security. He
also told the room about Marc Mares, the president of the Coast Guard Academy
class of 2007, where Bush delivered commencement remarks on May 23. Even though
Mares' grandfather might well have entered the country illegally, his grandson
was well on his way to a life of distinguished public service. (It is a story
Bush has mentioned in several speeches about immigration since.)"

Dave Montgomery writes for McClatchy Newspapers: "A bipartisan group of senators
who produced the bill met later Tuesday to discuss a package of amendments that
they hoped would break the deadlock and persuade Reid to reopen debate.

"Several leaders of the group, known as the 'grand bargainers,' expressed
optimism that they were closing in on agreement and could get the bill back onto
the floor before Congress leaves for its Fourth of July recess."

Stephen Dinan writes in the Washington Times: "One idea that seemed to gain
immediate traction among the Republicans was for Mr. Bush to send up a new
emergency-spending bill to fund border security.

"'If we're really going to get support for this bill from the American people
there's got to be some restoration of trust,' said Sen. Saxby Chambliss, Georgia
Republican, who sent a letter with fellow Georgia Republican Johnny Isakson
proposing the spending bill. 'There's got to be some effort shown on the part of
the administration before I think there's going to be a sufficient number of
folks deciding to move this bill forward.' . . .

"'The president said I'm willing to find something that will build confidence,
and so I think that is something that may come as a new outcome as a result of
this conversation,' said Sen. Mel Martinez, Florida Republican.

"The White House, though open to the idea, was noncommittal.

"'There were some ideas that were raised during the meeting, and the president
and members of his administration will consider them,' said Scott Stanzel, a
White House spokesman."

Of course, any major change that makes the deal more palatable to Republicans
risks losing Democratic support.

Bush's political powerlessness comes into clearer focus when you consider that,
according to many polls, the underlying principles of the immigration bill are
widely supported by the American public. As unpopular and mistrusted as he is,
he can neither twist arms effectively nor pierce the wall of sound from the
nativist noise machine.

Janet Hook writes in the Los Angeles Times: "A strong majority of Americans --
including nearly two-thirds of Republicans -- favor allowing illegal immigrants
to become citizens if they pay fines, learn English and meet other requirements,
a new Los Angeles Times/Bloomberg poll has found.

"That is a striking show of support for a primary element of an immigration
overhaul bill that has stalled in the Senate amid conservative opposition. . . .

"The immigration bill, a top priority for the White House, is languishing at a
time when Bush's approval rating has hit a new low: The poll found 34% approved
of the job the president is doing, the lowest level registered by the Los
Angeles Times poll throughout his time in office."

More from the poll results: "Bush's approval numbers remain little changed from
those found in a L.A. Times/Bloomberg poll last April, but they indicate an
overall trend of decline. The strength of discontent in the country with the
president is very high -- the proportion of those who strongly disapprove of his
job as President is -- at 44% -- nearly three times greater than the proportion
of those who strongly approve. . . .

"Bush has seen the biggest decline in his overall job rating among the core of
his own party -- Republicans and conservatives. His approval has dropped
thirteen points among those who identify with the GOP, falling from 83% last
September to 70% today, while those who disapprove have correspondingly
increased from 13% to nearly a quarter today."

(Iraq is Bush's biggest albatross; the Times poll finds that a "68% majority --
including four out of 10 Republicans -- would like to see troops begin coming
home within the next year or sooner.")

Mike Allen and Carrie Budoff write in the Politico: "Facing the prospect of an
embarrassing defeat, the White House has developed a plan to save the
immigration bill by trying to ratchet up outside pressure on Congress, prodding
reluctant corporate allies to be more vocal and confronting conservative critics
through blogs and talk radio.

"The White House has done outreach to liberal religious and Hispanic groups and,
at the suggestion of chief political strategist Karl Rove, made more use of the
blogosphere on immigration than it has on any issue since President Bush took
office, aides said. . . .

"Aides said it was Rove's idea to focus on blogs. After vetting by policy
experts, responses have been posted on a wide range of blogs under the names of
Kerrie Rushton and Nicholas Thompson, both associate directors in the Office of
Strategic Initiatives, which falls under Rove's domain."

Dan Eggen and Paul Kane report for The Washington Post: "The House and Senate
Judiciary panels issued subpoenas today for former White House counsel Harriet
Miers and others, escalating the legal showdown between Democrats in Congress
and the Bush administration over the Justice Department's firing of nine U.S.
attorneys last year.

"The House Judiciary Committee issued a subpoena for testimony and documents
from Miers, while the Senate Judiciary panel issued subpoenas demanding the same
from Sara M. Taylor, former White House political director. Both panels also
issued separate subpoenas for White House documents related to the dismissals.

"'By refusing to cooperate with congressional committees, the White House
continues its pattern of confrontation over cooperation,' said Sen. Patrick J.
Leahy (D-Vt.), chairman of the Senate panel. 'The White House cannot have it
both ways -- it cannot stonewall congressional investigations by refusing to
provide documents and witnesses while claiming nothing improper occurred.'"

The subpoenas come a day after newly released Justice Department documents
revealed more about Taylor and Miers's involvement in the firings.

Eggen writes in the Washington Post: "Several high-ranking White House officials
were closely involved in crafting a public response to the uproar over the
firing of a group of U.S. attorneys, according to documents released late
yesterday.

"Then-White House counsel Harriet E. Miers and aides to presidential adviser
Karl Rove were deeply enmeshed in debates over how to respond to the controversy
as early as mid-January, when Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) questioned the
spate of prosecutor departures in a Senate floor speech, according to e-mails
that the Justice Department turned over to the House and Senate judiciary
committees. . . .

"The 46 pages of e-mails show that Miers and others -- including her deputy,
William Kelley, and the White House political affairs director at the time, Sara
M. Taylor -- were involved in spirited and sometimes angry e-mail exchanges as
the secretive firings operation began to unravel in public. Many of the
exchanges also included D. Kyle Sampson, who coordinated the firings as
Gonzales's chief of staff.

"White House officials appeared to be particularly concerned about the political
fallout over the firing of prosecutor Bud Cummins of Little Rock, who was
replaced by Tim Griffin, a former Rove aide. On Feb. 16, for example, Taylor
sharply criticized the testimony of Deputy Attorney General Paul J. McNulty, who
had told the Senate Judiciary Committee that Cummins was removed to make way for
Griffin. The subject line of the e-mails read: 'McNulty Strikes Again.'"

Margaret Talev and Marisa Taylor write for McClatchy Newspapers: "'Tim was put
in a horrible position; hung out to dry w/ no heads up,' Taylor lashed out in
the e-mail, which was sent from a Republican Party account rather than from her
White House e-mail address. 'This is not good for his long-term career.'"

Jess Bravin writes in the Wall Street Journal: "The Bush administration's effort
to create a separate legal system for the war on terrorism may be foundering.

"Consistent resistance from the U.S. legal establishment has led to court
rulings against the government in a series of cases over the past three years
involving enemy combatants held both on the American mainland and the naval base
at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. As a result, the approach promoted by President Bush
may not outlast his presidency. What to do with some 385 detainees now in
Guantanamo may be one of the first questions -- along with how to handle the
Iraq war -- that a new president will have to tackle in January 2009.

"Skeptical civilian and military courts, using language both sweeping and
technical, have blocked the government's contention that to fight terrorism the
president can invoke military powers that supersede traditional legal
protections. None of these setbacks has resulted in the immediate release of
prisoners, but they raise questions about the long-term viability of the legal
regime."

Bravin traces the problem back to "a tactical decision, made soon after 9/11, in
which the administration chose not to ask Congress for permission to try alleged
terrorists before military tribunals or indefinitely detain Americans arrested
at home. Instead, the administration asserted that such powers were inherently
assigned to the president by the Constitution. . . .

"Since 9/11, the president has argued that fighting terrorism is like fighting a
war: As commander in chief of the armed forces, the president has irreducible
authority to direct troops on the battlefield, which the administration argued
includes related powers, such as the detention, interrogation and military trial
of enemy prisoners. Yet unlike conventional war, the terrorist threat means the
battlefield is everywhere -- in the cities and suburbs of the U.S. as much as in
Afghanistan. Thus, the administration believed, the president could treat a U.S.
citizen arrested in Chicago as if he were an armed guerrilla attacking American
forces overseas."

Adam Liptak writes in the New York Times that the administration adopted the
position "that supporters of Al Qaeda represented a novel sort of threat and
required a new approach. They are neither soldiers nor civilians, the
administration said, and the president should be entitled to have the military
detain them indefinitely whether they are captured abroad or in the United
States."

But there was another way.

"Eric M. Freedman, a law professor at Hofstra who represents men held at
Guantanamo, said it was nonsensical and counterproductive to go to war against a
group of terrorists. He offered an analogy.

"'The Colombian drug cartel has airplanes and bombs and boats, and it shoots
down American airplanes,' Professor Freedman said. 'They're criminals. You can't
go to war against the Colombian drug cartel. If you could, then when they shot
down an American military airplane, they wouldn't be guilty of anything. They'd
have combat immunity.'

"Supporters of the administration say that analogies like that are not only
naÃ¯ve but also prove the need for a third category. On one hand, they say,
terrorists cannot be considered civilians because they could not then be singled
out for military attack or assassination or held for intelligence gathering. On
the other, they are not entitled to the protections granted to soldiers because
they do not fight on behalf of nations or follow the laws of war.

"Critics of the administration say that reasoning is convenient, as it gives the
government essentially complete discretion to seize and hold anyone it wants
without recourse to the courts."

The White House says the national government in Iraq is making progress. But in
fact, there's almost no national government to speak of.

Damien Cave writes in the New York Times: "Iraq's political leaders have failed
to reach agreements on nearly every law that the Americans have demanded as
benchmarks, despite heavy pressure from Congress, the White House and top
military commanders. With only three months until progress reports are due in
Washington, the deadlock has reached a point where many Iraqi and American
officials now question whether any substantive laws will pass before the end of
the year. . . .

"For the handful of party leaders with the power to make deals, the promise of
compromise now carries less allure than the possibility for domination.
Long-suppressed Shiites and Kurds now see total victory within their grasp.
Previous American benchmarks like elections have failed to bring peace and,
after four years of unfulfilled promises, bloodshed and sprawling chaos, once
wary glances have become cold, unblinking stares.

"The same forces of entropy and obstinacy have also severed links between the
party leaders and their constituencies. In Shiite areas of southern Iraq, Sunni
areas of the west and for Kurds in the north, Iraq's central government has
become increasingly irrelevant as competing groups within each faction maneuver
at the local level for control of public money and jobs. In many cases,
especially through mosques, Iran and other foreign powers often provide more
institutional support than Baghdad. . . .

"In many provinces, officials have little respect for laws passed in the
capital. In the southern city of Basra, the various Shiite parties have already
divvied up the spoils of government: the Fadhila Party controls much of the oil
industry and the border police are tied to the Supreme Islamic Iraqi Council,
the party of Abdul Aziz al-Hakim."

Meanwhile, old White House friend Ahmad Chalabi has apparently sabotaged the
American-backed plan for reintegrating former Baathists into government.

Walter Pincus and Ann Scott Tyson report in The Washington Post on congressional
testimony from Lt. Gen. Martin Dempsey, who until recently led the U.S.
military's training effort in Iraq.

"Describing the U.S. effort in Iraq as a labor of Sisyphus, he said the
metaphoric stone is 'probably rolling back a bit right now in Baghdad. But I
don't think it's going to roll over us.'

"Dempsey depicted the level of violence tolerated by Iraqis as 'mind-numbing'
and acknowledged that a dearth of security has made some Iraqis nostalgic for
the rule of Saddam Hussein, who was ousted by the U.S.-led invasion in 2003.
'You'll hear people say, "You know, we were a lot more secure and safe during
the Saddam regime," ' he told the oversight panel of the House Armed Services
Committee."

And that was before this morning's blasts at the Golden Mosque.

Ken Herman writes for Cox News Service: "Conservatives urging President Bush to
pardon former White House aide Lewis 'Scooter' Libby are counting on a chief
executive who would have to ignore Justice Department rules as well as his own
pardon history and philosophy in order to give Libby a break. . . .

"Law professor Daniel Kobil of Capital University in Columbus, Ohio, who has
studied presidential clemency, said Bush's history 'tells us he is not very
merciful at all and doesn't seem to want to use this power to benefit those for
whom it's designed.' . . .

"Said Kobil of Bush and clemency: 'He is almost terrified to use it. He uses it
in only the most minor sort of cases where somebody can't possibly quarrel with
the use of the power.'"

The Associated Press reports: "I. Lewis "Scooter" Libby wants what Martha
Stewart got. The former White House aide, who faces 2 1/2 years in prison for
perjury and obstruction, cited the domestic celebrity in court documents
Wednesday as part of his bid to put his sentence on hold."

Tyler Whitley of the Richmond Times-Dispatch had the scoop yesterday: "Edward W.
Gillespie will step down as Republican Party of Virginia chairman today to
become counselor to President Bush in the White House.

"He will replace Dan Bartlett, who resigned recently to return to his native
Texas. Several GOP sources, requesting anonymity, confirmed the move.

"Sources said Gillespie, a longtime power broker on Capitol Hill, was reluctant
to leave as state party chairman after a tenure of only six months, but he
answered the president's pleadings."

The Associated Press reports that Lynne Cheney is being discussed as a possible
replacement for Sen. Craig Thomas of Wyoming, who died June 4. "Cheney's
spokeswoman would neither confirm nor deny the speculation."

John Maynard writes in The Washington Post: "Talk about your easy target.

"With President Bush's approval ratings at historically low levels, Comedy
Central goes for some broad-based Bush-bashing with its new animated series
'Lil' Bush.'"

Matthew Gilbert writes in the Boston Globe: "One of the easiest targets in
comedy is, of course, George W. Bush's manner. Jokes about the President's
sloppy grammar, his malapropisms, his smug comebacks, and his cowboy attitude
now run a penny a dozen. They are to humor writers what Lindsay Lohan is to the
paparazzi: run-of-the-mill fare. Years after T-shirt companies and late-night
hosts built an industry around Bush's unpresidential demeanor, the material
evokes little more than a yeah-so-what-else-is-new shrug.

"So 'Lil' Bush: Resident of the United States' arrives on Comedy Central tonight
at 10:30 about seven years too late. The mildly amusing animated series would
have packed more of a punch back when Americans were still a little shocked
about Bush's seeming arrested development, but these days it comes off as merely
facile."

Mike Hale writes in the New York Times: "Too lil', too late."

Maggie Rodriguez reports for CBS News on how Bush's watch vanished as he was
being greeted by enthusiastic Albanians. But White House spokesman Tony Snow
insisted at yesterday's briefing that Bush's watch was not stolen: " No, it was
not. . . . [T]he President put it in his pocket, and it returned safely home."

Amy Argetsinger and Roxanne Roberts write in The Washington Post: "It's not
unusual for the president to remove his wedding ring and watch before working a
crowd, confirms our colleague Peter Baker."

Tony Auth and John Sherffius on the rule of law; Mike Luckovich on border
security; Pat Oliphant on immigration; Tom Toles on Bush and Gonzales; and Walt
Handelsman on the Sopranos approach to White House strategy.

I'm Live Online today at 1 p.m. ET. Come join the conversation.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2007 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              269 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        June 29, 2007 Friday 9:16 AM EST

Cheney's World

BYLINE: Howard Kurtz, Washington Post Staff Writer, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 2365 words



HIGHLIGHT: So much to choose from this morning--the 23rd collapse of the
immigration bill, the Senate subpoenas of the White House, the high court
striking down racial assignments in schools, the weird tale of Mitt Romney's
dog.


So much to choose from this morning--the 23rd collapse of the immigration bill,
the Senate subpoenas of the White House, the high court striking down racial
assignments in schools, the weird tale of Mitt Romney's dog.

But I'm especially fascinated by the latest Cheney uproar. Some people are
actually using the I-word, not that that's going to happen. But after seven
years of stories about The Most Powerful Vice President in History, there is
fresh outrage about Dick.

It's been fueled by his I'm-not-part-of-the-executive-branch blowoff of the
office overseeing classified documents, and by this Washington Post series
detailing his behind-the-scenes influence, including his ability to outmaneuver
Cabinet members and leave no fingerprints.

Keep in mind, of course, that the vice president has only as much power as the
president grants him, which is why the role of past veeps amounted to a "warm
bucket of spit," in John Nance Garner's phrase (as cleaned up by the MSM). So if
Cheney is running a shadow government--pushing military action, warrantless
eavesdropping, and business-friendly regulations that prompted Christie Whitman
to quit the EPA in frustration--it is with Bush's acquiescence.

The vice president may be the biggest administration lightning rod this side of
Karl Rove, in part because he seems to offer opponents--and the press--the
two-world salutation he gave Pat Leahy. And shooting his hunting buddy in the
face didn't exactly contribute to a warm-and-fuzzy image.

Among those coming out for impeachment is Bruce Fein, which is all the more
stunning because he's a rock-ribbed conservative who worked in the Justice
Department in the Reagan administration:

"In grasping and exercising presidential powers, Cheney has dulled political
accountability and concocted theories for evading the law and Constitution that
would have embarrassed King George III. The most recent invention we know of is
the vice president's insistence that an executive order governing the handling
of classified information in the executive branch does not reach his office
because he also serves as president of the Senate.

"In other words, the vice president is a unique legislative-executive creature
standing above and beyond the Constitution. The House judiciary committee should
commence an impeachment inquiry. As Alexander Hamilton advised in the Federalist
Papers, an impeachable offense is a political crime against the nation. Cheney's
multiple crimes against the Constitution clearly qualify."

Guest-blogging at Washington Monthly, Steve Benen throws cold water on the idea:

"There's nothing wrong with Fein's argument, of course, but I'm not going to get
my hopes up. Dems have a busy policy agenda, and this isn't on it. What's more,
even if Dems went for Cheney impeachment, unless there are 67 votes in the
Senate to remove the VP from office, Cheney, alas, isn't going anywhere."

Sally Quinn offers up a blueprint:

"The big question right now among Republicans is how to remove Vice President
Cheney from office. Even before this week's blockbuster series in The Post,
discontent in Republican ranks was rising.

"As the reputed architect of the war in Iraq, Cheney is viewed as toxic, and as
the administration's leading proponent of an attack on Iran, he is seen as
dangerous. As long as he remains vice president, according to this thinking, he
has the potential to drag down every member of the party -- including the
presidential nominee -- in next year's elections."

Her solution: A group a GOP elders persuades him to resign, and Fred Thompson is
tapped to take his place.

All right, let's go to a self-described Cheney fan, National Review's Jonah
Goldberg:

"Why do I like Dick Cheney? Because at a time when everybody talks a big game
about how they don't like people-pleasing politicians who live by the polls,
Cheney is pretty much the only guy out there who walks the walk. He truly
doesn't care what people think about him. I love that.

"In particular, I like his stance toward the media. His view of the Fourth
Estate is a bit like that of a bull elephant annoyed by varmints shnuffling
around his feet: He's not bothered enough to squish 'em . . . yet. But although
I like Cheney's style -- particularly in contrast to his boss's -- it's become
clear that the Cheney method leaves a lot to be desired . . .

"Cheney's approach to government is ultimately counterproductive. That's
certainly the upshot of an epic exegesis on Cheney's tenure that is unfolding
like daily Pulitzer bait in the Washington Post this week. So far, the image of
the VPOTUS emerging in the series is one of almost cinematic villainy. Like
Cancer Man in The X-Files, he always seems to be standing in the shadows, moving
the gears of government to his own nefarious tune . . .The Cheney method instead
creates a blowback that hobbles your efforts in the long run far more than
compromise does."

The media are practically playing taps for the Bush administration after the
Senate buried the immigration bill yesterday.

LAT: "President Bush began the week struggling to salvage his most important
foreign and domestic initiatives: the war in Iraq and an overhaul of the
nation's immigration laws.

"He ends it closer to losing both than at any time in his presidency."

WP: "It was, in the end, simply a statement of reality after the Senate buried
his proposal to overhaul immigration laws. But for a president who makes a point
of never giving in, even when he loses, it was a striking moment, underscoring
the depth of his political travails. It took almost two years before Bush
acknowledged, just months ago, that his effort to reshape Social Security had
failed. Now he has surrendered in what was probably his last chance of securing
a legacy-making second-term domestic victory."

Boston Globe: "Some lawmakers said yesterday's vote is another example of the
demise of bipartisanship, an old Senate tradition in which lawmakers from both
sides hunker down to work out a solution to a major issue."

Washington Times: "The young guns -- a small, wily group of junior Republican
senators, most of them with less than a full term in the upper chamber -- sent
the bill into a tailspin, tying Democratic leaders into legislative knots and
earning enough opposition among senators to block the Senate bill, culminating
in yesterday's vote to kill the measure."

As the righty blogosphere rejoices over the immigration bill falling short in
the Senate, no one seems happier than Michelle Malkin, who congratulates her
allies:

"Shamnesty is dead. A stake through the heart . . .

"Thanks to the stalwart, true leaders in the Senate -- especially Sens.
Sessions, DeMint, Vitter, Inhofe, Cornyn, and their staffs. Thanks to the House
GOP members who made their opposition known. Thanks to the Loud Folks on the
right side of the dial. Thanks to the Loud Folks at The Corner, RedState, Human
Events, Townhall, Kaus, N.Z. Bear, my colleagues at Hot Air, and all the
enforcement-first bloggers out there who weighed in."

Turns out Cindy McCain, with two sons in the military, has gotten feistier than
in 2000: "(TM)'I'm angry at them,' Mrs. McCain, 53, said when questioned about
the Bush administration's handling of the war in Iraq. She said that the
administration was paying the price for not having listened to her husband."

There was another debate last night--one in which no candidate criticized
another--and the Chicago Tribune has details:

"In a blunt conversation before a largely African-American audience, the
Democratic presidential candidates on Thursday occasionally departed from polite
talking points as they discussed everything from the spread of HIV and AIDS to
racial profiling in the criminal justice system.

"Sen. Hillary Clinton asserted that if white women were dying of AIDS at the
same rate as black women, there would be an 'outraged outcry' in the country
instead of the current response, which she suggested is tepid.

"Sen. Barack Obama, the only African-American candidate on the stage, blamed
'homophobia' and other stigmas for the failure to stop the spread of the disease
in 'our communities' -- an assertion followed quickly by an admiring reminder
from Sen. Joseph Biden that Obama himself had been tested for AIDS. That
prompted Obama to jump in immediately and clarify that he had done so with his
wife, Michelle, at his side, as a public demonstration of the importance of AIDS
testing while on a trip to Africa."

Quick thinking, Barack! Don't want anyone thinking it had to do with Obama Girl.

Okay, on to Poochgate. Seems like the Boston Globe intended this anecdote of a
1983 Romney family trip from Boston to Ontario to be humanizing:

"Before beginning the drive, Mitt Romney put Seamus, the family's hulking Irish
setter, in a dog carrier and attached it to the station wagon's roof rack . . .

"As the oldest son, Tagg Romney commandeered the way-back of the wagon, keeping
his eyes fixed out the rear window, where he glimpsed the first sign of trouble.
'Dad!' he yelled. 'Gross!' A brown liquid was dripping down the back window,
payback from an Irish setter who'd been riding on the roof in the wind for
hours.

"As the rest of the boys joined in the howls of disgust, Romney coolly pulled
off the highway and into a service station. There, he borrowed a hose, washed
down Seamus and the car, then hopped back onto the highway. It was a tiny
preview of a trait he would grow famous for in business: emotion-free crisis
management."

Or, perhaps, brain-free crisis management.

Ana Marie Cox questions whether this was a violation of Massachusetts
animal-cruelty laws. Anyone know if Ken Starr is available?

But not everyone is so exercised. Take Captain Ed:

"Wow -- what a scoop! Twenty-three years ago, Romney made an error in judgment
about his dog's accommodations on a long trip. This is what passes for news at
Time Magazine these days; a lengthy exposition on the statute of limitations for
dog carrier violations, complete with opinions from SPCA and PETA.

"I'll grant that strapping the carrier to the roof of the vehicle was rather
foolish and not particularly wise. When the dog got sick, Mitt should have
pulled off the road, cleaned up, and figured out another plan for Seamus. At the
least, he should have made sure that he wasn't flinging dog feces on the cars
behind him."

Could the dog-lover vote be in danger?

The quarterly leaking of presidential fundraising is again under way. Says Karen
Tumulty:

"The first big news from the second quarter fundraising race is in. Barack Obama
has built a fundraising base that is approaching 250,000 donors--a stunning
total . . .

"Because these donors are nowhere near maxxed out under the campaign
contribution laws, Obama can go to them again and again."

Andrew Sullivan is also impressed:

"Howard Dean's web-based 70,000 donors was described as a watershed in Internet
[campaigning]. So what would that make Obama's 250,000 unique donors - and
almost 350,000 individual donations? In the polls, Obama has staled for a while,
up against the Clinton machine and her massive name recognition among the party
faithful. But America's Cory Aquino must be somewhat rattled by the breadth of
Obama's support, especially given Clinton's own sky-high negative ratings and
Obama's much lower name-recognition. If he's doing this well despite being
unknown in any detail by many, how much better will he be doing by the fall?"

This poll shows Al Gore beating all the Democratic candidates in New Hampshire.

Hasn't been a good week for the administration, has it? Dick Polman on a key
Republican defection:

"The Bush administration has lost Dick Lugar, and that's akin to a seismic crack
appearing in the wall of a dam.

"Given the extent of the debacle in Iraq, and the impending '08 election
calendar, it was probably inevitable that a respected Republican senator with
strong foreign policy credentials would publicly renounce the Bush war strategy
and thus provide political cover for timorous GOP colleagues who have long
yearned to do the same. All year long the White House has tried to forestall
such an event, by perpetually pleading for more patience, but the clock ran out
on Monday night.

"Dick Lugar -- the senior senator from red-state Indiana, a Bush loyalist on
every key Iraq vote dating back to 2002, winner of landslides in all his Senate
elections (especially in 2006, when he didn't even draw a Democratic opponent),
a long-acknowledged dean of the GOP foreign policy establishment, a former
Foreign Relations Committee chairman, a guy who routinely draws near-zero
ratings from liberal groups, a '96 presidential candidate who warned about
nuclear terrorism even though nobody listened -- stood on the Senate floor and
issued his declaration of independence from the Bush war team. In short, he
called for a reduction in U.S. troops."

Finally, Salon Editor Joan Walsh is mighty steamed about Ann Coulter:

"A day after Elizabeth Edwards' riveting 'Hardball' confrontation with Hate Lady
Ann Coulter, the right is crying foul. Just as Coulter did, her defenders are
whining that Edwards is trying to censor the conservative queen of mean. Plus,
she has the audacity to use Coulter to raise money for her husband's
presidential campaign! And she's using her cancer, too! It's so unfair!

"But seriously, where to begin?

"First of all, Coulter has to get her stories straight. One minute she was
bragging to MSNBC's Chris Matthews about how the Edwards controversy -- if you
didn't hear about it, she called the Democratic candidate a [F-word for gay]
earlier this year -- is helping to sell her awful books; minutes later she was
braying about how Elizabeth Edwards was trying to keep her from selling, or even
writing, her awful books. Which is it, Ann? . . .

"Meanwhile, MSNBC is enjoying the whole thing. Matthews got a lot of liberal
criticism for agreeing to have the Hate Lady back on his show after she called
Al Gore a [gay slur] last July. His reply didn't help: 'Say what you will, she
sells books.' . . . Now MSNBC's Pat Buchanan is blasting Matthews for 'setting
up' poor Hate Lady, and blasting Edwards for using Coulter to raise money. Let's
get this straight: Everybody's using everyone here."

As is usually the case with television.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2007 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              270 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        July 9, 2007 Monday 12:00 PM EST

Outlook: Bush's Recent Blunders Leave Him Base-less

BYLINE: ron York, National Review White House correspondent, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 2479 words



HIGHLIGHT: National Review White House correspondent Byron YorkÂ was online
Monday, July 9 at noon ET to explain how, by aligning himself with Ted Kennedy
on immigration and offering only halfway forgiveness to Scooter Libby, president
Bush abandoned the only backers he had left.


National Review White House correspondent Byron York was online Monday, July 9
at noon ET to explain how, by aligning himself with Ted Kennedy on immigration
and offering only halfway forgiveness to Scooter Libby, president Bush abandoned
the only backers he had left.

Base to Bush: It's Over (Post, July 8)

The transcript follows.

Archive: Transcripts of discussions with Outlook article authors

____________________

Byron York: Hi, everyone. I'm glad to be here to discuss my article in
yesterday's Outlook section. So let's get started...

_______________________

Harrisburg, Pa.: Would you prefer a president arrive in office from a particular
conservative base and then use that base of knowledge to make the best
independent judgement on all issues on their own merits, or should the president
act according to the majority opinions of that conservative base, or should
decisions be based on something else?

Byron York: I believe a president has to keep the support of his base -- without
it, he wouldn't be able to govern. In the case of immigration, however, the GOP
base was perplexed by the president's actions because a majority of Americans --
not just a majority of the base, but a majority of the public as a whole --
opposed some key elements of the reform bill. Some in the base also felt that
the president had singled them out for criticism as people who did not want what
was best for America. When he said that, they were very, very unhappy.

_______________________

Alpharetta, Ga.: Does this make it safer for presidential candidates to
criticize the President in the GOP primaries? (By the way, did you see the
"Elephant Looks in the Mirror" study with GOP segments?)

washingtonpost.com: Poll shows many Republicans favor universal healthcare, gays
in military (The Hill, June 28)

Byron York: I think it's inevitable that Republican presidential candidates will
step up their criticisms of President Bush as the campaign goes on. Up until
now, most of their criticism has been indirect, as when Mitt Romney says, "I
like to veto bills" and suggests that he would be delighted to veto lots and
lots of spending measures. John McCain has said similar things, and Rudy
Giuliani has stressed his record of keeping government spending under control.
Those points resonate with the base, in part because the president has not made
controlling spending a priority.

On Iraq, we'll have to see, but I think it's possible that a top-tier GOP
candidate will begin to move away from Bush in the fall. I'm not saying that
from any inside knowledge of the candidates' intentions, but there will be a lot
of pressure to chart a new course in Iraq, especially if the president is
resistant.

_______________________

Philadelphia: Dear Byron, have you not noticed (or has the base not noticed) the
Supreme Court this term? Regardless of how you feel about these decisions, it's
hard to argue Bush's appointment's didn't play a critical role in these
outcomes. Given the propensity of GOP-ers to favor them, shouldn't they be very
happy about at least that facet of the Bush presidency?

Byron York: You're absolutely right. I think it's fair to say that the
nominations of John Roberts and Samuel Alito are the only real successes of the
president's second term. And they are big successes; as far as I can tell, the
GOP base is very happy with them, and happy with Bush for appointing them. It's
just the other things have finally begun to outweigh them.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: Do you think that Bush commuted the sentence instead of issuing
a pardon because it would allow the appeals process to continue -- thus
preserving his favorite dodge that he won't comment on an ongoing legal
proceeding? Also, why did Libby pay the fine now instead of after his appeals
end? Thanks.

Byron York: No, I think Bush issued the commutation, instead of a pardon or
staying out of it altogether, because he thought it was the right thing to do.

_______________________

New York: Mr. York, your article was extraordinarily interesting. Thank you for
writing it, and thanks to The Post for printing such a singular perspective. I
have noticed in my own extended family (much political talk, mostly conservative
except for myself) that there has been a jump from "everything is going great in
Iraq" to "can you imagine how terrible a president Hillary would be?" The
acknowledgment of the terrible errors of the past six years seems, at best,
beneath the surface and unvoiced. Can we expect a larger, more public accounting
from those who followed this president down so many questionable, deeply
damaging paths? Or will the dialogue switch immediately to "oh those terrible
Dems"?

Byron York: I would expect the latter. Elections are always one candidate versus
the other candidate, and when the campaign is in full swing, and there are two
nominated candidates, everyone will be in full partisan mode.

_______________________

Silver Spring, Md.: The Clintons betrayed their base with regularity (gays in
the military, NAFTA, welfare reform, Rwanda, most-favored nation status for
China) yet they are more popular than ever in the Democratic party. What is the
difference in the Republican base versus the Democratic base as they respond to
betrayals of core principles by their leadership?

Byron York: I think the thing that accounted for much of Bill Clinton's
popularity in 1998-2000 was the fact that the opposition party was trying to
drive him from office. Once some enormous battle like that has been joined, both
sides become quite tribal -- it's our guys versus their guys, and you stick with
your guy, whatever reservations you have about him. If Bush faced some challenge
like that, I'm sure the GOP base would rally behind him.

_______________________

Fairfax, Va.: Why are some of the most prominent members of the GOP advocating
defeat in Iraq vis a vis a cut and run strategy espoused by the Democrat party?
Doesn't that make them just as bad as the Dems they have been working so hard to
supress for the betterment of America? Is it time to move to Canada?

Byron York: I think it's important to point out that the Republicans I've talked
to around the country who are unhappy with the war are unhappy because Bush
hasn't won. They don't talk about Bush lying the country into war or American
empire or any of that stuff. Instead, they believe the military was placed under
too-restrictive rules of engagement and that the president didn't go in with
enough force to win. Now, in the fifth year of the war, they are less receptive
to the president's declarations that it will be a long struggle.

_______________________

New York: Re the Supreme Court nominations: Is it true that every time Bush did
something the base responded to, he had to be pushed there by Conservative
commentators? I'd except his pro-life decisions from this, but otherwise, what
do you think? Was the base happy with his education program, for instance?
Thanks so much for the chat.

Byron York: I think Bush certainly responded to the base in the Harriet Miers
nomination. Conservatives were outraged by the choice of Miers -- with so many
superstars in the conservative legal world, they thought she was a terrible
choice -- and the noise they made forced the White House to back off.

As far as the base and No Child Left Behind, that's a mixed story, because it's
a measure that cuts both ways. On the one hand, it can be seen as too much
federal interference in education, but on the other hand, it's an accountability
measure. So you have a mix of opinion.

_______________________

Charlottesville, Va.: Given that the president's support among Republicans still
is hovering around 60 percent, how do you explain the base of that support? Are
these folks simply Republican loyalists? How much decline in the base of the
Republican Party can we attribute to the train wreck engineered by the Bush
administration?

Byron York: Well, 60 percent is not very good for a president's base. But of the
Republicans I have talked to outside of Washington, there is still a foundation
of support for the president personally. They believe he is a good man who has
tried to do the right thing. But they were very upset by the Harriet Miers
nomination and especially by immigration. So some of them are just ready for him
to leave, even though they still respect him and wish him success.

As for the Republican party as a whole, they have proved perfectly capable of
making their own mistakes. But I think it's fair to say that the level of
unhappiness created by the war in Iraq has been a huge drag on Republicans and
will remain so for quite a while.

_______________________

New York: If the president thought the commutation was the right thing to do,
does that indicate that he did not know -- or did condone -- the Office of the
Vice President's actions in the affair? Thanks so much for the chat.

Byron York: Well, the Libby trial was about the very limited question of whether
Libby lied about his telephone conversations with Tim Russert and Matt Cooper.
No one else was charged with any other wrongdoing.

I think there is a subtext to some of the commentary I've heard in the past
couple of weeks about the Libby case. It seems to be based on the idea that if
Libby could just be brought before Democrats in Congress, then it would finally
blow the lid off Dick Cheney's role in...well, everything. But Libby did testify
extensively in the case -- a total of eight hours before Patrick Fitzgerald's
grand jury. That testimony was played in its entirety in Libby's trial.
Fitzgerald was looking for wrongdoing and never charged anyone other than Libby.
It's unlikely that White House critics will find the Holy Grail of wrongdoing
that they seem to think is hidden somewhere under Cheney's desk.

_______________________

Silver Spring, Md.: The media has been bedazzled by the perceived power of the
liberal netroots to the point that they failed to see that conservatives have
been just as involved in asserting themselves. I find it funny that it took the
immigration debate for the chattering classes to discover conservatives were
using the Internet and talk radio to assert themselves. We've been doing this to
great effect since the late '90s. (Remember impeachment? Or Dan Rather?)

The only thing different this time was that the White House officially reached
out to conservative Web sites like Red State and Free Republic in an
unsuccessful attempt to make their case. As a conservative at Free Republic, I
find it frustrating that it took six years (and that issue) for the Bush
administration to finally reach out to its activist base.

Byron York: I would agree with you that the lion's share of press attention has
been given to the liberal netroots. It's clear that politicians like Nancy
Pelosi and Harry Reid now pay a lot of attention to their Internet base. I can't
explain why the White House took so long to get around to it, given the role
that conservatives on the Net played in the Miers and immigration defeats.

_______________________

Phoenix: In the light of the abject failure of the Bush presidency on so many
fronts, do you think the GOP's conservative/religious right wing will be
subjugated to the party's more moderate/liberal wing in the next election cycle
and possibly beyond in order to present a more palatable face to
independent/swing voters?

Byron York: I wouldn't put it that way. I think the Republican base is deeply
concerned about national security, and that, along with the desire for a
candidate who has the ability to get things done, accounts for the current
popularity of Rudy Giuliani. I think the correct way to say it is that cultural
issues will still be quite important in the Republican primary process, but
given the national security concerns, not quite as important as during the last
contested primaries in 2000.

_______________________

Raleigh, N.C.:"I think it's important to point out that the Republicans I've
talked to around the country who are unhappy with the war are unhappy because
Bush hasn't won." So are these Republicans supportive of a big troop increase,
or what?

Byron York: I think they believe Bush should have done that sometime in the
first four years of the war.

_______________________

Long Island, N.Y.: Byron, thanks for the chat. Is there any sense within the
Bush camp that they comprehend how an apparent majority of the country is
looking forward to January 20, 2009 -- regardless of who's elected? We hear all
these statements that the president doesn't read polls and believes that history
will redeem his choices, but does anyone in the administration consider the
possibility that maybe they were wrong on the big issues of our times and that
the public realized it first?

Byron York: No, I don't think they believe they were wrong on the big issues.
And the whole January 20, 2009 thing, for Republicans, is a double-edged sword.
Certainly Republicans are hoping for another Republican president -- soon. But
some of them also believe that if defeat is in the cards, best get it over with
and get the party rebuilding process under way.

_______________________

Poplar Bluff, Mo.: Thanks for taking questions. If President Bush's approval
ratings are still at rock bottom next summer and fall, will the president
further insulate himself in the Oval Office if there are no offers to campaign
for congressional Republicans?

Byron York: Well, if you're the Republican candidate, and the Republican
president is at 30 percent, you would like to find that 30 percent and have the
president direct his efforts toward them.

_______________________

Detroit: As a loyal, conservative Republican, I believe George W. Bush will go
down as one our worst Presidents in history. He has destroyed our foreign policy
and has made the US less secure than Bill Clinton, which I never thought was
possible. Who can on the Republican side can save our party?

Byron York: I think you might want to reconsider things. I don't believe that
Bush has made the U.S. less secure than Clinton. As the president says, we were
attacked on September 11, well before we invaded Iraq and well before the rest
of the world is said to have lost its respect for us. The fact is, there are
Islamic extremists out there who are working very hard to destroy the United
States, and George Bush has recognized that and done much to fight them. But
it's not about Bush; I feel certain those extremists will keep up their efforts
regardless of who is the next president.

_______________________

Byron York: That's it, everyone. Thanks very much for having me, and I hope we
can speak again sometime.

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over
Discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts; guests
and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not responsible
for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2007 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              271 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        July 27, 2007 Friday 3:02 PM EST

U.S.-Cuba Migration Policy

BYLINE: Jefferson Morley, washingtonpost.com Staff Writer, washingtonpost.com

LENGTH: 493 words



HIGHLIGHT: What is the "wet-foot, dry-foot" policy?


What is the "wet-foot, dry-foot" policy?

This is the informal named given to a 1995 agreement under which Cubans migrants
to the United States who are intercepted at sea ("wet feet") are sent back to
Cuba or to a third country while those who make it to U.S. soil ("dry feet") are
allowed to remain in the United States. The policy, formally known as the
U.S.-Cuba Immigration Accord, has been written into law as an amendment to the
1966 Cuban Adjustment Act.

How does the Coast Guard enforce this policy?

The Coast Guard uses patrol boats, cutters and aircraft to patrol the seas and
skies around southern Florida. Cubans intercepted at sea are interviewed by the
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service which decides whether they have a well
founded fear of persecution and are thus eligible for asylum in a third country.
If not, they are repatriated to Cuba.

What happens to Cubans who make it to U.S. soil?

After one year they are eligible to apply for a change in legal status that
makes them eligible for an immigrant visa, permanent residence, and, eventually
U.S. citizenship. The policy applies to undocumented aliens from Cuba only.
Undocumented Haitian or Dominican migrants who reach U.S. shores are not
automatically eligible for immigrant visas, or permanent residence, only Cubans.

What happens to migrants returned to Cuba?

In 1994, Cuba agreed to take no action against returnees as a consequence of
their attempt to immigrate illegally, as long as they did not face other
criminal charges. The U.S. Interests Section monitors Cuban compliance with this
provision by visiting the returnees throughout Cuba. In 2006, the State
Department reported that "in practice some would-be migrants experienced
harassment and discrimination," citing one example. Cuba notes that illegal
immigration is a crime under Cuban law. Related: 2007 Report on Cuba by Bureau
of Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor.

Do we know how many die trying to get here?

Nobody knows for sure. Neither the Coast Guard nor the State Department nor
human rights groups keep statistics on Cuban fatalities at sea. During the
balsero crisis of 1994 there were estimates that anywhere from 25 percent to 75
percent of all those who attempt to migrate were dying at sea. As human
smugglers have begun using more sophisticated boats in recent years, fatalities
at sea may be falling but no one really knows.

How might restrictions change in the future?

The "wet foot, dry foot" policy, while resented by Cuba, has served the
interests of both countries for more than a decade. It has prevented recurrence
of massive uncontrolled migration that the United States fears and it
established the kind of more normal migration arrangements that Cuba seeks. U.S.
Congress is debating more modest proposals to loosen the current ban on travel
between the United States and Cuba. Changes in migration policy probably depend
on changes in the larger relationship between Washington and Havana.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2007 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              272 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      October 12, 2007 Friday 5:05 PM EST

Immigrants and Laureates;
America's two other winners of Nobel prizes show how important it is that the
U.S.get immigration policy right.

BYLINE: Carl Schramm and Robert Litan

LENGTH: 656 words



HIGHLIGHT: Al Gore's Nobel Peace Prize is getting almost all the attention, but
America's two other new Nobel laureates also have interesting stories.
Geneticists Mario Capecchi and Oliver Smithies won the Nobel Prize in medicine
for their work in gene targeting. And while their honor highlights the quality
of American research, it also shows how our scientific community is enriched by
highly skilled immigrants.


Al Gore's Nobel Peace Prize is getting almost all the attention, but America's
two other new Nobel laureates also have interesting stories. Geneticists Mario
Capecchi and Oliver Smithies won the Nobel Prize in medicine for their work in
gene targeting. And while their honor highlights the quality of American
research, it also shows how our scientific community is enriched by highly
skilled immigrants.

Capecchi, who endured a heart-wrenching early childhood in wartime Italy,
immigrated with his mother to the United States after World War II, who survived
the Dachau concentration camp. Today, he leads research teams at the University
of Utah. Smithies, a native of Britain, came to the United States in the 1950s
to work at the University of Wisconsin and has spent the last 19 years at the
University of North Carolina. Both are now U.S. citizens.

Foreign-born researchers are common in the U.S. academic and scientific
communities. In fact, more than a third of American Nobel laureates in the
sciences over the last 15 years were born outside the U.S. These scientists are
conducting research with extraordinary promise for improving lives, as well as
great potential to produce commercialized therapies and technologies that drive
U.S. innovation and economic growth.

The U.S. should welcome these highly skilled researchers and innovators.
Unfortunately, recent trends in immigration policy are making it more difficult
for foreign-born scientists and engineers to put their skills to work in this
country -- and that could have profoundly negative implications for the U.S.
economy.

Recent studies by Duke, Harvard and New York universities find that far more
skilled scientists and workers are waiting for U.S. visas than can be admitted
under current law. More than one million skilled workers await permanent
resident status. Yet only about 120,000 permanent resident visas are available
each year for skilled workers and their family members in the three main
employment visa categories.

To be sure, visa difficulties are nothing new for would-be immigrants trying to
work in America. Early in his career, Smithies himself spent seven years working
in Toronto because visa snags prevented him from getting back to his job in
Wisconsin.

But the difficulties are getting worse. The U.S. has responded to an increased
demand for entry -- driven by the fact that it is a global leader in science,
technology and innovation -- by capping the number of visas available to
immigrants from any one country. As a result, the wait time for visa processing
for countries with the largest populations, such as India and China, is close to
six years. Anecdotal evidence suggests that increasing numbers of skilled
workers from India and China have begun to return home, where the economies are
booming.

Furthermore, tightened immigration screening in the U.S. following the terrorist
attacks of 9/11 has lengthened processing delays. Of course, national security
must always be our top priority. But policymakers must come to grips with the
potential damage to the U.S. economy and scientific community if many of the
world's brightest people decide it is too difficult to work in the United States
and take their skills elsewhere.

The pressure is on for U.S. leaders to develop an efficient way to safely
welcome the world's top innovators -- including potential Nobel laureates.
Scientists like Capecchi and Smithies are a resource we can't afford to be
without.

Fortunately, there is evidence that federal officials can change course when
convinced they're wrong. The National Institutes of Health rejected Capecchi's
initial application for funding to support work that ultimately led to his Nobel
Prize because NIH deemed the proposal "not worthy of pursuit." NIH approved his
grant four years later.

Carl Schramm is president and chief executive and Robert Litan is vice president
for research and policy at the Kauffman Foundation.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2007 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              273 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 25, 2007 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Gaithersburg Taps New Chief

BYLINE: Ernesto Londo?o; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 302 words


John A. King, a veteran of the Montgomery County police department and one of
three assistant chiefs, has been chosen to lead the Gaithersburg police, city
officials said yesterday.

King, 48, has most recently been in charge of the department that includes six
district police stations with more than 800 officers. He is expected to take the
reins of the 50-officer Gaithersburg department June 4.

"I'm very fortunate to be leaving an excellent police department to go to an
excellent police department," King said yesterday. "Most people don't have that
chance."

King was selected from a pool of more than 50 applicants and six finalists that
included two other county police officials. Gaithersburg City Manager David B.
Humpton said he decided to pick from among the local finalists and ultimately
chose King.

King said he expects to grapple over the next few years with the growing pains
of absorbing a burgeoning immigrant community. Gaithersburg has in recent years
emerged as one of the Washington region's battlegrounds in the debate over
illegal immigration. City and county leaders spent months at loggerheads over
the creation of a day-laborer center that many residents opposed.

"It's us and Herndon," King said, referring to the Virginia town that has also
been on the front line in the immigration debate. "The issue of illegal
immigration is playing out at the local level."

He said he also intends to focus on the rise in street crime and continue the
department's emphasis on community policing.

King, who lives in Damascus, has been with the county police department since
1981. He makes $138,000 and is eligible for retirement. His new job will pay
$121,422.

King will replace Chief Mary Ann Viverette, who is retiring. The city covers an
area of about 10 square miles and has nearly 60,000 residents.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; John A. King is assistant chief in Montgomery.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              274 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 29, 2007 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Bush Pitches Immigration Plan at College;
President Talks of Assimilation and Criticizes Cuba in Speech at Miami College

BYLINE: Michael Abramowitz; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 707 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, April 28


Miami Dade College has been trying to get a  president  to speak at graduation
for nearly a decade, and this year  President Bush accepted, using the
commencement speech here Saturday to outline his vision of an assimilating
America.

The White House saw it as an appropriate setting: With more than 160,000
students, Miami Dade bills itself as one of the largest institutions of higher
education in the country, with a diverse student body that includes many
children of immigrants. The flags of 64 countries, representing graduates'
backgrounds, were carried in the ceremony's opening parade.

Administrators say the school also has a heavy slice of Cuban  Americans, one of
Bush's strongest constituencies, so there seemed to be little fear of the kind
of hostile greeting the president might receive on other campuses. Only
students, family and faculty were given tickets to the heavily guarded event.

Hundreds of protesters staged an "unwelcoming party" on the streets outside
Miami Dade's Kendall campus, while inside the gymnasium,  about 1,200 graduates
and their relatives gave Bush a  boisterous reception. He touted the merits of
assimilation, extolled the role immigrants play in society -- and took a strong
shot at the communist government in Cuba, just 90 miles away.

"In Havana and other Cuban cities, there are people just like you who are
attending school, and dreaming of a better life," Bush said to warm applause.
"Unfortunately those dreams are stifled by a cruel dictatorship that denies all
freedom in the name of a dark and discredited ideology."

Bush also promoted his plan to overhaul immigration laws, repeating his mantra
that all elements of the problem, including border security and how to handle
illegal immigrants, must be addressed in one package if change is going to work.
He did not specify how he plans to deal with people in the United States
illegally, saying only that he wants to "resolve the status of those already
here, without amnesty and without animosity."

Otherwise the president's  20-minute address steered largely away from policy,
as Bush hailed Miami Dade graduates who have done well, along with a number of
the immigrants graduating Saturday, such as Jimmy Zapata, an ?migr? from
Colombia who served in the Marines during the invasion of Iraq.

An overhaul of immigration laws may well be Bush's last opportunity to make his
mark on domestic policy in a big way, and his aides have been quietly
negotiating with key senators in both parties on a bill that might be brought to
the Senate floor as early as next month. Bush is trying to thread the needle
between those who want tougher enforcement and those who want to create a
pathway to citizenship for illegal immigrants who have been in the country for
years.

"We are working to build consensus," Bush said in his weekly radio address, also
devoted to immigration. "I am pleased that some of those who had doubts about
comprehensive reform last year are now open to supporting it."

The commencement address was the first of three that Bush is scheduled to give
this spring. He will also speak at the U.S. Coast Guard Academy and at St.
Vincent College, a small liberal arts college in Pennsylvania whose president is
his former aide H. James Towey. Miami Dade is not the first two-year-college
where Bush has spoken: He gave the commencement address last year at Mississippi
Gulf Coast Community College.

Students and faculty seemed pleased to have Bush and to put politics aside.
Kendall  President Gregory W. Gray said nearly half of the graduates  are the
first in their family to get a college degree, and that was a bigger deal to
most than politics. "There's a lot of people who have the anti-Bush focus, but
most people are focused on celebrating," he said.

"It's not really a political campus,"  said Christopher A. Miles, the student
government association president. "A lot of people were shocked" when they heard
that the president was speaking, he added.

While Bush steered clear of politics in his address, he did mix in some
politicking on his day trip to Florida, stopping at a private fundraiser for the
Republican National Committee in Key Biscayne before the commencement. The event
raised about $1 million, an RNC spokeswoman said.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              275 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 1, 2007 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                                Suburban Edition

Immigrants Slow Rate Of Money Transfers;
Remittances Crucial to Poor Nations

BYLINE: Krissah Williams; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 888 words


The amount of money Latin American immigrants sent home from the United States
grew at a slower rate during the first two months of the year than in the same
period a year ago, according to the Inter-American Development Bank. The
slowdown puzzled some experts who study such remittances, which contribute
significantly to Latin American economies.

Remittances rose in the single digits in January and February after rising as
much as 20 percent year-over-year since analysts began tracking the transfers at
the beginning of the decade, the Inter-American Development Bank said yesterday.

Many remittance-rich nations would fall into a recession if immigrants began
sending home significantly less money, which could encourage more poor Latin
Americans to find work in the United States, according to the study and Donald
Terry, manager of the Multilateral Investment Fund at the Inter-American
Development Bank.

"We don't know if it's a trend or a minor correction," Terry said. "If it
becomes a trend as opposed to a moment in time, this would not be good in terms
of U.S. interests in Central America."

For all of last year, migrant workers sent $62.3 billion to their families, an
increase of 14 percent from 2005. From 2004 to 2005, remittances increased 17
percent. Central American and Caribbean countries have come to rely on the money
as a vital and growing source of income.

"For an economically volatile region known for its boom-and-bust cycles,
remittance flows have been remarkably constant over many years and may be
responsible, in part, for the recent economic stability of so many Latin
American countries," said Manuel Orozco, author of a study to be released today
by the Inter-American Dialogue, a Latin America think tank.

Remittances are crucial for small Central American countries, such as El
Salvador, home to the Washington region's largest immigrant community. The more
than $3.3 billion that immigrants sent to their families last year makes up 18
percent of El Salvador's national income and surpasses foreign aid and
investment, the Inter-American Dialogue study said. Most of the money goes to
rural areas and helps bring families above the poverty line.

Nearly half of El Salvador's $300 million in national savings comes from
remittances, said Orozco, whose research has shown that about 5 percent of
remittances are saved. Remittances are also important in neighboring Honduras,
where they make up 23 percent of national income, and in Jamaica, where they
account for 19 percent of gross domestic product.

Questions are surfacing over whether political and economic changes in the
United States may be affecting the way immigrant workers spend their money,
Terry said. The bank is conducting a survey of immigrants to determine why they
are sending less home. Anecdotal evidence suggests that raids on migrant
communities by U.S. law enforcement officers and fear of deportation has
prompted some to curb spending, Terry said. Others may be saving money to pay
U.S. citizenship fees, wagering that a congressional debate over immigration law
would result in allowing them to pay a penalty and legalize their immigration
status. A downturn in the U.S. housing industry could also be trickling down to
immigrants, who fill the majority of U.S. construction jobs.

The Inter-American Dialogue is pushing policies that make it easier to connect
recipients and senders of remittances to banking systems as a means of providing
access to credit and savings for the poor.

As an example, the group cites Alante Financial, a Washington money-transfer
company that offers small loans to remittance senders and plans to soon sell an
inexpensive insurance program. And more Latin American banks are beginning to
serve remittance recipients, which has led to an increase in the number of poor
people with bank accounts. More than 183,000 accounts were opened in the past
four years through an outreach program operated by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp., the general consulate of Mexico and several Mexican banks.

The number of remittance recipients with access to financial services is small,
however. Orozco has argued that connecting more remittance recipients and
senders with banks could help bring more people out of poverty and create
sustainable changes in rural communities.

The poor Central American families who receive remittances spend about 80
percent of the money on essentials, such as food, housing and clothes, but the
remaining 20 percent could be saved if financial services were more readily
available, he said. If that money were in bank accounts, more small-business
loans and mortgages would be available to the poor. About 95 percent of
remittance money is spent for consumption and services.

Little of the money has been converted to wealth.

Enticing immigrants and their family members back home to put their money in
banks has been difficult. A measure of distrust of the financial system exists,
said Amy Coughenour, deputy director of the Pan-American Development Foundation,
which operates a project that helps Salvadoran immigrants invest money back
home.

"You can construct a lot of interesting financial mechanisms, but trust and
transparency are really important," Coughenour said. "Just by making a product
or service available doesn't mean that the community is going to participate."

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

CORRECTION-DATE: May 3, 2007



CORRECTION: A May 1 Business article incorrectly said that immigrants fill the
majority of U.S. construction jobs. Immigrants fill the majority of new U.S.
construction jobs.

GRAPHIC: IMAGE
IMAGE; By Neal Ulevich -- Bloomberg News; Western Union is among the firms that
offer transfer services allowing workers send funds to Latin America.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              276 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 2, 2007 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

Seeking Sense on Immigration

BYLINE: Robert J. Samuelson

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 875 words


Our stalled immigration debate needs more common sense and more common decency.
America's immigration system is unquestionably broken. It encourages illegality,
frustrates assimilation and barely aids the economy -- exactly the opposite of
what it should do. Senators are  striving to craft something more sensible. But
they will fail unless both liberals and conservatives discard some of their
cherished ambitions.

From liberals, we need more common sense. Their main position is to perpetuate a
policy that guarantees rising U.S. poverty. Consider: From 1990 to 2005, the
increase in the number of people living beneath the government's poverty line
(now about $20,000 for a family of four) was  3,365,000; the increase in the
number of Hispanics living below the poverty line over the same period was
3,362,000. Does anyone doubt that this coincidence stems mostly from
immigration?

True, much of it was illegal. But many liberals -- along with the Bush
administration and business groups -- favor a sizable program of "guest
workers." In effect, the annual flow of illegal immigrants would become an
annual flow of guest workers. But they'd still be poor; and they'd also be
promised a path to U.S. citizenship. In other words, they wouldn't be "guests."

Liberals have embraced an unholy alliance with business in which business gets
most of the gains and immigration's costs are thrown onto the public sector. The
justification is an alleged shortage of unskilled workers. That's a fiction. In
March, the unemployment rate for college graduates was 1.8 percent; for the 13
million workers without a high school diploma, it was 7 percent.

Tight labor markets raise wages. Admitting more poor, low-skilled Latino workers
hurts Latinos already here by depressing their wages. It's anti-Hispanic and
anti-assimilation. Almost certainly, it also hurts the wages of other
low-skilled Americans. Businesses grasp this -- hence their support for guest
workers -- even if some academic economists do not. Why many liberals don't is a
puzzle.

There are further consequences. Low-paid workers often don't cover the cost of
their social services with taxes. Schools and hospitals are burdened. Since
1990, about 60 percent of the increase in those without health insurance has
occurred among Hispanics. A policy that favors poor immigrants will strain
social services and raise taxes. In the mid-1990s, immigrant families cost
native households an average of $1,200 in extra taxes in California. If
immigration of the poor continues, this effect will spread.

From conservatives, we need more common decency. A favorite rallying cry is "no
amnesty." Today's estimated 12 million illegal immigrants, it's said, shouldn't
receive legal status -- let alone citizenship. Don't reward criminality. This
sounds principled but ignores sensible conservative precepts.

One is responsibility. All of us are morally complicit in the flood of illegal
immigrants. Our government encouraged it through loose border controls and lax
oversight of employer hiring. A second precept is practicality. Hardly anyone
thinks the 12 million can be rounded up and sent home. To pretend otherwise is
dishonest, ordains failure and makes government seem inept. It also condones
disrespect for the law. By denying legal status to long-standing residents, we
perpetuate the system's illegality.

Finally, there's family and humanity. About two-thirds of the children of
illegal immigrants were born here and are U.S. citizens, reports demographer
Jeff Passel of the Pew Hispanic Center. A futile campaign to remove many
longtime illegal immigrants would splinter families. Some children would remain
here; others -- American citizens -- would have their lives shattered by their
own government.

To oversimplify only slightly: Liberals (and the Bush administration) often
pander to Hispanic voters; conservatives often pander to anti-Hispanic
prejudice. Our immigration system should do neither. It should control our
borders and create a reliable worker verification system for businesses.
Violators should be punished severely. Long-standing illegal immigrants who meet
legislated standards of good behavior and community ties should receive legal
status -- "amnesty," though by a less provocative label. There should be no
major "guest worker" program. Instead, permanent-residency visas -- leading to
citizenship -- should favor skilled over low-skilled workers.

Even with much goodwill, it's unclear that we can create this sort of system.
Practical problems abound. Can we really control our borders? But without a
consensus of what we're trying to do -- and why -- the chances of success are
negligible. America has a wonderful capacity to assimilate newcomers, but it
cannot constructively absorb limitless numbers of poor, unskilled newcomers. The
point of favoring highly skilled immigrants is to promote assimilation, bolster
the economy, and minimize the social and cultural conflicts of immigration.

If the senators negotiating these hard issues fashion a compromise simply by
mixing items from each side's agenda -- agendas that are mainly opposed -- the
resulting accommodation will disappoint both and ensure that immigration looms
ever larger as an economic and political tinderbox.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              277 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 2, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

WORKING

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. D02

LENGTH: 184 words

Immigrants' Presence

Immigrant men were more likely to hold jobs last year than those born in the
United States -- and much more likely to work than foreign-born women, new
government numbers show.

The jobless rate for foreign-born men fell last year to 3.5 percent, compared
with the native-born men's rate of 4.8 percent, the Bureau of Labor Statistics
said. It was the second time since the data debuted in 1996 that unemployment
among immigrants was lower than for natives.

That's partly because immigrants tend to be younger-- and younger people are
more likely to work. Three quarters of the immigrant workforce falls in the
25-to-54 age group, which is most likely to work, compared with two-thirds of
natives.

More than 8 in 10 foreign-born men were working or looking for work last year,
compared with 72 percent of native men and 55.3 percent of foreign-born women.

That represents almost 13.4 million men born elsewhere working here, up 1.2
million from 2005. Foreign-born workers represent 15.3 percent of the U.S. labor
force and accounted for half of last year's workforce growth.

-- Vickie Elmer

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              278 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 3, 2007 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Sheriff Changes Course on Deportation Training

BYLINE: Sandhya Somashekhar; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. LZ03

LENGTH: 316 words


Sheriff Stephen O. Simpson said this week that he might  be open to enrolling
some of his deputies in federal immigration training that he previously said was
unnecessary.

During a presentation Tuesday afternoon before the Loudoun County Board of
Supervisors, Simpson said he changed his mind about the U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement training, called the Section 287(g) program, after
discussing it with federal immigration officials that morning.

Simpson said the officials indicated they might be willing to pick up illegal
detainees within 72 hours instead of leaving them in the Leesburg jail until
they are  ready to be deported, which Simpson said would be  a disaster at the
crowded facility.

The officials also said they might be able to pay overtime to  some deputies,
Simpson said.

Simpson said that if federal officials follow  through, he will send about a
dozen deputies from the jail and the gang unit to the training, which would
allow the sheriff's office  to initiate deportation proceedings and give
deputies access to some federal databases.

Simpson said his change of heart had nothing to do with this year's sheriff's
election and criticism from his two opponents, who support the training.

"I'm not going to be pushed into something for political purposes," he said. "If
[immigration officials] are willing to deal with some of those other issues, I'm
in favor of it."

His opponents, however, said his new position smacked of political opportunism.

"I think the sheriff realized he's on the losing side of this issue," said Greg
Ahlemann, a fellow Republican who advocates taking a hard line against  illegal
immigrants.

Simpson's Democratic opponent, Mike George, also supports the training but wants
to send only one deputy. Any more would be overkill, he said.

"Why didn't he turn around before?" George said. "What took him this long to
talk to ICE? He's just reacting."

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Loudoun County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              279 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 3, 2007 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

WORKING

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. D02

LENGTH: 205 words

Migrating to Higher Pay

Foreign-born workers earn less than those born in the United States, but there
are some exceptions, according to a new government report.

The median wage for Asian-born workers was the same last year as for Asian
Americans born in the United States. And both blacks and whites born abroad
earned slightly more a week than those born here, according to the Bureau of
Labor Statistics.

Whites and blacks who move to the United States mostly come for high-skill or
professional positions, according to a BLS economist. Indeed, immigrants with a
bachelor's degree or higher earn a median $1,024 a week, just $18 less than
their native-born counterparts.

Overall, though, immigrants earn less, mostly because many of them work in
lower-paying service jobs. About half the foreign-born workforce is Hispanic.

Immigrant men earn almost $220 a week less than native born (a median of $563
vs. $782), while foreign-born women earn about $100 a week less than native-born
female workers, the BLS reported.

Foreign-born workers show up disproportionately in service fields, according to
the BLS, especially in food preparation and service jobs, and those in
construction and building or grounds maintenance.

-- Vickie Elmer

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              280 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 4, 2007 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

FBI May Probe Use of Force by L.A. Police at Immigration Rally

BYLINE: Jeremiah Marquez; Associated Press

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 583 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 3


The FBI will open a civil rights inquiry into the Los Angeles Police
Department's actions at an immigration rally where officers cleared a city park
by wielding batons and firing rubber bullets, the bureau said Thursday.

The preliminary inquiry seeks to determine "whether the civil rights of
protesters taking part in the May 1st immigration rally were violated,"
according to an FBI news release.

Police Chief William J. Bratton said earlier Thursday he planned to meet next
week with the head of the FBI's Los Angeles office, Assistant Director in Charge
J. Stephen Tidwell, to determine whether Tuesday's clashes at MacArthur Park
were "something the bureau would become involved with."

"We'll share information and make a decision at that time," Bratton said in an
interview with the Associated Press. "I have no issues with the FBI coming in .
. . and taking a look at it."

The FBI probe is the fourth official investigation of the violence. The U.S.
Department of Justice will review the bureau's results and decide whether to
initiate a full-fledge investigation.

Police investigators plan to review extensive video of Tuesday's rally, where
police clashed with a crowd in MacArthur Park, wielding batons and firing 240
rubber bullets.

Bratton said in an appearance on CBS's "Early Show" that he was "not happy" when
he watched videotape of the events.

The chief said he hoped a federal review would show the department had nothing
to hide, while dispelling any claims that police had targeted immigrants or
immigrant rights activists. Rally organizers decried the police behavior as
brutal.

The clashes started around 6 p.m., when police tried to disperse demonstrators
who moved into a street, according to rally organizers and reporters. Officers
used batons to push the crowd back to the sidewalk after several people threw
rocks and bottles at them, then cleared the park, authorities said.

News images showed police knocking a TV cameraman to the ground, shoving people
who were walking away from officers and injuries from the rubber bullets.

A police order to disperse probably wasn't effective because it was in English
and given from a helicopter, Bratton said Wednesday. Many at the protest were
Spanish speakers, he said.

Seven officers suffered minor injuries, and another was pushed off his
motorcycle. About 10 other people were treated for minor injuries, although
authorities expected the number to rise.

The police department has opened two investigations, one to create an
"after-action report" that evaluates planning and operations, and another by
internal affairs to probe complaints against officers.

An independent review has also been undertaken by the investigative arm of the
city's civilian police commission, a five-member board of mayoral appointees
that sets policy for the police department.

Police union leaders urged against a "rush to judgment."

"Our officers gave a legal dispersal order and were met with violence. In the
coming days, it will become clear what transpired," Bob Baker of the Los Angeles
Police Protective League said in a news release.

News organizations condemned the department for its use of batons and riot guns
against journalists.

"We are sorry for what happened to our employees and find it unacceptable that
they would be abused in that way when they were doing their job," said Alfredo
Richard, spokesman for the Spanish-language network Telemundo, whose anchor and
reporter were injured.

Bratton promised to investigate the treatment of reporters.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Branimir Kvartuc -- Associated Press; Police Chief William
Bratton says he welcomes FBI scrutiny of police conduct at a May Day rally.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              281 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 5, 2007 Saturday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Investigators Declare Fire Was Arson

BYLINE: Lori Aratani; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 498 words


An early morning fire at a day-labor center near Gaithersburg yesterday was
arson, Montgomery County investigators said, causing little damage but raising
concerns about anti-immigrant sentiment.

County fire investigators said that shortly before 6 a.m., someone used an
ignitable liquid to start the fire at the double-wide trailer at the temporary
worker center that opened last month on Crabbs Branch Way.

Department spokesman Pete Piringer said that by the time firefighters arrived,
the blaze had been extinguished. He estimated damage at $2,000.

Investigators did not know whether the blaze was set by someone who opposed the
worker center, which has generated controversy among residents and groups that
oppose illegal immigration. But representatives from Casa of Maryland, which
runs the center, said they were certain this was sabotage.

"We see this as a natural consequence to the ongoing debate over immigration,''
said Christy Swanson, program director for Casa of Maryland. "We also consider
it a hate crime.''

Swanson said her group has received phone calls and e-mails from people who
oppose the center but there were no specific threats that hinted at yesterday's
fire.

Patrick Lacefield, spokesman for the county, said he spoke to County Executive
Isiah Leggett (D), who called the incident "shameful and despicable."

"Some people disagree with the policy and they have a right to, but obviously
this crosses the line,'' Lacefield said.

Representatives from two groups that oppose the center said they had nothing to
do with the blaze. "There is no one with any affiliation to our group that would
do anything like this,'' said Stephen Schreiman, state director of the Maryland
Minutemen.

Brad Botwin, director of HelpSaveMaryland.com, reiterated his belief that the
center be shut down and suggested the fire might have been started by one of the
workers.

"We don't know who these workers are," he said. They could have done this."

By noon, the damage from the fire, which was discovered by a staff member, was
largely erased. County workers moved quickly to repair a charred floorboard near
the door of the trailer. But there were still signs that something was amiss. A
darkened trail, evidence of the accelerant that investigators believed was used
to fuel the fire, extended from the sidewalk to the steps of the trailer.

With the trailer closed, a dozen workers stood in the parking lot waiting for
work.

The day-labor center opened with little protest April 16, despite several years
of controversy over where it should be established.

Even though the county operates two other day-labor centers -- in Wheaton and
Silver Spring -- its plans to open a Gaithersburg site drew protest from some
community members and anti-immigration groups. The Montgomery County Council had
allocated money in 2005 for the center to be opened in Gaithersburg, but city
officials never found a suitable site.

Anyone with information about the blaze is asked to call fire officials at
240-777-2263.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              282 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 5, 2007 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

DISTRICT BRIEFING

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 493 words

IMMIGRATION RALLY

Man Jailed on Weapons, Assault Charges

A Northwest Washington man was ordered held without bond yesterday after police
found handguns, rifles and a hand grenade in his apartment, authorities said.

Tyler J. Froatz Jr., 24, was arrested Tuesday afternoon after he allegedly
disrupted a pro-immigration rally at Meridian Hill Park a day earlier. He had
entered the park with anti-immigrant signs and literature and started to
physically attack people in the crowd, said Ricardo Juarez Nava, one of the
rally's organizers.

U.S. Park Police said they caught Froatz with two knives, a claw-type hammer, a
flare gun, a Taser stun device and pepper spray.

A search of his Jeep turned up a rifle with 20 rounds of ammunition, maps of the
area and of at least one embassy, and photos of weapons, according to charging
papers.

Authorities later found more than 15 guns, a molotov cocktail, a hand grenade
and more than 1,000 rounds of ammunition in Froatz's apartment in the 5300 block
of Eighth Street NW, the charging papers stated.

Froatz appeared yesterday for a hearing on assault and weapons charges in D.C.
Superior Court, where Senior Judge John R. Hess ordered him jailed pending
trial.

--  Bill Miller

CRIME

Arrest Made in Fatal 2006 Shooting

D.C. police  arrested a 17-year-old yesterday in the death of a 21-year-old man
last year.

Walter Tyree Williams of the 900 block of Allison Street NW was charged as an
adult with first-degree murder in the shooting of Jerico Bryant. Police found
Bryant on May 15, 2006, in the 1700 block of Eighth Street NW with multiple
gunshot wounds. He was pronounced dead shortly afterward.

--  Allison Klein

COUNCIL LEGISLATION

2 Tax Breaks Will Go Before Full Board

 The D.C. Council Committee on Finance and Revenue will recommend that the full
council adopt two tax breaks designed to prevent residents from moving out of
the city to escape rising levies.

The committee voted 4 to 1 yesterday to restrict real estate tax increases on
owner-occupied housing to 5 percent annually starting in fiscal 2008. The city's
cap is now 10 percent.

Council member Marion Barry (D-Ward 8) dissented, citing a report by the D.C.
Fiscal Policy Institute that showed that the city's wealthier residents would
benefit  most from the proposal. "We are going to benefit those that can afford
this 10 percent," he said.

Barry and council member Jim Graham (D-Ward 1) also voted against offering an
estate tax inheritance exemption, which would start in 2009, for estates of $3.5
million or less. The tax exemption is currently $1 million. The proposal passed
3 to 2. Council members Kwame R. Brown (D-At Large) and David A. Catania (I-At
Large), who supported the proposal, said the estate tax exemptions would not go
into effect unless the city could afford them.

Combined, the measures would cost nearly $100 million. The council is scheduled
to consider the legislation when it votes on the annual budget May 15.

--  Nikita Stewart

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              283 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 10, 2007 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

House Bill Would Admit More Iraqi Refugees

BYLINE: Nora Boustany; Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FOREIGN; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 426 words


House Democrats plan to introduce a bill this morning that would increase by at
least 20,000 the number of Iraqi refugees eligible for resettlement in the
United States in 2007 and 2008. It would also admit 15,000 "special immigrant
status" Iraqis and their families for each of the next four years.

Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) will hold a news conference with Rep. Jan
Schakowsky (D-Ill.) and Iraq's ambassador to Washington, Samir Sumaidaie, to
explain the legislation, the "Responsibility to Iraqi Refugees Act." They will
be joined by a West Point graduate who served in Iraq and representatives of the
International Rescue Committee, Amnesty International and the Church World
Service.

The Office of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees estimates that more than 4
million Iraqis have been displaced by the war and now live in neighboring
countries or in other parts of Iraq. An additional 50,000 to 70,000 Iraqis are
displaced from their homes every month, the agency estimates.

Although current regulations allow for 7,000 Iraqi refugees to be processed for
U.S. entry by year's end, only seven entered the country in February and 11 in
March, compared to about 8,000 entering Sweden, officials said.

The "special immigrant status" Iraqis  include interpreters and others who have
worked for the U.S. government, the United Nations, contractors or U.S.-based
nongovernmental organizations. Current law allows in 50  interpreters for U.S.
personnel in Iraq and Afghanistan.

"There is stark awareness of what we have done for putting tens of thousands of
Iraqis at risk because they helped us," Blumenauer said.

Ken Bacon, president of Refugees International, said the bill "addresses the
group to which we have a moral obligation."

"Right now, it is not a bipartisan bill and that is a shame," Bacon said
yesterday.

"How we address this flood of refugees coming into the U.S. and the millions who
remain in the region, who could pose a future security problem to the U.S.,
should be bipartisan," he added.

Blumenauer told of how poignant it was for him to help a member of the Oregon
National Guard try to get his interpreter out of Iraq. The man was moving every
night in an attempt to stay safe.

A day after he called in from his uncle's house, Blumenauer said, he was killed.

The refugee category would include female heads of households, members of
religious communities such as Chaldo-Assyrian Christians, Jews, Sabean Mandeans,
Yazidis, Bahais and other vulnerable minority groups such as gay Iraqis and
Iraqis with family members in the United States.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              284 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 12, 2007 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Testing, Testing;
Making the U.S. citizenship test more 'meaningful'

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 450 words


WHAT IS or should be required to become an American?

According to U.S. law, the criteria include basic knowledge of English and U.S.
civics. What "basic knowledge" means, however, varies from region to region.
Citizenship applicants must answer 10 of the 96 civics questions produced by the
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. But which 10 questions, whether the
hardest 10 or the easiest 10, and whether they are written or oral, is
determined by the office or the person administering the test. As a result,
cities can have different tests and different pass rates.

Now, concluding a decade-long project to standardize the naturalization process,
Citizenship and Immigration Services is trying out a new test in 10 cities.
Agency  spokeswoman Chris Rhatigan says the pilot test questions are selected
randomly by computer, with a balance of hard and easy questions and a consistent
mix of questions from different topics such as history and geography.
Citizenship and Immigration Services  has also infused the vocabulary lists for
the English portion of the test with more civics-related terms such as  "first
lady."

The more controversial change to the test is the refocusing of the civics
questions on American "concepts" rather than tight facts. The 142 pilot
questions, of which about 100 will be kept, are meant to make the naturalization
test "more meaningful," the agency  says. Some pro-immigrant groups fear that
"more meaningful" may be code for "harder." Many of the pilot questions are more
abstract, such as asking what the rule of law means or what Ben Franklin was
famous for. These open-ended questions seem to undercut the standardization goal
since they are inherently more subjective. Citizenship and Immigration Services
has released a list of the questions and correct answers, but they do not
include every possible answer.

Other pilot questions seem beyond the scope of what American citizens,
native-born or immigrant, are expected to know. We'd like to think everyone can
name the authors of the Federalist Papers (Madison, Hamilton, and Jay, writing
under the name "Publius") or identify the alliance of North American and
European countries created during the Cold War (NATO), but should you be barred
from citizenship if you can't? Given that naturalization applicants have already
been legal permanent residents for years and have passed FBI background checks,
there's no need to make them jump through hoops that most current citizens
couldn't wriggle through without consulting Wikipedia. We hope that once the
study is completed in a few weeks, officials will craft a test that maintains
the current national pass rate of 84 percent,  as they have said they will.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              285 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 13, 2007 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

Testing, Testing;
Making the U.S. citizenship test more 'meaningful'

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 450 words


WHAT IS or should be required to become an American?

According to U.S. law, the criteria include basic knowledge of English and U.S.
civics. What "basic knowledge" means, however, varies from region to region.
Citizenship applicants must answer 10 of the 96 civics questions produced by the
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. But which 10 questions, whether the
hardest 10 or the easiest 10, and whether they are written or oral, is
determined by the office or the person administering the test. As a result,
cities can have different tests and different pass rates.

Now, concluding a decade-long project to standardize the naturalization process,
Citizenship and Immigration Services is trying out a new test in 10 cities.
Agency  spokeswoman Chris Rhatigan says the pilot test questions are selected
randomly by computer, with a balance of hard and easy questions and a consistent
mix of questions from different topics such as history and geography.
Citizenship and Immigration Services  has also infused the vocabulary lists for
the English portion of the test with more civics-related terms such as  "first
lady."

The more controversial change to the test is the refocusing of the civics
questions on American "concepts" rather than tight facts. The 142 pilot
questions, of which about 100 will be kept, are meant to make the naturalization
test "more meaningful," the agency  says. Some pro-immigrant groups fear that
"more meaningful" may be code for "harder." Many of the pilot questions are more
abstract, such as asking what the rule of law means or what Ben Franklin was
famous for. These open-ended questions seem to undercut the standardization goal
since they are inherently more subjective. Citizenship and Immigration Services
has released a list of the questions and correct answers, but they do not
include every possible answer.

Other pilot questions seem beyond the scope of what American citizens,
native-born or immigrant, are expected to know. We'd like to think everyone can
name the authors of the Federalist Papers (Madison, Hamilton, and Jay, writing
under the name "Publius") or identify the alliance of North American and
European countries created during the Cold War (NATO), but should you be barred
from citizenship if you can't? Given that naturalization applicants have already
been legal permanent residents for years and have passed FBI background checks,
there's no need to make them jump through hoops that most current citizens
couldn't wriggle through without consulting Wikipedia. We hope that once the
study is completed in a few weeks, officials will craft a test that maintains
the current national pass rate of 84 percent,  as they have said they will.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              286 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 14, 2007 Monday
                                Regional Edition

An insider's guide to the upcoming week

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 354 words

Immigration Revisited

After a year's hiatus, immigration returns to the forefront of the national
discussion this week. The Senate is to take up a bill, sponsored by Sens. John
McCain (R-Ariz.) and Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), that would combine enhanced
border security with offering a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants
already in the country.

The White House is working with lawmakers from both parties to allow a path to
legal status only for immigrants who have passed a background check and paid
fines, among other things.

The Senate also is set to resume the debate over Iraq, appearing unlikely to
back a House bill cutting funding for the war as soon as July if the Iraqi
government does not meet certain benchmarks. But senators are poised to include
some benchmarks in their war-spending legislation, which they hope to pass this
week and send to the president by month's end.

Other items on Congress's agenda include work on the budget and a hearing
Tuesday about the Justice Department.

An old ally, a final visit: Having announced he will step down at the end of
next month, Tony Blair will make perhaps his final U.S. visit as British prime
minister on Tuesday and Wednesday. Blair and President Bush, ideologically
disparate leaders, forged a bond in their support for the Iraq war.

Debate count: Wasn't there a GOP debate just a few days ago? Well, get ready for
another one -- Tuesday night in South Carolina, hosted by the state party and
Fox News Channel.

The Wolfowitz watch: A committee of the World Bank is expected to issue a
finding midweek on the actions of bank President Paul D. Wolfowitz, who is
accused of improperly acting to help his girlfriend. Word is that the committee
will say it has lost confidence in Wolfowitz, hoping that will persuade him to
resign.

What do you get when you mix politics and brotherly love? You get the
Philadelphia mayoral primary, set for  Tuesday, and you get two Democratic
lawmakers facing off: Reps. Robert Brady, a six-term congressman from Overbrook,
and Chaka Fattah, a seven-term congressman from East Falls. There are three
other men in the  primary, too.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              287 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 18, 2007 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Breakthrough on Immigration;
A bipartisan bill could mean a lasting fix for a broken system -- if Congress
works out the kinks.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 535 words


THE BIPARTISAN deal on immigration announced in the Senate yesterday is a
breakthrough: It probably represents the best hope in decades to fix this
country's non-functioning immigration system. Most important, it would allow
millions of illegal immigrants already here to put themselves on the right side
of the law and on a path toward eventual permanent residence. But like most
rough drafts, this one needs work. It's critical that in addressing one set of
immigration problems, the legislation doesn't create a new set.

Crafted with critical guidance from the Bush administration,  the 380-page bill
includes much to cheer about, not least the ideological range of its sponsors,
from Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) to Sen. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.). But their
alliance also highlights the  bill's central political trade-off -- legalization
for 12 million immigrants already here in return for second-class status for
hundreds of thousands of future low-skilled workers the U.S. economy needs each
year.

Among the bill's most constructive elements are provisions that would provide
legal protection for hundreds of thousands of migrant agricultural workers; a
fast track to permanent residence for immigrant college students and  members of
the military who entered the country as children; tighter border security; and a
system  for employers to verify that job applicants are here legally --  with
penalties for employers who fail to do so.

The bill recognizes that many of the 12 million illegal immigrants here, whose
labor is critical to the economy, are here to stay and must be treated decently
and realistically. They will have a path to permanent residence, but not one
that can be disparaged as "amnesty." In addition to establishing  law-abiding
records and good employment histories, they will have to wait eight years before
applying for permanent resident status, pay $5,000 in fines (less than the White
House proposed) and, in the case of heads of households, leave the country and
reenter legally. That last provision -- a sop to the anti-immigrant crowd -- is
absurd and mean-spirited; it would be a burden for many hard-working immigrants.

The bill also would provide relief for an estimated 4 million or more  foreign
relatives of U.S. residents and citizens who, having applied for visas to be
reunited with their families before spring 2005, now face waits of up to 22
years. Under the bill, an additional 240,000 green cards would be granted
annually to clear the backlog within eight years. But future visa rules would
favor highly educated and job-qualified applicants over many categories of
relatives, such as adult siblings and grown children. In a globalized economy,
that may make sense, but it will exact a real human cost.

The bill's most troubling aspect is its treatment of the future annual flow of
400,000 to 600,000 low-skilled workers needed to satisfy the demand for labor.
They would have to leave every two years and stay out of the country for a year,
for a maximum of six years' work here -- a system that invites rule-breaking by
workers and employers and raises the specter of a future class of illegal
immigrants. That is precisely the problem this bill was intended to solve.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              288 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 19, 2007 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Trigger-Happy;
On immigration, the cost of wishful thinking may be high.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 464 words


SUPPOSE FOR a moment that the Senate's immigration bill, unveiled Thursday amid
great fanfare, becomes law this year. Here's a partial, multibillion-dollar
to-do list for the Department of Homeland Security:

Hire, train and deploy 5,000 to 6,000 additional Border Patrol agents, bringing
the total force to 18,000.

Hire, train and deploy thousands more civilian workers who would begin
registering an estimated 12 million illegal immigrants already in the country,
and provide the technical and logistical capacity to do that, including
registration centers, electronic fingerprinting, etc.

Erect 370 miles of fencing along the Mexican border.

Develop and implement a comprehensive worker-verification system that would
enable employers to quickly check on whether a job applicant is in the country
legally.

Oh, and by the way, the deadline for all that would be the end of 2008.

That would be a tall order and a daunting time frame for any government agency,
let alone a bureaucratic behemoth such as  Homeland Security, which has been
beset by organizational inefficiencies from its creation.  But according to the
Senate immigration bill, meeting all those goals is necessary -- a trigger, in
legislative parlance -- for going forward with a major element of the new
immigration system that would allow 400,000 to 600,000 temporary workers to
enter the country legally each year. In other words, the department's failure to
satisfy the legislation's so-called triggers could mean an ongoing influx of
illegal immigrants and more deaths in the desert or, if the new fencing is
effective, a critical shortage of low-skilled labor in construction,
landscaping, hospitality and other industries.

Secretary Michael Chertoff and his aides insist that the department is up to the
task. Employers are much less sanguine. They point out that for the
employee-verification system to work, there would need to be an unprecedented
level of technical cooperation and coordination between U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services, an agency of DHS, and the Social Security Administration.
(The verification system relies on cross-checking Social Security numbers.) A
pilot program along those lines has worked reasonably well for the past few
years, but a system covering everyone will have to handle 60 million annual
inquiries from the country's 7 million or so employers. Brace yourself for the
inevitable breakdowns, glitches and bungles, whether the system is ready on time
or not.

The triggers make some political sense. There will be enormous pressure for them
to be implemented on time so that the temporary-worker program can go forward.
But the cost of long delays, which would be the norm in a project of this
magnitude, will be high indeed. That possibility should invite scrutiny from

senators.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              289 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 19, 2007 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Local Immigrants Eye Bill With Mix of Hope and Suspicion

BYLINE: Pamela Constable and N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 929 words


The sweeping immigration reform plan proposed by the Bush administration and a
bipartisan group of senators Thursday has left immigrants across the Washington
area scrambling to determine whether the complex compromise agreement would help
or hurt them.

The answer varies as much as the circumstances of the estimated 600,000 foreign
nationals who call the region home.

Luis, 24, a Guatemalan house painter waiting for work with other illegal
immigrants outside a convenience store in Falls Church yesterday, said he was
pleased that the plan offered him a path to legalization, but he was suspicious
of the fine print.

"I heard it says you have to go back to your country to become legal, but maybe
that's just a trick to get people to leave," said Luis, who declined to give his
last name.

Annabelle Flores, 48, a U.S. citizen living in Manassas who has waited 15 years
to get permanent residency for her sister and three brothers back in the
Philippines, was thrilled to learn that the proposal might speed their arrival.
But she was dismayed that it would prevent naturalized U.S. citizens from
sponsoring their foreign-born siblings and adult children for visas.

"I understand that they need to do that to make room to legalize all the illegal
immigrants that are here. . . . But it seems so unfair to people like us who
followed all the rules," she said.

Local immigrant advocates offered a similarly mixed verdict -- praising the
380-page agreement as an important starting point for debate, yet vowing to
oppose it unless a raft of provisions they consider unfair and impractical are
amended.

Of particular concern was the temporary nature of the additional work visas that
the plan would extend to as many as 400,000 immigrants per year. Such workers
would be required to return to their home countries after two years and remain
there for one year before they could come back to the United States.

This would create a large pool of second-class workers who have little legal
protection and no stability, said Thomas Snyder, the D.C-based political
director for Unite Here, a union that represents hotel, restaurant and garment
workers.

"Temporary workers by definition have fewer rights. They cannot assimilate and
become part of the workforce," he said. "These are not seasonal jobs, they are
temporary workers for permanent jobs. This creates a revolving door of
lower-status workers that we just don't need."

Immigrants and their supporters also had qualms about the plan's provisions for
legalizing most of the estimated 12 million undocumented immigrants in the
United States.

Under the proposal, illegal immigrants who entered the country before January,
who pass a criminal background check and pay $3,000 could apply for a four-year
"Z-visa," renew it for another four years, then pay an additional $4,000 to
apply for legal permanent residency. However, heads of immigrant households
would have to return to their home countries to file the permanent residency
application from there.

Jaime Contreras, president of the National Capital Immigration Coalition, said
that was too heavy a burden. "Instead of creating more strain on families, it
would be much more humane and common sense to let the head of the family stay
here."

Another potential sticking point is that illegal immigrants who get Z-visas
under the plan would be unable to sponsor children or spouses overseas until
they become legal permanent residents -- a process that could take up to 13
years.

"The reality is people are just not going to wait that long," said Kevin
Appleby, director of migration and refugee policy for the U.S. Conference of
Catholic Bishops. He added that it "will just encourage more undocumented
immigration. What you'll see is a lot of women and children continuing to come
across the border."

Groups that assist families of legal immigrants said the proposed bill would
unfairly penalize hundreds of thousands who have obeyed the law and waited
abroad for their turn to be united with relatives who had legally immigrated to
the United States.

For example, foreigners who have applied for legal permanent residency under
categories that are slated to be eliminated under the bill -- such as adult
children and siblings of U.S. citizens -- will be grandfathered in only if they
filed their application before May 2005. An estimated 800,000 who applied after
that date will lose their chance to immigrate.

In addition, spouses and minor children of legal permanent residents, who
already faced a five- to 10-year delay to immigrate, would have to wait up to 20
years.

"We think this sends a ridiculous message because some people who came illegally
can now go through the legalization process, while some who tried to play by the
rules now find the rules going against them," said Karen Narasaki, president of
the Asian American Justice Center in Washington.

While immigrant advocates criticized the proposal as making it too hard for
illegal immigrants to obtain legal status, area organizations that oppose
illegal immigration complained that the bill is far too lenient on foreigners
who entered the country illegally.

"This bill would grant amnesty to folks who broke the law, which is outrageous,"
said Greg Letiecq, a community activist in Manassas. "It allows people who broke
the law to buy their way out of the consequences. They should be prosecuted and
deported."

Letiecq said the idea of seeking a broad immigration bill through bipartisan
compromise was a mistake. Instead, he said various aspects of the issue,
including border enforcement, should be considered separately.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              290 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 20, 2007 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

Trigger-Happy;
On immigration, the cost of wishful thinking may be high.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 464 words


SUPPOSE FOR a moment that the Senate's immigration bill, unveiled Thursday amid
great fanfare, becomes law this year. Here's a partial, multibillion-dollar
to-do list for the Department of Homeland Security:

Hire, train and deploy 5,000 to 6,000 additional Border Patrol agents, bringing
the total force to 18,000.

Hire, train and deploy thousands more civilian workers who would begin
registering an estimated 12 million illegal immigrants already in the country,
and provide the technical and logistical capacity to do that, including
registration centers, electronic fingerprinting, etc.

Erect 370 miles of fencing along the Mexican border.

Develop and implement a comprehensive worker-verification system that would
enable employers to quickly check on whether a job applicant is in the country
legally.

Oh, and by the way, the deadline for all that would be the end of 2008.

That would be a tall order and a daunting time frame for any government agency,
let alone a bureaucratic behemoth such as  Homeland Security, which has been
beset by organizational inefficiencies from its creation.  But according to the
Senate immigration bill, meeting all those goals is necessary -- a trigger, in
legislative parlance -- for going forward with a major element of the new
immigration system that would allow 400,000 to 600,000 temporary workers to
enter the country legally each year. In other words, the department's failure to
satisfy the legislation's so-called triggers could mean an ongoing influx of
illegal immigrants and more deaths in the desert or, if the new fencing is
effective, a critical shortage of low-skilled labor in construction,
landscaping, hospitality and other industries.

Secretary Michael Chertoff and his aides insist that the department is up to the
task. Employers are much less sanguine. They point out that for the
employee-verification system to work, there would need to be an unprecedented
level of technical cooperation and coordination between U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services, an agency of DHS, and the Social Security Administration.
(The verification system relies on cross-checking Social Security numbers.) A
pilot program along those lines has worked reasonably well for the past few
years, but a system covering everyone will have to handle 60 million annual
inquiries from the country's 7 million or so employers. Brace yourself for the
inevitable breakdowns, glitches and bungles, whether the system is ready on time
or not.

The triggers make some political sense. There will be enormous pressure for them
to be implemented on time so that the temporary-worker program can go forward.
But the cost of long delays, which would be the norm in a project of this
magnitude, will be high indeed. That possibility should invite scrutiny from

senators.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              291 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 20, 2007 Sunday
                                 Met 1 Edition

Poster Child;
In Tomasa Mendez, the Immigration Debate Now Has a Very Public Face

BYLINE: David Montgomery; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 1252 words


The girl in the picture has grief in her eyes, fear on her lips. Only later,
when you meet her, do you realize she has world-class dimples. In the picture,
fear has swallowed her dimples, while a maternal hand, with fingernails gnawed
to the quick, strokes her head.

This is Tomasa Mendez -- or her image, at least. At 2 years old, she cannot
comprehend the drama swirling around her, the national debate she has come to
symbolize. But she can miss her "Papi," and cling ever tighter to her fuzzy
green Dora the Explorer blanket.

She is a girl who became a picture who became a poster who became an icon -- or
a piece of propaganda, if you like -- in the push and pull over immigration
reform. The girl in the picture visited Washington the other day, where she kept
coming face to face with . . . the girl in the picture, her picture. And more
cameras, making yet more pictures.

What is the degree of separation between the girl and the girl in the picture?
Some pictures mean exactly what they say, and that is why they are seized upon
by shrewd adults to make into icons.

Some background: Tomasa lives in New Bedford, Mass., where on March 6, agents
with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement raided a factory and detained 361
workers suspected of being in this country illegally. The workers at Michael
Bianco Inc. were  making backpacks for U.S. military personnel. Tomasa's father,
Hector Mendez, was one of those arrested.

Tomasa's mother, Dominga, ran toward the factory with Tomasa in her arms. There
were people in uniforms everywhere. "La polic?a," Dominga said to Tomasa.
(Dominga asked that her last name, different from her husband's, not be
published for fear that authorities would detect her own undocumented status.)
The parents came from Guatemala six years ago. Tomasa, who was born in this
country, is a U.S. citizen.

The next day, families crowded into a church basement for information and
assistance. Tomasa was crying in her mother's lap.

Standing nearby was Peter Pereira, a photographer for the New Bedford
Standard-Times, who had been taking pictures on this big breaking story for two
days.

A priest started talking. Everyone hushed, except for one little girl, who
couldn't stop crying. Pereira understood enough Spanish to know that Dominga was
trying to reassure Tomasa that "Papi" would be all right. He raised his lens to
shoot . . .

Let's freeze the frame right there, with the photographer poised and the girl
not yet a picture. It is 3:04 p.m. on March 7, and here the stories of the girl
and the girl in the picture diverge. They'll meet again later, in Washington.

The girl: Tomasa's father was the family's provider, bringing home about $300 a
week. Dominga hasn't found a job because she can't afford the $160 a week that
she says it would cost for child care. (Tomasa has two brothers, Diego, 7, and
Melvin, 5.)

"They say, 'Why doesn't my father come home?' " Dominga says in an interview in
Spanish. "I don't know how to answer them."

Money raised by the community helped the family with food and rent for about six
weeks. Now that money is gone. The rent is due. The phone and cable service have
been cut off. Their church helped them find a lawyer, and organizers from the
Massachusetts Immigrant and Refugee Advocacy Coalition visit twice a week to do
what they can.

Hector Mendez ended up in a detention facility in Massachusetts, but Dominga
can't visit because she is undocumented. She and the children were able to speak
to him on the phone, until they lost phone service.

"What am I going to do with the children?" Dominga asks.

Immigrant-rights organizers say the family's plight is typical. Scores of
families have been separated in the recent wave of workplace raids. The human
cost of enforcing the law is much greater than the violation, and many victims
are children, organizers say.

Pat Reilly, a spokeswoman with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
responds that the government isn't to blame for the families' straits. "You
should look back to the decision the parents made in coming to the country
without legal status," she says. "Our job is to enforce the laws."

The girl in the picture: That's Tomasa's Dora blanket in the foreground. And
Diego is the blurry boy to the left. Those are Dominga's nail-bitten fingers
lingering over Tomasa's right ear, from which hangs a little gold hoop.

What is it about this photo?

"There's something about that face," says Pereira, the photographer. "If you
look at her mouth -- her mouth is fear. And her eyes are sadness. That's the
contrast that makes that photograph so powerful."

There's another quality in those brimming eyes, those sprouting pigtails.
"Innocence," Pereira says. "This innocence of not having any control, and being
completely influenced by the events."

Pereira happens to be an immigrant himself, legal, who arrived from Portugal
when he was 7. Now 37, he chucked a career in computers six years ago to pursue
his passion, telling stories with pictures. "The best you ever hope for is to
capture a whole story in a single frame," he says.

The photo did not make the front page of the Standard-Times, circulation roughly
35,000. It ran inside.

But activists working in that frantic church basement saw Tomasa's picture, and
it struck them.

"It was Katrina-like in the basement," crowded with desperate families whose
lives had just been upended, says George Goehl, field organizer with the
Washington-based Center for Community Change. "That image showed up. It was so
clear that it encapsulated what the whole story was about."

The center and other groups made thousands of posters and fliers featuring
Tomasa's tearful visage. Electronic versions were beamed from coast to coast.
The little girl in the picture looked out beseechingly  from placards carried by
marchers at immigrant-rights rallies from Denver to New York to Washington.
Slogans  appeared with the image: "Where's My Mom? Where's My Dad?"

You could argue that a weakness of the photo is that it lacks context. The girl
in the picture needs a caption or a squad of immigrant-rights marchers to give
her tears meaning. If you waved her picture at a rally against hunger or child
abuse, it would not appear out of place.

In that sense, Tomasa's is the universal face of stricken childhood.

The girl and her picture: On the van ride to the Rayburn House Office Building,
another photo comes out of an envelope, showing Tomasa in white sitting on a
man's knee. They have the same big eyes. "Papi!" squeals Tomasa.

A row of reporters and several television and newspaper cameras join the
standing-room-only crowd for a "children's hearing" on the raids before a panel
of family advocates. When Tomasa and her dimples arrive, she pauses in the hall
for a photographer to click off a dozen shots. With each click, Tomasa subtly
changes her pose and expression, with a precocious model's sense, all smiles and
curiosity, carrying a pink Dora the Explorer backpack.

Some Capitol Police officers happen by. They are friendly and joking, but Tomasa
bursts into tears. On her face is that look again. Dominga scoops her up. The
girl is remembering "la polic?a" from the morning of the raid, her mother says.

Half a dozen children attend the event. For them it is long and boring. Pink
fliers are lying around with Tomasa's face on them. Tomasa shows no sign that
she recognizes the girl in the picture. At least not this photocopied, grainy,
black-on-pink version.

The children of the raids turn over the fliers and use the blank sides to color
and scribble.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Peter Pereira -- New Bedford Standard-times; This March 7
photo of 2-year-old Tomasa Mendez, crying in her mother's arms because her
father was suspected of being in the U.S. illegally, has become iconic in the
immigration debate.
IMAGE; By Ed Andrieski -- Associated Press; The image of scared, crying Tomasa
has been ubiquitous at immigrant-rights rallies across the country, including
this rally in Denver on May 1.
IMAGE; By Melina Mara -- The Washington Post; On Thursday, Tomasa and her
mother, Dominga, attended a "children's hearing" on the raids on Capitol Hill.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              292 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 21, 2007 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Discord on the Immigration Accord;
Groups on Both Sides Plan to Challenge Senate Compromise

BYLINE: Darryl Fears; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 925 words


There is little doubt about how grass-roots organizations feel about a
bipartisan immigration compromise reached in the Senate: They don't like it.

The New York Immigration Coalition issued a statement that called the proposal
unacceptable, saying, "We say no to this deal." In California, the Mexican
American Legal Defense and Educational Fund vowed to oppose numerous provisions
in the plan. In Massachusetts, an immigrant and refugee advocacy coalition said
the deal was "immoral, unworkable and unacceptable."

While the senators and Bush administration officials exchanged congratulations
on Capitol Hill for reaching the compromise, supporters and opponents of illegal
immigrants eyed the politicians warily and prepared for a legislative showdown
as the proposal heads to the Senate floor this week.

Under the proposal, an estimated 12 million immigrants who are in the country
illegally would be eligible for legal status if they work hard, obey the law and
go back to their countries of origin with the assurance that they could return.
A guest-worker program would allow 400,000 new foreign nationals each year to
work temporarily in the United States, but they would have no path to
citizenship.

A provision that allows new U.S. citizens to sponsor relatives would be changed.
A complicated point system would be instituted that rewards skilled workers who
have more education and an ability to speak English. The higher the total, the
more likely they would be able to bring in their family members.

But condemnations from supporters and opponents of illegal immigration were a
sign that the bipartisan compromise, like the illegal immigrants it addresses,
faces a rocky future. Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.), a staunch opponent of illegal
immigration, believes that the proposal's path to legal status is an amnesty
that rewards lawbreakers.

Tancredo favors strengthening the Mexican border and, in the U.S.  interior,
cracking down so hard on illegal immigration at the workplace and in other areas
that illegal immigrants would depart voluntarily.

As far as the advocates are concerned, the creation of a path, albeit an arduous
one, to legal status for illegal immigrants is the deal's only high note. It is
"responsive to the immigration movement's demand for a legalization program for
the undocumented," said Deepak Bhargava, executive director of the nonprofit
Center for Community Change, which helped to organize and bankroll last year's
huge immigrant marches.

But Bhargava agreed with others who said the proposal cannot work without
significant changes. Angelica Salas, executive director for the Coalition for
Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles, said the proposed guest-worker program
that creates jobs for migrant workers but gives them no path to citizenship is
wrong.

"In the future we'll be talking about guest workers who have no rights," she
said.

Salas said the point system that rewards workers is a step back from the 1965
immigration act that widened quotas on the number of people who emigrate from
Latin America, Africa and Asia.

"It's not being said outright, but they're saying, 'We want the right type of
immigrants,' " she said. "Well, how do they look? Most people from Africa, Asia
and Latin America don't speak English."

Citizens of the African nations of Nigeria, Kenya and Ghana speak English, as do
some residents of India and Bangladesh. But Ethiopians, Somalis and Eritreans,
who represent the greatest number of African immigrants in the Washington area,
often do not.

John Trasvi?a, president and general counsel of the Mexican American Legal
Defense and Educational Fund, says the push against allowing new U.S. citizens
to sponsor family members for green cards is an anti-immigrant drive to end
cultural diversity.

"The number one way for Asian citizens to be reunited is through family
reunification. Originally the brothers and sisters provision was for European
immigrants. Now Asian Americans use it the most," he said. "There's a
resentment. It was good enough for the country when other people used it, but
now you see who's using it and suddenly it's the first thing to go. The
opponents of illegal immigration say, 'We're okay with legal immigrants,' but
now it suddenly goes away."

Eun Sook Lee, executive director of the National Korean American Service and
Education Consortium, ticked off what she called a number of problems.

"If we take out the future family program" that allows sponsorship, she said,
"we will be creating another problem. People will continue to come without
documentation. People want to be with their family members. It's something you
can't kill."

Lee joined Bhargava, Trasvi?a and Cecilia Mu?oz of the National Council of La
Raza in seeing room for more compromise. They vowed to lobby Democrats in the
Senate and House to attach amendments that would create a more workable
proposal.

"We see this as a draft . . . , something that can be improved and changed," Lee
said. "But that depends on community pressure."

Mu?oz said pressure would be applied this way: "You start with amendments on the
Senate floor, then you proceed to the House, which may have an entirely
different debate than you have in the Senate."

Advocates, however, do feel they have some momentum, Mu?oz said. "There is a
legalization path that benefits the people we've been talking about for all
these years, so that's not a small thing. We have to measure the entirety of the
proposal, but several things are clear: If this bill goes down now like this,
then the debate is over. It's unworkable," she said.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Guillermo Arias -- Associated Press; Mexican workers line up
outside the U.S. Consulate in Monterrey, Mexico, to wait for an interview for a
working visa.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              293 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 23, 2007 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

Don't Imperil Asylum

BYLINE: Philip G. Schrag

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 414 words


Hidden in the Senate immigration bill is a threat to the protection that America
offers to people who flee their homelands to escape persecution by oppressive
governments.

Many countries will not issue passports to political and religious dissidents.
People who have been persecuted or who legitimately fear persecution in such
nations can escape threatened imprisonment, torture or death only by bribing an
immigration official to issue a passport or by using someone else's passport to
flee. In the past 12 years, perhaps half of the more than 100 people who have
won asylum with the help of students in Georgetown University's asylum law
clinic used false passports or irregularly issued passports to leave their own
countries and enter the United States. Some of them had experienced gruesome
torture, such as electric shocks, near drowning and severe beatings, before
escaping to freedom in America.

The Senate bill would make it a felony, punishable by up to 15 years in prison,
to knowingly use a passport issued to another person or to possess or use a
passport "produced or issued without lawful authority."

Asylum applicants convicted of this new felony would be ineligible to receive
asylum in the United States and could  be jailed or deported to their countries.
A person who has been granted asylum before being convicted could have that
asylum status revoked.

The bill purports to protect asylum applicants by stating that any prosecutions
must be consistent with U.S. obligations under the Refugee Convention. But that
convention doesn't protect most asylum applicants in the United States. As
interpreted by the Supreme Court, the Refugee Convention only bars deportation
of people who can prove that it is more likely than not that they would be
persecuted.  By contrast, the United States extends asylum to those who can
prove a well-founded fear of persecution, a lower standard than having to prove
that persecution is more likely than not. In addition, the United States extends
its protection to other categories of deserving persons who use false passports
to leave their countries and who are not protected by the Refugee Convention,
such as victims of trafficking.

The bill should be amended to make persons who are granted asylum, and other
persons who are specially protected under U.S. law, absolutely immune from
prosecution for the new felony of using a false passport.

The writer is a law professor at Georgetown University and director of its
asylum law clinic.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              294 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 23, 2007 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

Immigration's Future;
The Senate Compromise Asks the Right Questions

BYLINE: Tamar Jacoby

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 693 words


The immigration deal the Senate produced last week is far from perfect, and its
critics, left and right, make many valid points. But much of the criticism
misses the forest for the trees. Left out of the debate: the historic scope and
significance of the deal -- its ambition to deliver an immigration system that
grapples with globalization and the choices it poses for America.

As usual, those yelling "amnesty" are the loudest voices. But they are
increasingly out of sync with the public on immigration. Poll after poll in the
past year shows 60 to 85 percent of voters in favor of an overhaul that would
allow illegal immigrants to earn their way to citizenship by meeting certain
requirements -- generally far less stringent requirements than those in the
Senate compromise, which includes a $5,000 fine, at least a 13-year wait and a
trip back to the immigrant's country of origin.

More striking still, even many voters who consider earned citizenship "amnesty"
so badly want the immigration problem solved that they no longer care about the
label. According to the Tarrance Group and Lake Research Partners, 33 percent of
the public think earned citizenship is "the same as amnesty." But a full 62
percent of even these people support the program anyway, compared with 29
percent who oppose it. In other words, less than one-third of one-third of
Americans -- just under 10 percent -- agree with the talk-radio hosts screaming
"amnesty" to block an overhaul.

As for the right's new argument that requiring illegal immigrants to register
and undergo  security checks is amnesty, that's preposterous. Even registering
-- as distinct from citizenship -- will cost $1,000. And surely it would be good
for the country to know these workers' real names, vet their backgrounds and get
them paying their full freight in taxes.

But the amnesty crowd isn't only wrong and out of sync, it's also focused on the
wrong part of the deal. The 12 million illegal immigrants already in the country
are here illegally because our current immigration system doesn't let in enough
legal workers to meet the labor needs of our growing economy. Of course, we have
to clean up the mistakes of the past and  find an appropriate way to deal with
those who came illegally in recent decades. But this is much less important than
the larger question of how to structure the system going forward so that we
don't make the same mistake again.

And this, to its credit, is what the bipartisan Senate group has tried to do by
asking: How many workers do we need? Should they come on temporary or permanent
visas? Can we find a way to take advantage of the modern world's increasingly
integrated labor markets and still make choices about whom we want as citizens?

Last year's Senate bill hid these critical questions under a euphemism: a
"temporary worker" program that would have allowed temporary workers  to stay on
permanently if they wanted to. And many of those questioning this year's deal
have yet to grapple squarely with the hardest choices. True, as critics say, our
immigration system has traditionally been based on family ties. And newcomers'
extended families often function as a social safety net, helping them do better
than they would as individuals struggling alone. But surely  family ties are not
the only criteria that should guide us in deciding what mix of immigrants best
serves our country's interests.

The Senate didn't get all the answers right. I don't think the compromise
strikes the right balance between skilled and unskilled, or between temporary
and permanent. And it fails to own up to the full extent of our labor needs by
providing  enough green cards. Much as we need doctors and engineers, we also
need farmhands and construction workers. And I worry that the Mexican dishwasher
who starts out on a temporary visa, works hard and eventually rises to kitchen
manager won't stand a chance in the competition for limited permanent slots.

Still, unlike many critics, the Senate reformers are asking the right questions.
And even if their answers fall short, they have jump-started a long-overdue
debate.

The writer is a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Alex Wong -- Getty Images; Immigrants take part in a
citizenship ceremony Monday at Mount Vernon Estate and Gardens.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              295 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 25, 2007 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Letting Fear Rule;
Nativism Is a Recipe for Long-Term GOP Losses

BYLINE: Michael Gerson

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 789 words


In 1882, Congress passed and President Chester Arthur signed the Chinese
Exclusion Act. Today we don't name laws as bluntly as we used to. But
anti-immigrant sentiments are very much alive, this time expressed in opposition
to the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2007.

For a certain kind of conservative, any attempt to grant a legal status to
illegal immigrants is as welcome as salsa on their apple pie. One conservative
commentator claims that the law is "going to erase America" -- an ambition even
beyond Ted Kennedy's considerable powers. Another laments that "white America is
in flight" -- and presumably not just to Jackson Hole or  Nantucket for the
summer.

At one level, any immigration debate concerns a raw political calculation: Who
ends up with more voters? Conservative critics of the Senate bill argue that
because most Latinos identify themselves as Democrats, a larger pool of American
Latinos will mean that Republicans are voted into irrelevance. Most Republican
political strategists respond: That is closer than you think. Given current
demographic realities, Republicans cannot rely on their white base alone. If a
Republican presidential candidate doesn't get about 40 percent of the Latino
vote nationwide, he or she doesn't stand much of a chance on an electoral map
where Florida and the Southwest figure prominently. A nativist party will cease
to be a national party.

Breaking 40 percent is possible for Republicans. President Bush did it in 2004.
Republican momentum among Hispanic voters has been strong in the past decade --
until Rep. Tom Tancredo and his allies began their conflict with the
fastest-growing  segment of the electorate.

Conceding Latinos to the Democrats in perpetuity is a stunning failure of
political confidence. If the Republican Party cannot find ways to appeal to
natural entrepreneurs, with strong family values, who are focused on education
and social mobility, then the GOP is already dead.

But the real passion in this debate is not political, it is cultural -- a fear
that American identity is being diluted by Latino migration. Tancredo is the
lowbrow expression of this fear. Professor Samuel Huntington of Harvard
University, whom Tancredo calls an intellectual mentor, presents the highbrow
version. Huntington argues that Mexican migration is a threat to American unity
and to the "core" of our cultural identity. "America," he says, "was created as
a Protestant society just as and for some of the same reasons Pakistan and
Israel were created as Muslim and Jewish societies in the 20th century."

There are many problems with this argument, not least of which is that about a
fifth of Hispanics in America are Protestants, mostly evangelical Pentecostals
and Baptists. Almost all of  Bush's political gains among Hispanics have come
from this group, which gave him 44 percent of their vote in 2000 and 56 percent
in 2004. Hispanic Protestants tend to be conservative on social policy. And many
conservatives, I'd be willing to bet, would feel more cultural affinity with
Hispanic Baptists in their church pews than they would with Huntington's
colleagues in the Harvard faculty lounge.

Yet these are precisely the people that Tancredo Republicans are alienating. Not
all Hispanics view immigration favorably, but 100 percent resent being targets
of suspicion. When I talked this week with the Rev. Samuel Rodriguez Jr., a
prominent Hispanic evangelical, he said of congressional Republicans: "This is a
party closing its door to us, hijacked by extremists."

"All I hear," he told me, "from conservative leaders I work with, very socially
conservative people, is, 'I can't continue to vote for a party that is exposing
threads of bigotry and racism.' " Conservatives need to be reminded that Latinos
-- Protestant and Catholic -- are, in some ways, different from the mainstream
culture. Higher percentages attend church regularly. Higher percentages of
Latino immigrants are married; lower percentages are divorced. "The elephant in
the room," says Rodriguez, "is the Latinoization of America. What are the
results? America will be a more religious nation. America will continue to be a
nation that promotes family values. Wow, that really turns American culture
upside down."

For Rodriguez and others, religion adds an element beyond politics and culture
to the immigration debate. The Christian faith teaches that our common humanity
is more important than our nationality. That all of us, ultimately, are
strangers in this world and brothers to the bone; and all in need of amnesty.
This belief does not dictate certain policies in a piece of legislation, but it
does forbid rage and national chauvinism. And this is worth a reminder as well.

michaelgerson@cfr.org

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              296 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 26, 2007 Saturday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Top Talent Could Lose Fast Track to U.S.;
Under Bill, Foreign Luminaries Would No Longer Skip Immigration Line

BYLINE: Anthony Faiola and Robin Shulman; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1162 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Would America open its doors for the next Albert Einstein? Under the new
immigration bill, the answer is maybe, but maybe not.

For years, foreign-born Nobel Prize winners, corporate officers, and top talents
in sports, arts and sciences have had a fast track to permanent residency, and
eventually citizenship, in the United States. In the name of attracting the
world's greatest and brightest, authorities have granted these luminaries
priority access to green cards under a little-known provision offered to "aliens
of extraordinary abilities."

It has provided a way for a host of notable foreigners -- among them John Lennon
and Yoko Ono and Venezuelan-born New York Yankee Bobby Abreu -- to make America
their home.

But the bill now being debated in Congress would do away with the special "EB-1"
preferred-status category, effectively forcing foreign VIPs to take a number and
get in line with everyone else. They would be subject to a complex point system
to determine their eligibility -- assessing education levels, English abilities,
experience in the United States and other factors -- just as any engineer from
India or farmworker from Mexico.

Although the bill has come under fire from some who call it elitist -- it would
tip the scales toward better-educated immigrants with good English -- the
elimination of the EB-1 category would effectively mean that the most elite
foreigners seeking to build lives in the United States would face new hurdles.

"It was almost like having a gold card or an entrance to a private club, but
under this new bill, you won't have that anymore," said Muzaffar Chishti, an
immigration specialist at New York University. "If they want to come here on a
permanent basis, they will certainly be in a more disadvantaged position than
they were in the past."

Leading critics of the bill say it is fraught with problems for top
universities, Fortune 500 companies, sports recruiters and cultural institutions
seeking to lure global leaders in their fields to work in the United States.
Though many such candidates would rise to the top of the point system based on
their academic backgrounds and language skills, experts say permanent residency
would by no means be assured. They note that even Nobel Prize winners
occasionally have weak English skills, while highly skilled athletes and
musicians often bypass traditional schooling and do not possess high school
diplomas or university degrees.

Consider this: If Bill Gates -- who dropped out of Harvard -- were foreign-born
and subject to the new point system, would Microsoft be able to hire him to live
and work in the United States?

"There is no importance being placed on the intangible talents of a Chinese
pianist or a Latin American baseball star," said immigration lawyer Jonathan
Ginsburg, who represents leading foreign-born musicians. "My overall impression
is that the Senate proposes to deemphasize ability -- extraordinary ability --
in favor of paper qualification and a narrow range of experience."

Last year, 36,960 individuals and family members were granted "priority"
permanent resident status under the "extraordinary abilities" category. Under
the 100-point system established by the bill, "extraordinary or ordinary"
ability in a specialized field would offer, at most, eight additional points to
a candidate. That is less than the 10 points that would be awarded to applicants
holding a two-year college degree.

"Every effort has been made to create a balanced system," said a Senate
Republican leadership aide who demanded anonymity, citing the sensitivity of the
issue. "The aim is to focus efforts on attracting those immigrants who have the
combination of skills, education and English-language proficiency that will make
them productive Americans."

But the prospect puts some rarefied institutions on edge.

Penny Rosser, director of the international scholars office at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, said MIT processes as many as 20 EB-1 applications each
year for leading foreign-born scholars. She would not discuss the immigration
status of individual Nobel Prize winners and other luminaries at MIT, but doing
away with the "fast track" system for such scholars, she said, could exacerbate
green-card delays that already run up to almost three years for some applicants.

Worse, she said, the new system would greatly reduce the weight of intangible
talents and scholars' fame in their fields when their applications are
considered.

Critics also say U.S. companies could be at risk of losing top foreign-born
talent to overseas competitors. Elizabeth E. Stern, an immigration lawyer at
Baker & McKenzie in Washington, said one of her clients is in the process of
getting EB-1 status to head one of seven divisions of a major electronics
manufacturer in Silicon Valley. Like several top executives in his field, she
said, the client -- whom she would not name -- does not have advanced degrees.

"This guy is one of a half-dozen people in this world who is up to the job of
heading a division of a multibillion-dollar behemoth. Now you're going to say
that because he has no degree he doesn't have enough points to stay?" Stern
said. "These are exceptional people, and by not treating them as such this
country stands to lose."

In the balance, observers say, are people such as Jasvindar Singh, 42, an
interventional cardiologist from Fiji who got a green card this year after
receiving "extraordinary ability" status in 2006. While in the United States on
a series of temporary visas, he pioneered a treatment for inserting a specific
kind of tubing into arteries to treat heart blockages.

"You have people who have new ideas, who are involved in teaching local people
to advance medical care," Singh said. "Extraordinary ability status helps not
only them, but also their students, their patients and medicine at large. And
those are the people you cannot lump together with people applying for family
reasons or economic reasons just to get into this country."

Professional sports organizations, agents and players groups are still assessing
the bill's potential impact, but the short-term effects would probably vary
across fields and skill levels. Most foreign-born professional baseball players,
for instance, come to the United States on temporary "team" visas that
anticipate their ultimate return to their home nations. But some -- including
the Yankees right fielder, Abreu, according to his agent -- have used EB-1
status to gain permanent residency. That avenue would become far tougher for
many sports stars who do not have advanced degrees and excellent English skills.

Barry Frank, a top official at IMG, which represents sports, fashion and
entertainment personalities, said: "Look, baseball is basically becoming a
Hispanic game. And don't forget who their employers are -- men of considerable
means and power. The owners are not going to let their stars get away because of
some silly Washington law. I think you're going to hear some noise."

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              297 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 26, 2007 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

'Poster Child' for Manipulation

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 238 words


Regarding the front of the May 20 Style section, dominated by a large photo
spanning the page and the story "Poster Child":

Beneath the photo of a crying 2-year-old purports to be the explanation for her
tears. It said the child was crying "because her father was suspected of being
in the U.S. illegally."

While the tears were no doubt real, I find it hard to believe that 2-year-old
Tomasa Mendez had any understanding of her father's situation.

The caption writer may have an uncanny ability to know what this 2-year-old was
thinking and feeling, but let the photo speak for itself. To do otherwise
relegates the photo to tabloid fare.

-- Stacy Gundrum

Woodbridge

Regarding "Poster Child":

The Post seems to want to institute a "cute child" immigration policy, under
which illegal immigrants would not be deported if they have cute children who
will miss Mommy or Daddy. This seems terribly unfair to lawbreaking immigrants
who have ugly children or no children at all.

It's simply not true to claim that deporting a child's father breaks up a
family. Mom (an illegal immigrant herself, the story notes) and child can choose
to return with Dad, keeping the family intact. Another happy ending for all!

Rather than focus on the plight of those caught breaking U.S. immigration law,
perhaps The Post could focus on law-abiding immigrants whose wages are depressed
by the tidal wave of illegal immigration.

-- Jeffrey H. Fischer

Germantown

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Peter Pereira -- The New Bedford Standard Times Via
Associated Press; Tomasa Mendez cries in the arms of her mother at a news
conference in New Bedford, Mass., on March 7, the day after Tomasa's father was
detained by immigration officials.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              298 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 27, 2007 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Immigration Bill's Point System Worries Some Groups

BYLINE: Michael Abramowitz; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 1181 words


For weeks, U.S. senators wrestled among themselves and with White House
officials over the question of what mix of skills, background and experience
prospective immigrants should bring to their new country.

The answer they came up with, embodied in the immigration bill now on the Senate
floor, would represent a radical shift in the philosophy of the U.S. immigration
system. Rather than focus on reunifying families, the system would emphasize
bringing in better-educated, higher-skilled immigrants who would help the United
States compete in the world economy.

Other elements of the immigration bill have, so far, proved more controversial,
such as the initiative to legalize the status of the estimated 12 million
illegal immigrants. But that seems likely to change as lawmakers and interest
groups scrutinize the fine print of the 380-page bill.

The U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops is raising concerns about a new point
system for permanent residency in the bill, which would favor new immigrants
with advanced degrees or who work in engineering or the sciences. Business
groups, which the White House had counted on for support, seem lukewarm to the
idea.

Sen. Barack Obama (Ill.), one of the leading Democratic presidential candidates,
is serving notice that he will try to change the proposal on the Senate floor,
to give a higher value to reuniting families. The Senate will resume debate on
the measure when it returns next week from the Memorial Day recess.

Obama has called the point plan a "radical experiment in social engineering." In
a speech last week, he said the bill "fails to recognize the fundamental
morality of uniting Americans with their family members. It also places a
person's job skills over his character and work ethic. How many of our
forefathers would have measured up under the point system? How many would have
been turned back at Ellis Island?"

White House officials and lawmakers who developed the initiative defend it as a
rational response to the requirements of the world economy. They note that the
new plan would also favor workers in high-demand but lower-skill occupations,
such as home health-care workers or receptionists, and it would maintain a
preference, albeit less, for family members.

"We have a system today that is very heavily weighted to whether or not you
happen to have a family member in the United States," said Joel D. Kaplan, the
White House deputy chief of staff and point person on immigration. "There was a
view that, if you really wanted to have an immigration system that was geared to
making sure we were competitive in the 21st century, we had to try to rebalance
that . . . and focus more on our national interests."

The point system was a relatively late addition to the immigration debate on
Capitol Hill, with the Bush administration apparently adding it to deliberations
after studying similar systems in Canada and Australia, according to lawmakers
and aides.

Sen. Jon Kyl (Ariz.), one of the key Republican negotiators, said that Homeland
Security Secretary Michael Chertoff mentioned the concept to GOP senators
sometime this spring as they were debating how to fashion a new bill.

"It really became quite clear to us that the U.S. system was completely out of
sync with how other countries determined which immigrants they would accept,"
said Stewart A. Baker, assistant secretary for policy at the Department of
Homeland Security.

The idea appealed to Kyl and other Senate Republicans because it held out the
prospect of ending what they call chain migration, family members bringing in
still more family members. Baker noted that it is one thing to give legal status
to 12 million illegal immigrants, but that if each were to bring in his or her
relatives, "you're talking about 30 million" prospective immigrants.

Kyl and Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.) described the difficult negotiations
among a small bipartisan group of senators over how to devise a point system
under which prospective immigrants would compete for green cards. Kyl said he
pushed for rewarding highly skilled workers, "the best and the brightest," while
Graham and Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) pushed for more recognition of
less-skilled workers.

Kyl said he tried to address their concerns by reserving 10,000 green cards for
low-wage workers, but that did not satisfy other negotiators. Instead, they
sought other ways to allocate points on a 100-point scale to lower-income
people. Immigrants in high-demand occupations, such as janitors, cleaners and
landscapers, would get 16 points -- a bit fewer than the points for engineers
and scientists, who would get 20.

The horse-trading continued up to the last minute. Early in the day on which the
senators announced their deal this month with the White House, Sen. Ken Salazar
(D-Colo.) called Graham to voice concern, Graham said, that the deal still did
not go far enough to help low-income workers. So the senators agreed to add five
points for workers who have completed a certified vocational-training program.
"It hit home with me because I have a cousin who had one of those certificates,"
Graham said. (People with graduate degrees could earn 20 points, by contrast.)

The agreed-upon point system does retain some benefits for extended family
members, who would receive 10 more points in their application if they have
already met a threshold of 55 points earned through their employment, education
and knowledge of English. And the new system would still reserve green cards for
U.S. citizens or permanent residents who want to bring in their spouses and
minor children.

But after clearing the backlog of existing applications -- a process that DHS
officials estimate would take eight years -- the current preferences for the
adult children and siblings of Americans would be eliminated, and they would
have to compete with everyone else. The applicants with the highest scores would
be the ones to earn green cards.

The plan is already generating alarm among immigrant groups. "People who have
come to this country worked hard, they have become U.S. citizens -- their first
goal is to bring in their loved ones," said Nazanin Nasri, an immigration lawyer
in Arlington who has many Iranian and Afghan clients. "They will be destroyed."

Kevin Appleby, director of migration and immigration policy for the organization
of Catholic bishops, said the new system "ignores the fact that immigrant
families have helped build this nation. Families start businesses, keep their
members from government dependency and invest their energy in their new land."

Doris Meissner, director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service under
President Bill Clinton, said the point system is being proposed with inadequate
analysis. "I was amazed when I saw it because it hasn't really been talked
about," she said. "There's been no ground laid for this whatsoever. Point
systems are known in other countries, and there is certainly a body of written
material on it, but it hasn't had any careful research.

"It may be a good idea," she added, "but there isn't any evidence to argue one
way or the other."

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              299 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 28, 2007 Monday
                                Regional Edition

A weekly roundup of the buzz from the Sunday talk shows

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 395 words


The immigration proposal before Congress continued to prompt objections from
each side of the aisle.

Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Tex.) said that although the bill would improve
current law, she objects to allowing illegal immigrants to stay in the United
States without returning home to apply for legal status. The provision, she said
on "Fox News Sunday," gives rise to complaints that the bill amounts to
"amnesty."

Sen. Robert Menendez (D-N.J.), meanwhile, criticized a provision that would give
more weight to job skills and English proficiency than to family ties in
deciding who gets residency. And he said a temporary-worker program in the bill
"creates a permanent underclass."

Without such a  program, Commerce Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez responded,
"We're leaving a void that can be filled by illegals, and that's exactly what
we're trying to avoid." Both men were on ABC's "This Week."

THE DEMOCRATS' UNITER? New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson (D), a presidential
candidate and former global troubleshooter, is fond of saying the United States
needs to make friends with its enemies. That explains a lot about his appearance
on NBC's "Meet the Press," which produced   probably the most amusing Sunday
exchange this year.

Host Tim Russert asked Richardson, who attended boarding school and college in
Massachusetts, whether he is a fan of the Boston Red Sox. Richardson said he is.
But he added that his dream job -- aside from the presidency -- would be to play
center field for the New York Yankees, just like Mickey Mantle.

"My favorite team has always been the Red Sox," Richardson said. "I'm also a
Yankees fan. . . . This is the thing about me -- I can bring people together."

"Red Sox fans and Yankee fans -- not a chance," Russert chided.

FOCUS ON THE 'SURGE': With the Iraq funding debate settled, for now, the Sunday
talk turned to the success of President Bush's troop buildup strategy. A report
on its progress is due by September. On CBS's "Face the Nation," Sen. Jeff
Sessions (R-Ala.) said, "I think most of the people in Congress believe, unless
something extraordinary occurs, that we should be on a move to draw those surge
numbers down." Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) said Friday that
"we are going in a different direction in the fall," and Sen. Carl M. Levin
(D-Mich.) asked on CBS, "Why wait until September?"

By Zachary A. Goldfarb

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              300 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 28, 2007 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Memorial Day;
Remembering Americans of many nationalities

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 549 words


LAST WEEK, at a swearing-in ceremony at Mount Vernon for new citizens, three of
the immigrants taking the oath wore the uniform of this country, and two had
done service in the nation's wars. One was a Navy petty officer from Haiti, one
a Marine noncom from St. Vincent and one an Army sergeant from Canada. Their
presence, and the presence of others like them at such ceremonies in recent
years, is a reminder that many of those we honor today, the American war dead,
were not really Americans in the full legal sense of the word. They got here by
one means or another, sometimes documented, sometimes not, and they have fought
in every one of America's conflicts. Without their service in the most crucial
and wrenching of these struggles -- the Civil War -- it's unlikely that the
Union we know today would exist.

In the mid-19th century there was a huge wave of immigration to this country,
much of it caused by famine and political repression abroad. As is usually the
case, America had need of these people -- the large majority of whom came from
Ireland and Germany -- but a sizable proportion of the native population didn't
much care for them. The discrimination against Irish immigrants is well-known,
of course: Many saw them as a permanent underclass. Of the Germans, it was said
that they kept apart, refused to learn English and didn't assimilate.

Yet when it came to war, many proved to have assimilated some very American
values. A large proportion of the Germans and other Europeans were refugees from
the reaction against failed democratic revolutions, and they were enthralled by
the principles of this country's founding documents, including that reference to
all men being created equal, which they found difficult to reconcile with the
institution of human slavery. So when the Union was threatened and Abraham
Lincoln called for volunteers, they joined up by the thousands. And in the
coming years they fell in battle by the thousands, not only Germans and Irish
but Scandinavians, Asians, Italians, British citizens -- indeed, just about any
nationality you can think of.

The story wasn't all inspiring. While tens of thousands of Irishmen fought
bravely for the Union, some of their newly arrived countrymen fomented ugly race
riots in New York because of the draft. Some units of foreign-born soldiers
fought well, some poorly. Having whole companies and regiments speaking
different languages caused confusion on the battlefield at times. But the Union
held, and without its immigrant soldiers, it could not have done so: It's
estimated that over the course of the war perhaps a quarter of Lincoln's army
consisted of foreign-born troops. Their presence was decisive.

Like many before and since who have chosen this country over their native land,
these soldiers saw America as a place of great promise -- one worth defending to
the death if necessary. Many still come here with that same kind of faith. Look
at the pictures of the dead from the Iraq war, read the names and consider how
many of them were people who were new to this country. And then give thought to
how often that line of "legality" for newcomers can be a very thin one. These
dead are the silent witnesses on the much-debated question of what makes one an
American -- and the most eloquent ones by far.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              301 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 30, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

WASHINGTON IN BRIEF

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 347 words

Fees for Citizenship, Residency to Increase

Beginning July 30, immigrants applying for green cards will pay more than three
times as much as they do now, under a plan unveiled by the Bush administration.

Applications for citizenship and  temporary work permits will cost almost twice
as much as they do now.

The prices include slight changes from the fee plan announced Jan. 31 by U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services Director Emilio Gonzalez.

The application fee for citizenship  will rise from $330 to $675.

The fee to apply for legal permanent residency  will rise from $325 to $1,010
for most applicants. Those ages 79 and older or 14 and younger would pay less.

The cost of work permits  will rise from $180 to $340.

Most of the fees include the cost of fingerprints, which previously added a $70
charge.

The agency will continue to waive  fees for military members applying for
naturalization.

The complete fee structure can be seen at http://www.uscis.gov.

U.S. Opposes Testing All Cattle for Mad Cow

 The Bush administration said yesterday that it will fight to keep meatpackers
from testing all their animals for mad cow disease.

The Agriculture Department tests fewer than 1 percent of slaughtered cows for
the disease, which can be fatal to humans who eat tainted beef. But Kansas-based
Creekstone Farms Premium Beef wants to test all of its cows.

Larger meat companies feared that move because, if Creekstone tested its meat
and advertised it as safe, they might have to perform the expensive test, too.
The Agriculture Department argued that widespread testing could lead to a false
positive that would harm the meat industry.

A federal judge ruled in March that such tests must be allowed. U.S. District
Judge James Robertson noted that Creekstone sought to use the same test that the
government relies on and said the government  did not have the authority to
restrict it.

The ruling was to take effect this  Friday, but the Agriculture Department said
yesterday that it would appeal -- effectively delaying the testing while the
court challenge continues.

-- From News Services

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              302 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 30, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Debate Could Turn on a 7-Letter Word;
Calling Proposal an 'Amnesty' Rouses Foes, Confounds Backers

BYLINE: Pamela Constable; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 1099 words


When organized opponents of the immigration bill being debated in the U.S.
Senate want to rally the troops, get the e-mails churning and the congressional
switchboards lighting up, they almost invariably invoke the "A-word."

In Web sites, speeches and news releases, critics of the legislation attack it
as a form of "amnesty." They argue that it would reward 10 million to 12 million
immigrants who entered the United States illegally and would encourage others to
sneak in, too.

When organized supporters of the bill respond, they consistently deny that it
offers anything remotely like amnesty, or blanket forgiveness. Instead, they use
the "L-word," describing an orderly process of legalization that would take at
least eight years. The process would include a series of temporary visas,
payment of hefty fees and a return by the head of the family to his or her
native country before applying for permanent residency.

But despite supporters' emphasis that the bill involves fines, waiting lists and
background checks, and despite polls showing most Americans favor some form of
legalization, the specter of amnesty has persistently haunted the debate -- and
could jeopardize the bill's chances for passage.

"Anything that allows illegal immigrants to stay and become legal is amnesty,"
said Jessica Echard, executive director of the Eagle Forum, a national
conservative group. "We're not saying they should deport everyone. We are saying
let's turn off the spigot, start enforcing laws on the border and in the
workplace. Then we will see the illegal population shrink on its own."

"Certainly, this is amnesty," said Rosemary Jenks, director of government
relations for a group called NumbersUSA that strongly opposes the Senate bill.
"In our view, it is rewarding lawbreakers with the objective of their crime:
giving them a job. The message to would-be illegal immigrants is: Come on in, if
you are looking for a job you will get it."

Opponents are able to successfully invoke amnesty in part because of the
historical record: The U.S. government has offered seven amnesties to various
categories of illegal immigrants in the past 20 years, benefiting 5 million
people. In some cases, the amnesties were linked to political debates in the
United States or conflicts in the immigrants' home countries.

Supporters of the proposed legislation say its provisions are entirely different
from earlier laws. For one thing, they say, the requirements for becoming legal
were much less burdensome and costly under the amnesty laws. Under the Senate
bill, illegal immigrants already in the United States could apply for a
temporary visa that would permit them to live and work in the country as long as
they pay a series of fees and renew the visa every two years. After eight years,
the head of the family could return to his or her native country and apply for
permanent U.S. residency. To supporters, that's a far cry from amnesty.

"It is stunning how potent this piece of the debate has become and fascinating
that such a poisonous term is being used this way, because nobody is proposing
anything that even resembles an amnesty," said Cecilia Mu?oz of the National
Council of La Raza, a group that strongly advocates a legalization program. "We
are giving people a chance to earn their legal status, not giving it away."

"Amnesty is where someone comes in illegally and gets in front of others and
immediately becomes legal," said Gustavo Torres, director of CASA of Maryland, a
nonprofit group that helps illegal immigrants. "This is totally different. You
have to pay a fee, learn English, go through the system. It can take up to 13
years to become a resident. Even if you call it amnesty, I think most Americans
are sophisticated enough to understand what Congress is trying to do. They are
not going to be scared away."

In the 1986 amnesty, close to 3 million illegal immigrants, mostly from Mexico
and Central America, were allowed to become permanent residents if they could
prove they had lived in the United States for at least four years. In 1994, a
second amnesty allowed another half-million to remain in the country by paying a
large one-time fine. In 1997, another law granted amnesty to about 1 million
Central Americans.

According to the Center for Immigration Studies, a group that has often been
critical of liberal immigration policies, the 1986 amnesty carried a hefty price
tag. That included more than $100 billion in social assistance programs and
services over 10 years, $8 billion in public costs for illegal immigrant
children and job displacement of an average of more than 187,000 U.S. citizens
and legal immigrants each year.

"The amnesties population brought little human capital," the center stated in a
10-year report on the 1986 amnesty, adding that the majority of beneficiaries
did not learn to speak English well after five years and that most remained in
low-skilled jobs. Granting amnesty also encouraged other illegal immigrants to
come, the report said, because they were "convinced the United States will
eventually do it again."

For illegal immigrants in the Washington area, the suggestion that they are
being offered amnesty draws looks of bewilderment and incredulity. In a parking
lot in Falls Church, where dozens of Hispanic men gather daily in hopes of
finding a job, conversation last week focused on the pitfalls of the new
legislation, especially the fees -- totaling more than $6,000 -- and the
requirement of returning home to apply for U.S. residency.

"It would be better than being hidden all the time. But no one will accept such
a program because of the fear that if we have to leave the country, they won't
let us come back," said Fernando, 34, a plumber from Peru who requested that his
last name not be used. "I miss my kids all the time . . . but there is no way I
can afford to go home to Lima and get stuck. There are so many people with no
jobs at all."

Benito, a 50-year-old man from Honduras, was just as blunt. He said the economic
situation in his country was so dire that he recently left his family and small
cattle farm to seek his fortune as an illegal worker in the United States, even
as the government is cracking down on such workers and their employers.

"Believe me, we all want to be legal. It is much harder now to get real jobs
because the companies are all afraid," he said, referring to work site raids and
arrests by immigration agents across the country in recent months. "It was a
very difficult decision to come here, and I would love to have steady work. But
if there is no guarantee I can come back, I am not interested."

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              303 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 30, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Bush Chides GOP Critics of Immigration Plan;
President Says Opponents 'Haven't Read the Bill' and Are Trying to Frighten
Americans

BYLINE: Peter Baker; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1146 words

DATELINE: GLYNCO, Ga., May 29


President Bush lashed out at critics within his own party Tuesday, accusing
Republican opponents of distorting the immigration deal he negotiated with
leading congressional Democrats and playing on the politics of fear to undermine
public support.

In stern tones normally reserved for the liberal opposition, Bush said
conservatives fighting the immigration proposal "haven't read the bill" and
oppose it in some cases because "it might make somebody else look good." Their
"empty political rhetoric," he said, threatens to thwart what he called the
last, best chance to fix an immigration system that all sides agree is broken.

"If you want to kill the bill, if you don't want to do what's right for America,
you can pick out one little aspect out of it," he told thousands of trainees at
a federal center here that prepares Border Patrol officers. "You can use it to
frighten people. Or you can show leadership and solve this problem once and for
all, so the people who wear the uniform in this crowd can do the job we expect
them to do."

The president's rhetoric underscored the bitter crossfire among Republicans over
immigration and the enormous challenge Bush faces in trying to rally his party
behind what may be the most significant domestic initiative left in his
presidency. The White House has been pressing conservatives to fall in line,
sending emissaries to meet with lawmakers and activists, but many on Capitol
Hill and on the presidential campaign trail have ignored the administration's
pleadings and rushed to denounce the deal.

Although the proposal has the support of key Democrats, most notably Sen. Edward
M. Kennedy (Mass.), the White House recognizes that the  chances of pushing it
through depend on winning enough Republican support. Bush's trip to Georgia
opened a campaign intended to undercut the criticism that has consumed
conservative talk shows and Web sites and to educate the public about a
complicated bill.

But conservatives bristled at his remarks. "I don't think name-calling does any
good at this point," said David A. Keene, chairman of the American Conservative
Union. "What they've done from the very beginning is say, 'This is the way we
want it done, and anyone who disagrees with us is outside the mainstream.' . . .
It's been badly handled. They'll be lucky, given the attitudes in the country,
to come up with anything."

Brian Darling, an analyst at the Heritage Foundation, said he and his colleagues
not only have read the bill but also have posted it on the think tank's Web
site. "Most conservatives have very strong feelings that this bill contains
amnesty . . . and no yelling and screaming by the administration is going to
change our minds," he said.

As for the charge of scare tactics, Darling said: "Honestly, I really think
people should be frightened. This bill would be the most dramatic change to
immigration law in 40 years, and no one seems to understand what's in the bill.
. . . The American people should be frightened by the closed-door process that
was used and by the ramifications."

The proposal would require that thousands more Border Patrol agents be hired and
hundreds of miles of fencing along the frontier with Mexico be erected. After
the government made progress in meeting those goals, in theory as soon as 18
months, the legislation would  introduce a guest-worker program, allowing some
immigrants into the country temporarily. And it would provide the 12 million
illlegal immigrants a chance to earn legal status if they have jobs, pass a
criminal background check and pay a fine, and eventually gain even permanent
residency if they pay a steeper penalty, learn English and return home first.

The essence of the debate among Republicans centers on whether that constitutes
amnesty, as critics maintain. Bush insists it does not because the illegal
immigrants would have to pay for their actions first. "This bill is not an
amnesty bill," he said in his speech here. "If you want to scare the American
people, what you say is 'The bill's an amnesty bill.' It's not an amnesty bill.
That's empty political rhetoric trying to frighten our fellow citizens."

Bush's speech at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center was his fullest
defense of the immigration deal since it was reached two weeks ago, and his tone
was striking. Although he did not single out whom he had in mind as he
complained about scare tactics, the criticism he sought to rebut was that coming
from his own party.

"I'm sure you've heard some of the talk out there about people defining the
bill," he said in front of a huge U.S. flag and "Strengthen Our Borders"
banners. "It's clear they haven't read the bill. They're speculating about what
the bill says and they're trying to rile up people's emotions. This is a good
piece of legislation."

For support, he brought with him two Cabinet secretaries and two senators,
highlighting in particular Commerce Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez and Sen. Mel
Martinez (R-Fla.), both of whom were born in Cuba and emigrated to the United
States. "I want to mention those two men," Bush said, "because to me they
represent what the immigration debate is all about -- will we be a welcoming
place, a place of law that renews our spirit by giving people a chance to
succeed?"

Yet the text and setting were intended to emphasize not the welcoming but the
tough elements of the plan, challenging the perception that the government has
not done enough to crack down on illegal border crossings and employment of
undocumented immigrants. The federal center here trains officers from 83 law
enforcement agencies, including the Border Patrol, and Bush toured a mock land
border crossing and a mock airport passport-control station.

For the benefit of cameras, he handed fake documents to a uniformed officer, who
greeted him with "Welcome to the United States, sir." The trainee then asked him
questions and received answers before fingerprinting and photographing the
president and finally stamping his documents.

Bush  said previously that he knows he needs to get an immigration bill to his
desk by August, before the 2008 presidential campaign would make it too hard to
get a measure approved.

In recognition of that uphill fight, he used the word "courage" six times to
describe what would be required for lawmakers to vote for his plan. And it was a
measure of Bush's problems within his own party that the strongest voice of
support he received Tuesday came from Kennedy, the arch-liberal and b?te noire
of American conservatism.

"The president is right that this bill is our best chance to fix our broken
system," Kennedy said in a statement. He added: "Despite the clear urgency,
there are forces at play that could hinder our efforts: bumper sticker slogans
that aim to divide us further, strong feelings on the many sides of this issue,
and a tendency to shelve these tough issues for another time."

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Kevin Lamarque -- Reuters; President Bush's photo and a set
of fingerprints come up on a computer monitor as he tours a mock port of entry
at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center in Glynco, Ga.
IMAGE; By Charles Dharapak -- Associated Press; President Bush greets trainees
for the U.S. Customs and Border Patrol agency at the Federal Law Enforcement
Training Center in Glynco, Ga.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              304 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 3, 2007 Sunday
                                 Met 1 Edition

Legal Residents Dismayed Over Latest Measures

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 855 words


With the immigration debate focused on the estimated 12 million immigrants who
have come to the United States illegally, hundreds of thousands of others who
have obeyed the law are disappointed by the legislation now pending in Congress.

They had hoped that immigration law would be changed to eliminate the five- to
10-year wait before their spouses and children can join them. But neither the
compromise bill under debate in the Senate nor a House bill introduced this year
addresses the backlog.

"I feel like I'm stuck in limbo," said Guillermo Benitez, 34, a janitor living
in Hyattsville who has been waiting since 2002 to bring over his wife and
daughter from El Salvador. "Just imagine -- my little girl is already 4 years
old. I've already missed out on some of the nicest moments you get with your
child," he said.

Last year, 112,051 green cards, which allow legal permanent residence, were
granted to the more than 1.5 million spouses and minor children of legal
permanent residents who have applied for them. The backlog means that, at best,
applicants must wait five years to gain admission.

Compounding the pain of separation, during the wait for a green card, spouses
and children of legal permanent residents are usually barred from visiting the
United States temporarily, lest they be tempted to stay.

Legal permanent residents can still see their families by traveling abroad. But
they are often hampered by the expense, limited vacation time and restrictions
on how long they can remain outside the United States if they want to eventually
qualify for U.S. citizenship.

"These are taxpaying, law-abiding residents. . . . It is unconscionable that
they are being forced to choose between their family and their newly adopted
country," said U.S. Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-N.Y.), who has co-sponsored
an amendment that would expedite the process in such cases. The other sponsors
are Sens. Chuck Hagel (R-Neb.) and Robert Menendez (D-N.J.).

Separating legal permanent residents from their spouses and minor children
"impedes the ability of immigrants to fully integrate into communities here,"
Karen K. Narasaki, head of the Asian American Justice Center, said at a news
conference on Capitol Hill last week.

"Immigrants with families overseas must send much of their paychecks to these
families instead of being able to save it to buy homes and invest in their
communities here in the United States."

However, Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration
Studies, which seeks to limit immigration, says that Congress should bar legal
permanent residents from sponsoring their spouses and minor children for green
cards.

"That's a pretty awesome power," Krikorian said. "It's basically privatizing the
decision of who gets to come to the United States, and it should be reserved for
people who have bought into America" by becoming U.S. citizens.

Although legal permanent residents are eligible to apply for U.S. citizenship
five years after getting their green cards, Krikorian added, until they do
apply, they are at best "prospective citizens" who deserve fewer privileges.
"People need to understand that you don't get to decide who moves to America
until you become an American."

The delay does not apply to foreigners who are married or have children when
they first apply to immigrate, because they can usually bring their immediate
family along as part of the same application.

But those who marry foreign-born people or have a child abroad after their green
card is granted must contend with yearly legal caps on the number of immigration
visas to bring them to the United States.

Several Washington area immigration lawyers say it is unrealistic and cruel to
expect legal permanent residents to avoid meeting and falling in love with
foreign nationals until they become U.S. citizens.

"It happens all the time," said Ophelia Calderon, a lawyer based in Arlington
County. "People will go home on a visit and reconnect with their sweetheart from
high school, or just meet someone new. . . . I warn my clients against it. But
you can't control love."

A case in point is that of Vinay Malik, 31, an Indian patent agent living in
Sterling who said he searched unsuccessfully for a wife in the United States
before falling for a family friend in India this year.

"She's so good-natured. She has such a great personality. When you meet the
right girl, you just know," Malik said.

"And I decided that rather than settle for someone who I wasn't absolutely happy
with [to avoid the visa delay], I should instead choose the right girl."

Although he and his wife, a software consultant, were aware of the potential
separation in store for them, it has proved more challenging than they
anticipated. They try to speak on the phone twice a day, but the time difference
and their busy professional lives force them to keep the conversations brief.
They have been unable to attend key moments in each other's lives, such as
Malik's graduation from law school last week.

But more than anything, Malik said, he misses "the small stuff -- just living
with the person you care most about and sharing the small joys of life."

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              305 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 3, 2007 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

The Week Ahead: June 4-8

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. F02

LENGTH: 302 words

4

MONDAY

Senate scheduled to resume consideration of immigration bill.

Gartner starts three-day information technology security summit at Marriott
Wardman Park.

American Enterprise Institute holds forum on corporate image advertising.

Economic indicators: April factory orders.

5

TUESDAY

Senate Governmental Affairs subcommittee on investigations holds hearing on
executive stock options.

House Small Business Committee holds hearing on revisions to Section 404 of
Sarbanes-Oxley.

U.S. Council for International Business and other groups open two-day conference
on international taxation.

Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke speaks on the economy and housing.

New America Foundation holds discussion on pay inequity.

Brookings Institution holds discussion on poverty and global security.

Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. speaks on China at the Heritage
Foundation.

Economic indicators: May ISM service.

6

WEDNESDAY

President Bush attends Group of Eight summit in Germany.

Senate Judiciary Committee holds hearing on patent reform.

House Commerce panel holds hearing on product safety for children.

House Judiciary panel holds two hearings on immigration.

Richmond Federal Reserve Bank President Jeffrey Lacker speaks on the inflation
outlook.

Brookings Institution holds discussion on global corruption.

Earnings reports: SAIC.

Economic indicators: 1Q productivity (revised).

7

THURSDAY

House Labor Committee holds hearing on guest workers.

House Financial Services Committee holds hearing on credit cards and consumer
protection.

Earnings reports: Smithfield Foods.

Economic indicators: April consumer credit, May retail sales.

8

FRIDAY

American Enterprise Institute holds discussion on competition and insurance.

D.C. Council committee holds hearing on mortgage disclosure legislation.

Economic indicators: April trade deficit.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              306 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 4, 2007 Monday
                                Regional Edition

. . . So Why the High Price?;
Fees increase by 66 percent.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 353 words


GIVE US your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free --
but only if they can scrape together $1,010  for a green card.

Last week U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) announced its new
fee schedule for immigrants applying for citizenship and other visas and work
permits. Starting July 30, fees will rise by an average of 66 percent, with
some, such as the permanent residency application, nearly tripling. Fees are
slightly lower or waived for certain groups, such as children or servicemen.

Mired in inefficiency, a huge backlog of applications and a non-computerized
paper record system, the immigration agency desperately needs to raise revenue.
Unlike other federal agencies, it is funded totally by user fees, receiving no
consistent appropriations from Congress. The agency thus has no choice but to
place the entire burden of funding its backlog and new infrastructure on those
chasing the American dream, rather than on those who have already attained it.

The chasers, however, are disproportionately poor; U.S. residents who are not
citizens are twice as likely as citizens to be below the poverty line, according
to the Census. If these steeper fees don't price out some of those aspiring to
be citizens or legal residents altogether, the fees will surely at least delay
their Americanization. Immigrants' income levels and resources should have been
a factor in computing the new prices. Instead, the agency calculated only the
cost to itself of processing each application, according to a spokesman.

The United States is a nation of immigrants with a historical mission of
welcoming others to the melting pot. Immigrants are the primary beneficiaries of
USCIS services. Asking them to partially fund their own applications makes
sense. But those services also benefit society at large, and the agency should
not have to subsist solely on user fees, particularly when many of its "users"
are especially needy. Congress should provide consistent funding to the
immigration agency so it can afford its necessary upgrades without pricing any
immigrants out of the American dream.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              307 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 5, 2007 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Leadership by Evasion;
On immigration, GOP presidential candidates duck and dodge.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 598 words


IT HAS BECOME fashionable, among some leading candidates for the Republican
presidential nomination, to use the immigration bill now before the Senate for
target practice, harping on its supposed inadequacies to the delight of
nativists in the party base. The strategy comes with a correlate, which is to
avoid proposing any better approach that would address the nub of the problem:
12 million illegal immigrants already in the country. On immigration, leadership
by evasion is becoming the Republicans' stock in trade.

The leading candidate for evader in chief is former Massachusetts  governor Mitt
Romney, who seemed to favor the immigration bill before he opposed it. Eighteen
months ago, he said the idea that illegal immigrants should register with the
government, pay taxes, work for a number of years and pay a fee before being
allowed to apply for citizenship struck him as "reasonable." Now he makes
political hay by blasting the Senate bill, which includes just such an arduous
route to eventual citizenship, as "amnesty" -- a bald-faced distortion but a
crowd-pleaser for many primary voters.

So what would Mr. Romney suggest doing about the 12 million, a few of whom
apparently did landscaping work on the grounds of his expansive Massachusetts
home? Well, nothing, really. "I'm not a legislator, at least not currently," he
boldly told reporters in Florida last month, "so I'm not going to give you
legislative language."

Rudy Giuliani is an even more egregious flip-flop artist; unlike Mr. Romney, who
as governor cut illegal immigrants in Massachusetts no slack, the former New
York mayor was a champion of their cause. He once forbade police and other
officials in New York from asking immigrants about their legal status, and he
pushed for creating an agency that would help illegal  immigrants navigate the
system. But as a presidential candidate, he has taken a much more cramped view,
emphasizing the importance of tracking everyone who enters the country and
dismissing the Senate bill as a "hodgepodge." As for the 12 million illegal
immigrants, Mr. Giuliani -- who once said bluntly, and realistically, that most
are here to stay -- is vague.

Even putative Republican candidate Fred Thompson has gotten into the
duck-and-dodge act on immigration. Last year the former senator from Tennessee
said sensibly that mass deportation "is not going to happen." Now he says "we
should scrap this bill and the whole debate" until the nation's borders are
secured. Never mind that the Senate bill would tighten the borders
significantly.

Among the party's leading candidates, the honest voice on the issue belongs to
Sen. John McCain, whose rivals have treated him as a punching bag for his
troubles. In an impassioned speech yesterday, Mr. McCain, a longtime leading
advocate for serious immigration reform, pointed out that the current non-system
of immigration has become a festering national sore, and that to do nothing  is
to sidestep responsibility. Candidates who object to the Senate bill need "the
responsibility and courage to propose another way," he said.

Pathetically, none has.  Instead, a number of Senate Republicans  hope to kill
the bill by trying to affix various poisonous amendments to it, including one
that would provide legal grounds for labeling millions of immigrants as
aggravated felons and deporting them, and others that would sock illegal
immigrants with tax burdens so heavy that most would never dare step on the path
toward legalization. Their strategy is not to fix immigration; it's merely to
pander and to leave in place an unworkable status quo.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              308 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 6, 2007 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

To Menendez, Bill Sells Families Short

BYLINE: Lyndsey Layton; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 703 words


Sen. Robert Menendez is a first-generation American in a family of Cuban
immigrants, a man who has referred to his parents as the embodiment of the
American Dream. The New Jersey Democrat says the country's broken immigration
system must be fixed, and last year he backed an unsuccessful reform bill.

Of the handful of senators who have been working on a new immigration bill,
Menendez might be expected to be a key player.

Yet he quit the bipartisan group that reached  the compromise being voted on
this week. Frustrated by some of the compromises in the proposal that he says
lessen the importance of family ties to new immigrants, he is now working from
outside the coalition and could have enormous impact on the legislation -- how
it might be amended in the Senate and whether it passes at all.

Republican and Democratic negotiators who wrote  the immigration bill balanced
their interests in a way so that Democrats could give legal status to the
estimated 12 million illegal immigrants while Republicans could change the
criteria for future immigrants from those with family ties to those with skills
and education. The negotiators have called it "the grand bargain" and say any
change to the balance of interests could destroy support for the bill.

The bill would allow U.S. citizens to bring only spouses and children younger
than 18 to the United States. Currently, citizens also can bring parents and
adult children.

Menendez says the bill abandons decades of U.S. immigration policy built on the
assumption that family ties are a top priority. "Under their bill, my father and
mother would never have made it here," said Menendez, adding that he walked away
from negotiations because he could not persuade the other lawmakers to make
blood ties a priority. "The parents of Colin Powell would probably not have made
it, or Jonas Salk or Bob Hope or plenty of others I consider great Americans."

"In the community where I'm from, it's Cuban Americans who came to where the
main commercial strip was boarded up and they revitalized area, contributed
taxes, opened new businesses, generated jobs. And that was replicated with the
Vietnamese, with the Asian American community, again and again," he said. "All
of those contributions weren't driven by being a high-tech worker. They don't
necessarily have the entrepreneurial spirit."

The proposed system would favor well-educated immigrants from Asia, especially
India, China and South Korea, while making immigration far more difficult for
people from Latin America, especially Mexico, where most who move to the United
States lack a high school diploma.

One of Menendez's amendments would change the criteria for admitting immigrants,
increasing the value of family ties.

He also wants to change the deadline for reducing the backlog of family members
waiting to enter the United States. The pending bill would immediately clear the
backlog of 4 million family members who applied to enter this country before May
2005. Menendez would shift the date to January 2007 -- the bill's cutoff for
illegal immigrants who could gain legal status. It would add more than 800,000
family applicants.

"These are over 800,000 people who played by the rules, didn't violate any law,
did the right thing," Menendez said. "But all of those who did the right thing,
their rights are extinguished because of an arbitrary date."

Another of his amendments  would increase the number of legal-permanent-resident
visas for parents of U.S. citizens and lengthen the duration of a new parent
visitor visa.

His proposals have the backing of major pro-immigration groups.

Sen. Jon Kyl of Arizona, a chief Republican negotiator of the compromise bill,
has dismissed most of those ideas as "killer amendments" and said that if they
pass, he would work to defeat the bill he helped write.

Menendez says his efforts belong within the framework of the compromise, an
argument he will make when his amendments are debated on the Senate floor as
early as today.

"I don't believe family reunification efforts are truly outside of the grand
bargain," he said. "I'm living within the framework. I'm simply making it what I
believe to be better. No one has a monopoly on how to pursue grand immigration
reform."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Jeff Fusco -- Getty Images; The immigration bill's emphasis
on job skills ahead of family ties is misguided, says Sen. Robert Menendez
(D-N.J.).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              309 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 7, 2007 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 520 words

56 Foreign Nationals Held in Gang Roundup

 LOS ANGELES -- Dozens of Mexicans and Central Americans with ties to violent
Southern California street gangs have been arrested or indicted on drug, weapons
and immigration charges, immigration officials in Los Angeles said Wednesday.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials said 124 gang members have
been arrested in Southern California over the past three months as part of a
nationwide operation against gang members who come and go across the southern
U.S. border and commit crimes including murder, robbery and drug smuggling.

Fifty-six foreign nationals linked to more than two dozen Los Angeles area
street gangs have been indicted on federal criminal charges that include
reentering the United States after deportation. Most are Mexican, but some come
from Guatemala, El Salvador and Belize.

* * *

? CAPE CANAVERAL -- NASA resolved lingering concerns about the lines connecting
the space shuttle Atlantis to its external fuel tank and moved ahead with
preparations for the first shuttle launch of the year. Forecasters predicted a
70 percent chance that the weather will be favorable for launching Atlantis at
7:38 p.m. on Friday. Engineers had been concerned that two lines that connect
Atlantis to its external fuel tank may not fit correctly. The problem was found
in the tank for Endeavour, which is in a hangar being prepared for a launch in
August. Endeavour's lines are being replaced.

? OVERLAND PARK, Kan. -- Police on Wednesday arrested Edwin R. Hall, 26, of
Olathe  in the abduction and death of a teenager who disappeared four days ago
from a store parking lot. Authorities said 18-year-old Kelsey Smith's body was
found across the state line at a lake in Grandview, Mo. Overland Park Police
Chief John Douglass  said Hall  is expected to be charged with premeditated
first-degree murder and aggravated kidnapping.

? OMAHA -- Shirley Phelps-Roper, a member of the Kansas group that has drawn
criticism for protesting at soldiers' funerals, has been arrested for letting
her 10-year-old son stomp on a U.S. flag during a demonstration. She promised to
challenge the state's flag desecration law in court.

? SANTA ANA, Calif. -- Rebecca Laiwah Chiu, the last defendant in an extended
family charged with conspiring to export U.S. defense technology to China, has
admitted being a foreign agent, bringing the case to an abrupt end, authorities
said. Chiu pleaded guilty to one count of acting as a foreign agent without
registering with the U.S. government and will serve three years in prison, said
her attorney, Stanley Greenberg.

? DETROIT -- The University of Michigan hospital is prepared to handle
organ-transplant surgeries despite losing a team of doctors and technicians in
the crash of a plane transporting a lung for a patient, officials said. The
patient who was on the operating table for a double lung transplant when the
plane went down in Lake Michigan on Monday is back on the waiting list for
another donation. Hospital officials would release no information about the man
other than that he was in critical condition.

-- From News Services

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              310 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 7, 2007 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Pass the Immigration Bill;
Hope for 12 million people -- if the center holds

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A26

LENGTH: 514 words


THERE WAS a revealing moment Tuesday when the Republican presidential contenders
were taking turns bad-mouthing the Senate immigration bill. Former New York
mayor Rudolph W.  Giuliani, evidently sensing a twofer target -- the bill as
well as Washington's evil ways -- allowed that the immigration bill is (gasp!) a
compromise. Or as Mr. Giuliani put it, "a typical Washington mess."

Well, yes and no. The bill, which faces a crucial vote as early as today, is
indeed a compromise -- a "grand bargain," in the words of its Senate sponsors,
in which each side gave something to get something. That's what has made it such
an easy mark for critics. But Mr. Giuliani is wrong to think the immigration
deal is "typical" in any way; in fact, the Bush administration has presided over
a ravenously partisan era in which precious little bipartisan compromise has
occurred on major domestic issues. The immigration bill is the exception that
lends hope to the proposition that seeking cooperation, conciliation and the
middle ground is still possible in American politics.

The bill is not worthwhile merely because it is a compromise but rather because
it addresses the colossal and corrosive problem of 12 million illegal immigrants
who have become an integral part of the American labor force. No one seriously
believes they will be rounded up and deported  en masse, yet too many opponents
of the bill evidently prefer the status quo -- immigrants in the shadows;
employers ignoring the law; preoccupied and embittered state and local officials
in whose laps the problem has been dumped --  to the reasonable resolution the
bill offers: an arduous but navigable route to citizenship. Wrestling that
problem to the ground would be an enormous achievement, and so would measures in
the Senate bill that would tighten the border and create systems by which
employers could verify the legal status of the workers they hire.

Everyone has a beef with this bill, and so do we. Ours is the cumbersome,
unrealistic and unseemly regimen it would establish for future guest workers.
They would be admitted  in numbers plainly inadequate to meet the nation's
demand -- 200,000 a year, about half the number being  absorbed by the economy
-- and under rules seemingly designed to be violated. By allowing  these workers
to stay for only six years, broken into two-year segments that can be renewed
only if a worker leaves the country for a year between stints, the Senate is
ensuring that over time it will create a new class of hopeless and mired illegal
immigrants.

With luck, and providing the bill survives Senate action in the coming days,
that flaw will be massaged out of the bill either in the House or in
negotiations between the two houses. But even if not, the bill leaves those
workers no worse off than they are now; in the future, at least some of them
would be able to come legally.

The immigration bill is, fundamentally, an agreement that has marginalized the
extremes of both parties for the sake of dealing with a very large problem. The
question now for the Senate is: Will the center hold?

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              311 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 7, 2007 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

GOP Hopefuls Keep Distance From Bush;
In Debate, President Was Roundly Criticized on Iraq, Immigration and Katrina

BYLINE: Dan Balz; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 888 words

DATELINE: MANCHESTER, N.H., June 6


If there was an unexpected loser in Tuesday's Republican presidential debate, it
was President Bush and his administration's record.

The Republicans criticized their Democratic opponents, but more surprising was
that, on issue after issue, they systematically shredded the president's
performance over the past four years. Iraq? Badly mismanaged. Katrina? Bungled.
Immigration? The wrong solution. Federal spending? Out of control.

At times it got personal. When the candidates were asked how they might use the
president should they win the White House, former Wisconsin governor Tommy
Thompson, who served as secretary of health and human services during Bush's
first term, replied: "I certainly would not send him to the United Nations." The
line drew laughs from the heavily Republican audience at Saint Anselm College.

Rep. Tom Tancredo (Colo.), who long ago burned his bridges with the
administration over immigration, was even more pointed, saying he has been "so
disappointed in the president in so many ways" that he would not want him
anywhere near his administration -- unlikely as that may be.

The virulence of the criticism -- not just from a longtime antagonist but from a
former Cabinet official -- stunned many in the audience, including those
involved in the GOP nomination battle.

The debate clearly signaled open season on Bush's record and highlighted the
reality that GOP presidential candidates see his record as a liability they will
have to contend with in the 2008 general election campaign.

The juxtaposition of the Democratic and Republican debates here, just two days
apart, reinforced to Republican strategists how much of a burden Bush could be
in 2008.

"The Democrats were all about George Bush," said a strategist for one Republican
candidate, speaking on the condition of anonymity in order to talk candidly
about strategy. "For any Republican to have any chance in the general, the race
has to be about the next four years, not the last eight. Each of the Republican
candidates is trying to figure out how to do that."

The leading candidates were careful not to make their criticisms of Bush too
personal, which GOP strategists believe remains out of bounds for anyone with a
serious chance of winning the party's nomination. But there was no attempt to
suggest, as George H.W. Bush did when he ran to succeed Ronald Reagan in 1988,
that the candidates want to be seen as seeking a third term of the current Bush
administration.

Bush still enjoys the support of a large majority of Republicans. The most
recent Washington Post-ABC News poll showed that, while Bush's overall approval
rating is at 35 percent, 74 percent of Republicans still approve of him. A Pew
Research Center survey showed Bush's approval rating among Republicans down from
77 percent in April to 65 percent today.

Andrew Kohut, director of the Pew Center, said it is not surprising that
Republican candidates have begun to separate themselves from Bush this early in
the campaign. "I think it's unavoidable," he said. "They were very loyal to Bush
for a very long time. The movement downward has to do with the fact that there's
some Republican disaffection going on."

The eventual nominee may well see his criticism and the remarks of other GOP
candidates played back during the general election, as Democrats make the case
that it's time to change course. Tuesday's debate indicated that the candidates
want to avoid being tagged as defender-to-the-end of an unpopular
administration.

The Republicans took shots at Democratic candidates, saying they are soft on
terrorism, prone to raise taxes and prepared to institute big-government
health-care reform. But on issue after issue, they found ways to disparage
Bush's work as well.

Former Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee said the administration "bungled
Katrina," has mismanaged the war and is indifferent to border security. Former
New York mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani called a bipartisan immigration bill that
enjoys Bush's strong support "a typical Washington mess."

The candidates reaffirmed their support for Bush's troop increase in Iraq but
competed to criticize what happened there after U.S. forces deposed Saddam
Hussein.

"This war was very badly mismanaged for a long time," said Sen. John McCain of
Arizona. "And Americans have made great sacrifices, some of which were
unnecessary because of . . . mismanagement of this conflict."

Former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney said the United States was "
underprepared and underplanned for what came after we knocked down Saddam
Hussein." Asked at a news conference yesterday who was responsible for the lack
of preparation, he said, "The buck stops at the top, and I'm sure the president
recognizes that."

Republican pollster Bill McInturff, who is working for McCain, told a Harvard
University seminar earlier this year that Republican candidates must tread
lightly in distancing themselves from the president.

"People in our party admire his consistency, his leadership and his personal
dimensions, and you had better be very, very careful how you talk about the
president around those things," he said.

But he added that the president's advisers are savvy enough to know that there
will be criticism of Bush's record. "I believe they understand that our next
nominee is going to be very different than this administration," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              312 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 8, 2007 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

A Failure of Leadership in a Flawed Political Culture

BYLINE: Dan Balz; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 1175 words


The collapse of comprehensive immigration revision in the Senate last night
represents a political defeat for President Bush, Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) and
Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), the bill's most prominent sponsors. More
significantly, it represents a scathing indictment of the political culture of
Washington.

The defeat of the legislation can be laid at the doorstep of opponents on the
right and left, on congressional leaders who couldn't move their troops and on
an increasingly weakened president and his White House team. But together it
added up to another example of a polarized political system in which the center
could not hold.

The partisan blame game was already at fever pitch as the bill was going down
yesterday. But to those far removed from the backrooms of Capitol Hill, what
happened will fuel cynicism toward a political system that appears incapable of
finding ways to resolve the nation's big challenges.

If Washington cannot produce a solution to the glaring problem of immigration,
they will ask, what hope is there for progress on health care, energy
independence, or the financial challenges facing Medicare and Social Security?
Iraq is another matter entirely.

Voters wanted an immigration deal, Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.)
acknowledged as he pulled the measure after 9 last night: "The problem was on
the inside of this Senate chamber."

The bill's proponents took the Senate floor after the cloture vote failed and
expressed hope that they can work around the impasse. But Sen. Mel Martinez
(R-Fla.) spoke of the reality of the day. "The United States Senate," he said,
"in its long and storied history, today bipartisanly failed the American people.
That's plain and simple."

The collective failure of the two parties already appears to have stimulated
interest in a third-party candidate for president in 2008 whose main promise
would be to make Washington work. It is far too early to assess the viability of
such a candidate, but it is easy to imagine the immigration impasse finding its
way into a television commercial if someone such as New York City Mayor Michael
R. Bloomberg decides to run.

Twice in two years, Congress has grappled with immigration. The first time,
Republicans controlled the White House and both houses of Congress, but Bush
could not persuade members of his own deeply divided party to resolve their
disagreements. The Republicans, responding to their conservative base, pushed
for a tough border security bill but balked at dealing with the controversial
question of how to treat the 12 million illegal immigrants in the country.

This time the prospects seemed brighter. The November midterm elections changed
the balance of power in Washington, with Democrats now in control of the
Capitol. The compromise immigration bill in the Senate enjoyed the support of
Bush, Senate Democratic leaders and some prominent senators from both parties --
the kind of coalition that many politicians claim to prize. The bipartisan bill
still ended up in a heap.

"The reality is most people are just desperate to see a solution. If this goes
down, the opposition is not offering an alternative, and that means the problem
is still an issue," said Pete Brodnitz, a Democratic pollster. "We're in a
period where people are looking to see leadership and progress."

All sides will find reasons to explain away what happened: Democrats blame
Republicans for demanding too much and delivering too few votes. Republicans
blame Democrats for being unwilling to take their views into account and for
opposing details of a guest-worker program. Democrats blame Bush for failing to
bring his troops into line. Proponents blame anti-immigration forces for
whipping up opposition.

There is truth in all their allegations. That this bill was imperfect is without
dispute. Only a few politicians -- Bush and McCain among them -- were strongly
vocal in urging passage, but they, too, had reservations about the compromise.
House Democratic leaders were tepid in their support, demanding that Republicans
bring at least 60 to 70 votes so that freshman Democrats from marginal districts
would be able to vote no.

Republican pollster Tony Fabrizio said the immigration debate pits "practical
principle against practical reality." He noted that opponents passionately
believe they are standing on principle, while proponents are "holding their
nose" but argue that the problem must be addressed. "Neither side is willing to
give," he said.

Reid warned, hours before the bill collapsed, that he would not seek to revive
the issue. Later, he pledged to work hard to resurrect a deal. Perhaps, once
people step back from what happened, they will try again. Perhaps they will
succeed on their third try.

No one ever believed that passing comprehensive changes in immigration law would
be easy. As McCain said in Tuesday's Republican debate in New Hampshire, "It's
our job to do the hard things, not the easy things." But for a long time,
Washington politicians have flinched at the hard things, preferring to engage in
political combat aimed at gaining partisan advantage first.

There is little time for progress on difficult issues before Bush's lame-duck
status reduces his power even more and before the 2008 presidential and
congressional campaigns turn the country into a partisan battlefield.
Immigration provides one clear test for the system before that reality locks in.
So far the system is losing.

If there is no attempt to revive the immigration bill, the issue will become
fodder throughout the long campaign ahead. Already it is shaping the Republican
presidential debate, with McCain on one side and his leading opponents on the
other.

Even as the bill was heading to defeat, presidential rival Rudolph W. Giuliani
criticized McCain for saying the bill had not been everything he would have
wanted. "Then he should have written the one he wanted and pushed that,"
Giuliani said on Sean Hannity's radio show.

Public opinion suggests an electorate open to, but by no means wildly
enthusiastic about, comprehensive change that provides the 12 million illegal
immigrants a path to citizenship, but only if there is an effective border
security plan in place.

Republicans are clearly divided, but perhaps not as the heated rhetoric of the
campaign trail suggests. The most recent Washington Post-ABC News poll found
that, on the question of a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants, the
public narrowly approves: 52 percent to 44 percent. Democrats back such a plan
57 percent to 38 percent and independents 51 to 45 percent. Republicans are
opposed, 53 to 43 percent -- significant but not overwhelming.

Those numbers underscore how difficult the issue is and why leadership is
critical in coming to a solution. A divided public may take sides in
apportioning blame for what happened in the Senate, but it is possible they
could come to a joint conclusion about their leaders in Washington, one that
will reverberate as the calendar turns to 2008.

Staff writer Michael D. Shear contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              313 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 9, 2007 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Bush Criticized in Immigration Defeat;
President's Worsening Relations With GOP, Grass-Roots Conservatives Cited

BYLINE: Michael Abramowitz and Dan Balz; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1004 words


President Bush awoke in Germany yesterday to find his immigration compromise on
life support and facing fresh criticism that he failed to exert the leadership
needed to save what is likely to be the last major domestic agenda item of his
presidency.

Although congressional aides and GOP strategists said it was unfair to blame
Bush alone, the collapse of the immigration bill late Thursday was a reflection
of the weakened state of his presidency. Those aides said the bill's troubles
were exacerbated by Bush's deteriorating relations with congressional
Republicans and his inability to combat an unexpectedly fierce attack on the
bill by grass-roots conservatives.

"This is sort of what his life is going to be like for the rest of his term,"
veteran GOP strategist Ed Rollins said. "There are Republicans defecting from
him now. He's not going to have any great success on anything that's
controversial."

Administration officials said it is premature to describe as dead legislation
that has been one of Bush's top priorities since the early days of his
administration. They described the events that have imperiled the bill as being
less about Bush's leadership and more about internal Senate dynamics. They added
that they expect the bill to come back to life in the next few weeks after
passions cool and Republicans and Democrats alike recognize that it is in their
interest to pass a bill.

Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said in an interview that it is
highly unfair to point fingers at Bush: "The president has been very actively
engaged in this process."

"This bill is going to pass not because people say, 'I want to do a favor for
the president,' " Chertoff said. "It will pass because the logic of the
president has been saying" about the need for a comprehensive bill that
addresses the need for both better border security and a practical solution for
dealing with 12 million illegal immigrants.

To that end, White House officials ratcheted up their lobbying efforts after a
week in which their focus was on the G-8 summit in Europe. Bush called senior
Republicans leaders from Air Force One as he traveled from Poland to Italy, and
his aides released the text of his radio address tomorrow, which is focused on
immigration. Bush called on Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.) to
bring the bill back to the floor for a vote, saying the immigration debate "has
divided too many Americans."

"We'll be continuing to make the case that immigration reform is too important
to let this opportunity pass," said Joel D. Kaplan, deputy White House chief of
staff. "When senators are faced with the prospect of the status quo continuing,
they will become more supportive of the reforms in the bill."

Even Democrats acknowledged that saddling Bush with most of the responsibility
for what happened in the Senate ignores other factors that contributed to Reid's
decision to pull the bill off the floor Thursday. Some of it reflected internal
Senate politics as well as the reality that immigration overhaul is one of the
most inflamed public policy issues on the national agenda. Some Republicans and
administration officials privately fumed about Reid's decision to pull the bill
abruptly when they said a few more days of deliberations would clinch the deal.

A Republican who served Bush in the past said the president was not the
principal cause of the collapse. He argued that immigration is one of the
knottiest of all domestic issues, that the bill lacked a trusted GOP advocate on
Capitol Hill and that some Democratic leaders were ambivalent about passing it.

But Bush has not been able to break through vehement opposition from grass-roots
conservatives, which was stoked by conservative talk radio. That vocal
opposition gave Republican elected officials little incentive to join with the
president in supporting the bill. Even when Bush was in a stronger position
politically, revising the immigration laws proved impossible. In his weakened
state, his ability to convert opponents proved limited.

With Bush in Europe as the bill went down, Chertoff and Commerce Secretary
Carlos M. Gutierrez were lobbying for the compromise measure, winning praise
from some business advocates of the bill for their efforts. But they could not
overcome the deep opposition within the Republican Party or the ill will between
congressional Republicans and the White House.

Republicans said yesterday that the administration compounded its long history
of poor relations with Congress by making several missteps in the debate. One,
they said, was Bush's decision to lash out at conservative critics on a trip to
a Border Patrol training center in Georgia. He accused opponents of "not reading
the bill" and said they were attempting to frighten people with their own
rhetoric.

Bush, said one veteran strategist, was attacking people who otherwise are among
his most ardent supporters. "Those for him are the cultural conservatives," this
strategist said. "They're not bigots."

Democratic strategist Simon Rosenberg said until the president leaves office,
the prospects for bipartisan cooperation will remain slim. "The reason we have
this [polarized] politics is George Bush," he said. "Not the Democratic Party or
even the Republicans in Congress. The climate of this era has been set by Bush."

But Republican strategists said the Democrats share the blame for the stalemate
over immigration and said it is still possible the situation could turn around.
"As much as it is important for the president to prevail, it is also important
for the Democratic leadership in the Senate to demonstrate accomplishments,"
said Kenneth M. Duberstein, a former Reagan White House chief of staff.
"Immigration was clearly one area where there was bipartisanship on a key
national issue. But it faltered as a result of Democratic gymnastics and the
president's absence."

But Duberstein added: "I don't think yesterday's vote was the last chapter, and
there is much more to follow, especially if the president shows hands-on
leadership."

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Gerald Herbert -- Associated Press; President Bush was
partially blamed for Congress's failure to pass the immigration bill.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              314 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 10, 2007 Sunday
                                 Met 1 Edition

WEEK IN REVIEW;
June 3-9

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C04

LENGTH: 653 words

Medicaid Care Delayed for Many Kids Federal Rule Targets Undocumented Immigrants


Nearly six in 10 eligible children whose parents applied for Medicaid in
Virginia went without health care for weeks or months because of a new federal
rule intended to prevent undocumented immigrants from receiving coverage,
according to a state survey of 800 low-income families.

It also found that while waiting for Medicaid, nearly half of the children
younger than 2 who needed immunizations were unable to get them, and one-fourth
did not obtain medical care for an illness.

The report is thought to be the first in the country that interviewed applicants
to assess the effects of the rule changes.

Rising Sea Levels Worrisome, Group Says Much of Wetlands May Be Deluged, Harming
Bay

More than half of the wetlands along Virginia's coast could be drowned by rising
sea levels in the next century, destroying wildlife habitats and natural filters
for the Chesapeake Bay, according to an estimate released by an environmental
group.

The Norfolk-based Wetlands Watch examined maps of low-lying marsh areas along
the bay and the Atlantic Ocean and compared them with projections that water
levels might  rise 1 1/2  feet or more in this area by 2107, Executive Director
Skip Stiles said.

Stiles said the group determined that at least half -- perhaps as much as 80
percent -- of the wetlands would be covered by too much water to survive if sea
levels rise 1 1/2  to two feet. He said that could be a crucial blow to a number
of species, from fish to blue crabs to birds, that live in the marshes. It would
also harm the bay, which relies on wetlands to filter some pollutants, he said.

County Board Run Starts With Pledge Baise Won't Take Fairfax Builders'
Contributions

Republican Gary H. Baise began his campaign to unseat Democrat Gerald E.
Connolly as chairman of the Fairfax County Board of Supervisors with a pledge
that he will not accept campaign contributions from developers who do business
with the county.

Baise, a lawyer from McLean, hopes to convince voters who are fed up with sprawl
and traffic that the Fairfax board is to blame for allowing the development
industry to sway its decisions.

Assailant With Plastic Bag Strikes Again Police Question Possible Suspect but
Release Him

Police in Arlington are still looking for a man who has wielded a plastic bag
while confronting women in the county.

On Thursday morning, they took a man into custody after what appeared to be the
latest in a series of similar incidents, but he was later released. He is still
"a person of interest," police said.

According to police, a woman who had just arrived home in the Rosslyn area heard
a knock at her door about 1:20 a.m. She found a man with a plastic bag in his
hand, and he lunged at her. She screamed and shoved him, and he ran away.

Police said the first of the plastic bag incidents began March 5 on North Key
Boulevard.

They encouraged anybody who is attacked to shout or scream.

Va. Tech Creating Memorial to the Slain Victims' Names Will Be Etched in 32
Stones

Virginia Tech announced plans to replace a temporary memorial to victims of the
April 16 massacre with a semicircle of 32 stones, each etched with a name of one
of those killed in the attack.

Construction will begin immediately on the 16-inch, upright "Hokie Stones" in a
semicircle of crushed gravel on the Drillfield in front of Burruss Hall, the
university's main administrative building. The memorial is to be completed by
the fall semester.

Across the Region Overtime for D.C. Police; $400 Nationals Tickets

D.C. Police Chief Cathy L. Lanier started a summer crime initiative by putting
all 3,300 sworn officers on overtime. She's also adding foot patrols and
expanding the surveillance camera network.

Tickets for top seats at the Washington Nationals' new stadium will cost as much
as $400 a game, among the highest prices in Major League Baseball, the team
announced.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Gerald Martineau -- The Washington Post; Just Normal
Hormones? The National Zoo is on a panda pregnancy watch again. Mei Xiang is
showing some signs, including elevated hormone levels, but false pregnancies are
common.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              315 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 11, 2007 Monday
                                Regional Edition

The Party of Economic Seriousness

BYLINE: Sebastian Mallaby

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 852 words


The collapse of the immigration bill last week holds a political lesson. It
isn't just Democrats who flunk Globalization 101. Indeed, Democrats may be
supplanting Republicans as the grown-ups on this issue.

Anyone who understands Globalization 101 knows that immigration, including
large-scale unskilled immigration, is a fact of the modern world. Mexican
laborers who migrate to the United States stand to see their wages triple or
more: No amount of border security is going to keep them from coming. Chasing
down and deporting illegal workers is costly to U.S. taxpayers, cruel to
immigrants, disruptive for U.S. employers, expensive for U.S. consumers -- and,
most of all, futile. People who yell "amnesty" merely reveal that they don't
understand the world we live in.

But the Republican Party, which prides itself on understanding globalization
when it comes to capital flows or trade, is blind to the global labor market. In
the crunch immigration vote in the Senate on Thursday, only seven Republicans
voted for reform, while 38 voted against it. Among the supposedly globo-phobic
Democrats, the numbers were roughly reversed: 37 Democrats voted for reform
while just 11 voted like ostriches.

This pattern is not confined to Republicans in the Senate. President Bush, to be
fair, has been good on immigration ever since his days as governor of Texas;
among the front-runners to succeed him, Sen. John McCain of Arizona is sensible.
(Both men prove that you can come from a border state and not be a bug-eyed wall
builder.) But two of the party's leading presidential hopefuls, Rudy Giuliani
and Mitt Romney, have been spouting the amnesty nonsense. The all-but-declared
Fred Thompson is scarcely any better.

Giuliani is also spouting nonsense about health care -- a challenge that the
nation must address if it is to assuage middle-class anxiety about a turbulent
globalized economy. As employers have stopped offering coverage, Americans have
discovered that it's almost impossible to buy decent insurance because the
market for individual purchasers is plagued by a vicious cycle. At the start of
this cycle, insurance premiums reflect the cost of covering the average person,
so healthier-than-average people realize they are getting a bad deal and choose
not to buy coverage. That leaves a sicklier group in the market, which forces
premiums up, which drives more relatively healthy people to exit, which drives
premiums up still more, and so on.

This market failure is a basic fact of health-care economics. But Giuliani is
oblivious to it. In an interview with the Wall Street Journal last week, he
indicated that he wants to triple the number of people in the dysfunctional
individual insurance market without taking the one step that might fix it, which
is to force every American, healthy or not, to buy coverage. Depending on
whether he understands how dumb this is, Hizzoner is either a coward or a
lightweight.

Meanwhile, the Democratic Party is sounding less bad on globalization than might
have been expected. After last year's midterm elections, the Democrats seemed
ready to turn against trade and foreign investment. They have duly forced
dubious labor standards into trade pacts with Peru and Panama, and they have
failed so far to renew the president's authority to negotiate trade deals, which
expires at the end of this month. But the bill emerging from Congress on the
process for putting inward investment  through a security review resists the
temptation for paranoid obstructionism. And leading Democrats have indicated
that they'll support the Doha round of global trade talks if negotiators can
revive it.

Compared with the immigrant bashing that has dominated Republican presidential
debates, Democratic presidential hopefuls have sounded sweetly reasonable. With
the exception of the no-hoper Dennis Kucinich, none has pressed protectionist
themes. There is no equivalent to the Dick Gephardt of 1988, who won the Iowa
caucuses on an anti-trade ticket.

Instead, the Democratic candidates are focusing on helping the economy's losers
without restricting trade, which is exactly what they should be doing. John
Edwards, the contender who sounded most protectionist in 2004, seems to have
turned over a new leaf. He has admitted that trade benefits poor countries and
has declared that arguments over labor standards should not be an excuse to
obstruct liberalization. Meanwhile, Edwards has proposed a thoughtful
health-care reform that would require everyone to buy insurance. He supports
market-minded social programs such as an expanded earned-income tax credit and
housing vouchers.

In the 2004 election, the Kerry-Edwards ticket forfeited its claim to economic
seriousness by opposing trade deals such as the Central American Free Trade
Agreement. In 2004, likewise, the Bush-Cheney ticket forfeited its claim to
economic seriousness by defending its dishonest tax cuts. This time around, the
party that gets closest to a fiscally responsible platform that accepts
globalization while helping the losers will deserve to win. For the moment,
Democrats are doing better.

smallaby@cfr.org

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              316 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 14, 2007 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

The Immigration Bill In Harry Reid's Court;
__

BYLINE: David S. Broder

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A27

LENGTH: 742 words


It is hard to say who looked worse in the Senate's impasse on immigration
legislation -- Democrats or Republicans -- but the responsibility for reviving
that measure clearly rests most heavily on the shoulders of Majority Leader
Harry Reid.

It was Reid who decided last Thursday to pull the bill off the floor after a
small number of recalcitrant Republicans, led by Jim DeMint of South Carolina,
blocked his efforts to clear away the remaining Republican amendments and move
toward a final vote.

Reid abandoned the effort to pass the legislation, despite pleas from its
leading Democratic sponsor, Sen. Ted Kennedy, to give it more time -- and
despite an offer from Minority Leader Mitch McConnell to pare down overnight the
list of remaining Republican amendments to a manageable size.

Reid had decided that a week of debate before the Memorial Day recess and four
or five more days last week was all the time the Senate could afford for what is
arguably the single most important domestic issue on the agenda.

All this, from a Senate that had spent most of the past five months battling
futilely with President Bush over a timetable for American withdrawal from Iraq
-- and that then closed down for three days over last weekend and used Monday
for a debate on a purely symbolic vote of no confidence in Attorney General
Alberto Gonzales.

Readers of this column know I am no fan of Sen. Reid. When I wrote in April
about his shortcomings as majority leader, The Post received a protest letter
signed by the other 50 senators in the Democratic Caucus, attesting to their
devotion to their leader.

I may be risking another mass reprimand by what I am about to write, but here is
what I know:

There's no doubt that DeMint, Jeff Sessions of Alabama and a few other
Republicans were out to stop the immigration bill -- and were conducting a
filibuster by amendment. But McConnell, who supports the legislation and was
eager to deliver a legislative victory to Bush, said repeatedly that the
Republicans would vote to end debate after they had a chance to offer as many
amendments as they did last year -- when they controlled the Senate and had
passed a similar immigration measure.

By McConnell's count, they were nine short of that number when Reid tried to cut
off debate Thursday night. Democrats have a different tally. Reid had been
trying all day to cut a deal with the Republicans to dispose of a few more
amendments, but he was continually stymied by DeMint and Sessions. Reid said he
would brook no more delay. But with McConnell withholding his help, only seven
of the 49 Republicans voted for cloture -- and it failed, prompting Reid to
remove the immigration bill from the Senate floor.

In his pique, Reid was quick to label the rejected legislation as "the
president's bill," even though the White House had had less to do with writing
it than a bipartisan group of senators, mainly members of the Judiciary
Committee. Reid also put the onus on Bush to deliver more Republican votes to
end debate, making that a condition for possibly reviving the measure -- after
the Senate finishes work on an energy bill some time next week.

His aides and associates insist that Reid really wants an immigration bill. But
he went out of his way to rewrite that bill to meet the demands of organized
labor by allowing a second vote on an amendment by Byron Dorgan of North Dakota
to "sunset" after five years the guest-worker program that unions see as a
competitive source of low-wage workers.

The Dorgan amendment lost by one vote the first time but passed by a single vote
the next time -- as four conservative Republicans supported it in hopes it would
become a "poison pill" that killed the fragile bipartisan consensus behind the
bill. Reid himself supported the "killer" amendment.

He may be playing with fire. A poll that Andy Kohut completed for the Pew
Research Center for the People and the Press four days before the Senate fiasco
on the immigration bill found a striking increase in disapproval of Democratic
congressional leaders. In January, 39 percent approved of them and 34 percent
disapproved. In early June, disapproval topped approval, 49 percent to 34
percent. Among independents, the disapproval score was 58 percent to 26 percent.

Reid may think that Bush will suffer if immigration reform is killed. But the
public is likely to put the blame where it principally belongs -- on the leader
of the party that runs the Senate.

davidbroder@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              317 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 17, 2007 Sunday
                                 Met 2 Edition

FBI Name Check Cited In Naturalization Delays;
Official Calls Backlog 'Unacceptable'

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu and N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1595 words


Jin Ju Yoo, a stay-at-home mother who immigrated from South Korea in 1990 and
applied for U.S. citizenship in 2002, would seem a minimal security risk. So say
friends in Clarksburg, Md., where Yoo, 36, plays drums at a Presbyterian church
and raises three children with her husband, a flooring contractor. Her husband
and children are citizens.

The would-be American is still waiting for approval, however, because the FBI
has not completed a security check of her name against its more than 86 million
investigative files. Neither the bureau nor the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services agency will say why.

Since 2005, the backlog of legal U.S. immigrants whose applications for
naturalization and other benefits are stuck on hold awaiting FBI name checks has
doubled to 329,160, prompting a flood of lawsuits in federal courts,
bureaucratic finger-pointing in Washington and tough scrutiny by 2008
presidential candidates.

At a time when Congress is intensely focused on border security, the growing
backlog is one of the most visible signs of the U.S. immigration system's
breakdown, current and former government officials said.

Unexplained delays in determining whether longtime residents pose a threat
promise neither justice to the applicants nor added security to the country,
they said. They blame bureaucratic mismanagement and poor coordination at the
FBI and the immigration service, and the inefficient methods of screening files
for genuine security threats.

In his annual report to Congress last week, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services (USCIS) ombudsman Prakash I. Khatri called the backlog of FBI name
checks "unacceptable from the standpoint of national security and immigration
benefits processing."

Calling the delays the "most pervasive problem" in processing, Khatri concluded
that they "may increase the risk to national security by prolonging the time a
potential criminal or terrorist remains in the country." He concluded that the
agency should end or sharply narrow its use of name checks.

As Dawn Lurie, a Vienna immigration lawyer, put it: "If there's a security
reason [for the delay], then what are those people still doing here? . . . And
if there isn't a security reason, then why are we making them wait for so long?"

The withholding of citizenship -- and the continuation of the attendant
restrictions on voting, employment, travel, reunification with family members,
and access to credit and federal assistance programs -- replicates on a far
vaster and more damaging scale the inconvenience rendered to travelers who are
mistakenly placed on no-fly lists because of spelling confusions or errors,
civil liberties lawyers said.

Some lawyers warn that such burdens may be discriminatory if they fall
disproportionately on people perceived to be from Muslim countries or from
ethnic groups whose names are transliterated from non-Roman alphabets. But
others representing individuals in the Washington area or participating in four
national class-action lawsuits over the delays say the most distinctive -- and
frustrating -- feature is their seeming randomness, and the refusal of agencies
to say when checks will be done or why problems have arisen.

Seong Ho Kang, 40, a computer engineer from South Korea who lives in
Centreville, has waited for more than a year for his FBI check, possibly because
the bureau since 2001 has intensified the scrutiny of immigrants with
high-technology backgrounds. In frustration, Kang submitted a Freedom of
Information Act request for any records the FBI might have on him. The bureau
promptly replied that it had none. "If they can tell that to me, why can't they
tell it to immigration?" Kang asked.

Donald Kerr, 60, the Jamaican-born lead singer of the Wailers, Bob Marley's
reggae group, applied for U.S. citizenship more than three years ago after
marrying a U.S. citizen. Kerr, a British citizen who goes by the stage name
Junior Marvin, lives in Alexandria. "I'm not trying to put Homeland Security
down. I mean, they have to do what they have to do," he said, sitting in his
basement amid a mass of guitars, amplifiers and sound-mixing equipment. "But it
does seem like a long time to check up on a musician."

The backlog started growing after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, when
investigators determined that a failure to properly process immigration
applications contributed to the hijackers' ability to enter and stay in the
country. U.S. authorities responded by broadly expanding background checks.

FBI name checks, in particular, were intensified after errors and a lack of
cooperation between the FBI and immigration authorities in Newark led to the
October 2002 naturalization of a man suspected of ties to Hezbollah, which is
designated a terrorist group. A policy decision was made to check applicants'
names not only against the list of individuals under investigation by the FBI
but also against the list of those named in investigative files for any reason.

The result was tumultuous. At the end of 2002, immigration authorities
resubmitted 2.7 million names of applicants to the FBI for additional scrutiny.
More than five years later, the FBI is only now emerging from that huge load,
with about 5,800 names left to be rechecked.

But FBI officials say a heavy workload is not the only problem. They also blame
inadequate staffing and technology, as well as a decentralized, paper-based
process of status review.

About 90 percent of name checks, officials say, emerge with no matches within
three months, after an automated search of databases. But the remaining 10
percent can take months or years, as 30 analysts and assistants must coordinate
with 56 field offices and retrieve files stored in 265 locations nationwide.

As a result, the FBI has fallen further behind on the 1.5 million new names it
receives each year from USCIS. Of about 329,000 cases pending as of May, 64
percent were stalled for more than 90 days, 32 percent for more than one year
and 17 percent for more than two years.

"No one is happy with the status quo," said USCIS Deputy Director Jonathan
"Jock" Scharfen. "We share the public's unhappiness with this, and we're
committed to improving the process."

"We're trying to automate this as much as possible," said Michael Cannon, head
of the FBI's National Name Check Program. He said the section's disruptive move
from Washington to Frederick County, Va., also hindered work in 2006.

Cannon said the completion of a new Central Records System and progress toward a
long-delayed, $600 million FBI computerized case-management system will help. "I
can't give you a date certain when all this is going to come to fruition. My
best guess is 2010," he said.

USCIS officials say they are reviewing their procedures but remain committed to
detailed checks, which they call an effective tool in identifying security
threats and verifying eligibility for citizenship. Even just a few terrorists
can wreak havoc, the program's supporters note.

While USCIS declined to provide the number or percentage of annual name checks
that result in denials, the FBI has reported that less than 1 percent of 1.5
million names are ultimately tied to potentially damaging information.

The backlog appears likely to get worse, because a USCIS fee increase -- slated
to take effect in July -- has prompted a 50 percent rise in new naturalization
applications so far this year. If a new immigration bill is enacted, millions of
undocumented immigrants would also apply for legalization.

Frustrations among applicants have helped stoke a fourfold increase in
litigation against USCIS since the middle of 2006. Critics emphasize that
applicants for naturalization, by definition, are longtime residents who have
lived and worked in the United States with few restrictions.

Khatri, in his June 11 report, said that given other automated security checks,
"the protection the FBI name check provides, the cost of government resources
used, and mental and actual hardships to applicants and their families, USCIS
should reassess the continuation of its policy."

For now, tens of thousands of legal residents remain in limbo, exacting a toll
on them and their employers. Pavel Kroupnik, a Russian economist who came to the
United States in 1991 and sought citizenship three years ago, works at the
nuclear energy firm USEC Inc. in Bethesda and directs the conversion of
weapons-grade uranium from Russian nuclear warheads into fuel for commercial
nuclear power plants -- a key U.S.-Russian nonproliferation effort.

But Kroupnik, 46, a Rockville resident, has been unable to get a security
clearance and fuller responsibilities because he is not a citizen, even though
his employer had conducted its own two-year investigation of his background
before hiring him. "When immigration said we need to do a background check, I
said, 'Guys, check your own [files].' The CIA, the FBI, the KGB -- they all know
who I am and what I'm doing," Kroupnik said.

Adriana Rivera, a Mexican-born housecleaner living in Woodbridge, has been
stymied in a different way: She cannot see her elderly parents in Veracruz,
Mexico, because she holds a temporary work permit and would be unable to return
if she left the United States while awaiting the background check she needs to
become a legal permanent resident.

Her husband sailed through his background check and obtained a green card nearly
two years ago even though he applied at the same time as Rivera.

"Every time my husband goes back to visit Mexico, I cry because I can't go with
him," Rivera said. "I miss my family so much. It's a feeling of desperation."

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              318 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 18, 2007 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Employers, Not Family, Drive Area Immigration;
D.C. Could Offer Glimpse Of Life Under Senate Bill

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1274 words


What would the United States look like under the Senate immigration bill?
Possibly a lot like Washington.

The Washington area has one of the most educated immigrant populations in the
nation. About 44 percent hold a bachelor's degree or higher, compared with 27
percent of immigrants nationwide.

That puts Washington right in line with one of the most radical proposals in the
Senate bill: a shift to a points-based admission system that would favor
applicants with advanced skills, education and job links over those with
extended family in the United States.

Unlike most immigrant hubs, this region has legal immigrants far more likely to
be sponsored by an employer than by an extended family member.

Under current law, just under a fifth of legal permanent residency visas -- also
known as green cards -- are reserved for immigrants sponsored by an employer.
Another fifth are reserved for immigrants sponsored by relatives such as a
sibling or parent in the United States. In addition, there is no limit on the
number of foreign-born spouses and minor children of U.S. citizens who can
enter, so they account for nearly half of green cards given out each year. The
rest are granted to immigrants in an assortment of smaller categories, such as
refugees and those who enter through a lottery.

The current system has fundamentally shaped traditional immigrant gateway cities
such as New York, Los Angeles, Chicago and San Diego. There, immigrants who
arrived generations ago set in motion a chain of family migration that continues
to this day. In San Diego, for instance, almost a third of immigrants between
2004 and 2006 were sponsored by extended family, compared with 15 percent by
employers.

"The population growth of these longtime immigrant magnet areas would not have
been nearly so great if it hadn't been for the accumulation of those family
ties," said William H. Frey, a demographer at the Brookings Institution who has
analyzed the apportionment of green cards in the top 50 immigrant destinations.

The family-based nature of immigration to these cities also profoundly
influenced their character. Entire urban neighborhoods were transformed into
ethnic enclaves -- Little Italys and Chinatowns built on mom-and-pop businesses
that provided many newcomers with their first jobs. The family networks also
helped cushion the new arrivals from the shock of adapting to a vastly different
country. It often wasn't until the second or third generation that the
descendants of these immigrants had the means and the desire to sell their homes
to the next wave of migrants and move out to the suburbs -- by which time they
were so assimilated they tended to blend in.

But alongside that historic pattern, an alternative model emerged in the
mid-1990s with the rise of high-tech industries in such places as Raleigh, N.C.,
San Jose and Washington's Dulles corridor. Desperate for computer programmers,
scientists and financial professionals, companies in these places began
aggressively recruiting overseas.

The green card statistics from 2004 through 2006 reflect that. In Raleigh, 37
percent of legal immigrants were sponsored by an employer, compared with only 10
percent by extended family. In Washington, employers brought in 27 percent of
legal immigrants, while extended family members brought in 13 percent.

The booming economy in these areas also increased demand for low-skilled labor
-- construction workers to build homes for the high-tech workers, nannies to
mind their children. Many of those jobs were soon filled by immigrants as well.
But it is unlikely that those workers were sponsored by employers because the
current system offers almost no green cards for low-skilled employment. Instead,
many of these immigrants appear to have been drawn from other parts of the
country, said Audrey Singer, a demographer at Brookings who has studied national
immigration patterns. A substantial number also came into the United States
illegally.

Washington is a somewhat special case in that it has also been able to draw on a
large base of low-skilled immigrants who came to the region fleeing violence in
Central America in the 1980s. Salvadorans are the largest immigrant group in the
Washington area, accounting for 13 percent of the foreign-born population.

Still, it is hard to overstate the impact of the rise of employment-based
immigration to Washington and the other new knowledge economy centers.

"It gave us a totally new geography of immigration," Singer said.

From 1990 to 2000, the Washington area's foreign-born population grew by about
70 percent. Since 2000, it has grown by at least 23 percent, to more than 1
million.

Just as significantly, a large number of the newcomers are from nations such as
India, Korea and China, whose immigrants tend to be highly educated. (More than
three-fourths of recent Indian immigrants hold a bachelor's degree or higher,
for instance.) Immigrants from those three nations now constitute the largest
immigrant groups in Washington after Salvadorans.

The higher salaries they command have also allowed many in this new wave of
immigrants to move directly to Washington's outskirts, rather than forming
ethnic enclaves within the District or its inner suburbs.

Once all-white suburbs such as Annandale now have Korean groceries stocked with
kimchi and Indian boutiques selling saris and the latest Bollywood DVDs. But
although businesses serving the newcomers have occasionally concentrated in
particular sections of the suburbs, their customers have chosen to live across a
wide swath of territory.

In Washington's suburbs, "it's rare to find a place with a heavy concentration
of any one group," Singer said.

The result is a United Nations effect. People from a tremendous diversity of
backgrounds live, work and play side by side. Schools, churches and even
hospitals offer services in not just one or two but five or more foreign
languages.

This trend could become the national norm if the point system in the Senate bill
is adopted.

Under that plan, most of the employer- and family-sponsored green cards would be
eliminated. Instead, prospective immigrants would compete for a limited number
of visas according to the number of points they can accrue out of a total of
100.

By far the greatest number of points would go to immigrants who have advanced
degrees and connections to U.S. employers in high-tech industries.

A low-skilled immigrant who has extended family in the United States would get
some points for that, but probably too few to qualify for entry.

A recent analysis by the Migration Policy Institute, a Washington-based think
tank, suggests that the overall effect of this would be to reverse the strong
Mexican character of immigration to the United States in favor of immigrants
from Asian nations.

In Washington, the impact might be smaller, as the region's already substantial
proportion of Asian immigrants grows even higher.

The area could also experience a decline in the relative size of its Salvadoran
population. But that effect might be mitigated by the fact that at least a fifth
of Washington area Salvadoran immigrants get green cards as spouses and minor
children of U.S. citizens -- who would still be allowed to enter without
restrictions under the Senate plan.

About 60 percent of the region's Salvadoran-born residents are illegal
immigrants, according to Jeffrey Passel, a senior research associate at the
Washington-based Pew Hispanic Center who studies the illegal immigrant
population. It is a matter of debate whether illegal immigrants would continue
to come to the Washington area despite beefed-up border enforcement provisions
called for in the Senate plan.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              319 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 18, 2007 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

An insider's guide to the upcoming week

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 524 words

The Palestinian Crisis

With the collapse of the Palestinian unity government, the visit by Israeli
Prime Minister Ehud Olmert to the White House tomorrow will offer the United
States an opportunity to confront the crisis. The Bush administration is an ally
of Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, who formed an emergency government
yesterday that excludes Hamas, which took power in parliament after elections
last year. Hamas, which the United States considers a terrorist group, seized
control of Gaza last week; Abbas's political party, Fatah, consolidated power in
the West Bank.

Also on President Bush's agenda this week: meetings with Caribbean heads of
government and Vietnam's president, Nguyen Minh Triet.

RENEWING IMMIGRATION PUSH: Immigration may return to the Senate's agenda, with
Majority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.) considering procedural tactics to clear
the path to a vote. Two amendments could spell doom, though. A Democratic
amendment would give family connections more weight in deciding which illegal
immigrants gain legal status. A Republican amendment would require illegal
immigrants to return to their home country within two years and apply for
permanent residency.

The Senate will also return to the energy bill, with mandates on renewable
electricity and automobile standards ripe for contention. The House will
continue to work on appropriations bills, but a clash is expected over whether
earmarks must be disclosed before Senate and House negotiators meet to produce
final bills in the fall.

SENATE AUDITIONS IN WYOMING: Wyoming's GOP will hold a forum today to formally
introduce the 31 people aspiring to fill the late Craig Thomas's seat in the
Senate. The party will select three candidates, one of whom will be appointed by
Gov. Dave Freudenthal (D) to fill the seat through November 2008.

Also, Georgia will hold a special election in the 10th Congressional District
after the death of Rep. Charlie Norwood (R). Ten candidates -- six Republicans,
three Democrats and one Libertarian -- are competing. Former state senator Jim
Whitehead (R) is favored.

BLOOMBERG GOES TO GOOGLE: He says he's not running for president, but he's not
doing much to dispel the speculation. Fresh off a visit to New Hampshire (for
the college reunion of his girlfriend, Diana Taylor), New York Mayor Michael R.
Bloomberg is heading to California this week to speak at Google. The company is
holding a speakers series featuring presidential candidates -- Sen. John McCain
(R-Ariz.), Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-N.Y.) and others have spoken -- but it
insists Bloomberg's visit is not part of the series.

BROWNBACK'S IOWA MOMENT: It'll be Sen. Sam Brownback's moment in the
presidential race. The Kansas Republican is embarking on a 27-city tour of Iowa,
running today through Thursday. Learn to love Oskaloosa, Humboldt and
Marshalltown.

Back in Washington, two forums for Democratic presidential candidates will be
held. On Tuesday and Wednesday, they will address the progressive Take Back
America conference. On Tuesday, Chris Matthews will host a forum sponsored by
the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              320 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            June 20, 2007 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

A Union Beats a Fence;
Making Scofflaw Employers Share the Wealth

BYLINE: Harold Meyerson

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 821 words


This week, just before it turns again to immigration, the Senate takes up the
Employee Free Choice Act (EFCA),  which would restore to America's workers the
right to join  unions. Depending on how you look at it, the Senate's timing --
moving to bolster middle- and working-class incomes before it alters our
immigration policy -- is either impeccable or 30 years too late.

For those adamantly against the efforts to legalize the 12 million or so
undocumented immigrants among us, opposition has become the vehicle to express a
range of anxieties that go far beyond the question at hand. Some of those
anxieties are racial and cultural. Others are economic -- the fear that
immigrants take jobs from native-born Americans, the fear that they drag wages
down.

There is, as those of us who support the legalization of the undocumented must
admit, some -- though by no means universal -- validity to these fears.
Immigrants are not employed solely as farmworkers, gardeners and nannies. One
look at construction crews or the women who clean hotel rooms makes clear that
there has been, in many regions, a vast shift in the composition of sectoral
workforces.

But that's just part of the story. Historically, opposition to immigration rises
in times of broad economic insecurity and wanes in periods of economic
tranquility. During the Depression, the government shipped Mexican migrant
workers -- and American citizens of Mexican descent -- back to Mexico.
Conversely, when Congress acted in 1965 to allow considerably more immigrants
into the United States, it was a time of widely shared prosperity and mass job
security of the sort that has vanished from America today.

The intensity of the conservative movement's opposition to legalizing the
undocumented is the direct result of the movement's doctrinal limitations:
Immigration is the only element among all factors, large and small,
contributing to Americans' economic insecurity that conservatism can address.
American conservatism, after all, is committed to radical, globalized,
laissez-faire capitalism at the same time that it is committed to nationalism
and traditional cultural values (however mutually negating these commitments may
be).

American conservatism defends the right of corporations to ship jobs overseas;
it has opposed legislation raising the minimum wage and restoring employees'
right to join unions and bargain for higher wages. However valid conservatives'
fear of the economic harm from immigration (and for most Americans, it's not
very much), the issue itself has become conservatism's surrogate for greater
anxieties about globalization and the restratification of the U.S. economy --
anxieties whose very names conservatism dare not speak.

This week, though, the Senate turns to legislation that not only speaks about
the economic stagnation of all but the wealthiest Americans but that would
actually begin to end it. The goal of the Employee Free Choice Act is simply to
give workers the right to join unions without facing the (currently) one-in-five
chance of being fired for playing an active role in a campaign to do so.

Firing employees for endeavoring to form  unions has been illegal since 1935
under the National Labor Relations Act, but beginning in the 1970s, employers
have preferred to violate the law -- the penalties are negligible -- rather than
have their workers unionize. Today, employer violations rank somewhere between
routine and de rigueur. Over half -- 51 percent -- of employers illegally
threaten workers with the specter of plant closings if employees choose to
unionize (1 percent actually go through with this threat, according to Cornell
University professor Kate Bronfenbrenner). And even when workers vote to
unionize, companies can refuse to bargain with them and can drag out the process
for years -- indeed, forever. The Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
found that when unions win representation elections, 45 percent of the time they
then fail to secure  contracts from employers.

This kind of hardball resistance to American workers' attempts to unionize,
combined with the decline of manufacturing, has achieved catastrophic success.
Only 7.5 percent of private-sector workers today are unionized, down from
one-third during the decades after World War II. And guess what? The middle
class has been cut out of the ever-dwindling group of our countrymen who profit
from the nation's economic growth. The EFCA would seek to remedy this by
offering workers an alternative path to forming unions -- the submission of
signed affiliation cards from a majority of employees would trigger union
recognition -- and by mandating binding arbitration if employers stonewall
efforts to win a first contract.

If we're really serious about restoring economic security in America and
economic vitality to the middle class, the EFCA would work a whole lot better
than would a fence on the border.

meyersonh@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              321 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            June 20, 2007 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Man Accused of Fraudulent Marriages

BYLINE: Eric Rich; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 237 words


James A. Kyem married nine times in 11 years, pledging himself to immigrant
women across the Washington area and beyond -- not for love, prosecutors said
yesterday, but for money.

According to a grand jury indictment returned at U.S. District Court in
Baltimore, the Frederick resident married women, for a fee, in Prince George's
and Prince William counties and elsewhere. The women were then able to become
lawful permanent residents.

Kyem, 52, is a naturalized U.S. citizen, the indictment says. He was born in
Ghana and obtained his citizenship through a 1984 marriage to a woman who was a
naturalized citizen, it says. He was married to her still when, in 1996, he
entered into the first of the nine fraudulent marriages, it says.

Although he divorced his wife from the 1984 marriage in 1997, federal
authorities did not say whether Kyem was married to his next nine wives
simultaneously or divorced each before marrying the next.

Kyem was charged with marriage and passport fraud and other offenses. He is
being detained as a flight risk. His attorney, Paula Xinis, a public defender,
declined to comment.

A spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein referred questions about the
wives to immigration authorities.

Marc Raimondi, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said he had
no immediate information about Kyem's case but said the penalty for becoming
naturalized through fraud is denaturalization.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              322 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            June 20, 2007 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

ACLU Suit Alleges Deportees Were Drugged

BYLINE: Sonya Geis; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 432 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 19


Two immigrants were held down and forcibly injected with sedatives by
immigration officials who were attempting to deport them, the American Civil
Liberties Union charged in a lawsuit filed Tuesday.

The class-action complaint targets the Department of Homeland Security,
Immigration and Customs Enforcement and the Division of Immigration Health
Services, an agency of the U.S. Public Health Service that contracts with ICE to
provide medical services. The division is already facing lawsuits charging that
it provides inadequate medical care to detained immigrants.

Both plaintiffs in Tuesday's lawsuit claim they declined sedatives that were
offered to them when immigration officials sought to deport them, but they were
injected with a powerful antipsychotic anyway.

According to the lawsuit, Raymond Soeoth, a 38-year-old Indonesian national, was
in a Los Angeles area immigrant detention center in December 2004 when the
authorities told him he was about to be deported. Soeoth asked to call his wife
and make arrangements in Indonesia but was denied, said his attorney, Ahilan
Arulanantham.

A note in Soeoth's medical records states that Soeoth said, "I'm not ready to
go," and told officers he would not board an airplane. Another note indicates
that Soeoth may have been a suicide risk, which his lawyer says is untrue.

Immigration agents injected him with the sedative, antipsychotic drug Haldol,
according to his medical records. Soeoth's deportation was canceled by airline
security because they had not been notified by immigration authorities, records
show.

The other plaintiff, Senegalese immigrant Amadou Diouf, 31, was put on a
commercial flight at Los Angeles International Airport in handcuffs, his medical
records show. Diouf protested that he should not be deported, then asked a
flight attendant in French to speak to the captain. Medical escorts wrestled him
to the floor of the airplane and injected him, the lawsuit states.

The captain asked them to leave, and Diouf was sent back to detention. Both men
are now free while their immigration cases are on appeal, their attorney said.

Virginia Kice, a spokeswoman for ICE, said decisions about immigrants' medical
care are made by the U.S. Public Health Service, which "does not involuntarily
pre-medicate or sedate a detainee solely to facilitate removal efforts, unless
authorized by a judge's removal order."

She added: "When ICE is carrying out the removal order of an immigration judge,
our officers are responsible for the safety of the alien and members of public
who come into contact with the alien on a commercial flight."

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              323 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 25, 2007 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 323 words


Lawmakers on both sides of the immigration debate dug in their heels yesterday,
clarifying nothing about whether the bill to overhaul immigration will survive
the week.

Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.), an outspoken opponent of the measure, pledged on
ABC's "This Week" to do everything possible to kill it.

"A lot of key senators that were thought to be supportive have announced in
recent days that they don't support it," he said.

On the same show, Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) expressed confidence that the
bill, which he helped write, will pass. "The American people know that we can't
have bumper-sticker solutions. The cliches, slogans that we hear on the Senate
floor are not going to solve our problem," he said.

NBC's "Meet the Press" brought together conservative commentator Patrick
Buchanan and Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (Ill.), the chief Democratic author of the
House version of the bill. "If we give this amnesty," Buchanan warned, "I truly
believe it is the beginning of the end of the United States as we know it."
Gutierrez countered, "It's a broken system, but . . . what are we going to do
with the 12 million people already here?"

Discussion about Iraq remained focused on September, when military and
diplomatic officials are to brief Congress on the success of the president's
strategy of sending in 30,000 additional troops.

Lt. Gen. Raymond T. Odierno, the U.S. military's second-in-command in Iraq, said
on CNN's "Late Edition" that he will issue a recommendation in September on "how
much longer . . . coalition forces have to remain."

He added: "A lot of that has to do with the ability of the Iraqi security
forces. . . . [If] the Iraqi security forces continue to improve . . . there's a
potential that we could withdraw by the spring."

Sen. Trent Lott (R-Miss.) noted on "Fox News Sunday" that the last troops in the
"surge" recently arrived, and he said U.S. forces should get a chance to
succeed.

By Zachary A. Goldfarb

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              324 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            June 27, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Deportees' Bittersweet Homecoming;
Migration Is Boon, Bane for Honduras

BYLINE: Pamela Constable; Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1562 words

DATELINE: TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras


Almost every day, another unmarked jet from Houston lands at the international
airport  in this Central American capital and disgorges a new batch of deportees
from U.S. immigration custody. More than 1,800 this month. More than 13,700
since January.

The passengers file out uncertainly, pausing to grab the paper or plastic bags
holding their few belongings, and enter a low building with a sign that says:
"Welcome Home, Brothers." There are weary-looking older workers, scowling young
men with tattoos, a handful of women. They wear clean prison uniforms or the
grimy clothes in which they were caught.

Those who found menial jobs in the United States say they sent far more money
home than they could ever earn in Honduras, but most say they were caught within
days of sneaking across the border and have returned with empty pockets. Two out
of three say they intend to try again.

"The immigration van caught us after we walked for three days across the desert
in Arizona," says Matias Miranda, 42, an illiterate farmer who just made his
second attempt to enter the United States in search of work. "I was getting
older and I wanted to try once more, to help my children. But already I am back
without a single peso. All I got was this Bible, and I still have the one they
gave me last time."

Illegal  migration is a crucial safety valve for Honduras, a chronically poor
country of 7.5 million where 40 percent of the populace earns less than $3 a day
and just over half the workforce has a sixth-grade education. Money sent
directly to Honduran families from relatives working in the United States, both
legally and illegally, provides nearly one-third of the national income -- $1.8
billion in 2005, $2.3 billion last year.

Over the past several years, however, the pace of deportations from the United
States has skyrocketed as the U.S. Border Patrol has beefed up operations. In
2005, 18,941 Hondurans were deported; in 2006, 24,643 were deported; and by
mid-June 2007, the figure had  exceeded 13,700. There have been similar
increases in deportations from Mexico and Guatemala, which Hondurans must cross
before they reach the United States.

The current debate over immigration reform in the United States, where an
estimated 12 million illegal immigrants live, has caused hope and anxiety here,
because it holds out both the promise of legalizing tens of thousands of
Hondurans now in the United States and the threat of a harsher crackdown near
the border, which about 90,000 Hondurans attempt to cross illegally each year.

Meanwhile, the steady rise in deportations is met here with a mixture of alarm
and relief. Officials worry that the current flow of cash remittances to
families -- expected to reach a record $2.8 billion this year -- will start to
lessen and that the economy will not be able to absorb a sustained influx of
jobless returnees.

On the other hand, Honduran society has paid a high price for this economic
antidote. Experts here say illegal immigration destroys families during long
separations and lures fatherless youths to crime and gangs. It also fosters
dependency on handouts from abroad and a tendency to fritter cash windfalls on
luxury goods.

"Honduras today survives on remittances, but mass migration also causes enormous
damage," said Julio Vel?squez, an official of the Honduran National Human Rights
Commission. "Those who manage to reach the U.S. can lift their families a little
out of poverty, but often the families fall apart and the kids end up in gangs
or on drugs. We need to create the conditions so people don't need to leave,
instead of thinking of migration as something to admire."

Dar?o Cardona, the deputy minister of labor, said a variety of factors have
contributed to the exodus. The minimum wage here is only $3.50 a day, and many
Hondurans earn far less as seasonal field hands or street vendors. Although the
economy is growing and inflation is down, Cardona said, progress has been
hampered by corruption, poor public education and lack of investment.

"The poor who leave subsidize the poor who stay," he said. "Depending on other
countries is a short-term help for us, but it is not a long-term solution. Our
country is exporting its youth and its labor force, and after a few years many
of them come back with nothing."

Sympathy and Respect

At the Center for Attention to Migrants next to Toncontin International Airport,
deportees who have just been uncuffed from airplane seats are greeted with the
sympathy and respect due homecoming survivors of a long ordeal. Immigration
officials offer good-luck handshakes while volunteers pass around coffee,
tortillas and brochures for free training in fish farming, pastry cooking, auto
mechanics or computer programming.

Valdete Wilemon, a Brazilian nun who runs the center, says she has heard a
thousand horror stories from returning migrants -- of people crazed from thirst
in the U.S. deserts, falling to their deaths from trains in Mexico, being beaten
and robbed by cross-border guides.

"I see migration as a big business for those who exploit it, and a cause of
great suffering for the migrants," she said. "We treat them with dignity, and we
welcome them home. But this country is very poor, and the people will keep
trying to get to the north, no matter how big a wall they build," she added.
"The deportations are more now, but so is the flight."

Despite her ministrations, new deportees are often angry and bleak. They mill
uneasily or slump in chairs, ripping open sacks containing shoelaces, belts and
wallets confiscated by U.S. immigration officials -- and copies of the Bible
donated by prison visitors -- while they wait impatiently to be processed for
reentry into Honduras.

Some look sullen with failure or haggard with exhaustion; others grin and whoop
with defiant relief. A few young men with tattoos, possible signs of gang
membership, curse at visitors. One man pulls out a snapshot of his wife and
daughter, left behind when his factory was raided in New Jersey. Another
complains angrily that his landscaping boss in Texas betrayed him to avoid
paying his salary.

"I not criminal guy," says Santos Canales, 30, struggling to explain himself in
English. "I work hard. I have wife and five kids. The boss know I am illegal. I
ask for my money. He call police, not pay me."

In the next room, immigration officials call the deportees one by one for brief
interviews. They answer two pages of questions that provide a basic but
revealing profile of the motives and fortunes of many illegal migrants from
Central America. Education level? Most say they reached only sixth grade.
Occupation? Most say farmer, driver, factory worker or bricklayer.

How long did you spend in the United States? A few say several years, but most
answer less than two months. How much did you earn? Most say zero; a few say
between $1,000 and $2,000  a month. How much did you send home? Again, most say
zero; some say several hundred dollars a month.

How many times have you been deported? Many say twice, some say more. Are you
planning to go back? Many in their 20s and 30s answer yes; most in their 40s and
50s shake their heads and say no.

"For me, it was definitely worth it," says Hidalgo Fuentes, 30, who quit his
local factory job and was caught in May trying to reach Missouri on a cargo
train. "Here, the best I can earn is about $30 a week. The last time I went
north, I earned $500 a week washing dishes, and my family was able to build a
house." Asked if he expects to try again, he just smiles.

Reuniting the Family

Outside the center, a throng of families waits anxiously. Most have received
calls from relatives in U.S. detention, saying they will be home this week.
Gladys Morales and her two children are there, taut with excitement and dressed
in new clothes for what Belkis, 13, calls "the Big Day."

They are waiting for Gladys's husband, Ram?n, 34, who has been in New Orleans
for three years. He worked as a house painter, sending home a steady stream of
cash that helped them improve their three-room shack on a hillside outside the
capital. But they missed him terribly, especially Jos? Ram?n, 9. For this
family, the joy of reuniting is far more important than the loss of income.

Suddenly, there he is in the door, still wearing the paint-splattered pants he
had on when U.S. immigration agents raided an apartment complex he was painting
in April. The children rush forward, and he crushes them to his chest.

"So you still remember me?" he murmurs affectionately. "How are you doing in
school? Are you behaving yourselves?"

Jos? Ram?n clutches his father's hand all the way home, a huge grin on his face.
He brags about his grades and jokingly offers to teach his father English.

When they reach their house, Ram?n Morales looks around appreciatively. The back
room is still a dirt-floor shed with a latrine, but the front room has new
tiles, a fresh coat of paint, and a TV set and three CD players covered with
doilies. Over a welcome-home meal of rice, beans and pork chops, Morales says he
has no idea how he will earn a living now, but he is sure of one thing.

"My children need me. So many homes fall apart, but we stayed united," he says.
"I worked hard, I suffered a lot, I sent money home. But after going through all
that, you come back with a new mentality. I want to build a life here now. I
can't leave them again. It's time for me to come home."

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Pamela Constable -- The Washington Post; Hondurans deported
from the United States arrive in Tegucigalpa. Most say they will try again to
sneak across the border, despite a rise in deportations.
IMAGE; Photos By Pamela Constable -- The Washington Post; Deportees collect
their belongings on the tarmac in Tegucigalpa. For many, it was at least the
second time they had been sent back to Honduras. Deportations from the United
States have skyrocketed in the past few years.
IMAGE
IMAGE; Ram?n Morales Flores, just returned to Honduras after three years as a
house painter in New Orleans, embraces daughter Belkis, 13, and son Jos? Ram?n,
9. Morales says he plans to stay: "My children need me."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              325 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 28, 2007 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Challenges To Police Chief On Immigration Warrants

BYLINE: Miranda S. Spivack and Ernesto Londo?o; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. GZ03

LENGTH: 842 words


Things got a bit heated when the issue of enforcing immigration warrants came up
last week during Montgomery County Police Chief J. Thomas Manger's monthly
meeting with members of the Latino community.

State Del. Ana Sol Gutierrez (D-Montgomery) was challenging Manger's decision to
ask officers to pick up immigration violators and turn them over to the federal
government. The civil warrants in recent years have been added to the FBI-run
National Crime Information Center database and pop up when a county officer runs
a computer check during routine stops.

Manger said he wished the warrants weren't in the database but couldn't ask his
officers to ignore them. Manger has been criticized by some in the county who
have called him a member of the Minuteman Project, an anti-illegal-immigration
group.

The discussion prompted former County Council member Michael L. Subin, who heads
the county's Criminal Justice Coordinating Commission, to stand up and defend
Manger.

"Anyone who questions the honor of Chief Manger is questioning my honor," Subin
said. "If you compare him to the Minutemen, you are calling him a racist and a
fascist."

Gutierrez -- who identified herself when the meeting began only as a "citizen
and taxpayer," not as a delegate -- reiterated that she felt the civil warrants
didn't belong in the database, which was created as a repository for criminal
records.

"I give up," Subin said, as he stormed out of the room. "I don't want to waste
my breath."

Later that day, Gutierrez and other Latino leaders met with County Executive
Isiah Leggett (D) but failed to persuade him to ask Manger to disregard the
warrants.

Council Member Snubbed?

County Council member Valerie Ervin (D-Silver Spring) has twice in recent weeks
said that two candidates for the Montgomery County planning board failed to
contact her to try to win her support, and she was not too happy about it.

During the council's interview this month of Robert Cope, a lawyer and civic
activist, Ervin said she was surprised that Cope had not sought her out. He said
he had tried her office four times but was not offered an appointment that would
take place before the interview. They agreed to get together, and did, Cope
said.

Ervin suggested again Tuesday that she was being ignored, as the council voted
to approve two nominees for the planning board: Gene Lynch, a developer who
heads Smart Growth Investments and was an aide to former governor Parris N.
Glendening (D) and former slow-growth county executive Neal Potter (D); and Jean
Cryor, a former GOP member of the Maryland House of Delegates. Ervin said Lynch
had failed to seek her out.

Reached by telephone after his nomination was approved, Lynch said he had sent
an e-mail and left a phone message for Ervin but didn't hear back.

"Those efforts were inadequate. Perhaps I could have done more to reach her,"
Lynch said.

He also said that he knows how difficult it can be for lawmakers' staffs to
ensure that appointments are made in a timely fashion.

"The triaging of information flow coming into an elected official's office is
challenging. I know. I've done that," Lynch said. "It takes a while to establish
procedures and process. I will do better at reaching her in the future."

Union President Reelected

Merle Cuttitta has been reelected president of SEIU Local 500, the union that
represents about 8,000 classroom aides, food service workers, bus operators and
others in the Montgomery County public school system. It will be her third
three-year term.

The union also includes public service workers throughout Maryland and the
District, as well as adjunct professors at George Washington University, a total
of about 10,000 employees.

"For the past six years, we've all been working together at breakneck speed to
build a bigger, stronger, more united union that wins for workers, their
families and their communities," said Cuttitta, in a written statement. "We have
proven time and time again that we are all 'stronger together.' "

Cuttitta, 58, was first elected president of the union in May 2001 and was
reelected in May 2004.

This year, SEIU concluded negotiations with the Montgomery County public school
system on a three-year contract, winning a 5 percent annual increase.

The increases caused political headaches for schools Superintendent Jerry D.
Weast, who tangled with County Executive Isiah Leggett over his proposed budget.
Leggett said he thought the wage increases might have been overly generous as
other county agencies were being asked to tighten their fiscal belts.

North and South, in Song

Patrick Lacefield, Isiah Leggett's spokesman, has another life. He's an avid
Civil War reenactor and participated in the filming of "Gods and Generals," a
movie about the war.

He's bringing his act to the Margaret Schweinhaut Senior Center at 11 a.m. July
6. Lacefield will play the guitar as he sings tunes from the North and the
South. Call 301-681-1255 for more information. The free event is sponsored by
the Montgomery County Historical Society.

Staff writer Lori Aratani contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Montgomery South

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              326 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 28, 2007 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Adding a Page To a History Of Opportunity;
New Citizens Came From 21 Countries

BYLINE: Raymond McCaffrey; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. AA12

LENGTH: 633 words


Almost 230 years ago, the grandson of Irish Catholic immigrants became a
Founding Father as he signed the Declaration of Independence.

On Friday, 35 Maryland residents from 21 countries stood on the grounds of
Charles Carroll's family home in Annapolis, waving tiny U.S. flags and saying an
oath that made them citizens of the country that Carroll helped found.

They listened as the keynote speaker, Gregory A. Stiverson, a member of the
Charles Carroll House board of directors, told them the story of  the
grandfather he is named after and Carroll coming in search of the land of
opportunity -- a story not unlike their own.

"Charles Carroll came to Maryland in search of freedom," Stiverson said.

The family found freedom, prosperity and other things, too, according to
Stiverson.

"They began as Roman Catholic immigrants who faced obstacles and
discrimination," he said.

The ceremony was part of an effort by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services
to swear in new citizens "at places of historical importance," said Chris
Ratigan, a department spokeswoman. Ratigan said the department "jumped at the
chance" to have the ceremony at the Charles Carroll House at 107 Duke of
Gloucester St., where Carroll was born.

"It'll be something they can tell to their grandchildren," Stiverson said.

The immigrants watched the Color Guard from the U.S. Naval Academy, listened to
music by the choir of St. Mary's Church and, most significant, recited the Oath
of Allegiance for Naturalized Citizens.

"This is the last time you will ever stand as citizens of your country of
birth," said Rita Crawley, an immigration official.

Then, together, they began to recite the oath: "I hereby declare, on oath, that
I absolutely and entirely renounce and abjure all allegiance and fidelity to any
foreign prince, potentate, state or sovereignty of whom or which I have
heretofore been a subject or citizen . . ."

Individually, the participants talked about the journey to that moment, and
their joy at becoming citizens.

Fatmata Tarawalley, 32, said her 60-year-old mother, Mary Tanwin, an immigrant
from Liberia, became agitated when they were delayed during the ride from their
Gaithersburg home to Annapolis. She said, " 'If I'm late, I'm going to cry.' "

"It's a big deal," Tarawalley said.

"Yes," her mother added. "It's important to me."

For Qin Shi, 37, of Ellicott City, the quest began about 11 years ago when she
came to the United States from China with her husband to attend graduate school.

"When we were in college in China, it was a dream," she said.

She said that initially she didn't want to remain in the United States. "The
longer I stay here, the more I like the freedom."

She and her husband have two children who were born in the United States. She
said her husband plans to become a citizen, as well.

"I feel like I'm so accepted," she said.

Ljiljana Ivezic of Bethesda came to the United States from Serbia 17 years ago.
She, too, was drawn to America so that her husband could attend graduate school.

Ivezic, who has two children born in America, said that she applied to become a
U.S. citizen because "it's the practical thing to do. Travel around the world,
no visas."

"Mainly I feel like a world citizen," she said.

But Ivezic, 45, acknowledged there is something special about the United States
for her and her husband.

"We both feel like we're part of this community and country," she said. "In
Europe, you feel like a stranger."

Gayatri Potluri, 37, said she emigrated from India in 1999 to be with her
husband.

"I got married and came because it was the land of opportunity," the Ellicott
City resident said.

Potluri's husband and her two children joined her at the Carroll House to see
that land of opportunity become her own -- the end of what she called "our
immigrant journey."

"I belong to this country."

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Anne Arundel County

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Jemima Appiah Asare, who emigrated from Ghana, sings "God Bless
America" after becoming a U.S. citizen at the Charles Carroll House in
Annapolis.
IMAGE; Photos By Melina Mara -- The Washington Post; Mohsin Shahzad Raja, from
Pakistan, watches the U.S. Naval Academy Color Guard present the colors Friday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              327 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 28, 2007 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Immigration Stance Is Costly for McCain

BYLINE: Michael D. Shear; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1008 words


Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) is not wavering on immigration. This week, he
continued to stand firm with President Bush in seeking a Senate compromise on
the issue in the face of intense opposition from core activists in the
Republican Party.

His advisers refer to such a stance as one of the signatures of his political
career: principled stands on tough issues.

And even they concede that, this time, it's costing him dearly.

"From a political perspective, having a candidate that takes on all the tough
issues is not always the most politically expedient thing to do," said David
Roederer, the chairman of McCain's campaign in Iowa. Asked what he would like to
see happen on immigration, Roederer laughed and said: "Wind the clock back and
forget that this issue ever came up?"

That sentiment is common among many of McCain's most ardent supporters, who
admire his guts but worry about the political toll the debate is taking on their
candidate.

Once seen as the inevitable Republican presidential front-runner, McCain is
sinking in the polls, particularly in the all-important early-primary states. On
conservative talk radio, he is lumped together with Sen. Edward M. Kennedy
(D-Mass.) and derided endlessly. His stance on immigration is making life ever
more difficult for his fundraisers. He is expected to again lag behind rivals in
money raised when the quarter ends on Saturday.

McCain's staff has sought to make a virtue of what appears to be an anchor on
his political fortunes. In an e-mail to supporters on Monday, campaign manager
Terry Nelson said that McCain "is running for president not to do what is easy.
He is running to do the hard but necessary things to protect our country from
harm and to fix the challenges that we face as a nation now, not later."

The next day, McCain canceled some critical fundraising events to participate in
a key vote on the bill. And he is isolated on the front lines of the country's
debate over illegal immigration -- alone among Republican presidential
candidates, the rest of whom oppose the overhaul of the nation's border-control
laws.

It is a particularly difficult predicament for a Republican candidate looking
for votes in Iowa and South Carolina, two states with early presidential
contests next year. In both states, anger over the bill -- and McCain's backing
of it -- runs deep.

"Iowa being quite conservative, very conservative, I think there are some who
just want to get rid of [illegal immigrants], send them back, put up a double
wall," said Nelson P. Crabb, the mayor of Clear Lake and a McCain supporter.
"That's impractical. But I think the general feeling of people here in Iowa is
'Gee, they shouldn't be here.' "

In three recent Mason-Dixon polls in Iowa, South Carolina and Nevada, McCain was
mired in fourth place with less than 10 percent of the vote among likely
Republican voters. Brad Coker, who runs Mason-Dixon Polling & Research, said
McCain's position on immigration is a key to his slump.

"With the grass-roots party voters, the people who participate in primaries and
caucuses, they are not really thrilled with any kind of amnesty," Coker said,
referring to the conservatives' favored description of the reform bill. Coker
said 40 percent of GOP voters ranked immigration as their No. 1 or No. 2 issue.

"Among those voters, McCain was running very poor -- 5 percent or less," Coker
said.

McCain's top advisers dispute the poll results, noting that no other survey has
shown the senator with support that low.

Sensing McCain's vulnerability on the issue, his chief rivals for the Republican
nomination have pounced, trying to highlight the senator's position during the
GOP debates and in television appearances as the bill reached the Senate floor.

Former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney has aired a television ad that
proclaims "amnesty is not the answer" and repeatedly links McCain to Kennedy.

At a town hall forum in New Castle, N.H., former New York mayor Rudolph W.
Giuliani called the immigration legislation "a great example of why Washington
doesn't work."

McCain has responded angrily, accusing his rivals of attacking the immigration
bill without a plan of their own. In a speech in Florida, he said: "Pandering
for votes on this issue, while offering no solution to the problem, amounts to
doing nothing. And doing nothing is silent amnesty."

His aides acknowledge that the issue is taking a toll. Brian Jones, the
candidate's communications director, said McCain's efforts to pass an
immigration bill, combined with his support for the Iraq war and his long quest
to regulate campaign contributions, have made fundraising difficult.

"The fact that he is principled, the fact that he has taken on these tough
stances, can at times make fundraising more difficult. It's just a reality,"
Jones said.

A top fundraiser for the Arizonan, who spoke on the condition of anonymity
because he is not authorized to talk for the campaign, was more blunt: "It's
hurting with the main money guys. Overall, it's definitely a negative."

He added that the constant barrage of criticism from the likes of Rush Limbaugh
is making it difficult to raise money from the conservative wing of the party.

"Like it or not, our base listens to that stuff," the fundraiser said. "Whether
it's a good bill or a bad bill or an indifferent bill doesn't matter. The folks
who are listening to that stuff, it's hard to persuade them with facts."

Mark Salter, one of McCain's top advisers, said his candidate is "not a poser,
not a panderer, but a problem-solver."

Salter said members of town hall audiences in Iowa and South Carolina who hear
McCain explain his support for the immigration bill often leave convinced of his
integrity, if not of his position. Salter said McCain, a prisoner of war during
the Vietnam War, is eager for the fight and will not back down.

"I can campaign on this. I can fight in this corner on this. The best way we can
defend this is to put him in front of people," Salter said. "It's a challenge. I
think our candidate is up to that challenge. I've seen him do this before."

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Joe Burbank -- Orlando Sentinel Via Associated Press; Doing
nothing about the immigration problem is "silent amnesty," Sen. John McCain (R)
said in response to criticism.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              328 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 28, 2007 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

The Senate's Doublespeak On the Issue Of English

BYLINE: David Montgomery; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 746 words


Just when you thought the immigration debate couldn't get more confusing,
there's this:

Buried on Page 669 of the 762-page Senate immigration bill, English is declared
the "national language." On Page 671, it is the "common language."

Which is it? Both, according to members of the World's Greatest Deliberative
Body, a majority of whom voted for each designation. And what's the difference?
Who knows!

Common. National. But not "official." Nooooooo. Even if Wolf Blitzer did insist
on asking the presidential candidates in recent debates whether English should
be the official language. (Most GOP contenders answered yes. The Democrats, not
so much.)

What in the name of what Al Gore used to call "plain English" -- during his
failed crusade as vice president to make the government communicate clearly --
is going on here?

Let us attempt to translate.

Immigration reform is a touchy subject, causing senators to sweat through their
suits, constituents to cuss at pollsters, bloggers to practice human sacrifice.
It raises heavy questions: What is the national identity? Who is an American?
That's where language comes in, as a proxy for identity.

Resuscitated from near-death earlier this month, the bill faces a key test of
support today and a final vote tomorrow. It incorporates an amendment by Sen.
James Inhofe (R-Okla.) to make English the national language, which passed three
weeks ago, 64 to 33. Another provision of the bill, an amendment by Sen. Ken
Salazar (D-Colo.) to make English the common language, passed 58 to 39. Every
single senator present and voting stood up  for English, supporting at least one
of the amendments.

(Did we forget to mention that both Inhofe and Salazar are proudly proficient in
Spanish, sometimes giving speeches in that nonnational, uncommon tongue?)

Now those amendments have been incorporated into the bill.

National, common: What's the difference? The bill doesn't say. Not to get all
strict constructionist here, but let's go to the text.

"Declaration of English as Language," Salazar's contribution says in a chapter
heading. Yes, English definitely is a language.

"English is the common language of the United States," it continues. "The
Government of the United States shall preserve and enhance the role of English
as the language of the United States."

Flip a page to Inhofe's insertion: "The Government of the United States shall
preserve and enhance the role of English as the national language of the United
States of America."

Big difference. Huge. Mmm-hmm.

So, no more hors d'oeuvres or onion soup au gratin in the Senate dining room?
Instead of enchiladas, shall there be unleavened pancakes of corn flour adorned
with red sauce and cheese?

No. In a key concession, Inhofe provides: "Nothing in this chapter shall
prohibit the use of a language other than English." Memo to President Bush: This
is your loophole!

Here's something weird: For all the huffing and puffing about English --
including requirements that immigrants study it -- other parts of the bill
sanction official use of foreign languages. Training detention guards in, say,
Spanish; instructing the Labor Department to make forms available in Spanish and
other languages; informing apprehended children of their rights in native
languages.

Still, boil away all the bureaucratese, and one significant difference between
the Inhofe and Salazar clauses reveals itself: While both would maintain
bilingual services enshrined in existing law, such as translators in court,
Salazar defines existing law to include executive orders. Inhofe does not.

Aha!

Huh?

See, President Bill Clinton issued an executive order, later put into practice
by President Bush, that encouraged federal agencies to provide bilingual
services.

Inhofe says his addition would not bar services provided under the executive
order, but would change them from being an "entitlement" and save up to $2
billion a year. Supporters of Salazar's approach say it would preserve vital
public safety and health services provided in other languages, while encouraging
English.

So who's right on the merits? And which is it, national or common? Here's the
beautiful part: We don't have to decide! The Senate didn't. In fact, according
to a tally by Jim Boulet Jr., executive director of English First, 24 senators
voted for both amendments to be included in the bill -- even though on the key
question of the executive orders, they cancel each other out!

You say common, I say national, let's call the whole thing off.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE
IMAGE
IMAGE
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              329 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 29, 2007 Friday
                                Regional Edition

TODAY'S NEWS

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C11

LENGTH: 277 words

Immigration Bill Fails

The immigration bill that we told you about in KidsPost yesterday won't be going
to the U.S. House of Representatives after all.

After weeks of debate, the bill fell short in the U.S. Senate yesterday after
several senators changed their votes. That didn't leave enough supporters for a
proposed law that would have given illegal immigrants a way to stay in the
United States legally.

Senate leaders said they will not try to bring the bill back in another form.

Eagles Now Flying High

The American bald eagle, once nearly extinct in the United States, has made a
dramatic comeback.

Hunting and pesticides pushed the majestic bird to the brink of extinction in
the contiguous United States (not including Alaska and Hawaii). About 45 years
ago, there were just 417 known pairs of the birds in the 48 states, but now
there are some 10,000. So yesterday, the government said it is removing the bird
from its list of threatened and endangered species.

The birds also are seen regularly in the D.C. area along the banks of the
Potomac River.

Conservation efforts by the government and private groups are credited with
saving the bald eagle, a national symbol. It is still illegal to kill bald
eagles or to harm their nests or eggs.

Spreading the Message

The U.S. Postal Service today is issuing four new stamps that highlight the
important role of insects, birds and bats in helping to pollinate plants.

Bees alone pollinate about $15  billion worth of crops each year. They fly from
flower to flower, spreading pollen that allows plants to reproduce.

The stamps show four flowers and four common pollinators: bees, a butterfly, a
hummingbird and a bat.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Win Mcnamee -- Getty Images; Eagles are being taken off the
list of threatened and endangered species.
IMAGE; U.s. Postal Service; New pollination stamps

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              330 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 29, 2007 Friday
                                Regional Edition

An Immigrant's Lament;
53 senators vote to keep 12 million people in the shadows.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 404 words


AFTER SEN. Elizabeth Dole of North Carolina joined 36 of her Republican
colleagues, 15 Democrats and one independent in the Senate yesterday in
squashing the last, best hope for now of overhauling the nation's bankrupt and
busted immigration laws, she was asked what she proposed for the 12 million
undocumented immigrants in the country. "I think that is something that can be
dealt with at a later time," she replied airily.

Tell that to Ernesto, Mrs. Dole. He's a 31-year-old Salvadoran handyman in
Wheaton who sneaked over the border through California four years ago after
paying thousands of dollars to a migrant smuggler, to whom he remains in debt.
Mrs. Dole and her colleagues may imagine that Ernesto will simply evaporate now
that the Senate has decided to avert its gaze, but he won't. Although he earns
barely $1,200 a month, he does better here as a painter, carpenter, landscaper
and electrician than he ever could in Caba?as, his hardscrabble native region of
northern El Salvador, which is rich in beans and sugar cane but bereft of jobs.

Ernesto, who spoke with us on the understanding that his last name would not be
published, was on Capitol Hill with a small group of immigrants yesterday. He
watched ruefully as the senators dealt their lethal blow to his prospects for a
normal life on the right side of the law. But he's staying put. With the help of
Casa of Maryland, a local nonprofit, he finds work several days a week and sends
$200 a month home to his family in El Salvador. His worldly possessions here,
which he keeps with him in a tiny rented room, consist of a power saw, a few
hand tools, a television and the cellphone he uses to talk to his wife and
5-year-old daughter every day.

It's enough, better than what he left behind in El Salvador, and plenty to
nourish an immigrant's dream of earning a little more,  of working full time, of
maybe bringing his family to live with him one day. Ernesto does not intend to
leave, but even if he were to be deported, there are still about 12 million
people representing 5 percent of the nation's job force who cannot be ignored,
hounded, harassed, wished or deported into nothingness. At some point Congress
will come to its senses, steady its nerves and recognize that unimpeachable
reality. Mrs. Dole and her colleagues may think they killed immigration reform
yesterday. In fact the problem will just keep coming back, bigger each time than
the last.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              331 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 30, 2007 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Authorities Raid Tunnel Linking Arizona, Mexico

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 192 words

DATELINE: NOGALES, Ariz., June 29


Law enforcement agents from the United States and Mexico, executing simultaneous
raids, discovered a recently completed smuggling tunnel linking the countries,
officials said Friday.

The entrances to the tunnel were discovered in a home in Nogales, Ariz., and an
apartment in Nogales, Mexico, according to U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement officials.

Five people were arrested in the raid on the Mexican location. No arrests had
yet been made on the U.S. side of the border.

Investigators tipped off about the tunnel during its construction have had it
under surveillance since April, and no drugs were moved through it before
authorities moved in, said Terry Kirkpatrick, an official with the immigration
agency.

This tunnel crossed about 100 yards but was about 200 yards long because it
meandered and dipped. The dirt walls were reinforced at some points with wooden
supports and sandbags, and there was a lighting system but no ventilation.

Of more than 20 tunnels that have been found linking the namesake cities,
authorities estimate that only four, including the latest, have not been tied
into the drainage system that runs underneath the border.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              332 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 30, 2007 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Democrats Plan to Press GOP on Iraq;
Majority Party Frustrated on Hill

BYLINE: Elizabeth Williamson and Jonathan Weisman; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 926 words


With the immigration bill dead, troop-withdrawal deadlines vetoed and other
high-profile initiatives stalled, Democratic leaders closed six months in
control of Congress mired in low approval ratings and plotting a legislative
blitz on an issue they once tried to escape: Iraq.

Defeated last month on a war funding bill, Democratic leaders had hoped to spend
June delivering on prominent domestic issues, such as homeland security, ethics
rules and immigration. Instead, they limped out of Washington for a week-long
Fourth of July break with few successes to boast about while complaining
bitterly of Republican tactics that had stymied their higher-profile efforts.

"Because of the obstructionism of the Republicans in the United States Senate,
I'm not happy with Congress either," said House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.).

On Thursday alone, parliamentary trench warfare helped torpedo President Bush's
immigration bill. Hours later, two of the same warriors -- Sens. Jim DeMint
(R-S.C.) and Tom Coburn (R-Okla.) -- blocked Senate Majority Leader Harry M.
Reid (D-Nev.) as he tried to finish work on ethics legislation and a bill
instituting most of the homeland security recommendations of the blue-ribbon
committee that studied the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.

Reid yesterday dismissed recent congressional approval ratings as tied more
closely to Washington under Bush and the Iraq war than any specific qualms with
Congress. A new CNN poll, touted by Democratic leaders, showed that while nearly
half of the respondents disapproved of what the Democrats had accomplished so
far, 57 percent said Democratic control of Congress is good for the country.

But even Democratic pollsters have warned congressional leaders that they have
to show they can govern effectively. To do that, Democrats plan to spend much of
July pressing Republicans to break with Bush on the war, and showing a
dispirited public that they are committed to ending the war.

"There's a sense that we haven't brought change to Iraq, and it affects the
environment overall," said House Democratic Caucus Chairman Rahm Emanuel
(D-Ill.).

The Senate intends to move to a defense policy bill on which Democrats will
again try to attach binding troop-withdrawal timelines. The proposals under
consideration would demand greater accountability from Bush and the Iraqi
government, standards for troop readiness and a ban on permanent bases.
Lawmakers are moving to restore the rights of terrorism suspects to challenge
their detention in federal court, and to close the military detention camp at
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

House leaders plan to introduce parallel legislation on Iraq, even though they
avoided Iraq-related issues when they approved their annual defense policy bill
earlier this month, saying they wanted to pass it quickly.

A measure to de-authorize the war is still a possibility, as well.

By mid-July, Democrats say, they will offer weekly votes to force Republicans,
and the president, to defend the war. "Though we failed in a particular action"
to limit the war through the Iraq spending bill, House Majority Leader Steny H.
Hoyer (D-Md.) said, "we're not stopping until a change in policy is effected."

The idea, Democratic leaders said, is to engage voters who have turned against
the president and have soured on a Congress that they still see as ineffectual.
But grousing about "cloture" motions and other obscure Republican stalling
tactics will not help Democratic lawmakers who are at home this week, facing
voters anguished by the war.

"It's about reconnecting with the public out there who don't understand cloture,
who don't understand things that go on in the Beltway, but who do understand
action, who do understand passing bills," said Rep. John B. Larson (Conn.), vice
chairman of the House Democratic Caucus.

There have been achievements. On the Senate side, Democrats helped secure the
first increase in vehicle fuel-efficiency standards in a generation. A
long-sought increase in the minimum wage was tucked into the Iraq spending bill.
New House rules limit favors from lobbyists and now require the disclosure of
pet spending projects, or earmarks.

But other measures have slammed into Republican roadblocks that Democrats say
are worse than before. Coburn is blocking the Sept. 11 commission bill until he
gets assurances that a final deal will include his measure to audit homeland
security grants to make sure that the money is properly spent. DeMint says he
will not allow the ethics bill to enter final talks unless Reid strips out the
disclosure rules on lawmaker earmarks and tries to pass them as rules of the
Senate.

"If you look at the 108th and the 109th Congresses, in the first six months in
those cases, there were only two cloture votes. It's dramatically changed now,"
said Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.).

But when they were in the minority, Democrats routinely set strict conditions --
or at least demanded a seat at the table -- before they allowed bills to reach
House-Senate negotiations.

As the spending cycle intensifies this summer, Democrats will try to sneak more
of their agenda items into must-pass spending bills. But with the bills already
behind schedule and the president threatening to veto most of them for a range
of reasons, the tactic has limits.

Republican maneuvers "are nothing all that extraordinary," said Eric Ueland,
chief of staff to Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) when Frist was the Senate majority
leader. "There are 49 Republicans in the Senate now. It's the largest Republican
minority in history. . . . They need to be listened to."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Michel Du Cille -- The Washington Post; Sen. Patty Murray
spoke to reporters after the immigration bill's defeat. With her were, from
left, fellow Democratic Sens. Richard J. Durbin, Ken Salazar, Charles E.
Schumer, Dianne Feinstein and Harry M. Reid.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              333 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 1, 2007 Sunday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Picnics, Games and Culture Shock;
Parks Work to Tailor Services While Educating Immigrants on Rules

BYLINE: Annie Gowen; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1328 words


One chilly April morning two years ago, manager Jill Vanden Heuvel was at her
desk at Algonkian Regional Park expecting a quiet Sunday when the cars started
to arrive. Hundreds at first, then more than a thousand, bringing scores of
Iranian families toting blankets, coolers and small grills.

Picnickers without reservations plunked down in areas reserved by others.
Toilets overflowed. Cars were parked haphazardly on the grass. Tempers flared.
When Vanden Heuvel tried to get the crowd to disperse, they accused her of
racial discrimination.

As the crowd quickly grew to 3,000 people, more than twice what the park could
handle, Vanden Heuvel called her boss in a panic. They decided to shut down the
park to cars -- a rare move for the Northern Virginia Regional Park Authority.
Feeling helpless, parks employees turned to their computers, Googling such terms
as "Persian" and "holiday" and "spring." That's how they learned that on Sizdeh
Bedar, a popular celebration in Iran, it's considered unlucky to stay indoors.
Now each April, the park is ready with extra staff.

As the number of immigrants in the region tops 1 million, such cultural clashes
are becoming more commonplace, prompting parks officials to search for ways to
educate foreign-born residents on the U.S. parks system, where permits are often
required, litter pickup encouraged and alcohol verboten.

Parks are changing, too: Montgomery County built a cricket field for its
Jamaican and Indian expats. Fairfax County is contemplating bigger picnic
pavilions for Latino families, who tend to gather in large groups and stay
longer. The Northern Virginia park authority plans to offer instant kimchi, a
cabbage dish, alongside hot dogs at some of its snack stands to appeal to Korean
golfers.

"It's about connections rather than enforcement," said John Berlin, program
section manager for the Fairfax County Park Authority. "It's putting out the
welcome mat to the international community, not just saying, 'Here's how we
Americans do things.' "

In the past two years, Montgomery, Fairfax and Prince William counties have
hired or directed multilingual staffers and park rangers to target immigrant
populations; Arlington is hiring a multilingual staffer as well.

The outreach was in part inspired by nasty clashes over soccer fields, where
permitted players would arrive at a field and find a squatter team -- dubbed
"cellphone leagues" because they scout for open grass and communicate by
cellphone -- which then refused to move. Fairfax, for example, had 154 such
incidents last year. But through multilingual education and enforcement, twice
as many teams as normal joined after the season started, one sign officials are
bringing some of the "cellphone" players into the fold, they say.

Parks and recreation experts say the parks must change to appeal to their new
users. In the National Park Service and Forest Service, for example, surveys
indicate that visitors are still overwhelmingly Caucasian, more than 90 percent.
Locally, minority use is growing. In Fairfax, for example, about 80 percent of
households use county parks, and although Hispanic and Asian households lag
behind, their percentages are increasing, officials said.

"Parks have to remain or become relevant to the changing demographics of America
if they're going to be used and funded," said Robert Burns, a professor of
recreation, parks and tourism resources at West Virginia University who is
studying the issue. "Most of our local, state and federal parks were designed
for the 'Happy Days' family unit -- a Caucasian mother, father and two or three
kids -- to go have a picnic and roast marshmallows. That's just not the
demographics we have today."

On a recent Saturday in Silver Spring, Montgomery County Park Police Ranger
Haleh Mirabrishami, who speaks Farsi, was on patrol, approaching a log house
that probably had seen its share of Boy Scout meetings and company picnics over
the years. This day it was the site for the 15th birthday party for Zully Pineda
of Silver Spring, a rite of passage for many Latino girls called a
"quincea?era."

Zully was posing for pictures outside in a pink beaded dress when her mother,
Marlene, 32, saw the uniformed ranger approach. Marlene Pineda smiled, eyes
wary, and without prompting pulled a crumpled yellow permit from her pocket to
show the ranger.

The mood softened, however, as Mirabrishami peppered her lightly with questions.
Did the family come here often? What did they like about the park? Did they feel
safe here?

Such information, the ranger believes, is crucial for police to handle gang
activity and other trouble. By the end of the exchange, Pineda and her family
were laughing and asking Mirabrishami if she wanted to stay and partake of the
abundant spread of chicken, beef stew, rice, pupusas and white tiered cake
trimmed in pink roses.

"It shows how much it's changing," Mirabrishami said later.

Challenges remain. In the two years since the surprise Sizdeh Bedar celebration
overran Algonkian Regional Park in Sterling, the Northern Virginia park
authority has each year managed a more peaceful event -- but at a cost. The tab
runs about $5,000 for more than a dozen extra staffers and security to manage
traffic, as well as the rental of 20 portable toilets. Officials would like to
see someone from the Iranian community step forward to organize the event.

But who?

"I'm kind of clueless on that," said the current park manager, Todd Benson.
"Maybe it's like July 4 -- you don't reserve to go to the Mall for fireworks.
You just go. I guess it's part of [Sizdeh] Bedar. It's just families showing up.
. . . We're trying to learn from the mistakes we've made. We're trying to grow
as well and accommodate everyone that wants to come in here."

In Fairfax, the park authority's community connections staff members --
including Berlin, Spanish speaker Ricardo Cabellos-Reyes and Korean-born Wangin
Bang -- have started youth swimming classes in the Culmore neighborhood and
recruited Asian seniors for other water exercise. They're also working to smooth
growing pains at parks, such as Roundtree Park in Falls Church.

Tensions have arisen there because a Bolivian soccer team, which plays games on
Sundays, brings in a large crowd of spectators that clog neighborhood streets
and draws merchants who illegally sell food, liquor, even rugs, parks employees
and neighbors said.

Neighbors say some progress has been made recently because police have been
ticketing cars. Cabellos-Reyes has visited the park several times to deter the
illegal food vendors, who sell roasted meat and rice in plastic foam containers
out of vans.

"There have been parking problems. My dad put a sign out in the middle of the
court with a cone that said, 'No Parking for the Park.' . . . It didn't work at
all," said Brianna Doxzen, 16, a student at Bishop Ireton High School who lives
near the park entrance. "My dad's car was broken into about a month ago, and the
assumption was it was somebody from the park. But in the last couple of months
it has improved. A couple of years ago, a nice day like today would be awful
with the parking and the noise, and it's fine now."

On a recent Sunday, however, some of the food vendors had returned. A man who
spoke no English stopped cars entering the parking lot, as if it were closed for
a private event.

Javier Villarroel, 32, a mechanical engineer from Alexandria, said the Sunday
games are a treasured time to catch up with friends and relatives from his
homeland.

"It's a whole day. Everybody comes out, and the whole family really looks
forward to it all week," Villarroel said. "It's a game, but at the same time
it's a gathering where we all catch up with each other."

The league's leaders are aware of the neighbors' complaints, he said, but they
have no power to control the illegal vendors.

"It's the only place we have, really," Villarroel said. "The field, it's poor
quality, it's a desert. But we have to play somewhere. We take whatever we can."

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Nikki Kahn -- The Washington Post; Park rangers Haleh
Mirabrishami and Mirna Sanchez, right, watch as Roxanna Ponce, left, and
Jeannette Ponce vacate a spot reserved by someone else at Wheaton Regional Park.
Area parks officials are trying to acquaint new residents with rules on permits
and reservations.
IMAGE; By Andrea Bruce -- The Washington Post; Dancers, including Fernando
Tapia, right, entertain the crowds at Bolivian Cultural Heritage Night, held
Thursday at Annandale's Ossian Hall Park.
IMAGE; By Richard A. Lipski -- The Washington Post; At Vietnamese Cultural
Heritage Night at Ossian Hall Park, Kim Oanh Nguyen, with pupil Tuong Mai, tunes
a 16-string instrument called the dan tranh.
IMAGE; By Richard A. Lipski -- The Washington Post; At the Vietnamese cultural
night, Wangin Bang of the Fairfax park authority's community connections staff
hands out fliers for the evening's program.
IMAGE; By Nikki Kahn -- The Washington Post; Montgomery County park rangers
Mirna Sanchez, left, and Haleh Mirabrishami patrol a Wheaton park looking for
possible violations of park policy.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              334 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 1, 2007 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

E-Mail 101: BCC Good, CC Bad

BYLINE: Chris Cillizza And Shailagh Murray

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 379 words


E-mail is a dangerous thing.

Sen. Sam Brownback's presidential campaign discovered that fact last week when
an intern pinged a huge list of people who had contacted the Kansas Republican
about his position on the comprehensive immigration bill. The Senate had voted
for cloture on the legislation that day, allowing the immigration overhaul to
move forward.

"Senator Brownback voted in favor of cloture on the motion to proceed to the
immigration bill today," read the e-mail, which was sent out June 26. "That
means he voted to bring the bill back to the floor for debate . . . this does
not mean that Senator Brownback supports the immigration bill itself."

Boilerplate stuff, right? Not exactly.

Instead of blind-carbon-copying to the full list, which had more than a hundred
names, the Brownback staffer put all of the names in the "To" field -- meaning
that everyone's e-mail address was visible to everyone else.

An e-mail barrage ensued with a number of people replying to the full list with
their comments on Brownback's position on immigration. "C'mon Mr. Brownback . .
. .tell us what you've been promised in exchange for your YES vote for amnesty
for illegals," wrote Alan Doll in an e-mail obtained by The Fix. "Thanks for the
preview of the man who wants to be president."

Jinny Hayden, who lives in suburban Atlanta, wrote: "Your track record doesn't
convince me that you would enforce any new laws any better than you have with
the laws that are in the books now." Hayden said she received "a hundred"
e-mails from people on the original message.

"We apologize for sending everyone's e-mail address to the other recipients of
the e-mail," said Martin Gillespie, political director of Brownback's
presidential campaign.

Did the storm of comments bear fruit? On Thursday, when the Senate held another
cloture vote -- which, it turned out, would seal the demise of the bill--
Brownback initially voted "yes" on moving the bill forward. Ten minutes later,
he switched his vote to "no."

Brownback told reporters that his initial vote Thursday was cast out of a desire
to "showcase" the need for immigration reform. Explaining the last-minute
switch, he said: "I wanted to signal that I support comprehensive immigration
reform, but now is not the time, this is not the bill."

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              335 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 5, 2007 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Moving From Finland and Belgium, Finding Oneself at Home in Fairfax

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. VA04

LENGTH: 529 words


I am an immigrant again.

I was dead scared to arrive at Dulles with my new husband, mostly because of
immigration authorities.

That passed without event, but nobody knew for certain the whereabouts of our
cats. Eventually, we were rewarded with our three cats. The fourth we had had to
leave in Belgium for later arrival; she got so scared on the morning of the
departure that she hid.

My first, and continuous, impression about Americans as a very friendly people
started once we got safely here.

Upon arrival, we had three cats in boxes and lots of luggage and were totally
incapable of reaching the new home with all our possessions.

An angel named Jason passed -- coming from nowhere, it seemed -- and offered to
help.

What a lovely gesture, just like that! Had we had any beer, I would gladly have
invited Jason for one.

Once arrived, we did not have any bedding (it was all still in Belgium, where we
spent 11 years), but a wonderful lady at Nordstrom in Pentagon City helped to
furnish us with sleeping gear for the second night.

For my husband, it was a return as a proper prodigal son; for me, as a new wife
who had never visited the States before, it was the beginning of learning what
the country and its people were all about.

I had arrogantly -- a term I used to attach to Americans -- expected to arrive
at an uncivilized country full of its superpower frenzy and obese people.

In the end, it has dawned on me that people are friendly and civilized, as my
husband is, and a great many are thinner than I am and unimpressed by the whole
"super" business.

I have never lived in a country at war, but its people seem not to be very
bloodthirsty.

My time here, six months, has been a period of discovery.

Here -- in Pentagon City -- I had my first iced coffee. We Finns are known to be
some of the world's foremost coffee drinkers, but I had a gap in my education.

Other things that have been new to me and I have grown fond of are what is
called homemade lemonade and bagels, of which I had heard a lot from my New
Yorker gym mate in Brussels.

Then there is a great invention named Coffee-mate.

One of its flavors claims to be French vanilla, which is unheard of in Europe.
Regardless, it tastes good -- as do many things French, appreciated with
Michelin stars in Europe.

Now, living without moules -- mussels -- and frites -- french fries, for which
Belgium is famous -- I have been promptly seduced by Mexican food, which to my
surprise includes many seafood dishes.

I did try strawberry margaritas in Finland some 20 years ago, but needless to
say, they do not compare with my culinary excursions here.

Even with so many states, this country is more united than the whole of Belgium,
with only two opposing ethnic groups.

United -- as you have declared to be -- please stay that way.

But I love your multiple accents, variable colors, state-of-the-art backgrounds,
conviviality and tolerance for everything new -- as long as it goes as far as
me.

Piia Tuomisto Gamble, who was born in Finland and educated as a marine
biologist, was a press officer and then a scientific officer in the European
Commission in Brussels. She lives with her husband, Ronald David Gamble, near
Fair Lakes.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Fairfax South

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              336 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 5, 2007 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

After Fleeing, Afghan Artist Uses Work to Capture Loss;
Show Is Latest Step In Career Revival

BYLINE: Annie Gowen; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. VA03

LENGTH: 1138 words


When Alexandria gallery director Marga Fripp was choosing a signature work for
her new show of female artists, she settled quickly on "Waiting," a haunting,
gray-washed watercolor of an Afghan woman sitting alone and looking out an open
door.

Although the work was inspired by the struggle of many immigrant women, its
title has deep personal meaning for the artist. Throughout her turbulent life,
Afghan immigrant Fatana Baktash Arifi has been waiting, in one way or another.

Waiting with her family to flee the violence of her homeland, riven by the
Soviet occupation and years of civil war. Waiting to restart her life as an
artist, first as a refugee in Pakistan and, later, as an immigrant who fled to
the United States to escape oppression by religious extremists.

Resurrecting her art career in the United States over the past seven years has
proved difficult, although Arifi, who lives in Springfield, has achieved some
success in recent months.

Her paintings are featured in "Citizen Artist: Local and Global Perspectives in
the Art of Immigrant, Refugee and American Women," showing through July 22 in A
Woman's Story Gallery in Old Town Alexandria. She's teaching drawing and
painting at a crafts store in Springfield. And she penned a book on the history
of Afghan art, which was published recently by the country's ministry of
culture.

"The war situation was very hard for refugees," Arifi said in an interview at
the gallery. "I had to struggle to rebuild my career again."

She opened her slick black portfolio and began flipping through her work --
painting after painting, in oil, watercolor, pen and ink -- that, as she
narrated, became a kind of portrait history of her ruined homeland. There is her
watercolor of the famous stone Buddhas of Bamian, destroyed by the Taliban in
2001. There is a famous tower in Kabul, also gone. There's a pen-and-ink drawing
of one of the old-fashioned robed magicians who roamed the streets and bazaars
of the once-thriving city.

Arifi, who prefers not to give her age, grew up in a Kabul that was vastly
different from the war-torn capital that suffered during the civil war and under
the Taliban, an oppressive Islamic regime. In the 1970s, the city was a
cosmopolitan metropolis with bustling cafes and lush gardens. Many women
eschewed the restrictive burqa, moving around bare-headed.

Arifi's father, Mohammad, was an animal-skin trader and progressive thinker who
encouraged his six children to attend school. He especially nurtured their
artistic talents, providing Arifi with rolls of paper and other art supplies.

Then came the Soviet invasion in 1979.

"The tragedy begins from there," Arifi recalled. "For three nights there were
helicopters and planes, strange noises in the sky."

She said she will never forget the look on her neighbors' faces. "It was like
somebody had died," Arifi said. "All the happiness gone from their mouths."

Although many of her countrymen fled, her family persevered through several more
years of fighting, a period during which she studied for her master's degree in
fine arts from Kabul University while bomb blasts shook the classrooms. When a
Stinger missile landed near their house one day in 1994, the family finally
decided to leave, abandoning everything. Arifi wrapped up a few possessions in a
cloth, including a pen-and-ink drawing of Abraham Lincoln she had done as a
schoolgirl, and the family escaped on foot over the mountains into Pakistan.

Once in Peshawar, Pakistan, the family of eight crowded into a single room. For
eight painful months, Arifi was without her art, with neither the supplies nor
the space in which to create it.

Eventually she was hired to do some illustrations for an international relief
agency and ended up with a few rupees to buy some art supplies. She worked in a
frenzy, ultimately creating 50 paintings. She said she sold most of them at a
diplomatic art show after putting them in handmade frames, strips of cardboard
she painted black.

"I was running fast, fast. I was trying to complete that missing time, running,
running," Arifi said. "I had a responsibility to my art and a responsibility to
my family."

Later, her immediate family settled enough that she was able to found a small
art school, teaching mostly children. But Arifi was forced to close down the
school in 1999 after several threatening visits from extremist militiamen,
unhappy with a woman teaching in school. She said she thinks the militia was
backed by the Taliban.

The family then immigrated to the United States, settling in Arizona and then in
Northern Virginia in 2001.

Arifi struggled to find suitable work. Once in this area, she found a job
framing artwork and teaching painting and drawing at a Michaels craft store in
Springfield. During one recent class, along the floral aisle, she set up a still
life for a trio of students -- a calligrapher and her daughter and an aspiring
caricaturist -- who had no idea of her turbulent past. Start small, she kept
urging them, as the students began to draw.

"She's a very private person," said Carol Hamilton, a jewelry designer who runs
the shop's educational program.

Even as she struggled to eke out a living, Arifi penned a book about the history
of art in Afghanistan, writing of the Islamic calligrapher Wakili Popalzai and
painters of the 20th century such as Ghulam Muhammad Maimanagi, the founder of
Kabul's first art school. Arifi ended up at the Afghan Embassy in Washington,
looking for help publishing the book.

Sayed M. Raheen, the former cultural minister who is now Afghanistan's
ambassador to India, said that when he met Arifi, he was struck by how "keen and
sensitive" she was and was moved by her commitment to writing of her country's
art with little hope of a financial payoff. He decided to help her, and
"Painting and Its Status in Afghanistan" was published by a government printing
press in Afghanistan this year.

Arifi is applying for several grants so she can pursue her dream of painting
full time. "To live and to work and to be an artist -- that's the main goal,"
she said.

Fripp -- the founder of the nonprofit Empowered Women International, which
supports immigrant artists through A Woman's Story Gallery and classes --
recently gave Arifi a scholarship to the gallery's program that tutors artists
in the business aspects of art, such as assembling a portfolio and marketing.
Fripp and others at the gallery were taken with the spirit of Arifi's work, not
just the traditional portraits of women but also her paintings in colorful,
geometric shapes that Arifi calls Handasism. It's a word of her creation, a
melding of English and Dari that means a geometric style.

"In all her pieces, Fatana puts herself in the middle of the artwork," Fripp
said. "In the 'Waiting' piece . . . her spirit is out there waiting for
something new, a better future, perhaps."

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Alexandria-Arlington

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Tracy A. Woodward -- The Washington Post; Afghan artist
Fatana Baktash Arifi looks over samples of her work, which includes "Buzkashi,"
below. Her paintings are part of the exhibit "Citizen Artist: Local and Global
Perspectives in the Art of Immigrant, Refugee and American Women" at A Woman's
Story Gallery. Arifi fled war-torn Afghanistan after a missile landed near her
home in 1994.
IMAGE
IMAGE
IMAGE; Works Courtesy Of A Woman's Story Gallery; Fatana Baktash Arifi's
"Escaping From War," above, and "Waiting." Her work will be on exhibit in Old
Town Alexandria.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              337 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 6, 2007 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Address Immigration Now

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 190 words


We disagree with David S. Broder's conclusion in his July 5 op-ed, "A Mob-Rule
Moment,"  that we must wait until after the 2008 election cycle to again address
immigration.

To the contrary, now is the time to solve the problem of undocumented
immigrants. We know of no member of Congress who, facing reelection, wants to
have to deal with immigration and 'amnesty' again on the campaign trail.

The proliferation of bills at the state and local levels also militates against
waiting. Moreover, opposition groups and the media are already  preparing for
the next battle. Most important, blaming Americans for their views is
inconsiderate.

Most Americans simply became outraged at efforts to hide "amnesty" in a massive
bill. They want to solve that problem in the clear light of day, and they expect
Congress to solve it. They  want a new idea, a new conversation and new
leadership from elected officials. By providing for a visa, with a 25-question
civics test, in English; basic civil and travel rights; and retroactive employer
immunity, the people and their leaders can solve this problem now.

TONY RAMOS

Executive Director, Somos Unos

Washington

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              338 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 8, 2007 Sunday
                                 Met 1 Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 578 words

Pennsylvania at Risk of Government Shutdown

 HARRISBURG, Pa. -- Legislators returned to the state Capitol on Saturday,
having less than two days to agree on a budget before a partial government
shutdown furloughs thousands of workers and curtails services.

A stalemate between Gov. Edward G. Rendell (D) and the narrowly divided
legislature over a $27 billion-plus budget and some of Rendell's top priorities
has showed no sign of easing.

If Sunday ends without a deal in place, more than 24,000 state workers whose
jobs are deemed to be not essential to health and safety will be furloughed
without pay at 12:01 a.m. Monday.

Rendell said that he will decide Sunday whether an agreement is close enough
that he can call off the furloughs.

"I'm not optimistic now; I'm not as optimistic as I was yesterday," Rendell
said.

* * *

ATLANTA -- Mexico's foreign secretary said that the failure of an immigration
reform bill in Congress "aggravates" the problem of illegal immigration in the
United States and "cancels the possibility that millions of families may
progress." "These are hard times for immigrants in the United States," Patricia
Espinosa said while marking the 30th anniversary of the opening of Mexico's
consulate general in this city. She said Mexican President Felipe Calder?n is
working on creating better job opportunities to try to stem the northbound flow
of workers.

SANDY SPRINGS, Ga. -- John Mark Karr, who made what turned out to be bogus
claims of killing JonBenet Ramsey, was jailed over a domestic argument at his
father's house in suburban Atlanta. A 911 call was made about an argument
between Karr, his girlfriend and his father, Sandy Springs Police Lt. Steve Rose
said. Karr was charged with battery and obstruction.

ROCHESTER, N.Y. -- An Iraq war veteran will not be court-martialed for leaving
his post without permission for 15 months to undergo treatment for
post-traumatic stress disorder, the Army said. Instead of facing a bad conduct
discharge, a felony punishable by as much as a year in military prison, Spec.
Eugene Cherry admitted he was absent without leave and was granted a general
discharge, rather than an honorable discharge, the Army said. Cherry, 24, said
he went home to Chicago to find treatment after not getting adequate help from
the Army.

CAPE CANAVERAL -- The planned weekend launch of a spacecraft to explore two of
the solar system's largest asteroids was postponed to September. The Dawn
spacecraft will embark on a years-long journey to the asteroids Vesta and Ceres,
which lie between Mars and Jupiter. NASA has rescheduled the launch several
times. It has until the end of October before the planetary bodies begin to
drift apart.

SANTA ANA, Calif. -- Bus drivers in a suburban Los Angeles county went on strike
after the union representing them and the bus agency failed to agree on a new
contract. The strike means that about 50 of more than 80 Orange County
Transportation Authority bus routes will not be served, promising to create
headaches for more than 200,000 people who use the system.

KATY, Tex. -- Writing "I love Alex" on a school gymnasium wall brought a
12-year-old girl the same punishment she would have received had she made
terrorist threats. The Katy Independent School District assigned sixth-grader
Shelby Sendelbach to an alternative school from Aug. 27 through Dec. 21. A
district spokesman said a state law requires assignment to an alternative school
for writing graffiti.

-- From News Services

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              339 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 8, 2007 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Portrait of an Immigrant as a Struggling Artist;
Flight From War Colors Perspective

BYLINE: Annie Gowen; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW06

LENGTH: 1119 words


When Alexandria gallery director Marga Fripp was choosing a signature work for
her new show of female artists, she settled quickly on "Waiting," a haunting,
gray-washed watercolor of an Afghan woman sitting alone and looking out an open
door.

Although the work was inspired by the struggle of many immigrant women, its
title has deep meaning for the artist. Throughout her turbulent life, Afghan
immigrant Fatana Baktash Arifi has been waiting, in one way or another.

Waiting with her family to flee the violence of her homeland, riven by the
Soviet occupation and years of civil war. Waiting to restart her life as an
artist, first as a refugee in Pakistan and, later, escaping oppression by
religious extremists by fleeing to the United States.

Resurrecting her art career in the United States over the past seven years has
proved difficult, though in recent months Arifi, who lives in Springfield, has
achieved some success.

She has paintings in "Citizen Artist: Local and Global Perspectives in the Art
of Immigrant, Refugee and American Women" showing through July 22 in A Woman's
Story Gallery in Old Town Alexandria. She's teaching drawing and painting at a
crafts store in Springfield. And she penned a book on the history of Afghan art,
which was recently published by the country's ministry of culture.

"The war situation was very hard for refugees," Arifi said, sitting down for an
interview at the gallery. "I had to struggle to rebuild my career."

She opened her slick black portfolio and began flipping through her work --
painting after painting, in oil, watercolor, pen and ink -- that, as she
narrated, became a kind of portrait history of her ruined homeland: Her
watercolor of the famous stone Buddhas of Bamian, destroyed by the Taliban in
2001. A famous tower in Kabul, also gone. A pen-and-ink drawing of one of the
old-fashioned robed magicians who roamed the streets and bazaars of the
once-thriving city.

Arifi, who prefers not to give her age, grew up in a Kabul that was vastly
different from the war-torn capital that suffered under an Islamic regime. In
the 1970s, the city was a cosmopolitan metropolis with bustling cafes and lush
gardens. Many women eschewed the restrictive burqa, moving around the city
bare-headed.

Arifi's father, Mohammad, was an animal-skin trader and progressive thinker who
encouraged his six children to attend school. He especially nurtured their
artistic talents, providing Arifi with rolls of paper and other art supplies.

Then came the Soviet invasion in 1979.

"The tragedy begins from there," Arifi recalled. "For three nights there were
helicopters and planes, strange noises in the sky."

She said she will never forget the look on her neighbors' faces. "It was like
somebody had died," Arifi said. "All the happiness gone from their mouths."

Although many of her countrymen fled, her family persevered during several more
years of fighting, a period during which she studied for her master's degree in
fine arts from Kabul University while bomb blasts shook the classrooms. When a
Stinger missile landed near Arifi's house one day in 1994, the family finally
decided to leave, abandoning everything. Arifi wrapped up a few possessions in a
cloth, including a pen-and-ink drawing of Abraham Lincoln she did as a
schoolgirl, and the family escaped on foot over the mountains into Pakistan.

Once in Peshawar, Pakistan, the family of eight crowded into a single room. For
eight painful months, Arifi was without her art, having neither the supplies nor
the space to create it.

Eventually she was hired to do illustrations for an international relief agency
and earned a few rupees to buy some art supplies. She worked in a frenzy,
creating 50 paintings. She said she sold most of them at a diplomatic art show
after putting them in handmade frames, strips of cardboard she painted black.

"I was running fast, fast. I was trying to complete that missing time, running,
running," Arifi said. "I had a responsibility to my art and a responsibility to
my family."

Later, her immediate family -- her mother, father and five siblings -- settled
enough that she was able to found a small art school, teaching mostly children.
But Arifi was forced to close the school in 1999 after several threatening
visits from extremist militia members, unhappy with a woman teaching. She said
she thinks the militia was backed by the Taliban.

The family then immigrated to the United States, settling in Arizona and then in
Northern Virginia in 2001.

Arifi struggled to find suitable work. Once in this area, she found a job
framing artwork and teaching painting and drawing at a Michaels craft store in
Springfield. During one recent class, in the floral aisle, she set up a still
life for a trio of students -- a calligrapher and her daughter and an aspiring
caricaturist -- who had no idea of her turbulent past. Start small, she kept
urging them, as the students began to draw.

"She's a very private person," said Carol Hamilton, a jewelry designer who runs
the shop's educational program.

Even as she struggled to eke out a living, Arifi penned a book about the history
of art in Afghanistan, writing of the Islamic calligrapher Wakili Popalzai and
painters of the 20th century such as Ghulam Muhammad Maimanagi, the founder of
Kabul's first art school. Arifi ended up at the Afghan Embassy in Washington,
looking for help publishing it.

Sayed M. Raheen, the former cultural minister who is now Afghanistan's
ambassador to India, said that when he met Arifi, he was struck by how "keen and
sensitive" she was and was moved by her commitment to writing of her country's
art with little hope of a financial payoff. He decided to help her, and
"Painting and Its Status in Afghanistan" was published by a government printing
press in Afghanistan this year.

Arifi is applying for grants so she can pursue her dream of painting full time.
"To live and to work and to be an artist -- that's the main goal," she said.

Fripp -- the founder of the nonprofit Empowered Women International, which
supports immigrant artists through A Woman's Story Gallery and classes --
recently gave Arifi a scholarship to the gallery's program that tutors artists
in the business aspects of art, such as assembling a portfolio and marketing.
She and others at the gallery were taken with the spirit of Arifi's work, not
just the traditional portraits of women but also her paintings in colorful,
geometric shapes that Arifi calls Handasism. It's a word of her own creation, a
melding of English and Dari that means a geometric style.

"In all her pieces, Fatana puts herself in the middle of the artwork," Fripp
said. "In the 'Waiting' piece . . . her spirit is out there waiting for
something new, a better future, perhaps."

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Courtesy Of A Woman's Story Gallery
IMAGE; By Gerald Martineau -- The Washington Post; Artist Fatana Baktash Arifi
talks with Martin Reintal as her other students, Kathy Teeple, left, and
daughter Emma Miller work on drawings at the Michaels store in Springfield Mall.
Arifi's work includes "Fear," top left; "Waiting," below left; and "Escaping
From War," done in a geometric style that the artist calls Handasism.
IMAGE; Courtesy Of A Woman's Story Gallery
IMAGE; Courtesy Of A Woman's Story Gallery
IMAGE; Courtesy Of A Woman's Story Gallery; "Buzkashi" by Fatana Baktash Arifi
is on exhibit until July 22.
IMAGE; By Tracy A. Woodward -- The Washington Post; "I had to struggle to
rebuild my career," the Afghan artist said.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              340 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            July 11, 2007 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

A Gift From Gandhi;
Frustrated Green Card Applicants From India Use Methods Of Master

BYLINE: Xiyun Yang; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 1086 words


Shyam Bindingnavale had spent years of anguish in pursuit of permanent
residency, so when the government offered him an opportunity to apply for it and
then abruptly snatched it away, he was furious and deeply disappointed.

Bindingnavale, 36, a Gaithersburg resident and financial analyst working here on
an H1B visa for skilled technical workers, struck back the most effective way he
could imagine: He sent flowers to Emilio Gonzalez, the director of the U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services. So did about 200 other green card
applicants, most of them professionals, natives of India and working legally in
this country.

They did it because that's what Gandhi would have done.

Yesterday, their bouquets of purple roses, pink lilies and yellow daisies, which
cost about $40 each and which were sent from all over the country, piled up on
the immigration office's loading dock at 20 Massachusetts Ave. NW, addressed to
Gonzalez and stacked in columns taller than people.

The agency forwarded them to soldiers recovering at Walter Reed Army Medical
Center.

"We know the reason behind it and understand the symbolism. We donated them in
the same spirit in which they were provided to us," said an agency official who
spoke on condition of anonymity because of a lawsuit over the matter filed by an
advocacy group.

The idea for the protest began with the Indian immigration community on the
online forum Immigration Voice, a site devoted to issues facing skilled, legal
workers seeking permanent residence in the United States. Their method was
inspired by Mohandas K. Gandhi, who spent years campaigning nonviolently for
India's independence from Britain.

Green card applicants were given hope on June 12, when the State Department
posted a bulletin offering H1B visa holders who had been stuck in a bureaucratic
logjam an opportunity to take that last step needed to apply for permanent
residency.

Thousands of engineers, doctors and other educated foreigners began a mad
scramble to file their applications before the July 2 deadline.

Vacations were canceled, and lawyers were called in. Elderly parents in
far-flung corners of the world stood in line for hours to get copies of birth
certificates and immunization records.

Then, on the day of the deadline, the State Department retracted the bulletin.
The USCIS, which processes the applications, said it had already met its
140,000-person annual quota for employee-sponsored applicants.

Those who tried to apply were told they had to wait. Some new applications may
be considered again starting Oct. 1, but others may have to wait for years. The
wait has become even longer after a surge in green card applications, amplified
by a provision in 2001 that allowed undocumented immigrants or immigrants who
had overstayed their visas to apply for green cards. The problem was exacerbated
by the increased FBI security checks required after the attacks on Sept. 11,
2001.

"Only someone with the saddest mind can do this," said Ashish Mundada, 31, an
information technology consultant who works in New York City. Mundada had
persuaded his wife to cancel a trip back to India for a sister's wedding to take
advantage of what seemed like a brief window of opportunity. Mundada, like many
other protesters, said he did not want any favors, just that his application be
fairly considered.

The flowers were inspired by a popular Bollywood film, "Lage Raho Munnabhai," in
which the main character turns to the ways of Gandhi to solve his problems. The
movie has stirred Indians at home and abroad to try to emulate Gandhi, who died
in 1948, a year after India achieved independence.

"The only way to get the other party to acknowledge your grief is to do
something nonviolent, to show some compassion," said Bindingnavale, who works
for MedImmune.

But in America, lawsuits and hearings also hold sway.

Crystal Williams, deputy director for programs at the American Immigration
Lawyers Association, suspects that there may still be open slots in the annual
green card quota.

"They lied. That's the simple part of it. They lied to keep from having to take
these applications," Williams said. The association's sister organization is
filing a lawsuit to force the government to accept the filed applications.

"The system is deeply broken," Williams said.

Rep. Zoe Lofgren, (D-Calif.), the chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Citizenship,
Refugees, Immigration, and Border Security, says she plans to hold a hearing on
the issue and is pressing USCIS to accept the recently filed applications.

"They have really messed this up," she said. "The Department of Homeland
Security is not known for overarching efficiency, but this is a new low."

Businesses are also unhappy. Many depend on the highly educated foreigners.
Google and Microsoft have lobbied Congress on behalf of just such skilled
workers.

Elizabeth Stern is a corporate attorney with Baker & McKenzie, a firm that
counts many financial service and IT companies among its clients. She said she
has heard from corporate clients who are fed up with U.S. policies.

" 'This is just not worth it,' they say. 'I'll just move to England,' " Stern
said.

Dilip Tekkedil, 32, a software engineer from North Andover, Mass., is one of the
frustrated applicants who came up with the flower idea.

"It was more peaceful," he said. "We don't trouble anyone else. A rally or
something, you have to call law enforcement. It's too much trouble for other
people."

They do not hold hard feelings against Gonzalez. "I'd like to thank him for the
job that he does. I know it's a thankless job," Tekkedil said. "I just hope that
he could understand our plight as well."

Their uncertain status makes them fearful of notice. Anand Sharma, 35, a chip
design engineer from Longmont, Colo., said she drives well under the speed limit
on highways. "We are so scared. We just want to stay here."

But they are weary of how their lives have been frozen in time. They must retain
the same job title and income they had when they began the application process,
which can last for eight years.

Any reprieve won't come fast enough for Vishal Nanda, 31, an IT consultant who
had moved to the United States in 1999. Employed at a subsidiary of Time Warner,
he had waited five years for a chance to stay permanently, then was forced to
begin his green card process over again because of a technicality, he said.

"There is too much uncertainty," he said. "I don't stand a chance in my lifetime
to get a green card."

He is moving back to India next week to join his wife, a dental surgeon.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Associated Press; Mohandas K. Gandhi became an icon of
nonviolent protest.
IMAGE; By Xiyun Yang -- The Washington Post; About 200 skilled immigrants sent
flowers to the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services.
IMAGE; By Xiyun Yang -- The Washington Post; The flowers sent to USCIS were
transferred to U.S. soldiers recovering at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center.
IMAGE; By Joe Burbank -- Associated Press; Emilio Gonzalez, the U.S. director of
immigration, was the recipient of hundreds of bouquets of flowers from around
the country.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              341 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 14, 2007 Saturday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Immigrants Shy From Md. Shops After Bust

BYLINE: Mariana Minaya; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 716 words


At lunchtime most Fridays, the line of customers craving the savory, spicy
roasted chicken of El Pollo Rico in Wheaton winds outside the door and spills
onto the sidewalk. Yesterday, there were only a few people milling about the
shopping center that houses the now closed restaurant.

After immigration officials seized nine employees at the Ennalls Avenue
restaurant Thursday morning, shop employees and patrons said local immigrants
were keeping a low profile. Many, they said, are reluctant to shop or show up
for work at nearby businesses. Who knows when the scene might repeat itself?

"There's much hubbub right now because of what happened," Juan Lopez, 27, of
Wheaton said in Spanish. "There are many people who don't want to return to
work, because they think immigration will come back."

Lopez, who said he entered the country legally, said he quit his job at a nearby
business because he feared immigration officers.

Federal agents arrested four members of the family that owns the popular
restaurant with two locations in the Washington area. Francisco Carlos Solano,
55, and his wife, In?s Solano, 59, of Germantown; Consuelo Solano, 69, of
Arlington County; and Juan Faustino Solano, 57, of Kensington were charged with
employing and harboring illegal immigrants, money laundering and structuring
deposits to avoid financial reporting requirements. The Solanos housed some of
their workers in two homes in Kensington and Wheaton, according to an affidavit.

Nine others were taken into custody and face deportation proceedings.

Owners of and workers at other businesses in the shopping center that cater to
and employ Latinos watched as immigration officials took them away. They said
potential customers were too jittery to shop yesterday.

"This place is usually full," said Oneida Diaz, a cashier at the Mercado Latino
grocery store. "People are a bit alarmed. They're afraid to come out."

Brad Botwin, director of Help Save Maryland, a group opposed to illegal
immigration, yesterday said he welcomed the arrests in an area he says has been
overtaken by illegal immigration. "I'm glad the feds, in cooperation with the
county police, took some action, but I think it needs to be stepped up
dramatically," Botwin said.

Maria Cristina Garcia, a hairdresser at Salon de Belleza Sarita's Unisex,
adjacent to the restaurant, said she often ate at El Pollo Rico. She said it
seemed like a collegial place to work, with the owners and the employees often
joking.

"They're people who've never caused trouble, who never attract attention," she
said of the owners.

But Rufus Nix Jr., 43, of Takoma Park said he often found the owners to be curt
or irritated.

"When you'd go into the store, it just seemed like he was angry," Nix said. "You
would think he'd be smiling. . . . I've never seen him smile as long as I've
known him."

Still, throngs of people were known to line up for meals, sometimes enduring
lengthy waits.

Peruvian culture in the Washington region includes more than 50 restaurants, 10
traditional dance groups and an active leadership council, Peruvian Consul
Fernando Quir?s said. He said he does not know the Solano family personally but
knew the business by reputation. "I heard a lot about El Pollo Rico. It was one
of the best."

He added: "The community is very active, and there is much solidarity. This
story of Pollo Rico is really a surprise to all of us. We hope that things will
get clarified. We hope that this Peruvian family will demonstrate that they are
innocent."

Luis Lora, 60, of Kensington came to the restaurant yesterday to buy 60 chickens
for his neighborhood pool, where Pollo Rico chicken is always in high demand, he
said. The food was "excellent, though it didn't seem like it from just looking
at the place," he said in Spanish.

Lora also worried that the arrest would negatively impact the image of the
Hispanic community. "They make the community look bad," Lora said. "If he's a
minority, people will say every minority does the same thing."

Botwin said he had little sympathy for how the arrests might affect legal
immigrants. "It's not like we're going out with baseball bats and going after
anyone who looks Hispanic," he said. "That's ridiculous. That's [immigrants']
way of saying, 'Leave us alone.' "

Staff writer Krissah Williams contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Pouya Dianat -- The Washington Post; Luis Lora, 60, of
Kensington, one of several people who visited El Pollo Rico in Wheaton yesterday
only to find the local favorite still closed after a police raid Thursday, said
he is worried about how the bust will affect the immigrant community's image.
"People will say every minority does the same thing," he said.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              342 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 14, 2007 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Your Papers, Please

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 83 words


Regarding Prince William County's newly enacted legislation on illegal
immigration [front page, July 11]:

How do I, a citizen of the United States, prove that I am here legally? Those
here illegally and I (and other citizens) do not carry documents as do legal
immigrants. How many citizens carry their birth certificates?

Will we be required to carry birth certificates or passports? Can the police
detain me to check my status? I think they  have better things to do.

GAYLE FISHER-STEWART

Takoma Park

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              343 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 15, 2007 Sunday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Fear Seizes Pr. William Immigrants -- Legal and Not

BYLINE: Nick Miroff; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1539 words


Some cowered indoors, wary of police sweeps. Others said they'd leave for
another county, or state -- anywhere that didn't seem as unwelcome as Prince
William suddenly did. One father gave his sons copies of their green cards to
carry to summer classes in elementary school, worried they'd be stopped and
questioned.

Although the anti-illegal-immigrant measures approved last week in Prince
William County were less severe than proposed originally, Hispanic residents
there say a clasp of fear has gripped their community in recent days, as anxiety
and confusion over the policies ripple through supermarkets, job sites, hair
salons and living rooms.

"Everyone is scared to go outside," said Jorge Villarta, a Salvadoran immigrant
who spoke in Spanish as he waited for his wife at the Salon Hispano beauty shop
in Woodbridge, dropping his voice to a whisper. "They think the police will grab
them, and they'll be deported," said Villarta, who added that he is a legal
resident but still fears arrest.

Elsewhere across the region and beyond, Hispanic immigrants kept close tabs on
events in Prince William this week, wondering whether other jurisdictions would
follow suit. "A lot of our students think this [resolution] is one of many that
are going to pass in our local cities and counties," said Amy White, director of
the English as a Second Language program at Catholic Charities' Hogar Hispano
program in Falls Church. Legal residents are worried about racial profiling, she
added.

To date, Herndon, Manassas and Culpeper are the only jurisdictions in the
Washington region to enact or consider policies targeting illegal immigrants,
and none is as extensive as what Prince William is attempting.

The resolution approved unanimously by the Prince William Board of County
Supervisors on Tuesday orders police officers to verify the residency status of
anyone in custody whom they suspect to be an illegal immigrant. The resolution
also seeks to block access to public services and benefits for illegal
immigrants, claiming they are causing "economic hardship and lawlessness" in the
county. The measures -- the toughest in Virginia -- apply to all illegal
immigrants, but in Prince William that means mostly Hispanics.

Support for the measures among the county's non-Hispanic residents appeared to
be broad, and county supervisors said their offices have been flooded by calls
and e-mails backing the resolution. "This country is founded on the basis of
laws," said Tom Brown, at a Borders bookstore on the Prince William Parkway.
"Illegal means illegal."

Others said they were torn. "I can see the benefit to county taxpayers. But
these are very hardworking individuals," said Marilyn Koshetar of Woodbridge.
"It's a no-win situation."

Police and other county agencies have yet to establish procedures for the
stepped-up enforcement, but the practical impact was in plain view last week
along Route 1 in Woodbridge, a usually busy commercial strip lined with
Hispanic-owned businesses.

Markets and restaurants were nearly empty, with slow sales reported at almost a
dozen shops and restaurants. "What's going on?" wondered one manager of a
Popeye's who spoke on condition of anonymity. "Why is it so slow?"

A nearby KFC popular with Hispanics was nearly deserted at lunchtime. Meanwhile,
business was booming at Pizza Hut, where the manager reported a spike in home
delivery calls.

No one is sure how many illegal immigrants live in Prince William, Virginia's
second-most-populous county, or what would happen if many of them left.
Thousands of migrants from Latin America -- legal and illegal -- have arrived in
the past decade to fill a voracious demand for jobs in construction and other
services, drawn by the county's building boom and relatively low housing costs.
Since 1996, the percentage of Hispanic students in the county's school system
has soared from 6.6 to 24.2 percent.

Prince William's Salvadoran community has grown so fast that the Salvadoran
government opened a Woodbridge consulate in 2005. Many Hispanic newcomers have
settled there and elsewhere in the county's eastern half, establishing
communities and commercial strips in such places as Dumfries and Dale City.

Large Mexican and Central American communities have formed in and around
Manassas. But relatively few Hispanics live in the county's more affluent
western areas, such as the Gainesville district represented by Supervisor John
T. Stirrup Jr. (R), who authored the resolution.

Hispanics who have lived in Prince William for years said they felt blindsided
by the measures and the stinging comments they heard from county residents who
blame them for ruining their neighborhoods, parks and schools.

"It seems like it came out of nowhere," said Woodbridge resident Silvia Leiva,
18, who was born in Arlington County. She said members of her family and friends
-- some legal, others not -- were "flipping out."

Leiva also said the resolution's success exposed the political weakness of the
county's Hispanic community, which does not vote in proportion to its numbers.
"People are saying they should do more to learn the language and register to
vote," she said.

Villarta and other immigrants interviewed last week described Tuesday's vote as
the latest in a litany of disappointing signs about their future in the United
States. "People have been watching the news, hoping something good would happen
in the Senate," he said, referring to the proposed immigration reforms  that
died in Congress. "Now we watch the news expecting to hear the worst."

Although the measures approved last week were less harsh than first proposed, a
cloud of confusion hung over Prince William's Hispanic community long after the
board meeting. The scope of the resolution remains largely undetermined: County
staff will have 90 days to figure out which services can be denied to illegal
immigrants lawfully, and the police department will take 60 days to establish
how residency will be verified and what will constitute probable cause.

The uncertainty appeared to extend all the way to Prince William's top elected
official, who seemed to interpret the resolution differently from the county's
police department. "If you're pulled over and you're a citizen or legal
immigrant, you've got nothing to worry about," said board Chairman Corey A.
Stewart (R-Occoquan), explaining the policy's intended reach. Those lacking a
valid U.S. driver's license would be checked, Stewart said. "If we determine you
are an illegal immigrant, we are going to do what we can to initiate deportation
proceedings."

Yet the resolution appears to stop short of requiring that level of police
scrutiny. It directs officers to check residency when probable cause is
established and "when such inquiry will not expand the duration of the
detention" -- language crafted to avoid conflict with Fourth Amendment
protections against unlawful search and seizure. Sgt. Kim Chinn, a police
spokeswoman, said the person would have to be under arrest, not simply pulled
over for a traffic violation.

Hispanic business and community leaders in Prince William said they had been
appearing this week on local Spanish-language radio stations to assuage panicked
callers, urging them to focus on the resolution's details, rather than  the
anti-Hispanic message many heard.

"People should not be afraid," said Freddy Ventura, a Salvadoran-born
businessman who runs a popular soccer league in the county. "I've got tons of
people calling me, telling me they want to move. I told them there's nothing to
be scared of. Show them you're not scared."

Others said they thought the week's events would produce a positive result by
mobilizing Hispanics to participate in politics and take a critical look at
conduct that fuels negative stereotypes about public drunkenness, littering and
gangs.

"We have to learn the rules, learn how people live here," said businessman
Carlos Castro. "There are certain misbehaviors that irritate a lot of people and
we have to fix, but it's not fair for others to see us as a single group.

"In the end," he predicted, "I think it's going to have a positive effect on the
community."

The resolution's effect on Hispanic communities has  stretched well beyond
Prince William.

"They're talking about this in Jefferson County, in Clarke, all the way to West
Virginia," Adrian Escobar said in Spanish, sipping from a Big Gulp cup outside a
pupusa kiosk on Route 1. He and his brother Antonio dashed across the border
from Mexico nearly 15 years ago and have been in the United States  illegally
since. They live in Winchester and make $17 an hour as flagmen for a Virginia
Department of Transportation subcontractor.

The Escobar brothers shrugged at all the fretting they'd been hearing from other
Hispanics last week, including workers who commute to Prince William to do its
grunt work. "Who else is going to pave the roads here?"  Adrian asked, cracking
up with laughter. "An American? Ha!"

Antonio said he wasn't fazed. "If you're afraid, they'll just intimidate you
more," he said. Besides, he added, the brothers  have a plan in case Prince
William police and immigration officials send them home for a "free vacation" to
their father's farm in Guanajuato.

"We'll be right back here in a month," Antonio said.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Tracy A. Woodward -- The Washington Post; "If you're pulled
over and you're a citizen or legal immigrant, you've got nothing to worry
about," says county board Chairman Corey A. Stewart.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              344 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 15, 2007 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Reclaiming Our County;
Other Jurisdictions Should Follow Prince William On Illegal Immigration and the
Rule of Law

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. B08

LENGTH: 591 words


The rule of law is a difficult thing for a democracy to ignore. As the oldest
democracy on Earth, we Americans recognize the rule of law and honor and embrace
it. In Prince William County, we're acting to reaffirm our commitment to the
rule of law.

We are proud of our nation's long history of embracing legal immigrants. The
United States is unparalleled in terms of the generosity, compassion and
opportunity it offers those who enter legally. Indeed, legal immigration has
helped to make America what it is today. As President Ronald Reagan said, we are
that "shining city on a hill." We are a beacon of hope for the world to emulate,
and in places desolate and hot, wretched and poor, peoples from all walks of
life want only one thing: to become Americans.

Consider the expression "only in America": Here, anyone, of any background,
race, creed or religion, can accomplish anything they set out to achieve. Let's
never lose sight of how uniquely fortunate we are to be Americans.

And all that America asks in return is that you establish legal citizenship.
Once you become a citizen, your opportunities to pursue the American dream are
limited only by your imagination.

Two weeks ago, as we celebrated the 231st anniversary of the signing of the
Declaration of Independence, it was heartening to read story after story of
individuals from all corners of the world who had applied legally and waited, in
many cases for years, for the chance to raise their right hands and swear
allegiance to the United States of America and become U.S. citizens. Those who
choose to avoid the process of  establishing legal citizenship get stuck in the
limbo of a permanent underclass of below-market, off-the-books compensation,
substandard housing, limited upward mobility and no opportunity to pursue the
American dream. On the macro level, illegal immigrants who enter Prince William
seeking economic opportunities would probably be far better off if they stayed
in their home countries and helped to bring about economic change there.

The problem of illegal immigrants in Prince William is exacerbated by their
general disregard for the rule of law, abuse of taxpayer-funded services and
obvious lack of interest in seeking citizenship or ever embracing American
ideals. Rather, it seems their sole motivation is economic. Last year, illegal
immigrants sent an estimated $45 billion out of the U.S. economy to their home
countries.

Last week, the Prince William County Board of Supervisors unanimously approved a
resolution that I presented to increase immigration enforcement, limit services
to illegal immigrants and reaffirm the rule of law. We in Prince William are
making a conscious decision about the future of our county and our communities.
Left unchecked, illegal immigration will almost certainly put our county on a
downward spiral, similar to the patterns to be found in the Third World
countries these illegal immigrants left. Our citizens want to reclaim their
neighborhoods and communities, and they recognize the federal government's
inability or unwillingness to resolve or even address this chronic problem. They
will no longer accept inaction. They want us to act, and so we are.

We recognize that one local jurisdiction cannot solve the problem of
uncontrolled borders, but we can address our corner of America. We hope that
other jurisdictions will be emboldened to act similarly.

-- John T. Stirrup

Gainesville

The writer, a Republican, is a Prince William County supervisor. He will take
questions at 1 p.m. tomorrow on washingtonpost.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              345 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 17, 2007 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Squeezing Legal Immigrants

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 190 words


Regarding the July 13 front-page article "Religious Visa Workers Fear Program
Overhaul":

The plan to tighten restrictions on religious visas comes as new regulations
also make it harder to qualify for the J-1 training program, which  benefits
many foreign graduates of U.S. colleges. Other regulations will force employers
sponsoring skilled foreign workers seeking green cards to bear a large share of
the costs, discouraging many from pursuing permanent status for these employees.
The H-1B skilled worker program is also an endangered species, because of a lack
of visas.

These restrictions are all presented as fraud-prevention measures.  But has
there been such an increase in fraud to require cutting legal immigration at the
same moment that the basic rights of detained illegal immigrants -- such as
being able to call a lawyer or get medical care  -- are disappearing?

Or is the Bush administration, stung by the backlash over its supposed support
for "amnesty," pandering to those who want to scapegoat immigrants or exploit
racial feelings brought to the surface by this issue?

ROGER ALGASE

New York

The writer is an immigration lawyer.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              346 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            July 18, 2007 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

After Protest, U.S. to Take Green-Card Applications

BYLINE: Xiyun Yang; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. D03

LENGTH: 656 words


The U.S. government announced yesterday that it will accept applications for
employer-sponsored green cards that it rejected earlier this month, after facing
mounting public pressure, possible litigation and a cascade of flowers.

The flowers came mostly from Indian immigrants who hold H-1B visas for highly
educated and skilled workers, who were protesting the government's refusal to
accept the applications after it had invited them. Last week, they sent flowers
-- more than 200 bouquets to the director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services -- to emulate Mohandas K. Gandhi, who advocated peaceful methods to
achieve India's independence from Britain.

After an announcement June 12 that applications would be accepted for what would
be the final step in a long process to obtain permanent residence in the United
States, thousands of legal immigrants who had waited for years to apply for
green cards rushed to get their paperwork together. They canceled long-planned
family trips, searched for documents and hired lawyers.

Then, on July 2, the agency announced that it would reject all the applications
because the green-card quota for the year had been filled by USCIS, leaving
thousands of newly optimistic workers with stacks of bills and dashed hopes.

The mixed bureaucratic signals ignited a public outcry against the agencies.
Immigration lawyers began filing lawsuits. Activists demonstrated in San Jose,
and corporations accused the government of eroding U.S. competitiveness.

"The public reaction to the July 2 announcement made it clear that the federal
government's management of this process needs further review," Emilio T.
Gonzalez, the director of USCIS, said in a written statement.

Yesterday's decision will allow those who qualified to file their applications
by August 17.

"The government has done the right thing by these people," said Crystal
Williams, deputy director for programs at the American Immigration Lawyers
Association.

The announcement does not guarantee that applications will be approved, nor does
it resolve the logjam in the government's green-card application process. The
annual quota of 140,000 green cards is far lower than the demand, and after the
August deadline, no more applications will be accepted for the rest of the year.

After USCIS receives the applications, "they will do what they've always done:
register them in and put them on the shelf," Williams said.

Activists and corporations both say that this is just the beginning of what they
hope to be immigration reform for skilled, educated workers.

"This is not the long-term solution we are striving for," said Vikas Chowdhry, a
member of Immigration Voice, a Web site devoted to issues faced by skilled
immigrants.

Microsoft and Google, which depend on highly educated foreigners, have lobbied
Congress to allow more skilled workers into the country and to streamline the
process for them to stay.

"Immigration reform is our top legislative priority," said Jack Krumholtz,
Microsoft's chief lobbyist. "We hope the government is ready to take the next
step." More than 4,000 Microsoft employees were waiting to apply for green
cards, he said.

While debate over immigration has long focused on the illegal immigrant
population, legal immigrants are embroiled in logistics.

The annual green-card quotas are often not met because they get caught up in a
bureaucratic morass, said Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), chairman of the House
Judiciary Committee's subcommittee on citizenship, refugees, immigration and
border security. "DHS has not enforced the law. This is very different from
comprehensive immigration reform," she said.

But for those who had waited with bated breath since sending their bouquets of
frustration two weeks ago, one small step is better than none at all.

"I'm so glad that we made the effort," said Sumita Arora, 36, of Chester
Springs, Pa. "I think it's great news. It restores our faith back in the
judicial system."

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Joe Burbank -- Associated Press; Emilio T. Gonzalez, director
of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, said policy on green-card
applications "needs further review."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              347 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 22, 2007 Sunday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Envoy Urges Visas For Iraqis Aiding U.S.;
Targets of Violence Are Seeking Refuge

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1598 words


The American ambassador in Baghdad, Ryan C. Crocker, has asked the Bush
administration to take the unusual step of granting immigrant visas to all
Iraqis employed by the U.S. government in Iraq because of growing concern that
they will quit and flee the country if they cannot be assured eventual safe
passage to the United States.

Crocker's request comes as the administration is struggling to respond to the
flood of Iraqis who have sought refuge in neighboring countries since sectarian
fighting escalated early last year. The United States has admitted 133 Iraqi
refugees since October, despite predicting that it would process 7,000 by the
end of September.

"Our [Iraqi staff members] work under extremely difficult conditions, and are
targets for violence including murder and kidnapping," Crocker wrote
Undersecretary of State Henrietta H.  Fore. "Unless they know that there is some
hope of an [immigrant visa] in the future, many will continue to seek asylum,
leaving our Mission lacking in one of our most valuable assets."

Crocker's two-page cable dramatizes how Iraq's instability and a rapidly
increasing refugee population are stoking new pressures to help those who are
threatened or displaced. As public sentiment grows for a partial or full
American withdrawal, U.S. Embassy officials are facing demands from their own
employees to secure a reliable exit route, and the administration as a whole is
facing pressure from aid groups, lawmakers and diplomats to do more for those
upended by the war.

With Iraqi immigration to the United States stuck at a trickle, however, it
appears that humanitarian concerns have been trumped so far by fears that
terrorists may infiltrate through refugee channels. Bureaucratic delays at the
departments of State and Homeland Security have also bogged down the processing
of immigration requests by Iraqis fleeing violence.

Skeptics contend another reason the administration has been slow to resettle
Iraqis in large numbers is that doing so could be seen as admitting that its
efforts to secure Iraq have failed. The intense pressure for visas "reflects the
fact that the situation is pretty dire," said Roberta Cohen, principal adviser
to the U.N. secretary general's representative on internally displaced persons.

The Office of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees says that about 2 million
Iraqis have been displaced inside the country so far, and that an estimated 2.2
million others have fled to Syria, Jordan and other neighbors, where they
threaten to overwhelm schools and housing, destabilize host governments and
provide a recruiting ground for radical unrest. Each month, an additional 60,000
Iraqis flee their homes, the U.N. agency said.

Overall estimates of the number of Iraqis who may be targeted as collaborators
because of their work for U.S., coalition or foreign reconstruction groups are
as high as 110,000. The U.N. refugee agency has estimated that 20,000 Iraqi
refugees need permanent resettlement.

In the cable he sent July 9, Crocker highlighted the plight of Iraqis who have
assumed great risk by helping the United States. Since June 2004, at least nine
U.S. Embassy employees have been killed -- including a married couple last
month. But Iraqi employees other than interpreters and translators generally
cannot obtain U.S. immigrant visas, and until a recent expansion that took the
annual quota to 500 from 50, interpreter-translator applicants faced a nine-year
backlog.

As a result, Crocker said, the embassy is referring two workers per week to a
U.S. asylum program. Outside analysts and former officials say the number of
Iraqi staffers at the embassy has fallen by about half from 200 last year, while
rough estimates place the number of Iraqi employees of the U.S. government in
the low thousands.

A 43-year-old former engineer for the U.S. Embassy who gave his name as Abu Ali
said Iraqis working with Americans at any level must trust no one, use fake
names, conceal their travel and telephone use, and withhold their employment
even from family members. Despite such extreme precautions, he said they are
viewed as traitors by some countrymen and are still mistrusted by the U.S.
government.

"We have no good end or finish for us," said Ali, who quit the embassy in June
and moved to Dubai with his four children.

Kirk W. Johnson, who served as regional reconstruction coordinator in Fallujah
in 2005 for the U.S. Agency for International Development, said the damage to
the United States' standing in the Muslim world will be long-lasting if the
country's immigration officials are unable to tell friend from foe in Iraq --
between terrorists and those who have sacrificed the most to work and fight
alongside Americans.

"If we screw this group of people, we're never going to make another friend in
the Middle East as long as I'm alive," said Johnson, who is advocating the
resettlement of Iraqis who have worked for coalition forces. "The people in the
Middle East are watching what happens to this group."

The State Department declined to comment on Friday about Crocker's proposals or
his cable, a copy of which was obtained by The Washington Post. But Homeland
Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said  last week that he would like Iraqis
who worked for the United States or who have been vouched for by American
authorities to be processed "as quickly as we can, because I think we have a
responsibility there."

Kenneth H. Bacon, president of Refugees International, who has urged broader
U.S. resettlement efforts, said that "the U.S. does have an obligation to be
fair to the people who have served it, whether in Iraq or elsewhere. That's what
Ryan Crocker wants to be able to promise." Bacon was among several refugee
experts who said that Iraqi employees seeking immigrant visas have already shown
their trustworthiness by exposing themselves to brutal attacks over their work
in the Green Zone and elsewhere.

But such Iraqis are only a small part of a broader refugee problem that
Washington confronts as a result of the war. In recent months, the U.N. refugee
agency has referred 8,000 Iraqi refugee applications to the U.S. government.
About 1,500 of them have been interviewed, and about 1,000 "conditionally
approved" pending security checks and travel arrangements, a DHS official said.
The State Department expects 4,000 more interviews to be completed by October.

But State and DHS are unlikely to admit more than 2,000 Iraqi refugees by
October, U.S. officials said. Since 2003, the year of the U.S. invasion, the
United States has admitted 825 Iraqi refugees, many of them backlogged
applicants from the time when Saddam Hussein was in power. By comparison, the
United States has accepted 3,498 Iranians in the past nine months.

Smaller countries have also done more. Sweden received 9,065 Iraqi asylum
applications in 2006, approving them at a rate of 80 percent, although it
recently announced tighter restrictions.

By past standards, the U.S. response also has been meager. Washington admitted
nearly 140,000 Vietnamese refugees in eight months in 1975, although only after
the U.S. defeat in South Vietnam became clear.

A DHS official blamed the State Department for paperwork delays. Assistant
Secretary of State Ellen R. Sauerbrey said officials are speeding up processing
and anticipate "a significantly larger number" of admissions. "The people who
are in the pipeline will be admitted by next year or, hopefully, the end of the
calendar year," she said.

But DHS has opposed boosting the U.S. intake of Iraqis. In a June 26 memo to
Congress, the department opposed a legislative proposal to allow applications by
Christians and other Iraqi religious minorities, saying it would "vastly
increase" the number of refugees. "No vetting process is perfect, and even a
strong vetting process can be strained by rapid growth or high volumes," the
memo stated.

U.S. officials declined to discuss details about security checks for Iraqis, but
said that, under special rules, applicants are subjected to interviews,
fingerprinting and examination of their family histories. The information is
checked against military, FBI, State and Homeland Security databases.

But DHS rules sometimes pose problems peculiar to the Iraqi conflict: Those who
pay ransom to free relatives kidnapped by insurgents, for example, are sometimes
viewed as providing material support to terrorists.

Homeland Security officials say they have worked hard to adjust their policies,
but Chertoff said in the interview that Washington will not compromise on
screening quality. "What we can't afford to do and what would be devastating for
the program would be if we were to start to allow people in who actually were a
threat," he said.

Years ago, Chertoff added, Europe had more relaxed asylum standards, and it
"wound up admitting a bunch of people who are now the radical extremists who are
fomenting homegrown terrorism."

Congress is nonetheless stepping up pressure on the administration to do more,
with Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.) and Sens. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) and
Gordon Smith (R-Ore.) introducing separate legislation to expand U.S. refugee
and immigrant visa programs for Iraqis, including for those threatened because
they helped coalition or reconstruction efforts.

"The Administration has ignored this crisis for far too long, and its response
is inadequate," Kennedy said in a written statement. "We can't solve this
problem alone, but America has an obligation to provide leadership and resettle
greater numbers of Iraqis who are targeted by the assassin's bullet because they
assisted us in the war."

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              348 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 22, 2007 Sunday
                                 Met 1 Edition

Region's Pakistani Immigrants Watch, Worry as Country Erupts

BYLINE: Pamela Constable; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 994 words


Ray Mahmood is an urbane, easygoing businessman, famous for throwing elegant
fundraisers at his Mount Vernon mansion overlooking the Potomac River. When he
speaks of his native Pakistan, it is normally with hope for the country's
economic future, confidence in its military government and certainty of its
preference for a moderate version of Islam.

But this month, as Mahmood and other Pakistani emigres have watched their
homeland become engulfed in suicide bombings and an escalating confrontation
between Islamic extremists and security forces, their complacent optimism has
turned to horror and panic at the possibility of an Iraq-style religious
conflagration.

"Unless the authorities take on these extremist mullahs now and finish it, there
will be no direct foreign investment, no tourism, nothing. In 15 years the
country will not be livable," Mahmood, 51, declared bleakly in an interview
Thursday.

The Washington region is home to thousands of immigrants from Pakistan, most of
them longtime residents who moved here for economic reasons. They include
doctors, engineers, restaurant owners and real estate moguls such as Mahmood;
more recently arrived cabdrivers and gas station attendants; and hundreds of
students and young technocrats on multi-year work visas.

Although almost all are observant Muslims and many attend mosques, local
Pakistanis tend to be moderate and well-integrated into American culture. Now,
many say they fear that their once-tolerant native land -- founded in 1947 as a
Muslim democracy -- could become the next victim of the violent militancy that
is causing mayhem in many Islamic countries.

Tazeen Hashmi, a physician in Baltimore who came to the United States as a
student in the 1980s, said she just canceled a long-planned sightseeing trip to
Pakistan with her daughter and the daughter's college classmates. She worried
that visiting girls not wearing Islamic headscarves might be targeted for
attack.

"The kids are scared. We are all scared," Hashmi said. "The Pakistan I grew up
in was moderate. We had military coups and political problems, but we never had
suicide bombings. The fundamentalists never had enough money or guns or numbers
to be a serious problem. Now, for the first time, it feels like that may not be
the case. It is very scary. We worry this turmoil could lead to civil war."

The crisis in Pakistan erupted last month when radical clerics commandeered a
mosque in the quiet capital, Islamabad, and sent out young followers to shut
down music shops and kidnap suspected prostitutes. Security forces stormed the
heavily armed compound July 10, and more than 120 people died. Since then,
retaliatory suicide bombings and other terrorist attacks have exploded across
the country, leaving more than 160 people dead.

The threat of Islamic militancy has been growing for months, but until now the
violence was largely confined to the lawless tribal areas that border
Afghanistan, where the once-defeated Taliban militia is staging a violent
comeback. Pakistan's military president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, tried to appease
tribal militants in a truce and co-opt religious groups in political alliances
while blaming Afghanistan as the source of the problem.

Now, all of those tactics lie in shambles. Musharraf, a religious moderate who
heads a large and powerful army, seems to have been caught off-balance by the
rising challenge from violent Islamists who seek to turn Pakistan into a
theocracy like Iran or Saudi Arabia.

Muhammad Afzal, the longtime owner of the popular Ravi Kabob restaurant in
Arlington, said his relatives in Pakistan are afraid to go outside at night. He
expressed deep anger at the country's Islamic extremists, saying they are trying
to hijack a religion that preaches peace and tolerance.

"Just because these mullahs have a beard, how can they be a good Muslim if they
kill innocent children and send them to do suicide bombings?" demanded Afzal,
who came to the United States in 1978. "To be a good Muslim is to be honest, to
work hard, to take care of your family, to pray. I am sure that 75 percent of
Pakistanis do not want these mullahs. We need strong leaders. I don't care if
they are military or civilian, but please, someone must stop this whole thing."

The rising threat from religious extremists has exacerbated political tensions
in Pakistan, where Musharraf faces pressure to hold free elections and to step
down as head of the army if he runs for president. He also aroused public
opposition by suspending the chief justice of the Supreme Court several months
ago, although that crisis might be defused because the high court reinstated the
justice Friday.

Until recently, many in the Washington area's Pakistani community have accepted
Musharraf's rule, in part because of Pakistan's poor record of civilian
leadership and in part because of Musharraf's close cooperation with U.S.
officials in the war against Islamic terrorism after Sept. 11, 2001.

But as U.S. disenchantment mounts and religious violence spreads, the emigre
community is mirroring the anguished ambivalence of many Pakistanis back home.
Some believe a swift return to civilian rule in Islamabad is more urgent than
ever, asserting that only legitimate rule can thwart the fundamentalist tide.
Others insist that Musharraf and his military establishment need even more
domestic and international support at this shaky moment; they warn that if
Washington presses too hard for both political reforms and an anti-Islamic
crackdown, his government could collapse and take the country with it.

"My nightmare is the spreading of extremism in Pakistan that creates a scenario
like Iraq," said Anees Ahsan, a cardiologist who lives in Columbia. "It could
threaten the country's very existence, and the government must use both force
and wisdom to curb it. Right now, everyone needs to rally behind the president.
I totally disagree with him on many political issues, but we have to save the
house before we can clean it."

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Pamela Constable -- The Washington Post; Pakistani immigrants
Ray and Shaista Mahmood of Mount Vernon are worried about the surge in Islamic
violence.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              349 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 1, 2007 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

English Instruction Touted for Immigrants;
Fourfold Increase In Spending Urged

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 670 words


Spending on English instruction must be quadrupled to more than $4 billion a
year for the next six years to make legal and illegal adult immigrants
proficient in skills crucial to their assimilation and the economic future of a
country whose population is increasingly foreign-born, a new national report
says.

In the first nationwide study of its kind, the nonpartisan Migration Policy
Institute estimates that an additional $200 million a year is needed to improve
legal immigrants' English skills enough for them to pass a citizenship test and
"fully participate in the country's civic life." An additional $2.9 billion a
year is required for illegal immigrants to meet those standards, the report
says.

Federal and state governments currently spend about $1 billion a year on English
as a Second Language instruction for adults, most of which comes from the
states.

The report calls English acquisition by immigrants the "most important
integration challenge" facing the country. English proficiency among immigrants
is linked to higher earnings and tax contributions, lower welfare dependency and
greater educational and economic advancement in the second generation, the study
notes. Given global economic competition and the stagnant growth of the
native-born labor force, spending on English instruction should be seen as an
investment, the authors argue.

"It's not just a cost," said Margie McHugh, a researcher at the Washington-based
Migration Policy Institute and one of the study's authors. "There are returns on
this investment."

As immigrants' share of the population grows, efforts to help them learn English
are not keeping pace, the report says. It cites U.S. Census Bureau data
indicating that the population with limited English grew from 14 million in 1990
to more than 23 million in 2005. But waiting lists are long for English classes,
and quality varies by state.

Demand for English training would probably skyrocket under any plan to legalize
the nation's 12 million unauthorized immigrants, the report says, noting that
most recent proposals would require illegal immigrants to demonstrate strong
English skills to gain legal status.

Under this year's failed Senate bill, most would have had to pass the
citizenship test to renew provisional legal status or gain permanent residency.

The need for instruction would represent "an incredible transformative shock to
the whole ESL training community," said Michael Fix, another of the study's
authors and vice president of the Migration Policy Institute.

Even in the absence of broad legalization, the report says, other reforms are
likely to boost demand. A proposed new citizenship exam, for example, would test
English skills and stress concepts over facts, requiring immigrants to
understand the meaning of "We the people," among other phrases and terms.

The study's findings are based on current population estimates; it does not
account for future immigration.

Using census data, it concludes that 5.8 million permanent residents with
limited English would need 277 million hours of English instruction a year
during the next six years to pass the citizenship test and participate in civic
life. An additional 6.4 million illegal immigrants would need 319 million hours
a year for six years.

The authors assume that instruction would cost $10 an hour and that about half
of the legal immigrants would not seek instruction and others would require
distance-learning or technology-based programs.

Funding could come from student fees, greater payments by states, employer
donations and illegal immigrants' Social Security contributions, the report
says.

The report estimates that the Social Security Administration holds about $30
billion contributed by illegal immigrants, who are not eligible for benefits.

Discussions about educating immigrants should "move from benevolence to
business," said Brigitte Marshall, director of the Oakland (Calif.) Adult
Education Program, who spoke at the presentation of the report yesterday. "It
makes good economic sense."

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              350 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 2, 2007 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. VA15

LENGTH: 505 words


The following organizations need volunteer help for a day, for a week or on a
regular basis.

ESL and Immigrant Ministries needs volunteers to teach English to adult
immigrants at 16 locations in Northern Virginia. Day and evening classes begin
in September. Training is provided. For an application, visit
http://www.eslim.org. For information, call 703-271-8341, Ext. 3.

The Northern Virginia Long-Term Care Ombudsman Program needs advocates to make
weekly visits to an assigned nursing home or assisted-living facility in Fairfax
County and to meet one-on-one with residents there. The ombudsman will work with
residents, their families and the staff to ensure that the residents' rights are
being protected. Applicants must be available to volunteer four hours per week,
primarily during regular business hours. Training will be 9 a.m.-4:30 p.m. Sept
17, 18 and 28. For information, call 703-324-5861 or visit
http://www.fairfaxcounty.gov/ltcombudsman.

The Literacy Council of Northern Virginia needs tutors to help adults learn to
speak, understand, read and write English in an individualized adult literacy
tutoring program. A tutor is trained, matched with a student and encouraged to
meet the student weekly for an hour and a half. No teaching or foreign-language
skills are required. English literacy tutor training workshops will be 9:30
a.m.-1:30 p.m. Aug. 25 and Sept. 8 and 15 at the James Lee Community Center,
2855 Annandale Rd., Falls Church. A $35 fee covers books, materials and
instruction. For information, call 703-237-0866.

The Celebration Singers, a nonprofit volunteer costumed and choreographed show
chorus, needs members. Rehearsals begin Sept. 5 and are every Wednesday during
the day alternating between Burke and Gainesville. Call Maureen Cocozza at
703-941-4018 or Nora Steiger at 703-971-2124.

The Vienna Halloween Parade Committee needs volunteers to help plan the 61st
annual parade and to help out on parade night, Oct. 24. The next committee
meeting will be at 10 a.m. Aug. 21 at the Vienna Community Center. Call Rebecca
Diamond at 703-463-4241.

Volunteers for Change, a program designed for busy adults, features a flexible
monthly calendar of more than 45 projects throughout Northern Virginia. Attend
an hour-long orientation meeting, then choose from the program's monthly
community service projects, including planting trees, bagging food for homeless
families, tutoring adult ESL students, playing bingo with people with
disabilities and helping with community-wide events. Orientation meetings will
be at 6:30 p.m. Sept. 6 and 2 p.m. Sept. 9. For information, visit
http://www.volunteerfairfax.org. To register for a meeting, contact Annie
Duffield at 703-246-3460 or aduffield@volunteerfairfax.org

-- Compiled by JEAN MACK

To Submit an Item

E-mail: fxextra@washpost.com

Fax: 703-273-2836

Mail: Volunteers, Fairfax Extra, The Washington Post, 4020 University Dr., Suite
220, Fairfax, Va. 22030.

Details: Items, which are published weekly on a space-available basis, are
accepted from nonprofit groups.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Fairfax South

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              351 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 7, 2007 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

U.N. Worker Jailed In Visa-Sale Scheme;
Russian Said to Have Aided 14 Uzbeks

BYLINE: Colum Lynch; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 616 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Aug. 6


A U.N. translator was charged Monday with conspiring to sell U.S. visas for
$15,000 apiece to Uzbek nationals seeking to enter the United States.

Vyacheslav Manokhin, a Russian national who works in the U.N. General Assembly
conferences division, is accused in court documents of conspiring to allow at
least 14 illegal immigrants into the country. Manokhin was arrested Monday, as
was an alleged co-conspirator, Vladimir Derevianko, who received U.S. political
asylum in February 2004.

The United Nations cooperated with the investigation by U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement and the Labor Department's inspector general's office,
waiving Manokhin's diplomatic immunity, said Michael J. Garcia, the U.S.
attorney for the southern district of New York, who announced the arrests.

Manokhin, 45, has been employed at the United Nations since the 1980s. He is the
third Russian national implicated in an ongoing federal probe into corruption at
the United Nations. Alexander Yakovlev, a U.N. procurement official, pleaded
guilty in August 2005 to receiving hundreds of thousands of dollars in bribes
from companies doing business with the United Nations, while Vladimir Kuznetsov,
a former Russian diplomat, was convicted in March of conspiring with Yakovlev to
launder more than $300,000 in bribes.

A Russian spokeswoman, Maria Zhakharova, said that her government was
"surprised" to learn about Manokhin's arrest and that officials were trying to
establish what had happened.

Manokhin faces up to five years in prison if convicted. Derevianko, who is also
charged with lying to federal immigration officials, faces up to 10 years.

Manokhin's attorney, Robert Sikorski, said of his client: "Obviously, he's not
guilty. He was at the wrong place at the wrong time, and he got caught up in
something he didn't know was going on around him." Kenneth Ramseur, who
represented Derevianko until his arrest, said the case is "very thin."

The complaint charges that Manokhin prepared on U.N. letterheads fraudulent
invitations to attend U.N. conferences. In some cases, the conferences did not
exist; in others, the invitees did not attend the conferences after entering the
United States. Manokhin also allegedly allowed his U.N. phone to be used as a
contact number on immigration applications and agreed to confirm that the visa
applicants were legitimate.

"Manokhin used his position at the U.N. to make it appear as though the U.N.
supported the visa applications," according to a statement from Garcia's office.
"In most instances, the Alien was successful in obtaining a visa and entering
the United States."

U.S. Magistrate Judge Kevin N. Fox set bail of $300,000 for Manokhin and
$250,000 for Derevianko.

The complaint lays out how Manokhin and Derevianko allegedly aided one Uzbek
national, Kamiljan Tursunov, in illegally entering the country. After Tursunov
paid $15,000, in two installments, to an unnamed individual in Uzbekistan in
June 2005, Manokhin and Derevianko prepared a document on the letterhead of the
U.N. Development Program inviting Tursunov to attend the Dialogue on Financing
for Development that month at U.N. headquarters in New York.

The letter, signed by a fictitious UNDP official, was sent to the UNDP's office
in the Uzbek capital of Tashkent. It included a U.N. phone number for Manokhin,
who posed as the official's assistant, according to the complaint. The UNDP
branch subsequently requested an entry visa for Tursunov and another individual
from the U.S. Embassy in Tashkent.

Tursunov was arrested two weeks ago for failing to appear at an immigration
hearing. He has since admitted to federal investigators that he never intended
to attend the development conference.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              352 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 7, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

At Odds Over Immigrant Assimilation;
Whether the U.S. Government Should Offer Encouragement Is Debated

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1630 words


Hernan Ruiz, a concrete finisher with a gray streak in his dark hair, shot up
his hand during a recent citizenship test prep class at a sunny Silver Spring
community center. Called on to answer a question about who elects the U.S.
president, the El Salvador native carefully pronounced "electoral college," a
response he might need to know for his official transformation into an American.

After 22 years in the United States, Ruiz said, he feels like one.

But he knows that not everyone sees people such as him -- an immigrant who
prefers to speak his mother tongue -- that way. To this, he responds that the
U.S. government should demand that newcomers know English -- and help them learn
it.

"This country was founded by immigrants. There should be a lot of cultures,"
Ruiz, 48, said. "But at the base is the government."

Ruiz's idea lies at the heart of a question that has recently entered the
national immigration debate, one some researchers say is important as new trends
challenge old integration patterns: Should the government encourage
assimilation?

The Bush administration is taking steps to do that. The Task Force on New
Americans, created by executive order last year, recently presented initiatives
that supporters say will help immigrants "become fully American."

Among the government initiatives is a Web site to direct immigrants to
information on benefits, English classes and volunteer work. Another site offers
resources for English and citizenship-test teachers. More than 12,000 copies of
a tool kit containing civics flashcards and a welcome guide in English and
Spanish have been distributed to libraries. This fall, the government has
scheduled eight regional training conferences for civics and citizenship
instructors. The task force is to deliver more recommendations to President Bush
after convening discussions on assimilation with immigrant advocates, teachers
and local officials around the nation.

Immigrants "need to come here and feel as American as the founding fathers,"
Emilio T. Gonzalez, director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services at the
Department of Homeland Security, said at a news conference announcing the
efforts.

Social scientists emphasize that assimilation has never been a first-generation
process. They rely on such measurements as language, education, economic
mobility, intermarriage and geographic distribution to assess assimilation --
the test of which is not a loss of ethnic identity, but parity with the
majority. The massive wave of immigrants a century ago made few gains, but its
grandchildren were integrated.

The modern immigrant wave arrived after laws were relaxed in 1965, so evidence
of its generational progress remains incomplete, said Tomas R. Jimenez,
assistant sociology professor at the University of California at San Diego. But
researchers say the newcomers and their offspring seem to be following the broad
historical pattern, although Mexicans are progressing more slowly. English
acquisition is occurring at the same or a faster rate, said Rub?n G. Rumbaut, a
sociology professor at the University of California at Irvine.

Although adult immigrants generally have a hard time learning English, their
children are commonly bilingual. "By the third generation, it's over. English
wins. Even among Mexicans in Southern California," said Rumbaut, whose research
has found that more than 95 percent of third- and later-generation California
Mexicans prefer to speak English at home.

Still, there are indications that the assimilation equation has changed,
researchers said.

Thirty percent of immigrants are here illegally, about double the rate 15 years
ago. Illegal status limits economic mobility and public benefits. Fear of being
deported -- particularly as tensions boil over illegal immigration -- means
"you're not likely to go out and integrate much beyond what you must," said
Michael Fix, co-director of the nonpartisan Migration Policy Institute's
National Center on Immigrant Integration Policy.

Drawn by demand for low-skill labor, immigrants are increasingly settling in
smaller cities and rural areas, and those doing so are more likely to be poor,
non-English-speaking and illegal. It is unclear whether that quickens
integration by forcing contact with U.S. natives at the local park or slows it
because the receiving communities have little experience bringing immigrants
into the fold, Fix said.

Communications and travel revolutions have enabled immigrants to keep closer
ties to their homelands, perhaps creating more transnational identities. Unlike
in the 1920s, when foreigners were all but prevented from immigrating to the
United States, today's immigrants keep coming, and most speak one language:
Spanish. That means generations can maintain contact with ancestral cultures and
tongues.

And the institutions that prompted assimilation in the early 20th century --
labor unions, a manufacturing economy, the military draft and political parties
that once held sway in many cities -- are weakened or gone, researchers say.
Today's labor economy fills some, but not all, of the void.

"Historically, certain institutions have been very important in terms of
bringing immigrants into American life around issues of politics, American
democracy and jobs," said Gary Gerstle, a Vanderbilt University history
professor. "Immersion in American culture [alone] doesn't bring you those
things."

What these trends mean is unclear. Some researchers say assimilation will occur
anyway; others sound alarms.

"We are dramatically less able to digest immigrants successfully and turn them
into Americans" than before, said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the
Center for Immigration Studies, which favors reduced immigration levels. "The
consequences are a kind of balkanization."

John Fonte, director of the Center for American Common Culture at the
right-leaning Hudson Institute, predicts a "long-term decay" of American
identity.

Fix said the trends do not indicate that the nation is on "the threshold of a
culture war." But the possibility of a permanent underclass -- if immigrants'
descendants do not advance economically or educationally -- is too great to
leave to chance, especially in an economy that increasingly demands higher
skills, he said.

For that reason, he and other scholars say, assimilation policy should be as
much a part of the immigration debate as rules on who comes and goes -- and the
federal government should get far more involved. They call for a national
integration office to set and measure goals and serve as a liaison for local
governments and organizations that do the bulk of work with immigrants.
Aggressive, professional English programs also are a key, Fix said.

So is more money, Jimenez said. According to the Migration Policy Institute, the
federal government spent about $2.5 billion on major initiatives directed at the
nation's 35 million immigrants in fiscal 2005, most of which went to refugee and
migrant worker programs. In 1986, the government gave $4 billion to states to
offset costs associated with legalizing 2.8 million immigrants in 1986. The
federal task force has spent $1.5 million, officials said.

"A lot of people will see any government involvement as a sort of cultural
engineering. Folks on the left won't like it because of that, and folks on the
right won't like it because it's spending money on immigrants," Jimenez said.
"To the folks on the left, I'd say this is about creating economic opportunity.
And to folks on the right, this is about securing the future of the United
States."

Krikorian said the government is right to step in, but "unless we dramatically
reduce the inflow of people from abroad, this kind of effort is just trying to
wipe the ocean up with the sponge."

As director of the African Resources Center in the District, Abdul Kamus tries
to teach immigrants the virtues of democracy. He bristled at the idea of a
federal task force on assimilation. But he said organizations such as his -- on
which he said he has spent his retirement money -- need more funding and help.

"There are not enough ESL classes. I would suggest to Americans, if they really
want to help immigrants quote-unquote assimilate, they should teach a family
English," Kamus said.

Assimilation patterns mean little to Mulu Zemikel, 49, even though her life fits
into some of the traditional ones.

The Eritrea native immigrated more than two decades ago with no English skills.
She and her husband settled in what was then an ethnic enclave for Ethiopians
and Eritreans, Adams Morgan, where they opened an Eritrean restaurant that
served foul, a fava bean chili, to crowds of compatriots.

Today, the enclave's population has dispersed to the suburbs. Her customers
include Americans who have discovered foul, Zemikel said. Her three U.S.-born
children are fully American, she said -- except that they are more
"disciplined." Zemikel, a U.S. citizen, picked up her fractured English from
them. She uses it to communicate with the restaurant's Salvadoran and Mexican
cooks.

No government program directly aided Zemikel's integration. If anything made her
embrace her new country, she said, it was the diversity that worries some
critics.

Americans "want all the people -- black, yellow, green, Chinese," Zemikel said.
"In other countries, they don't want them, like, equal."

At the Silver Spring citizenship class, Alcides Orellana quietly filled out his
workbook. He is 34 and emigrated from El Salvador at 17. His conversational
English is rocky, but his hobby of studying U.S. history on the Internet has
made him fluent in such American mottoes as "freedom for all."

He knows few other immigrants who go to such lengths, but government
assimilation projects might help, he said.

"If you live in America," Orellana said, "you have to be American."

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Sarah L. Voisin -- The Washington Post; Teacher Alex Moreno
helps immigrants Jose Gomez and Jose Alcides Orellana at a citizenship class in
Silver Spring.
IMAGE; Photos By Sarah L. Voisin -- The Washington Post; Wendy Guzman, a native
of El Salvador who lives in Gaithersburg, studies in a CASA of Maryland
citizenship class. Immigrants should "feel as American as the founding fathers,"
a federal official says.
IMAGE; Felix Rios, a Rockville resident from El Salvador, prepares for the
citizenship test. Social scientists say assimilation by first-generation
immigrants is rare.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              353 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 8, 2007 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Covering New Communities;
Low-Cost Insurance Policies Target Immigrants as Untapped Market

BYLINE: Krissah Williams; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 1041 words


Low-skilled immigrants rarely have insurance, whether life, accident or
unemployment, and sometimes when they have an emergency, friends and family
members pass donation buckets in small churches or call Spanish-language radio
stations conducting phone-a-thons to raise money to pay the bills.

Once largely ignored by U.S. insurance companies, those immigrants are now
viewed as a red-hot growth market. Insurers have begun structuring low-cost
insurance programs tailored to their circumstances.

Foreign-born workers, many of whom do not have bank accounts, could become loyal
customers if wooed by the financial services industry, said Len Battifarano,
senior vice president of the international insurance division   of American
International Group, one of the world's largest insurance companies.

"The addition of insurance to banking services for the poor is something that
financial services companies around the world are looking into," Battifarano
said. "As people who have not been a part of the formal economy learn that in
addition to banking there are insurance products, the demand has increased
exponentially."

Still, insurers have been slow to create low-cost policies that fit a
low-skilled immigrant's income level and lifestyle and have not effectively
marketed to such customers, said Michael S. Barr, a law professor at the
University of Michigan who studies financial services for low- and
moderate-income households.

Recent figures  from the Bureau of Labor Statistics show that the rate of fatal
work injuries  for foreign-born Hispanic workers was 5.9 per 100,000 in 2004,
compared with the overall national rate of 4.1 deaths per 100,000 workers.

"Immigrants are under-covered for unemployment and certainly disability
[insurance]," Barr said. "There is a mismatch between what the financial
services sector offers and what low-income people need. It's a significant
problem."

In the Washington region -- where the foreign-born population has grown by at
least 23 percent, to more than 1 million, since 2000, with another 300,000
foreigners working here illegally -- AIG has teamed with a local money-transfer
and loan company that caters to Latino immigrants to roll out an
immigrant-friendly payroll benefits package.

The package, though still being finalized, is expected to be offered next month.
It includes the ability to send money internationally for as little as $5
through AIG's local partner, Microfinance International. That's about half the
average cost of transferring money to Latin America. Workers will also get
access to loans of a few hundred dollars; a Visa payroll card;  and insurance
with a maximum payout of $5,000 to help cover the costs of buying a casket and
shipping it to El Salvador, Mexico or another country and expenses such as
embalming and cremation. It also includes a $3,000 accidental death and
dismemberment policy.

Such product packaging is among the new attempts by mainstream financial
institutions to draw foreign-born consumers by catering to their strong
emotional and financial ties back home.

Immigrants began to attract more attention from corporate America about a decade
ago, when researchers started to track more closely the amount of money they
sent to family members abroad. Last year, for example, immigrants living in the
United States sent $62.3 billion to Latin America.

Following the growing spending power of immigrants, Bank of America started
offering credit cards to customers without Social Security numbers earlier this
year. A State Farm spokeswoman said its network of agents is becoming
increasingly diverse to appeal to growing immigrant populations.

AIG and Microfinance International  will sell their benefits package to local
employers at $10 to $20 a month per worker. The companies hope to sign at least
25 to 30 employers this year and said they assume that the workers they enroll
in the program will be legal U.S. residents who have been vetted by their
employers.

Hoteliers, poultry companies and construction firms have already expressed an
interest, said Kai Schmitz, executive vice president of Microfinance
International, which operates its money-transfer branches under the brand name
Alante.

Immigrant advocates and employers of foreign-born workers have acknowledged the
gap in insurance coverage. Companies would pay for benefits packages to help
retain workers in the competitive commercial construction market, said Craig
Silvertooth, director of federal affairs for the National Roofing Contractors
Association.

"That's something that employers would smile upon because it would remove a lot
of the anxiety that immigrants face when they are here in the U.S., and they
don't have savings to tap in the event of emergencies," he said. "If it could be
expanded to include some kind of health-care component, that would certainly
help us out."

Marriott of Bethesda said that the life insurance coverage included in its
existing benefits package has been used to ship an immigrant employee's body
abroad and that it recently launched a company-wide health-care assistance
program that offers free nurse consultations in English and Spanish.

A major hurdle will be educating immigrants unfamiliar with insurance about the
U.S. practice of buying policies to cover unforeseen risks, company executives
said. AIG and Microfinance International plans to  conduct on-site workshops to
inform employees about insurance, which is not accessible to the poor in many
Latin American countries. Some are unfamiliar with the concept of insurance
altogether, said Luis Pastor, president of the Latino Community Credit Union in
Durham, N.C.

"Without explaining all the costs and benefits of these new products," Pastor
said, "it is just another fee you are charging people."

AIG said it has been educating low-income people in other parts of the world
about insurance for years. The company decided to pursue immigrants in the
United States after testing low-cost insurance packages in Africa. A decade ago,
it started offering insurance to the poor in Uganda and backed micro-loans to
start tiny businesses. Insuring U.S. immigrants was part of a natural
progression, the company said.

"We are looking at this as one of the foundations of our business," Battifarano
said.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Dayna Smith For The Washington Post; Immigrants wire money to
their families in El Salvador at an Alante branch in the District. Alante's
parent firm plans to offer payroll benefits packages.
IMAGE
IMAGE; By Dayna Smith For The Washington Post; Jose Marques and Rudi Rivera
transfer money at an Alante branch in Mount Pleasant. Alante's parent firm,
Microfinance International, will hold workshops about insurance.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              354 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 8, 2007 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Boy Reunited With Family, But Questions Unanswered

BYLINE: Matthew Barakat; Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 538 words


A groggy little boy from Morocco was reunited with his parents early yesterday
at Reagan National Airport after a two-year separation caused by bureaucratic
problems with his immigration papers.

Abdeloihab Boujrad, 38, a U.S. citizen originally from Morocco, and his wife,
Leila, had been trying since June 2005 to obtain the paperwork necessary for
their now 3-year-old son, Ahmedyassine, to join them in the United States.

It's unclear why his paperwork was held up, but an Islamic civil rights group
that took up the family's cause suspected that it was because Ahmedyassine is
similar to the name of the Palestinian founder of the Islamic militant group
Hamas, Sheik Ahmed Yassin, who was assassinated by Israel in 2004.

In June, after media reports highlighted the Boujrads' plight, U.S. Citizenship
and Immigration Services approved the paperwork allowing Ahmedyassine to
immigrate.

The boy arrived  yesterday at Reagan National after flying from his home town in
Morocco to Casablanca and then on to Washington via New York.

At a news conference, Boujrad said his son was asleep when he was taken off the
plane. As his parents tried to wake him, the boy opened his eyes, saw his mother
and father and muttered, "I must be dreaming," before falling back to sleep.

His parents roused him a second time, and his eyes opened wide. "I am with you
now," the boy told his parents. "I rode three airplanes to see you."

Boujrad, who lives in Alexandria, said he was a little nervous that his son
might not recognize him. But the family had kept in touch through video hookups
on the Internet and frequent telephone calls during the separation, so the faces
and voices were familiar.

"We were worried maybe he forgot us, but he was okay. He's a good kid," Boujrad
said, as his son sat quietly and contentedly on his lap, playing with some new
toys.

Immigration officials have not explained the delay, but officials with the
Council on American-Islamic Relations, which worked on the family's behalf, said
they were certain the boy's name caused the delays.

Morris Days, a legal director for CAIR's Maryland and Virginia chapter, said he
is working on more than a dozen cases in which Muslim immigrants are facing
unexplained delays, particularly when it comes to taking their citizenship
oaths.

"You can term it almost collateral damage from post-9/11," Days said. He called
on federal officials to expedite other cases.

Boujrad was living in Morocco in 1997 and engaged to be married when he won an
immigration lottery that allowed him to come to the United States. He married
his wife in 1999 but was unable to bring her to the United States until 2005.
She is now a legal permanent resident.

In the interim, Ahmedyassine was born in May 2004 in Morocco. Leila Boujrad
reluctantly left the boy in the care of her sister in fall 2005, when her
immigration visa was about to expire, assuming that the paperwork problems for
her son could be handled quickly.

The boy's name was a compromise between Yassine, preferred by Boujrad, and
Ahmed, preferred by Boujrad's father, according to the family. Boujrad said he
didn't know who Sheik Ahmed Yassin was until somebody told him this year that
his son's name might be causing the immigration problems.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By J. Scott Applewhite -- Associated Press; Ahmedyassine
Boujrad, 3, shown with his father, has a name similar to that of the founder of
the militant group Hamas.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              355 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 11, 2007 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Walking A Hard Line On Campaign Trail in Iowa;
Can Anti-Immigration Fervor Keep Tancredo in the Race?

BYLINE: Sridhar Pappu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 1897 words

DATELINE: DES MOINES


From a hill in a park an hour and a half away from Des Moines, one can see
buffalo grazing on a field below. The morning sky has darkened with rain clouds
and a light wind brushes nearby corn. This is summer in the Midwest, a reminder,
somehow, of what our country is, and of who we think we are.

Ron Duncan, a 65-year-old retired truck driver, and his wife, Connie, step out
of their RV on Wednesday. They pass for an advance team for the presidential
campaign of five-term Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.). For a couple of weeks,
they've set up signs and banners and made sure there are enough stickers for
those who show up to hear the man whose hard line against illegal immigration
and its runoff issues has made him a catalyst for many here in the heart of the
heart of the country.

"A year ago I saw all these people marching with foreign flags in the
immigration protests and decided to get off my recliner," Ron explains as he
puts up a banner at the front of the driveway of the education center in Swan
Lake State Park. "I asked what happened to the culture I grew up in. When I
heard this man, I decided this was a man I could follow."

Connie wears an ankle-length denim skirt and, like her husband, a T-shirt that
reads: "I'm a Member of Tom's Army Against Amnesty!" She shares Ron's devotion
not only to Tancredo, but to halting a Latin American invasion. It's an assault,
they say, not only against native blue-collar workers unwilling to take lower
wages, but on the idea of the United States itself.

"He really has the concerns of America at heart," Connie says of Tancredo. "He's
concerned about the culture of America itself. What's happening to the bedrock
of American culture."

In another time, the Duncans might be just another couple working for a
candidate as a way of passing the time before the Hawkeyes and Cyclones begin
their football seasons in Iowa City and Ames. But during a summer when an
immigration bill supported by the Democratic leadership and a Republican
president died after nationwide protest, their man's second-tier candidacy
gained attention. The question regarding Tancredo is simple: Is one issue able
to push a campaign to new heights? Will it serve him well in today's Ames straw
poll? And should Rudy or Mitt or Fred or John be worried?

From a distance it's easy to say no. Tancredo has little money and a young staff
largely without political experience. Often during the televised debates, he's
pushed off to the side. One couldn't blame Tancredo if he decided to play Tetris
on his cellphone while waiting for the moderator's question.

But it's here, on the ground, that the 61-year-old former civics teacher finds
people willing to not only listen but enlist in his cause. Speaking to largely
older crowds in town halls, he mostly ignores Iraq and Darfur and universal
health care. Where he reaches them is in his pledge to drive the nation's 12
million to 20 million illegal immigrants back to their native homes. He speaks
against bilingual education, calling English the glue that "holds the country
together."

In his stops -- attended by anywhere from 20 to 100 people -- he reads a letter
from a woman unable to find crew socks in a California Wal-Mart until she finds
a black worker, who, unlike her co-workers, knows the language. He talks about
crime and the influx of drugs, and of a nation whose sovereignty has been
compromised. He shakes his head at a bilingual edition of an Iowa paper and
proudly reads the beginning of a newspaper story about an illegal immigrant in
Colorado having to return to Mexico because of stepped-up requirements for
authentic documentation.

Then comes Bay. Yes, Bay Buchanan -- the onetime treasurer of the United States
under Ronald Reagan who managed her brother Pat's three bids for the presidency.
Yes, that Bay -- the woman who cuts a swath the size of a small Latin American
country in any room she enters with the sleek appearance of a debutante and the
loud, impassioned voice of a South Side Chicago ward boss.

As the woman who convinced Tancredo to run, Buchanan -- who quit her gig on CNN
to do this -- not only serves as his campaign chairwoman but almost as his
co-candidate. Following each Tancredo speech, she will address the crowd,
urging, pleading, begging for people to attend the Ames straw poll while lashing
out against the established candidates. At one event, her book "The Extreme
Makeover of Hillary (Rodham) Clinton" was set out next to Tancredo's "In Mortal
Danger: The Battle for America's Border and Security." Both were given away in
exchange for a donation.

" 'Partners' is the word I would use," Buchanan says of her campaign role. "We
work very well together."

"You need the cause," she says, speaking of the campaign's focus on illegal
immigration. "The cause will get them out to the straw poll when they're not
feeling well, and we have a cause. I want to come slowly and come over the top.
I want to be the one coming up. I want the other guy looking over his shoulder."

An easy banter exists between them  beyond the stage. Sitting down for a quick
lunch following the Swan Lake event, Tancredo says, "I wonder when Fred
Thompson's gonna make his announcement?"

"Labor Day is the latest day he's giving us," Buchanan says.

When someone interjects that the late start date could be attributed to "Law &
Order," the NBC program Thompson recently left, Buchanan says, "He gets money
from the reruns. Because of the rules, they'd have to give equal time. They
would have to put Tom on. Tom on all the time."

"Except they'd make me the rapist he's arresting or something," Tancredo says.

"No, you'd be the suspect," Buchanan says. "At the end of the show you might be
redeemed."

* * *

It's unclear what constitutes redemption for Tancredo. He says he is a pariah to
his party. According to Tancredo, Bush adviser Karl Rove once called him a
traitor to the president and to Republicans, and said that Tancredo should never
again "darken the doorstep to the White House."

Tancredo's devotion to a single cause seems to energize him. On Wednesday
evening, marching in the parade through downtown Des Moines kicking off the Iowa
State Fair, Tancredo, dressed in a short-sleeved checkered shirt and a white
baseball cap, runs ahead of his supporters and the black Corvette that follows
him blasting patriotic songs. The crowd response, dampened by rain, is tepid at
best. Surrounded by volunteers in their T-shirts, Tancredo will sprint to a
bystander whenever there's a hint of recognition.

"How's it going?" one man says, hugging him.

"You ever talk to a candidate that says things are going bad?"

"Well," the man replies, "my son and I thank you for speaking your mind and for
your courage."

When a few Mike Huckabee supporters call him over, they chide him for liking
Mexican food.

"You ever check the kitchen?" one says.

"If I did," Tancredo replies, "I'd never get served."

Returning to the group, Tancredo, who's been away from his Colorado home for
nearly a month and misses his wife, says, "Boy, we've been looking for some good
Mexican food down here, I'll tell ya." As it happens, he's fond of anecdotes
about his grandfather being an immigrant from Italy.

The following day Tancredo sits down in the town square in Oskaloosa to smoke a
cheap cigar he'd picked up at a Walgreens "somewhere in Iowa." He's just come
from a town hall where he addressed roughly 45 people, and where Ray Batchelder,
an 81-year-old retired farmer said: "This man here speaks my language. I'm a
Democrat, but this man makes a lot of sense. This is the right solution for this
border problem: Shoot the first five and the next 1,000 won't come. But that
goes against my teachings as a Christian."

When asked about running solely on the immigration issue, Tancredo replies,
"First of all, it's not an issue, it's a phenomenon. Second, at least I have
one. You know, I have something people can gravitate towards, can see. I think
when you try and be a Renaissance man it doesn't work, especially when there's
this underlying current of feeling about this out there."

Looking out at the small stores in this small town, Tancredo says, "Sure,
there's that nostalgic part of me that idealizes an America that probably never
existed. But, an America more homogeneous, yes. It is not a white America, which
is something I've heard people attacking me for all the time. We've always been
a nation made up of so many different people, but it seemed to me there was more
of an attempt to assimilate. So yeah, I long for that. Can we put this genie
back in the bottle? I don't know. I have to try."

* * *

As much as he is a passionate gadfly, Tancredo knows his limits. Today's straw
poll will answer whether or not a single issue, particularly this issue, is
strong enough to push a man onward to something besides a punch line. He's
conceded the victory to Romney, who has devoted significant resources to winning
the Ames poll.

"If we can't show up in the top half of the crowd, even if we want to go forward
it will be very, very difficult," he acknowledges, putting down his cigar. "The
financial support will be tough and if you're not personally wealthy, how do you
do this? It's more of a practical reality. I have to do well enough so I can
keep the oar in the water, otherwise the boat comes to a stop."

At least for the remaining hours before the straw poll, Tancredo, pushed by
Buchanan, seems unwilling to pull back the oar, to let others pass him by. That
evening in the immaculate town of Pella,  which owes most of its architecture to
its Dutch beginnings, including a 134-foot windmill and working drawbridge,
Tancredo arrives in the back room of a Pizza Ranch. Both Tancredo and Buchanan
greet the 100 or so people.

In the corner, holding her 7-week-old grandson Maddox, Evie Jones echoes
Tancredo's sentiments.

"I'm in health care," says the 55-year-old respiratory therapist, "and I see
insurance costs rising. And from what I hear it's the costs of illegals. They're
a burden."

Waiting in line for pizza, Vicki LeMay, a school psychologist, says: "It makes
no sense we're sending people across the ocean when our  borders are so open. If
they're here legally, that's one thing. But they haven't gone through the proper
channels. And it's a lie to say we don't have enough workers."

Tancredo offers up the anecdotes about the socks and the poultry plant in
Georgia that did just fine after its illegal workers were hauled off. He tries
to align his sentiments with the anger in the room.

He says that anti-American sentiments expressed in a mosque or street corner
should be treated as acts of sedition. For the moment he's able to bundle the
complaints about security and jobs, about schooling and amnesty. He seems to tap
into the anger these people, these Americans, have.

"I wonder how many people today appreciate what citizenship is all about,"
Tancredo says, "whether the term even means anything anymore. Because we're
willing to give it away. We're willing to let people have all of the benefits of
citizenship even if they broke into this country."

"This is our home," he goes on to say. "But what happens when you come home and
the house is full of people you don't even know? Is there nothing strange about
this? Shouldn't I feel a little bit upset about this? This is my home, my
country. Why should I be made to feel guilty about being upset when people come
into it without our permission?"

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Mary Chind -- The Des Moines Register; Rep. Tom Tancredo
(R-Colo.) in Iowa, where he hopes for some success in today's Ames straw poll.
IMAGE; By Mary Chind -- The Des Moines Register; Tancredo campaigns Wednesday in
Des Moines during the parade kicking off the Iowa State Fair. "Sure, there's
that nostalgic part of me that idealizes an America that probably never
existed," he says.
IMAGE; By Win Mcnamee -- Getty Images; Tancredo, flanked by fellow Republican
Reps. Virgil Goode and Ginny Brown-Waite, at the Capitol in March.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              356 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 12, 2007 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

IN BRIEF

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. LZ04

LENGTH: 488 words

Suspect in Drug Fraud Turns Himself In

A man wanted on multiple charges of prescription fraud turned himself in Friday,
the Loudoun County Sheriff's Office said.

Nathan A. Hill, 31, was charged with five counts of prescription fraud. He was
held on $10,000 bond at the Loudoun jail.

Hill allegedly called in fraudulent prescriptions for Ultram, a controlled pain
medication, authorities said. According to the Sheriff's Office, he tried to
pick up a prescription for the drug at Target in Sterling.

Officials said information about Hill's possible whereabouts was provided after
a public e-mail alert from the Sheriff's Office.

Advocacy Group to Meet About Immigrant Services

La Voz, a Hispanic advocacy and outreach group in Loudoun County, has invited
Loudoun supervisors to an Aug. 26 community meeting to discuss their vote on
cutting off county services to illegal immigrants.

The meeting will be at 1:30 p.m. at Christ the Redeemer Catholic church in
Sterling.

Laura Valle, the group's executive director, said participation by members of
the Board of Supervisors "would go a long way in clarifying that the board's
intentions are specifically targeting the undocumented and that Loudoun is
welcoming to immigrants. It will also be a wonderful opportunity for you all, as
elected officials, to hear concerns from individuals and families that you may
not hear from as often as you should."

The resolution passed by the board last month instructs county staff members to
study what county services can legally be cut off to undocumented residents. It
also instructs the Sheriff's Office to step up deportations of those who commit
crimes.

Community Forum Set On Planned Business Zone

A community forum on development of a mixed-use business district in the Route
50 corridor will be Thursday from 6 to 9 p.m. at Mercer Middle School, 42149
Greenstone Dr., Aldie.

Loudoun County officials will present the draft text of the proposed zoning
district and a report from the county's consultant on the project, AKRF Inc. The
Board of Supervisors approved a resolution July 17 to add the zoning district.

County Receives Grant To Aid the Disabled

The Loudoun County Disability Services Board has received $15,000 to establish a
Center for Independent Living satellite program.

The ENDependence Center of Northern Virginia grant will allow Loudoun to create
a center for the county's physically and sensory disabled.

The center will be run by disabled people and will provide peer counseling,
information, training and advocacy services. The purpose is to help the
physically disabled become self-sufficient.

"All of our board members know what it is like to have a disabled person in our
families or to be a disabled person, and we are thrilled to be able to advocate
and help provide some services for those members of our community who need our
help," said Joe Granata, disability services board chairman.

-- Compiled by ARIANNE ARYANPUR

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Loudoun County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              357 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           August 15, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

3 Jailed Immigrants Die in a Month;
Medical Mistreatment Alleged; Federal Agency Denies Claims

BYLINE: Darryl Fears; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 632 words


Three detainees died within weeks of one another while in federal immigration
custody, adding to a toll of more than 60 who perished in recent years and
fueling complaints of medical maltreatment from civil rights advocates.

The dead were a pregnant Mexican woman who lost consciousness at a facility in
El Paso, a Mexican AIDS patient whose condition steadily deteriorated in a San
Pedro, Calif., prison and a Brazilian whose family implored authorities to give
him medicine for his epileptic seizures in Rhode Island, according to the
American Civil Liberties Union and published reports.

With the exception of the pregnant woman, Rosa Isela Contreras-Dominguez, 38,
those who died were illegal immigrants being processed for deportation by
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, a Department of Homeland Security division
known as ICE. The two others were identified as Edmar Alves Araujo, 34, of
Brazil and Victoria Arellano, 23, of Mexico.

An ICE spokesman, Marc Raimondi, acknowledged the deaths and called the demise
of any detainee "a sad occurrence." He said his agency cannot be held
responsible for the deaths of Contreras-Dominguez and Araujo. He declined to
comment about the Arellano case.

ICE spends more than $98 million a year to provide "humane and safe detention
environments" to nearly 30,000 detainees, Raimondi said.

A December report by the Office of the Inspector General for the Department of
Homeland Security concluded that the detention system is generally well run but
noted that four of the five facilities it studied had "instances of
non-compliance" regarding health care, "including timely initial and responsive
medical care."

At least 62 people have died in ICE custody since 2004, immigration officials
said. Scores of others have taken ill, some complaining of life-threatening
ailments such as cancer and gangrene infections that went untreated. The
inspector general is investigating two detainee deaths, in New Mexico and
Minnesota.

In recent months, the ACLU filed a class-action lawsuit on behalf of detainees
in California, naming ICE and the Division of Immigrant Health Services, which
provides care to detainees, among the defendants.

"We've been saying for a long time now that we have serious concerns about the
medical care provided to individuals in detention," said Tom Jawetz, a staff
lawyer for the ACLU's National Prison Project.

"It's been a closed system for far too long. People are going to continue to die
unless changes are made," Jawetz said.

Arellano, a transgender person whose given name was Victor, was the first to
die, on July 20. She was detained in May for entering the country illegally for
a second time.

During detention in San Pedro, attorneys said, her AIDS treatment lapsed. As she
vomited blood, fellow inmates cared for her in vain. She was eventually taken to
a San Pedro hospital and died while shackled to a bed, an attorney for the
family said.

Contreras, a legal resident from Juarez, Mexico, died about a week after
entering ICE custody in El Paso on Aug. 1. She was seized for deportation after
serving an 18-month prison sentence for bringing 65 pounds of marijuana into the
United States.

Raimondi said Contreras, who was seven weeks pregnant, was taken to an emergency
room immediately after notifying the medical staff that she suffered from blood
clotting. Later, after complaining of pain in her leg, she was taken to a
hospital, where she died.

Araujo died shortly after being taken into federal custody on Aug. 7. His
sister, Irene, said she tried to give his medication for seizures to Woonsocket,
R.I., police who detained him for a traffic violation but they refused to accept
it.

Raimondi said ICE officials called emergency medical technicians after Araujo
showed signs of distress shortly after they detained him.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              358 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 17, 2007 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

WASHINGTON IN BRIEF

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 440 words

Sen. Johnson to Go Home For First Time Since Illness

Sen. Tim Johnson of South Dakota plans to visit Sioux Falls this month, making
his first trip to his home state since his brain hemorrhage eight months ago.

Johnson, a Democrat, is scheduled to appear in Sioux Falls on Aug. 28, his
office announced. He is expected to return to the Senate in September.

A statement issued by Johnson's office said the event will be "a welcome home
celebration in which Senator Johnson will personally thank the people of South
Dakota for their support."

The senator has been recovering at hospitals and in his Fairfax home, and has
not appeared in public since the life-threatening hemorrhage in December. He has
been undergoing speech therapy and is expected to use a scooter to get around
the Capitol.

To Help Immigrant Count, Census Seeks Halt on Raids

The Census Bureau wants immigration agents to suspend enforcement raids during
the 2010 census so the government can better count illegal immigrants.

Raids during the population count would make an already distrustful group even
less likely to cooperate with government workers, who are supposed to include
them, bureau Deputy Director Preston Jay Waite told the Associated Press.

Waite said immigration enforcement officials did not conduct raids for several
months before and after the 2000 census. But today's political climate is more
volatile on the issue of illegal immigration.

An Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokeswoman, Pat Reilly, declined to say
whether immigration officials plan to halt raids. "If we were, we wouldn't talk
about it," Reilly said.

Panel Urges More Taxes, Regulations on Tobacco

To aid the nation's fight against cancer, the federal government should increase
taxes on tobacco products and strictly regulate their sales and marketing, says
an advisory panel to the president.

Both recommendations, part of a report released yesterday, place the panel at
odds with President Bush.

The administration's position is that tax increases to fund spending increases
are inadvisable. Also, it has said that giving the Food and Drug Administration
the authority to regulate tobacco could give consumers the impression that the
government is giving an unsafe product its stamp of approval.

The President's Cancer Panel has three members. Established in 1971, it was
charged with monitoring the nation's efforts to eliminate cancer and meets at
least four times a year.

This year's report is longer and more far-reaching than past reports, which have
customarily focused on one aspect of cancer. This report looked at the impact of
obesity and smoking on cancer.

-- From News Services

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              359 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 18, 2007 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Met 2 Edition

Liberal Suburbs Don't Avoid Heated Debates On Immigration

BYLINE: Ernesto Londo?o and Karin Brulliard; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1599 words


The air was stuffy and hot inside a packed hall in Silver Spring during
Montgomery County Executive Isiah Leggett's town hall meeting last month when a
lanky man in the back row raised his hand.

What, he asked, is Leggett doing to curb the influx of illegal immigrants to the
county?

"Immigration is a local issue," said the man, who gave his name only as Ryan.
"Local government needs to respond."

Some people jeered and others applauded as the man elaborated.
Uncharacteristically, Leggett lost his cool.

"Shut up and listen for a moment!" he cried, silencing the crowd. "We are not in
the business of enforcing immigration issues."

Leggett articulated the stance that leaders in Montgomery and Fairfax County,
the two largest suburbs in the Washington region, have taken in recent months:
They have no plans to follow the lead of such counties as Prince William and
Loudoun by passing legislation that targets illegal immigrants.

Such measures, they say, are unlikely to produce meaningful results, given the
limits the courts have set and the limits on federal enforcement resources.
"You're raising a public expectation about what you're going to do, but what
you're really going to do is a lot less than that expectation," Fairfax Board of
Supervisors Chairman Gerald E. Connolly said in a recent meeting with Washington
Post editors and reporters.

But Connolly and Leggett, both Democrats, acknowledge that the debate over
illegal immigration has become more impassioned within their borders, entwined
for some constituents with issues such as crowded schools, rising crime and
aging neighborhoods.

Help Save Herndon, a group that galvanized the outcry over a day labor center in
the Fairfax town, is hosting a meeting today to launch a countywide branch,
citing public discontent over a hiring site near a Centreville library.
Montgomery's newly created branch of Help Save Maryland had two protests in the
past month.

Even in these relatively liberal counties, considered friendly to their
foreign-born populations, immigration threatens to become a wedge issue. "I
worry that if we're not careful, we could have very long-lasting divisions,"
Leggett said in an interview.

Such divisions have emerged in many of the counties farther from Washington.
This week, Anne Arundel County Executive John R. Leopold (R) issued an executive
order declaring that the county would sever contracts with any business caught
employing illegal immigrants. The order is largely symbolic -- it includes no
enforcement measures -- but underscores the county's growing unease on the
issue.

In Loudoun and Prince William, leaders voted last month to mandate studies of
what public services might be lawfully denied to undocumented residents.

Fairfax's more measured approach is counterproductive, Prince William's board
chairman said yesterday. "They have clearly been the laggards," Corey A. Stewart
(R) said. "If Fairfax doesn't begin to crack down on illegal immigration, they
are quickly going to find themselves as the illegal immigrant sanctuary in
Northern Virginia, particularly for the criminal element."

"I think that that's an emotional reaction," said Fairfax Supervisor Michael R.
Frey (R-Sully), "but I don't think that there's any evidence to indicate that.
All the evidence I've seen indicates that people live near where they have
family, or friends. . . . The second is jobs and housing."

Unlike Loudoun and Prince William, which both experienced a sudden boom in
immigration population in the past five years, the District and its closer-in
suburbs have had steady growth over the past two decades. Elected officials in
Fairfax and Montgomery have developed outreach programs for various immigrant
communities and businesses and have cultivated more-established members for
campaign contributions and votes.

These relationships help temper the immigration debate.

"We don't see this as a problem in Fairfax County," said Sami Kalifa, past
president of the Annandale Chamber of Commerce, who emigrated from Jordan in
1969 and owns a flower shop. "The immigrants are established immigrants. They've
been here for a long time, and they are really building the county. They are
part of it. . . . That nice mix makes it what it is."

Grace Rivera-Oven is a Bolivian immigrant who has lived in Montgomery for two
decades and has advocated for day laborers and other immigrants. She has also
hosted coffees for politicians and speaks regularly with county officials.

Rivera-Oven said she doesn't think the opponents of illegal immigration are
likely to make political inroads any time soon: "I think people in Montgomery
County are more well rounded and politically savvy than to elect people with
very narrow points of view."

But she said these opponents have successfully spread what she considers
misconceptions about the ramifications of illegal immigration. "They're blamed
for everything: from usage of hospitals, school money. But there's really no
facts to back this up," she said. "It's easy to blame all the ills of the world
on this group, because they don't have a real political voice."

Much of the tension over immigration in Fairfax and Montgomery has surfaced in
public debates over creating day labor centers in Herndon and Gaithersburg.

Gaithersburg eventually abandoned the project, and Montgomery County set aside a
piece of land just outside the city limits to open the day labor center this
spring. Herndon  officials opened a center in December 2005 and are searching
for an operator who will verify that workers are in the country legally,
something the nonprofit group that currently runs the center has refused to do.

The debate over immigration has also reached higher decibels as more
foreign-born residents move beyond established enclaves and the new communities
adjust, said Gaithersburg Police Chief John King. For instance, he said, Wheaton
and Silver Spring residents have grown accustomed to the sight of Hispanic men
loitering in a commercial area, but when it happens in Gaithersburg, some
consider it intimidating.

The political action in Virginia's outer counties has also emboldened opponents
in older neighborhoods, where some fear their communities will become magnets
for undocumented immigrants if leaders fail to act.

"The majority of county taxpayers do not support the ongoing inflow of an
uneducated, aggressive population that seeks as many services as it can get
while avoiding paying taxes in order to feed its ignorant sense of greed,"
Silver Spring resident Sandra Pontius wrote in an e-mail to Leggett.

Ellen Albert, president of the Winterset Varsity Civic Association in Annandale,
said an association meeting does not go by without a discussion of how illegal
immigrants are "draining our resources." Albert, a computer consultant who is a
Democrat, said residents feel "like strangers in their own land," overwhelmed by
signs in foreign languages, neighbors who do not speak English and gang
graffiti.

Her state delegate, Democrat David L. Bulova, sent out a survey before this
year's legislative session, asking constituents to rank issues of concern.
Transportation came in first. Illegal immigration came in second. Republicans
and Democrats alike are upset, he said.

NumbersUSA, a national organization that lobbies for reduced immigration, says
its membership has more than doubled in Virginia and Maryland since the
beginning of the year.

Nearly 12,000 people were registered in Virginia, about twice as many as in
Maryland. Among congressional districts, Virginia's 10th and 11th -- which
include most of Fairfax, Loudoun and Prince William counties -- had the most
members as of late last month, a NumbersUSA spokeswoman said. In Maryland, the
6th District, which includes Frederick County and northern Montgomery, had the
highest number.

"What was invisible to many citizens for many years is more visible," said
Montgomery County Police Chief H. Thomas Manger, who worked in Fairfax before
moving to Maryland. "People who didn't have an opinion about it now do."

Federal enforcement efforts, including last month's U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement raid on El Pollo Rico, a Wheaton restaurant whose owners were
charged with hiring illegal immigrants and money laundering, have strengthened
the perception that illegal immigration fuels crime.

In Fairfax, complaints have surged about crowded houses, an issue officials say
is the source of most local outcry over immigration -- even if the two topics
are not always linked.

But the county has adopted no measures aimed directly at illegal immigrants.

Instead, officials emphasize that the county's policy is to provide illegal
immigrants with public assistance only as required under federal law, such as
with emergency medical care.

It has responded to crowding complaints by forming a multi-agency "strike force"
of inspectors to crack down on violations.

"We're focused on outcomes and behavior. We're not focused on what is your
status," Connolly said. He said the county staff is preparing an analysis of the
cost of illegal immigration to Fairfax.

Bulova said he has felt constituent heat over the topic since he went
door-knocking in 2005 in his central Fairfax district.

He was one of the few Democrats who voted this year for a measure that would
have made it a crime for illegal immigrants to set foot in Virginia.

"We're a nation of immigrants, so we absolutely want to respect that," Bulova
said. But, he said, "if you're here illegally and you get in trouble, then we
shouldn't be turning a blind eye. That's what I'm hearing from folks."

Staff writer Sandhya Somashekhar contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

CORRECTION-DATE: August 21, 2007



CORRECTION: An Aug. 18 Page One article on illegal immigration incorrectly
referred to the Montgomery County police chief as H. Thomas Manger. His name is
J. Thomas Manger.

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              360 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 19, 2007 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

On Immigration, A Preference for Local, Like-Minded?

BYLINE: Tammi Marcoullier

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. LZ03

LENGTH: 1384 words


Living in LoCo is Tammi Marcoullier's blog devoted to all things interesting in
Loudoun County. You can find it at http://www.loudounextra.com. This column of
highlights from the blog appears in this space every Sunday.

After reading a recent Washington Post story on Sterling Park's identity crisis,
producers from Washington Post Radio called Loudoun County Supervisor Eugene A.
Delgaudio (R-Sterling) and asked him whether he wanted to be interviewed about
immigration issues for the morning drive show.

Initially, Delgaudio was enthusiastic. He was given the studio number, and a
time was set. Then the twist: The show would include guests who were not
like-minded on the immigration topic.

According to a show producer, Delgaudio "declined to come on once he was
informed he would be on with Mukit Hossain, from the Virginia Muslim Political
Action Committee. In his opposition, he used some strong language."

While planning the show, the producer had contacted a number of people to bring
different perspectives on the issue, including Hossain, Laura Valle from La Voz
of Loudoun, supervisors Delgaudio and Mick Staton Jr. (R-Sugarland Run) and Joe
Budzinski of the organization Help Save Loudoun.

In the end, Budzinski agreed to come on with Hossain.

Delgaudio called me after I ran an item about this in my blog and said he is
dealing with the immigration subject on a local level -- talking to constituents
who call or e-mail him -- and not getting involved in national issues or the
agendas of other groups.

"They're trying to ascribe their political agenda on me," Delgaudio said.

This Old Farmhouse

In the middle of Belgreen Manor, a subdivision of custom homes between Ashburn
Farm and Broadlands, sits a 1935 farmhouse. The two-level house, complete with
tin roof, sitting porch and brick chimneys, is on 0.44 acres of land and at one
time was part of a 240-acre working dairy farm.

When you see the house from the street, it appears that you're looking at the
front of the building. But neighbors said it is really the back of the house.
The facade was retrofitted to match the other homes. The view on the other side
of the house spans a wide swath of grass and trees and, in winter, parts of the
Dulles Greenway.

Curiosity got the best of me, and I spent the better part of two weeks trying to
track down the history of this place.

David Lenz, a builder and developer in the area, said that eight years ago when
the nearby homes were being built, his company rented the farmhouse for a couple
of years and used it as an office. "There is an old stone foundation in parts of
the house, and they built on from there," Lenz said.

The most recent owners lived in it for a couple of years, then rented it when
they moved to Leesburg. It was sold again recently.

One of the original occupants eventually called me and told me a rich story
about life in Ashburn's farming community. Roland Wortman, 72, was born and
raised in the farmhouse and lived there with his wife, Hazel, for many years
before they settled in Ferrum, Va. "We don't like all the traffic and
subdivision," he explained.

"The house was built by a contractor that my grandfather hired by the name of
Case, from Hamilton," Wortman said. "It cost $650 to build. Three rooms
downstairs and three upstairs. No bath at the time; we had that put in around
1956.

"Our farm had no particular name. It was my father, Vernon, and his younger
brother, Stanley -- the Wortman Brothers. We farmed dairy cows, the majority
Guernsey and a few Holsteins."

Wortman said that when his father, Uncle Stanley and Aunt Thelma studied at the
old Ashburn High School, they would ride a pony and take a cart on a trail
through the woods to get there.

When Wortman attended Ashburn High School, it included elementary students. "It
was wooden, that building, and I was in third grade when it went down. We
watched it burn," he said.

The fire demolished the school, and it was rebuilt. Today it is the school annex
building on Partlow Road next to Dinosaur Park. There are great images and
details about the school history on http://www.Ashburnweb.com.

When his father died, he and Uncle Stanley divided the land. His uncle got the
part on the other side of the toll road, where you can see a couple of barns
still standing from Belmont Ridge Road.

Around 1981 or 1982, Wortman said, he rebuilt his house. "We put on additions,
the center portion and the garage. We beefed up the electric and re-plumbed the
entire house," he said.

And, in 1986, they sold the house and the adjoining acreage to Van Metre. The
land eventually became a part of Ashburn Farm and Belgreen Manor. He said his
uncle's farm was torn down for the Greenway.

Uncle Stanley is still in the area, living in Leesburg near Evergreen Mill Road.


 Understand Your Equine

 Today we introduce Marie Bertozzi and Laura Green, who will contribute blog
items about the equestrian world. Bertozzi and her family have been involved in
Loudoun equestrian life as owners of Cavallo Farm in Brambleton for more than 11
years. Green is an amateur rider who has been competing and training locally for
seven years.

One of the greatest challenges of living in an ever-increasing urban area is the
lack of understanding people have for sharing the road with horse trailers. As
we hook up our gooseneck trailer to our truck, we hope the good people of
Virginia will be considerate to our living load.

A trailer that holds two horses can weigh close to three tons when fully loaded,
and a big trailer is slightly less than 10 tons when loaded. That is the same as
some semi-tractor trailers. People who would never dream of passing, cutting off
or short-stopping a semi will not hesitate to do that to a pickup truck hauling
a loaded horse trailer.

The stopping distance and turning radius are often greater in a horse trailer
than in a semi because the animals cannot handle sudden stops. When transporting
the animals, a driver will brake, accelerate and turn gradually to keep the
horses on their feet. A horse in a trailer cannot see where it is going. It
cannot instinctively balance itself and prepare for a stop sign or green light
the way a person anticipates a car's movements.

Some of our horses are like 1,000-pound infants who are not happy unless the car
is moving. A 1,000-pound temper tantrum is no picnic! A driver might want to
stop a bit away from the intersection and ease up as we wait our turn to go. It
keeps the trailer moving and the horses happy.

Transporting horses to the horse show is an integral part of the Loudoun
equestrian life. Like other working farms in the area, our clients need their
mounts at shows to compete.

Maybe you have seen the bumper sticker "Virginia Is for Horse Lovers," or maybe
you just have a horse-crazy daughter whose equi-radar is so acute that she can
spot a pony grazing in a field a mile away as you whiz down Route 50 at 55 mph.
Well, Loudoun is called horse country for a reason.

Even those of us involved in Loudoun's horse industry can lose track of how
great its impact truly is. According to a report released in 2002 by the
Virginia Agricultural Statistics Service, Virginia boasts the fifth-largest
equine population in the country, with an estimated 170,000 horses living within
its borders, leading to $802 million in related business sales for the state.

Loudoun County leads the state in its equine population: an estimated 15,800
horses with a value of more than $290 million in horseflesh alone. Other
estimates by the Loudoun County Rural Economic Development Council put Loudoun's
equine population at more than 20,000 and the number of jobs created by the
industry at more than 2,400. The estimated contribution of Loudoun's horses to
the county's economy is roughly $78 million per year.

Given these numbers, one can easily see how important the horse industry is to
the county. Beyond the numbers, though, is the sense of tradition infused in the
county's self-image as horse country. Witness the housing developments and strip
malls with names intended to evoke the image of genteel fox hunters galloping
across the countryside.

Horses are an integral piece of Loudoun's culture and economy, and we look
forward to giving you a view into this world. If you have any questions or
issues you would like to hear about, please e-mail livinginloco@wpni.com

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Loudoun County

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Tammi Marcoullier; A farmhouse built in 1935 sits in the
middle of Belgreen Manor, a subdivision of custom homes.
IMAGE; By Gerald Martineau -- The Washington Post; Other drivers should be aware
that horse trailers can weigh three to 10 tons when loaded, and they require
greater stopping distances.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              361 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 19, 2007 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Fairness for Immigrants

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 231 words


Sen. Arlen Specter (R-Pa.) is on the right track in restarting efforts to
resolve our immigration crisis ["A Less Ambitious Approach to Immigration,"
op-ed, Aug. 6].

Standing by while this crisis worsens is unacceptable. If Congress can't muster
the political will to pass a more ambitious, comprehensive bill to overhaul our
outdated and dysfunctional immigration system, then taking a different approach
is a needed, practical and sensible way forward.

Key to resolving the immigration problem  is the plight of the estimated 12
million illegal immigrants already here. Most of them are working hard, paying
taxes and trying to raise their children, but they lack protections many of us
take for granted.

Creating a guest-worker program is a fatally flawed proposal because it would
create a permanent underclass. That would run counter to our identity as a
nation of immigrants and would fuel the discrimination that is dividing our
communities. Offering these workers a path to citizenship is the best solution.

Our broken immigration system must be brought into line with today's economic
and political reality. We depend on this labor and should provide immigrants
with the protections other workers receive. Further, we must offer these workers
a fair chance at citizenship and a shot at the American dream.

MATT NERZIG

Spokesman, Local 32BJ

Service Employees International Union

New York

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              362 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 23, 2007 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

It's Not Immigrants, Just Population

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 214 words


I think I am a good representation of the "Leave It to Beaver" crowd of the
1950s that Jeff Lisowski  spoke of in his Aug. 18 letter about immigration.

This is what we feel:

No, we do not like how crowded the D.C. area has become.

No, we do not care for trash in the streets or in the front yards of our
neighborhoods.

No, we do not like to see long lines of people in the grocery stores,  at the
Department of Motor Vehicles or any other place.

Most of us who have lived in this area all of our lives have paid for the roads
that are now  congested. We have paid for many of the schools, government
services, etc. We might even remember when the Chesapeake Bay was pristine and
waste did not always lie on  its shoreline.

Simply put, our infrastructure and standard of living have not expanded with the
new demographics of the region.  Many of us also have worked more than one job
at a time to feed our children, and many of us respect the outstanding work
ethic of most of the newcomers.

We do have culture shock sometimes.

I think that the "Beaver" crowd feels that  it is losing the longtime American
citizens who invested in their properties and in their communities.  The problem
is  simply overpopulation, regardless of what else ethnic prejudices might
suggest.

A.L. SWIGGARD

Alexandria

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Victor Calzada -- Associated Press; The U.S. border fence in
El Paso being repaired this month.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              363 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 25, 2007 Saturday
                                 Met 2 Edition

30 Immigrants On Bikes Deliver A Labor Revolt;
N.Y. Workers Gain Allies in Protest of Wages, Conditions

BYLINE: Anthony Faiola; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1432 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


The deliverymen of Saigon Grill labored for years at the bottom of Manhattan's
food chain. Biking swiftly down the avenues in biting cold and searing heat,
they schlepped up high-rises and walk-ups with bags of steaming noodles and
shrimp fried rice.

Then they surprised their bosses -- and others in this seen-it-all town -- by
serving up something unexpected: a revolt.

The 30 men -- all immigrants, including undocumented workers frustrated with the
poor conditions and low wages that are often a fact of life in America's
underground economy -- banded together in an effort to unionize. They demanded
an end to what they say were salaries less than half the minimum wage, and to
penalties that included $20 fines for late deliveries and $50 for shutting the
restaurant's glass doors with a bang.

Saigon Grill's owner fired them. It might have ended there, but as the immigrant
labor movement gains steam in a number of major U.S. cities, the men opted to
fight back. With the help of local groups aiming to organize documented and
undocumented immigrants in New York, the men filed a lawsuit against the owner.
Then, in March, they began daily picket lines at the restaurant's two Manhattan
locations.

So far, hundreds of deliverymen, waiters, cooks and busboys from across New York
have joined their picket lines in shows of solidarity. Angry deliverymen have
slapped at least five other restaurants here with similar lawsuits. Immigrants
laboring in other types of restaurant jobs have filed several more, targeting
small takeout operations and upscale establishments such as Devi, the critically
acclaimed Manhattan eatery.

"We have been going under the assumption that because we have no papers, we were
powerless -- but we were wrong," Ke, a 35-year-old Chinese immigrant and former
Saigon Grill deliveryman, said through an interpreter during a protest last week
at the restaurant's fashionable Union Square branch. As with others here, Ke
requested that his surname be withheld because he is undocumented. "We have
discovered that we have the power to act."

The New York deliverymen's revolt, observers say, is happening as a number of
immigrants are mobilizing into an increasingly organized labor movement with the
help of unions and a fast-growing assortment of local activist groups.

Legal actions and demonstrations on behalf of undocumented immigrants by groups
such as Justice for Janitors have been going on for years. But in the wake of
the grass-roots mobilizations surrounding the immigration reform debate in
Washington, experts have noted an increase in lawsuits, picket lines and work
stoppages by immigrants who had long shied away from more visible forms of
protest.

Immigrants have also emerged as the cavalry in the United States' flagging labor
movement, which is embracing a group of people long assailed by union members
for driving down wages. The percentage of the American workforce represented by
unions has fallen to 13.1 percent, down from 16.2 percent a decade ago.

But the number of immigrants, documented and undocumented, represented by unions
surged to 2 million last year, up from 1.6 million in 1996, according to a study
by the Washington-based Migration Policy Institute that is scheduled for release
next week. By comparison, the number of union-represented U.S.-born citizens
dropped to 14.8 million last year, down from 16.5 million in 1996, the study
said.

The majority of undocumented immigrants in the United States, observers say,
remain too fearful to participate in such public actions. But a growing
assertiveness in some pockets of the country's illegal immigrant community of 12
million people is beginning to answer at least one of the hot questions in the
immigration debate: What would happen if exploited undocumented workers decided
one day that enough is enough?

If New York -- a city whose key service and construction sectors are highly
dependent on cheap immigrant labor -- is any example, it will mean higher costs
for businesses and their customers. Fearing they could be the next target,
dozens of restaurateurs in Manhattan have boosted wages for deliverymen,
according to union officials, lawyers and workers.

Saigon Grill itself, meanwhile, has suspended food delivery -- which reportedly
accounted for as much as 25 percent of the chain's revenue. A management
official at the company who asked not to be named said it has been forced to
raise prices to cover some of those losses.

"It sort of makes you sit up and take notice, doesn't it?" said Kenneth
Kimerling, legal director of the Asian American Legal Defense and Education Fund
(AALDEF).

The challenges facing the immigrant labor movement remain formidable. Tougher
immigration enforcement and increased raids, observers say, have had a chilling
effect on organization efforts in some parts of the country.

But activists say that in big urban areas such as New York and Los Angeles --
where local policies prohibit city officials from asking about immigration
status in labor or other disputes -- immigrant groups have become strikingly
bolder in demanding rights.

Observers say that is a direct result of increased efforts to organize them. In
May, for instance, dozens of unions in Los Angeles dispatched liaisons to help
organize the largely Hispanic, immigrant truck drivers serving the ports of Los
Angeles and Long Beach. The result was an organized work stoppage in which
hundreds of immigrant workers demanding better pay joined in a caravan protest
that left port officials scurrying to find replacements, said Maria Elena
Durazo, board member of the Los Angeles County Federation of Labor.

Similar organizational efforts, she said, are underway at ports in Miami and New
Jersey. In New York, unions and activist groups are also moving to organize
immigrant construction, supermarket and nail salon workers. Over the past
decade, the number of "worker centers" -- or associations for immigrant day
laborers that strive to set standardized wages -- has jumped from a few dozen to
more than 200 nationwide, according to the National Employment Law Project.

The courts are often on their side. Though a noted 2002 U.S. Supreme Court
ruling made it more difficult for undocumented immigrants to seek damages for
being unlawfully fired, it did not preclude them from going after back wages --
the primary goal of the majority of immigrant labor lawsuits. Over the past
three years, AALDEF -- one of the largest immigrant activist groups in New York
-- has won about $4 million in claims for 87 clients.

"It's the American story: immigrants trying to assert their rights," said John
Wilhelm, co-president of Unite Here, an immigrant-based labor group of 450,000
that bills itself as the fastest-growing union in North America. "Italian and
Irish Americans did it 100 years ago; now new groups of immigrants are trying to
do the same."

For the deliverymen at Saigon Grill -- mostly Chinese immigrants -- the move to
organize came after word spread around town of a similar case last year at
another Manhattan restaurant, Our Place Cuisines of China. After a deliveryman
there was allegedly fired for talking back to his boss, he organized workers at
the restaurant with the help of the Chinese Staff and Workers Association (CSWA)
and the 318 Restaurant Workers Union, both labor groups that have succeeded in
upping wages for many Asian immigrants in New York's Chinatown.

"We began to sense that maybe we were not helpless, that maybe even people like
us could fight for our rights," said Ke, an immigrant from Fujian province who
illegally arrived in the United States in 1995.

After contacting CSWA and the 318 union in February, Ke said that he helped lead
a secret movement to unionize Saigon Grill's deliverymen and demand fair wages.
When the restaurant's owner, Simon Nget, an ethnic Chinese Cambodian who had
fled the Khmer Rouge and came to New York in the 1980s, discovered their plan,
the deliverymen say he offered to increase wages from $1.60 to $4 an hour. But
only if they dropped their unionization bid. When they refused, they said, he
fired them.

Nget did not return phone calls requesting comment. In a personal letter to his
customers, he alleged, however, that the men were trying to "extort" him and
called their demonstrations "outrageous."

Given the fairly high success rate of immigrant labor suits, employers --
especially restaurants -- frequently settle out of court to avoid unwanted
publicity. For now, the deliverymen of Saigon Grill insist they will keep up
their protest for as long as it takes.

"We feel strong now," Ke said. "And that feels good."

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; An immigrant restaurant delivery worker in New York protests pay
that is well below the minimum wage.
IMAGE; Photos By Shiho Fukada For The Washington Post; Hundreds of angry
deliverymen, waiters, cooks and busboys in New York have joined picket lines in
shows of solidarity against poor working conditions and low wages. Some fired
workers have filed lawsuits against restaurant owners.
IMAGE; Restaurant workers express their displeasure in front of the Saigon Grill
in New York, where fired deliverymen have filed a lawsuit against the owner.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              364 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 26, 2007 Sunday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Va. Student Wins Immigrant Group In-State Tuition

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 724 words


Ernesto Galeas, a Salvadoran immigrant, has lived in Virginia for seven years
and paid taxes to the state for five. So he was stunned this spring when
Northern Virginia Community College denied him in-state tuition and slapped him
with a $2,400 bill -- about three times as high as he expected.

The reason, Galeas was told: Immigrants with temporary protected status, which
provides a permit to live and work in the United States, are ineligible for the
tuition break even if they meet every other requirement.

Galeas fought the decision and got the college and the state's top lawyers to
change their minds. As of last month, all Virginia college students with the
permit, called TPS, are eligible for the tuition break, officials said.

"This marked a precedent for future students," Galeas said. "Really, I do not
see it as a personal achievement but one for people who come after me or are in
my same situation. It's a feeling of satisfaction."

TPS grants temporary refuge in the United States to nationals of countries
recovering from armed conflict or natural disaster. There are about 300,000 TPS
holders in the United States, according to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services. The vast majority are from El Salvador -- the source of the Washington
region's largest immigrant group -- but thousands of others come from Liberia,
Burundi, Nicaragua, Somalia, Sudan and Honduras.

Although many states deny in-state tuition to illegal immigrants and those whose
visas do not grant long-term stays, such as tourists or foreign students, they
often grant it to temporary immigrant workers who meet all other requirements.
But most states, including Maryland, do not mention TPS in their guidelines,
said Luis Parada, a D.C. lawyer who took Galeas's case free of charge.

Virginia's guidelines did not address TPS, said Lee Andes, assistant director
for financial aid at the State Council for Higher Education of Virginia. But the
Virginia attorney general's office previously interpreted TPS holders as
ineligible because their immigration status did not reflect an "intent to
remain" in the state, Andes said.

NVCC turned down Galeas's appeals three times. When he reached the fourth and
final appeals level -- the desk of the college president, Robert G. Templin --
Templin turned to state officials. The attorney general's office found that TPS
holders qualify, said J. Tucker Martin, a spokesman for Virginia Attorney
General Robert F. McDonnell (R).

"It's the right decision," Templin said. "They deserve the same benefits that
other taxpayers have and not to be held hostage by an immigration status that
leaves their identity uncertain, when in fact they're lawfully present . . . and
want to go to college."

Templin said as many as 100 TPS holders are among the college's 64,000 students.
Although many with TPS entered the United States illegally or overstayed visas,
the permit grants them lawful residence. It does not provide a path to permanent
residency.

Virginia lawmakers have battled in recent years over whether to deny in-state
tuition to all illegal immigrants. Bills proposing to do so have failed. Yet
denial is common practice, Parada said, because Virginia's higher education
guidelines, which are determined by the state attorney general's office,
classify illegal immigrants as ineligible.

Parada said the change has no implications for illegal immigrants. But it will
make a huge difference for those with TPS, he said.

"Denying a student the opportunity to go to college is one of the most unfair
and counterproductive things we as a society can do, especially in what should
have been a clear-cut case like students with TPS," Parada said. "For a lot of
the students, having to pay three times the amount of tuition is the difference
between being able to attend college or not."

Galeas said he is among those students. He immigrated illegally in 2000 and was
granted TPS the next year. Early on, the construction worker studied English at
NVCC. This spring, he decided he was ready to take two English literature
classes for credit and to start working toward the political science degree he
dreams of earning at Georgetown University.

Galeas said he could not have continued if not for the change. He recently
attended the first day of the two political science courses he is taking this
semester. His bill was less than $900.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              365 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 26, 2007 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

Migration Spawns Immense Economy;
Workers Send Billions To Relatives Back Home

BYLINE: William J. Kole; Associated Press

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 1275 words

DATELINE: TIRANA, Albania


Josif Poro pats his new sofa, points with pride to his carpets and runs a
wrinkled hand over a gleaming white refrigerator.

He and his wife barely scrape by on their $220 monthly pension. They'd have to
do without many of the items in their cramped apartment if their son, a factory
worker in Greece, didn't faithfully send home part of his earnings.

"We call him our golden boy," said Poro, 83, a retired textile mill worker.

Around the world, millions of immigrants are sending billions of dollars back
home.

One sweaty wad of bills or $200 Western Union moneygram at a time, they form
what could be called Immigration Inc. -- one of the biggest businesses on the
planet.

Experts tracking the phenomenon  said they have gotten a much clearer picture
since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, when authorities trying to cut the flow of
cash to terrorists began taking a harder look at how immigrants move their money
around.

Mass migration, they say, has spawned an underground economy of staggering
proportions.

Globally, remittances -- the cash that immigrants send home -- totaled nearly
$276 billion in 2006, the World Bank says. Remittances have more than doubled
since 2000, and with globalization increasing the numbers of people on the move,
there's no end in sight.

If these guest workers incorporated as a company, their migrant multinational
would rank No. 3 on the Fortune 500 list, trailing only Wal-Mart and Exxon Mobil
in annual revenue.

Remittances "are larger than direct foreign investment in Mexico, tea exports in
Sri Lanka, tourism revenue in Morocco, and revenue from the Suez Canal in
Egypt," World Bank economist Dilip Ratha said in a recent report.

And unlike the conventional economy, more cash tends to change hands in an
economic downturn, political crisis, natural disaster, famine or war.

Counterterrorism officials say al-Qaeda and other groups are financed in part
through informal money transfer networks called hawalas. Governments and the
International Monetary Fund have been working to regulate those.

There are other downsides: fears of brain drains and a vast permanent army of
economic exiles, and the untaxed earnings flowing out of host nations.

The United States lost $41.1 billion in 2005, according to the World Bank, while
Switzerland watched $13.2 billion trickle out of the country that year.

But Giuseppina Iampietro, a Swiss economics ministry spokeswoman, says little
can be done: "Immigrants have no obligation to invest their money in
Switzerland."

Meanwhile, from Poland to the Philippines, remittances are throwing lifelines to
families combating poverty and helping to keep some national economies afloat:

Across Latin America, remittances hit $62 billion last year and are projected to
top $100 billion by 2010, the Inter-American Development Bank says. Mexicans
wire home the most cash -- nearly $22 billion -- most of it earned in the United
States.

India is the world leader in remittances, taking in $23.7 billion in 2005 and an
estimated $26.9 billion last year, the World Bank says. Western Union,
traditionally one of the most frequently tapped money transfer companies, says
its Indian transactions have grown at least 90 percent over each of the past six
quarters.

Immigrants from Albania, one of Europe's poorest countries, will send more than
$1.3 billion back to their homeland this year. That's 13 percent of Albania's
gross domestic product and enough to finance half the trade deficit.

"Without the money we get from our son, who lives and works in Austria, my
family and I would simply starve to death," said Jovana Acimovic, a housewife
struggling to make ends meet in Belgrade, Serbia.

In impoverished Tajikistan, the National Bank says migrant laborers sent home
$1.1 billion last year -- more than the country's GDP. Filipinos working
overseas sent home a record $13.6 billion in 2005. So much cash is flowing that
mobile phone operators make it possible to transfer money over a cellphone.

Maria Gorgan, a retired psychologist, left Romania two years ago for Spain,
where she cares for Alzheimer's patients. She earns $1,800 a month -- seven
times her monthly Romanian pension and enough to help her son make a down
payment on a new house.

"We use the money I earn to support my family," said Gorgan, 56, who sends her
husband a few hundred dollars a month. "I don't eat much. It's hard. But I have
to do it."

In Albania, where the average monthly wage is only $250, a third of the
population of 3.2 million has left for better jobs in the  United States,
Britain, Greece, Italy and elsewhere.

Many have no plans to return. But some, underscoring a trend also emerging in
other countries -- Latvia and Mexico for example -- are coming back to buy homes
and open businesses.

Nearly one in three Albanian real estate transactions involves an expatriate
buying property back home. "That means people see their future back in Albania,"
said Evis Ruci, who tracks remittances for the central bank.

Nazmi Ajazi, 52, spent a few years working in Greece and returned to set up an
Internet cafe and a small grocery store on the dusty outskirts of Tirana, the
capital.

"It feels so good to be back in Albania, where you can be your own master," his
wife, Sofie, 50, said from behind a counter laden with eggs, oranges and freshly
baked bread.

But some see drawbacks.

Much of the world's migration is illegal, and although many immigrants work at
menial jobs, some are doctors, engineers and other professionals. Their
departure can mean the loss of highly trained personnel and create an
immigration culture.

"Migration creates more migration," said Ilir Gedeshi, director of the Center
for Economic and Social Studies in Albania, whose emigrants have stashed an
estimated $14 billion in foreign banks. "It's a cycle. The next generation has
to leave because there are no jobs being created for them here."

Elvin Meka, secretary general of the Albanian Association of Banks, offers a
blunt warning: "We export human beings, and they send us cash," he said. "Young
people are addicted to the idea of leaving. That's the biggest crime in this
country. The government is killing their dreams."

In the former Soviet republic of Moldova, globalization has unleashed a
troubling exodus.

More than 600,000 of its 4 million citizens are believed to be working abroad,
and since Jan. 1, 900,000 have applied for citizenship in neighboring Romania.
Though emigrants sent back $920 million in 2006, more than the entire national
budget, the trend has some officials wondering how much of a country will be
left to govern.

"If we don't create conditions for higher wages and new jobs, people will just
continue to emigrate," said Sergiu Sainciuc, Moldova's deputy economy minister.

Others don't see a problem.

Mugur Stet, spokesman for Romania's central bank, denies that remittances --
which hit $7.3 billion last year -- are artificially propping up the  former
communist country's economy.

"We see new homes, new businesses," Stet said. "When they come back, it's with a
capitalist mentality. These Romanians may turn out to be better citizens than
those who stay home."

For Ismet and Safija Helja, retired in impoverished Bosnia, the cash their
carpenter son, Nedzad, sends from the United States boils down to this: not
having to eat at a soup kitchen.

Like clockwork, it arrives every three months. "Sometimes $1,000, sometimes
$500, depending how good he does," said Ismet Helja, 67.

"If it wasn't for Nedzad's money," he said, "we would die."

Correspondents Bradley S. Klapper in Switzerland, Dusan Stojanovic in Serbia,
Corneliu Rusnac in Moldova, Lucia Stana-Seveanu in Romania and Samir Krilic in
Bosnia contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              366 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 30, 2007 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Laborer Ruling a Setback for Herndon

BYLINE: Bill Turque; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 751 words


A Fairfax Circuit Court judge threw out Herndon's anti-solicitation ordinance
yesterday, finding that the town's two-year-old prohibition against laborers and
motorists discussing employment on the streets violates First Amendment rights
to free speech.

The 11-page opinion by Judge Leslie Alden was a legal setback for town
officials, who regarded the ordinance as an important tool in their crackdown on
illegal immigrants. Some town leaders say such immigrants account for most of
those seeking work.

The ruling came as the town announced it was preparing to take over management
of the Herndon Official Workers Center, which opened in December 2005 to provide
an alternative site for day workers to meet prospective employers.

The center has been a focal point of Northern Virginia's increasingly bitter
immigration debate. Reston Interfaith, which has operated the center for the
town under a grant from Fairfax County, does not require the 120 or so mostly
Hispanic workers who use the facility to prove that they are in the country
legally. The group's county funding and agreement with the town expire Sept. 14.

After searching unsuccessfully since late last year for a new operator that
would verify workers' immigration status, the town is poised to take over the
center temporarily. Mayor Stephen J. DeBenedittis, who unseated incumbent
Michael L. O'Reilly last year with a promise to overhaul the labor site,
announced yesterday that at its meeting Tuesday, the Town Council will consider
hiring its own staff to run the center. Town employees would seek documentation
from workers, he said.

Reston Interfaith officials said they expect most of the laborers to return to
the streets or perhaps leave Herndon rather than use a town-operated center.

Should they choose the streets, the town is left with an anti-solicitation
ordinance that the court says is unconstitutional. Town Attorney Richard B.
Kaufman declined to discuss the town's legal options, including plans for an
appeal or whether it would continue to enforce the law.

"That question calls for a legal analysis, and I'm not going to provide that
kind of advice in the public media," Kaufman said.

DeBenedittis said that even without the ordinance, the town is committed to
preventing a return to the chaotic circumstances that existed before passage of
the law and the opening of the center, when workers gathered every morning in a
7-Eleven parking lot on Elden Street.

"There are still many ways we can keep from returning to the previous
situation," he said.

Yesterday's decision reversed a March 21 ruling in District Court upholding the
Herndon ordinance. It is the latest in a flurry of court actions across the
country stemming from local attempts to deal with the consequences of illegal
immigration.

Alden found in favor of Stephen A. Thomas, 45, a Reston man ticketed by Herndon
police last year for hiring a laborer in the parking lot of the Elden Street
7-Eleven. Thomas was driving home with the worker in September when he was
stopped and cited for solicitation. The worker was not charged.

Thomas's attorney, Alexa K. Moseley of Fairfax, argued that the ordinance
violated First Amendment protections because it singled out a specific category
of speech -- employers and workers striking a deal -- and banned it on the basis
of its content. The town said the ban was legitimate because it addressed
traffic and other public safety problems posed by solicitation activity.

Alden rejected Moseley's "content" argument. The judge ruled the law was
narrowly tailored to serve a significant community interest, passing two parts
of a "three-prong test" governments face to justify restriction of speech in a
public forum.

The third prong is where the town falls short, Alden said, noting that
governments restricting public speech must "open ample alternative channels" for
communication of the prohibited speech.

Alden said the Herndon Official Workers Center is not adequate because it is
described in the ordinance as a temporary site. She also cited Reston
Interfaith's agreement with the town, which was based on a temporary permit.

The bar on solicitation described in the ordinance, however, is permanent.

Alden said the issue also runs afoul of 14th Amendment guarantees of due process
and equal protection under the law. Quoting from a 1982 Supreme Court ruling,
Alden said the amendment's provisions are "universal in their application, to
all persons . . . without regard to any differences of race, of color, or of
nationality."

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              367 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 2, 2007 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

A Different Kind of Immigration Problem

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. B08

LENGTH: 542 words

DATELINE: BODRUM, TURKEY


My family and I live in Falls Church, but we do not know whether we will be able
to go home. We are exiled here because my wife's sister, Nazan Gundogdu, a
Turkish citizen, may not be allowed to come back with us to the United States.

Nazan, 56, was born with Down syndrome. She has an IQ in the low 30s and  heart
problems. Her sister Oya (a naturalized American citizen) and I married 30 years
ago, while I was serving at the U.S.  Embassy in Turkey. When I retired from the
Foreign Service in 1995, we settled in Ankara so that my wife could care for her
sister and their widowed mother. After their mother died in 2005, Nazan came to
live with Oya and me; she has no other close relative.

Oya and I soon decided that it was time to return to the United States, where
our five grandchildren reside. We expected that Nazan would be able to come with
us to America, which she had visited five times. However, as a Senate staffer
told me, Nazan faces "a lacuna in the law": Post-Sept. 11 immigration policies
are focused narrowly on homeland security and illegal immigration, and the U.S.
Embassy in Ankara says that Nazan's tourist visa is no longer valid. What about
getting her a new visa? U.S. law requires that applicants prove they won't
remain in the United States longer than six months. Since Nazan is "joined at
the hip" to her sister, who as a citizen has the right to stay indefinitely, we
can't prove that Nazan will leave. Lest she become another of the estimated 12
million illegal immigrants in the United States, the embassy has denied my
sister-in-law a new tourist visa.

We petitioned the Department of Homeland Security to grant Nazan "humanitarian
parole," under which the DHS secretary "may, in his discretion, parole [an
alien] into the United States temporarily . . . for urgent humanitarian
reasons." She was permitted to enter the United States last October. However,
the parole was valid for only a single entry and for a stay of up to one year.
For legal reasons, Oya needs to return to Turkey annually. Since the D.C. area
has no Turkish-language facilities to care for Nazan, whither Oya goes, her
sister goes too. So when they left for Turkey in June, Nazan lost her
humanitarian parole status. We've applied for a new parole, but DHS is "highly
unlikely" to grant it, according to DHS and legal sources. Meanwhile, Oya's
application to sponsor an immigrant visa ("green card") for Nazan will not be
considered until 2018, as siblings have the lowest priority for family-based
immigration.

So we wait in Turkey.

The choice for my wife, if Nazan's application is rejected, will be
excruciating: To return to her adopted country, she must leave her sister behind
in Turkey, in custodial care. I need to return to the United States; must I
leave my wife behind? Must Nazan die to resolve our predicament?

My sister-in-law is an unlikely security risk: not strong enough, or smart
enough, to be a terrorist. She's not going to take a job from an American
worker. She won't be a drain on the U.S. welfare system. Why can't our
government deal compassionately with her?

-- Donald B. Cofman

Falls Church

The writer was a U.S. diplomat for 30 years and then worked in Turkey as a
journalist, business consultant and association executive.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Courtesy Of Donald Cofman; The writer's sister-in-law, Nazan
Gundogdu.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              368 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 4, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

In Bosnia, Former Fighters Face Expulsion;
Many Foreign-Born Muslims Who Came During 1992-95 War Now Losing Citizenship

BYLINE: Jonathan Finer; Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FOREIGN; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 1421 words

DATELINE: ZENICA, Bosnia


They met in 1985 as Syrian immigrants in Croatia, two students in their 20s
grappling with a language and a culture they didn't understand.

Seven years later, when word spread of a nearby war being waged by fellow
Muslims, Ayman Awad and Imad Al Husayn boarded a bus for Bosnia and joined the
fight, they recounted. After peace came in 1995, they married local women,
became Bosnian citizens and started families. They settled in ravaged rural
villages and fostered a strict religious code that contrasted sharply with the
more relaxed Islam endemic to this country's native Muslims.

Now, Awad, 42, and Husayn (who goes by the nickname Abu Hamza), 43, may again be
on the move, this time not by choice. Earlier this year, the Bosnian government
revoked the two men's citizenship as part of a broad review of foreign-born
residents that was urged by the United States. It has led to the
denationalization of at least 500 people, about 70 percent of whom arrived here
from throughout the Muslim world during the three-year ethnic civil war.

Awad and Husayn have been given 60 days to appeal the decisions against them. If
unsuccessful, they and a few dozen others who remain in the country and are
embroiled in similar proceedings could be deported.

Bosnian and international officials say the presence of the former fighters --
who, like predecessors in the war against the Soviet army in Afghanistan, are
known as mujaheddin, Arabic for "strugglers" -- is illegal. The officials say
some of them maintain links to terrorist groups, creating a security threat for
Bosnia.

The men and their advocates deny such links and say they are victims of a
heavy-handed approach to those of their faith in the wake of the Sept. 11, 2001
attacks. By forcing them to leave, they contend, Bosnia is exposing them to
persecution in their countries of origin.

"I didn't come to get their passport, I came because I heard stories of villages
being burned and people being killed and raped. When we fought here, they called
us brothers," said Ayman, who has a bushy silver beard, over coffee and ice
cream in the timber industry town of Zenica, where he now lives.

"If we have done one thing wrong, I demand that they bring proof," he said. "As
you see, we have been here 15 years and the streets are not running with blood.
The buildings are still standing."

Once hailed here as war heroes -- several received the Golden Lilly Award, the
country's highest military decoration -- the men who fought as the Mujaheddin
Brigade now have few legal options. The 1995 Dayton peace agreement, which ended
the Bosnian war after close to 250,000 deaths, required the withdrawal of all
combatants "not of local origin." But anywhere from 50 to a few hundred of the
fighters remained, despite repeated calls for their expulsion from the United
States and international bodies, which during the war largely supported the
Muslim cause.

Foreign security agencies have long warned that Bosnia, which has struggled to
stamp out lawlessness in the postwar period, is fertile ground for terrorist
groups seeking a foothold in Europe and trying to recruit so-called white
Muslims, non-Arabs who can more easily evade security profiling.

Those concerns intensified after Sept. 11. In January 2002, six Bosnian men of
Algerian origin alleged to be plotting an attack on the U.S. Embassy were seized
by U.S. peacekeeping forces in Sarajevo and flown to the U.S. military detention
facility at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. They were later cleared by a Bosnian court,
and the Bosnian government has requested their release, but they remain in U.S.
custody.

Earlier  last month, Raffi Gregorian, an American who is deputy high
representative in Sarajevo for foreign parties to the Dayton agreement,
suggested to a Sarajevo newspaper that some of the foreign veterans had links to
al-Qaeda.

"I wouldn't say that all of the foreign fighters are a threat, but some of them
certainly are," he said in a recent interview. "And beyond that they were
supposed to leave 12 years ago. Their presence is a violation of Dayton, and if
we overlook that, what else do we have to overlook?"

Gregorian also said that a lack of a public outcry among Bosnia's Muslim
majority reflects beliefs that the Mujaheddin Brigade committed atrocities
during the war. The fighters deny the claims of atrocities. "They came here and
committed war crimes," said Gregorian. "Then they asked Bosnian Muslims to
comport themselves in a certain way, making women dress in a certain way, that
was very disruptive," he said. "These people are alien. They look alien. They
talk alien. They act alien. This is a parochial society that has its own
approach to Islam, and they don't fit in."

A top Muslim political leader here denounced the claim of al-Qaeda links as
"very unpleasant, incorrect and malicious."

In late 2005, the Bosnian government established a commission to revoke
citizenships improperly granted during and immediately following the war, when
some foreigners were rewarded for their service with passports or obtained them
through marriage.

The nine-member body, comprised of six Bosnians -- two each from the country's
Muslim, Serb and Croat ethnic groups -- and three foreigners, has reviewed about
1,300 cases, according to its chairman, Vjekoslav Vukovic. About 70 percent of
the 500 people who have been denationalized are Arab or South Asian Muslims, he
said.

Attorneys for the men and human rights advocates in Sarajevo, the capital,
attribute Bosnia's recent zeal on this issue to pressure from abroad and from
Bosnian Serbs who govern the Republica Srpska, one of two political units
established by the peace accord.

Srpska officials have been circulating a 17-page document entitled
"Chronological Review of the Islamicization and Radicalization in Bosnia and
Herzegovina." It includes graphic, color photographs, alleged to be from the
war, showing what appear to be Muslim fighters holding severed heads. The men's
attorneys say their clients pose no risk and that if deported, they are likely
to face severe human rights violations. "These men are good Bosnians and have
been here for 15 years, and now because of foreign pressure that is forgotten,"
said Kadrija Kolic, a lawyer in Sarajevo who said he has represented about 30
people who have been stripped of their citizenship. "Some of their countries
have laws against fighting in another army. So, there is a real risk that bad
things will happen if they are forced out. Indeed, this has already happened."

Vukovic rejected claims of any political influence, foreign or domestic, on what
he called a "legal, not a political process."

"We get calls from foreign embassies and organizations, but I can tell you for
sure, I am responsible for the work here, and we make our own decisions," he
said.

The commission often requests a report from Bosnian intelligence about whether
those under consideration pose any national security risk. Less than 10 of those
denationalized were classified as such, he said. All decisions about
denationalization must be unanimous.

Those who have lost their citizenship argue that they are given no opportunity
to rebut the evidence presented against them. "They just send you a
notification, and it can be a few sentences long, with no explanation," said
Raffaq Jilalli, 43, a Moroccan native who was wounded in the war.

In January, the commission revoked his Bosnian citizenship, and he is now
awaiting the results of his appeal. "The government used us, and when they got
power, they didn't need us anymore," he said.

So far, no one denationalized has been forcibly deported. All but a few dozen
have left on their own, Bosnian and international officials said.

Ayman and Husayn said they plan to seek asylum in a country other than their
native Syria, where they fear they would be mistreated by authorities. As a last
resort, the men said, they could take their case to an international human
rights court.

Both denied that they or any foreign fighters in Bosnia have a link to
terrorism. But they warned that by separating them from their families, Bosnian
authorities are creating a threat of extremism that otherwise would not exist.

"We are raising our kids to love people, not to hate people, but by doing this,
the government is pushing them, and others, toward hate," said Husayn, who has
six children. "If we are kicked out, they will be in the streets with no
fathers. Who should be blamed if they do something wrong? Who can blame them if
they will be angry? The government will regret this, and they will pay."

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Jonathan Finer -- The Washington Post; Ayman Awad and Imad Al
Husayn, Syrian immigrants who fought in Bosnia's civil war, are now appealing a
decision to revoke their Bosnian citizenship.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              369 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 6, 2007 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Herndon to Shut Down Center for Day Laborers

BYLINE: Bill Turque; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 851 words


The Town of Herndon announced yesterday that it would close its 21-month-old
day-laborer center next week instead of complying with a judge's ruling that the
site must be open to all residents, including those who might be illegal
immigrants.

The decision to close the site, which became a flash point in the national
debate over immigration, was reached late Tuesday by Mayor Stephen J.
DeBenedittis and the six-member Town Council after a 2 1/2 -hour closed-door
session. It brings the western Fairfax community virtually full circle in its
attempts to regulate -- critics say drive out -- its large population of Latino
day laborers. The center was established in late 2005 as an alternative to the
streets for laborers and prospective employers to come to terms.

Herndon's experience with the day-laborer center was a bellwether for towns
across the country wrestling with national immigration issues. As other
jurisdictions try to pass measures targeting illegal immigrants, yesterday's
actions in Herndon indicate that courts, and not legislators, might have the
ultimate say.

DeBenedittis said that the town has other means at its disposal, such as zoning
and traffic ordinances, to accomplish its goals.

"There is no longer a need for the town to support a regulated day-labor site,"
he said.

Immigrant advocates said yesterday that after the center closes Sept. 14, they
expect a return to the chaotic morning scenes in locations such as the 7-Eleven
on Herndon's main street, where scores of laborers gathered to try to find work,
many seeking construction jobs along the busy Dulles International Airport
corridor.

"It was a system that worked really well," said Bill Threlkeld, director of
Project Hope and Harmony, an affiliate of the nonprofit group Reston Interfaith,
which operated the center for the town. "Now it's all crumbled, and we're back
to where we were."

At issue was an ordinance the council approved in 2005 as a legal companion to
the day-laborer center, barring workers and motorists from striking deals for
employment on the streets. The courts have generally required that communities
barring public solicitation for work -- a form of speech -- must provide an
alternative venue for that speech, such as a hiring site.

As the town enforced the anti-solicitation ordinance, many residents grew
resentful of the center. Reston Interfaith, a group of religious institutions
operating under a grant from Fairfax County, did not require workers to document
their immigration status. Opponents of the center said the town was essentially
abetting illegal immigration.

In 2006, voters unseated Mayor Michael L. O'Reilly and two council members who
pushed for the center as an alternative to the informal job centers such as the
7-Eleven on Elden Street. DeBenedittis and the new council began searching for a
site operator who would check workers' immigration status but could not find
anyone.

The town's plan began to collapse last year when a Reston man, Stephen A.
Thomas, ticketed for hiring a laborer in the parking lot of the Elden Street
7-Eleven, challenged the law on First Amendment grounds.

A district court found in favor of the town, but Fairfax Circuit Court Judge
Leslie Alden ruled for Thomas on Aug. 29. Alden said the anti-solicitation
ordinance fell short not only on First Amendment grounds but also under the
equal protection requirements of the 14th Amendment. She said the Herndon center
was not sufficient to make up for the ban on job solicitation because the town
intended to bar illegal immigrants from the site. Alden said the Supreme Court
has ruled that the equal protection provision applies to noncitizens as well.

Alden's ruling left DeBenedittis and the Town Council in a dilemma. An appeal
could take months, even years. With no one available to operate the center
according to its wishes, the town would have to take over the facility. But to
preserve the anti-solicitation ordinance, the town would have to open the center
to those who might be in the country illegally -- violating a core campaign
promise.

On Tuesday night, DeBenedittis and the council decided to pull the plug on the
center. DeBenedittis said the town would try to keep informal job sites from
popping up by relying on zoning and traffic ordinances.

The council's decision is unlikely to quell debate over the site, which has
roiled local politics since it was proposed in 2005.

No one knows how many of the people who use the center -- an average of 120 a
day -- are in the country illegally. Some predict friction among police,
immigrants and their advocates.

"I think it was a mistake," said former council member Richard Downer. "They're
going to force the police department to do things that could create new legal
issues. There's a fine line between harassment and enforcement."

Ann Null, a council member who opposed opening the center before she retired in
2005, said she hoped its closing would induce illegal residents in the town to
leave the country.

"There's a construction boom in Panama," she said. "They can find jobs in a
country where they don't have to learn the language."

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; 2006 Photo By Tracy A. Woodward -- The Washington Post; The
Herndon day-laborer center, established in late 2005 as an alternative to
unregulated job sites, will be closed Sept. 14.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              370 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 8, 2007 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Poverty Is Still Home-Grown

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 229 words


In his Sept. 5 op-ed, "Importing Poverty," Robert J. Samuelson made  a common
yet fatal mistake when it comes to the supposed link between immigration and
poverty.

Immigrants are no more responsible for poverty than are the native-born working
poor. Demonizing the foreign-born workers who fill so many of the essential yet
low-paying jobs that fewer native-born workers are interested in won't do
anything to raise the minimum wage, expand health insurance coverage or
implement any of the other policies that might alleviate poverty.

Immigrants aren't bringing poverty to the United States. Rather, they are coming
to fill jobs that have always been performed by workers at the economic margins.
Like it or not, the U.S. economy creates large numbers of low-skill jobs that
tend to be filled by younger workers with lower levels of education. As the
native-born population grows older and better educated, more of these workers
are foreign-born. The problem is not the workers who fill the jobs, regardless
of whether they come from Mexico or Missouri. The problem is that the jobs pay
low wages and provide few, if any, benefits.

Perhaps it's time we stop asking where these workers come from and start
focusing on the wages and working conditions of the jobs they fill.

WALTER A. EWING

Research Associate, Immigration Policy Center

American Immigration Law Foundation

Washington

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              371 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 9, 2007 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

The Immigrant-Bashing Tack;
In Virginia, the GOP finds its whipping boy.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 399 words


JITTERY VIRGINIA Republicans, whose grip on state politics has been weakening
steadily for several years, are facing further setbacks in this fall's elections
for the General Assembly, possibly including the end of GOP control of the
Senate for the first time in nearly a decade. In their desperation for a
vote-getter, they have seized on the whipping boy of illegal immigration, which
they blame for ills ranging from the erosion of the commonwealth's values to the
difficulty of being admitted to state colleges.

William J. Howell,  the Republican speaker of the House of Delegates, worried
aloud the other day about the presence of so many newcomers in the Old Dominion.
Mr. Howell said that the state's newest residents, particularly in Northern
Virginia, may not embrace "the shared values we have in Virginia," according to
the Richmond Times-Dispatch. He didn't specify which "shared values" he had in
mind, nor did he draw a distinction between legal and illegal newcomers.

A week earlier, he unveiled the GOP's immigrant-bashing agenda for the
legislative session that will begin in January. Among other measures, it would
bar publicly funded colleges and universities from accepting undocumented aliens
-- even those who have graduated from state elementary, middle and high schools.
To Mr. Howell and his cohorts, it is a mere detail that most public colleges in
Virginia already deny entrance to such immigrants. In fact, the Republicans
could not cite a single example of an illegal immigrant gaining access to public
institutions of higher learning. No matter. The Republicans' point here is to
stick it to the culturally distinct "other" by hook or by crook, even to the
point of suggesting -- again without proof -- that some of the 36 percent of
applicants rejected by four-year public colleges in the state had been denied a
place because of the supposed tide of illegals also seeking higher education.

It's an ugly strategy and certainly not one unique to Virginia. It seeks to
distract voters from core state issues such as transportation, fiscal prudence
and good governance. But bigotry-mongering's day in Virginia is long past, and
voters in the state have shown little disposition to reward candidates who extol
intolerance. If Mr. Howell's "shared values" turn out to be mostly about
immigrant-bashing, the GOP strategy is unlikely to rescue the party's electoral
prospects.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              372 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 10, 2007 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

In a First, a Candidate Forum in Translation;
Democratic Event on Latino Issues Is Exceptional More for Format Than Responses

BYLINE: Perry Bacon Jr.; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 925 words

DATELINE: CORAL GABLES, Fla., Sept. 9


The first presidential forum to be conducted in Spanish placed a couple of the
Democratic participants in an uncomfortable position Sunday night: answering
tough questions while simultaneously fiddling to make sure their earpieces
didn't fall out and they could the hear the translation of the next question.

Those questions dealt with a range of issues of interest to Latino voters, from
health-care policy to relations with Latin America.

Several questions focused on immigration, and the seven participants exhibited
little difference on the issue, with all supporting changes that would allow
illegal immigrants now in the country to stay and eventually receive U.S.
citizenship, and all criticizing anti-immigrant sentiments. Nearly all the
candidates committed to overhauling immigration laws in their first year in
office, days after Republican candidates accused each other in a debate of
supporting "amnesty."

"We all know that this has become a contentious political issue," Sen. Hillary
Rodham Clinton (N.Y.) said. "It is being demagogued, and I believe that it is
being used to bash immigrants, and that must stop. The Republican candidates
need to understand that they are doing a great disservice to our country."

The most remarkable part  of the 90-minute forum, held at the University of
Miami, proved to be not the responses but the format: Questions were posed in
Spanish by two moderators from the Spanish-language television network
Univision, which broadcast the event nationally; interpreters immediately
translated the questions into English for the candidates, while a written
English translation was beamed onto a screen in the arena for the crowd of more
than 3,000.

Univision required candidates to answer in English, because only New Mexico Gov.
Bill Richardson and Sen. Christopher J. Dodd (Conn.) speak Spanish fluently.
That prompted Richardson to criticize the network from the stage Sunday night.

"I'm disappointed today that 43 million Latinos in this country -- for them not
to hear one of their own speak Spanish, is unfortunate," Richardson said. "In
other words, Univision is promoting English-only in this debate."

He then switched to Spanish but was cut off by moderators Jorge Ramos and Maria
Elena Salinas.

Salinas and Ramos, meanwhile, delivered challenges of their own. Dodd, Clinton
and Sen. Barack Obama (Ill.) were called to account for their votes to build a
fence on the U.S.-Mexico border. All three noted their support for broader
rights for Latino immigrants, both legal and illegal, but they said tighter
border security is important. "That has to be part of comprehensive immigration
reform," Clinton said, adding that in some points she supported "even a physical
barrier."

Richardson called the fence "a horrendous example of misguided Washington
policy."

"If you're going to build a 12-foot wall, you know what's going to happen," he
said. "A lot of 13-foot ladders. This is a terrible symbol of America."

That seven of the eight Democratic candidates came to South Florida -- Sen.
Joseph R. Biden Jr. (Del.) did not attend -- underscored the increasing
importance of Latino voters in U.S. politics. Obama's campaign recently
announced that he would skip some of the forums organized by liberal groups in
the Democratic Party, but he was sure not to miss this event.

And the candidates were eager to connect their experiences with those of the
Latino community.

Clinton noted that her campaign manager, Patti Solis Doyle, is a Latina, while
Obama likened the work of labor activist Cesar Chavez to that of Martin Luther
King Jr.

Former senator John Edwards (N.C.) bragged that the small town where he grew up,
Robbins, N.C., "is now half Latino." And Rep. Dennis J. Kucinich (Ohio) said
Spanish should become a second national language, a stance that Dodd and
Richardson would not adopt.

Richardson, the only Latino running for president, was the most explicit he has
been in this campaign in discussing his Mexican American heritage and in
identifying himself with Latino issues.

"I am of the view that Latinos can make a difference in this presidential
election," he said. "Forty-three million of us all around the country can decide
not just what is best for Latinos but what is best for America."

Latinos make up the nation's largest minority group, about 14 percent of
Americans, but they represent only about 9 percent of the electorate because of
lower citizenship and participation rates. Still, their votes are coveted, in
part because Latinos are regarded as a group still up for grabs between
Democrats and Republicans, and because their numbers are particularly strong in
several states Democrats regard as must-wins, such as Florida, California and
New York.

Clinton leads national polls of Latino voters by a wide margin, and she has
gained the support of Latino politicians such as Sen. Robert Menendez (D-N.J.).

But her Democratic rivals are aggressively courting other Latino leaders.
Federico Pe?a, a Cabinet member in the Clinton administration, announced on the
eve of the forum that he is backing Obama.

Univision had scheduled a forum for Republican candidates next week, but only
Sen. John McCain (Ariz.) said he would attend. Several other candidates cited
scheduling conflicts.

Democrats see an opportunity to peel off Latino voters in 2008 because of the
opposition of many leading Republicans, including almost all of the party's
White House candidates, to President Bush's policy that would create a
citizenship path for some illegal immigrants -- a policy that some have labeled
"amnesty."

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Joe Raedle -- Getty Images; Democratic candidates were asked
questions in Spanish that were translated into English. Univision, the forum's
host, required responses to be in English.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              373 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 14, 2007 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Bush Extends Liberians' Residency

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 576 words


President Bush has granted a short-term reprieve for thousands of Liberians who
have lived in the United States for as many as 16 years but who could have faced
deportation beginning Oct. 1, when their temporary residency permits were to
expire.

Citing "compelling foreign-policy reasons," Bush ordered an 18-month stay of
deportation Wednesday for approximately 3,500 Liberians with "Temporary
Protected Status," a category granted to those from certain countries recovering
from natural disasters or armed conflict.

Since 1991, thousands of Liberians have been allowed to live and work in the
United States under the protected status while civil war devastated their west
African nation, which was founded by freed U.S. slaves. The 14-year war ended in
2003, and last year the U.S. government judged Liberia stable and terminated the
temporary permits.

That came as a shock to Liberians in the United States, many of whom had bought
homes, started families and launched careers, and they dreaded the prospect of
returning to a country where 85 percent of people are unemployed, infectious
disease is epidemic and electricity and running water are scarce, according to a
2006 U.N. report.

Liberian community leaders said they were grateful for the decision and would
use the next 18 months to push for permanent residency for those with the
temporary status. Leaders will be "more proactive" and encourage those affected
to contact members of Congress, said Isaac Zawolo, national general secretary of
the Union of Liberian Associations in the Americas.

"We are excited, but also, we are cognizant of the fact that after two years,
our people will still go through this process," said Boniface Satu, president of
the Washington region's Liberian Community Association. "We want to use this
time to appeal to the American government to see if they can finally close this
chapter."

The authorization of "Deferred Enforced Departure" comes after months of
lobbying by Liberian leaders in the United States, who said they pleaded their
case in several meetings with members of Congress and presidential advisers.
Liberian President Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf asked Bush last month to consider
granting deferred departure to eligible Liberians, according to a statement
released by her spokesman yesterday. The statement said that Liberians in the
United States send home $6 million a month, "contributing immensely to the
country's domestic economy."

A bill that would have extended Liberians' temporary protected status for one
year passed the House in late July but was not voted on by the Senate. Proposals
in both chambers to grant permanent residency to Liberians with that status
remain in limbo.

"This is a very important decision on  [Bush's] part, recognizing that Liberia
is still in its formative stages of development as a new democracy and needs to
get its feet underneath it before it can absorb the return of the diaspora,"
said Rep. Patrick J. Kennedy (D-R.I.), who sponsored both House bills. Of the
Liberians, he said: "Their ancestors built America, and they deserve to be
Americans and Liberians."

For Mary Toe Tarpeh of Germantown, a Liberian with temporary protected status,
the news means a chance to finish the master's degree she is working on at
Strayer University and a temporary end to worries about the fate of 15 relatives
in Liberia who survive on her financial support.

"It is a major break," Tarpeh, 41, said. "At least we have another year."

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              374 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 16, 2007 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Tower of Scrabble

BYLINE: Tom Miller

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 454 words


One of the vexing questions in the immigration debate is about language. Should
everyone speak English? What's wrong with Spanish? Why can't we rise up to be a
bilingual nation?

The debate can get nasty at times. A few months ago, former House speaker Newt
Gingrich equated Spanish with "the language of living in a ghetto." California
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger suggested that Latinos simply turn off
Spanish-language television.

Well, I have a solution to the tortured linguistic dilemma for Newt, the
governor, ghetto-dwellers and the rest of us, one that could simultaneously
unify, educate and amuse us all: bilingual Scrabble.

Here's how it's done: Get a Spanish-language Scrabble set -- they're available
at lots of game stores and online. Then play the usual way, with a twist: Any
word can be either English or Spanish.

For example, if you have the Spanish word for rum-- R-O-N on the board --
sandwich it between an F and a T and you get "front." Add E-R-A at the end, and
there's the Spanish word for border, frontera.

Or this: You start with "ant," someone else stretches it slightly to "rant." The
next player earns more points with M-I-G at the beginning -- migrant. Then it's
back to you. You use two E's, one at the beginning and one at the end, and
presto! You have emigrante, Spanish for emigrant.

Okay, here's a little trick with . . . your A-B-Cs. Your Spanish set has a
double L, a double R, and an ? -- that's the "n" with a squiggly line, called a
tilde, on top.

When my family plays bilingual Scrabble -- we're a mix of native English and
Spanish speakers -- we're allowed to use the Spanish letters for English words,
so the word "hello" might only use four tiles, H-E-LL-O. But you could use the
same double L to begin the Spanish word llorona, a weeping woman.

Or, one player uses the double R in the middle of "terror," for example, and the
next player uses the same double R for "arrestar," the verb "to arrest."

There are slightly more letters in the Spanish Scrabble set, and more possible
points because of that.

In case you have a sabelotodo playing -- that's a know-it-all -- always keep a
bilingual dictionary handy.

The best word we've come up with so far is jarroncillos -- little vases -- which
has a J, a double R and a double L for 30 points in all. And that's before any
double or triple squares.

Bilingual Scrabble is great home entertainment. It increases your ability and
agility in both tongues, and it allows you to learn and have fun with a language
without making fun of those who speak it.

We're thinking of inviting Lou Dobbs over for our next game night.

tommiller2007@q.com

Tom Miller is the author of "How I Learned English -- 55 Accomplished Latinos
Recall Lessons in Language and Life."

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              375 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 18, 2007 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Misreading the Poverty Data

BYLINE: Robert Greenstein

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 781 words


In his Sept. 5 op-ed, "Importing Poverty," Robert J. Samuelson assailed the
Census Bureau, the American Enterprise Institute, the Center on Budget and
Policy Priorities, and the media for missing what he views as the core of the
poverty story. When discussing the figures that the Census Bureau released Aug.
28, we all failed, he said, to explain that poverty "is increasingly a problem
associated with immigration," driven by the large numbers of poor Hispanics
entering the country.

But a careful look at the data does not support Samuelson's narrow view of how
immigrants in general, and Hispanic immigrants in particular, affect poverty
trends.

The poverty rate in 2006 was 12.3 percent. If immigration had not increased, and
immigrants and their family members comprised the same share of the population
in 2006 as in 1993 (the first year for which these Census Bureau data are
available), the poverty rate would be nearly the same, about 12 percent.

There is debate on whether immigration lowers the wages of natives -- and the
research on that subject is mixed -- but even if it does, the added effect on
the poverty rate would be small. Immigrants do experience more poverty than
native-born citizens, but they are not driving the nation's poverty rate.

In addition, the overall drop in the poverty rate and the rise in national
median income in 2006, compared with 2005, were driven by improvement among
Hispanics. Hispanic poverty fell, and the median income of Hispanic households
rose. Non-Hispanic whites and African Americans, by contrast, experienced no
such improvement.

Indeed, since 2001, Hispanics have made considerably more progress against
poverty than the other groups. Their poverty rate is lower than it was in 2000,
before the last recession -- it stands at its lowest level on record -- while
poverty rates for non-Hispanic whites and blacks remain well above their
pre-recession levels.

Samuelson focused on longer-term trends and, in particular, on changes in the
number of poor Hispanics since 1990, using Hispanics as a proxy for immigrants.
But in doing so, he told only one side of the story.

In the 1990s, the number of poor Hispanics did increase substantially even as
the number of non-Hispanic poor declined. So Hispanics accounted for the entire
increase in the poverty population in that decade. But that's not true since
2000. The Pew Hispanic Center has found that newly arrived Hispanic immigrant
workers were better educated and much less likely to be low-wage earners in 2005
than in 1995.

Moreover, even while the number of poor Hispanics rose markedly in the 1990s,
the Hispanic poverty rate -- that is, the percentage of Hispanics in poverty --
fell, and it fell more than the poverty rate for the rest of the country. Since
then, the Hispanic poverty rate has continued falling (except for temporary
increases related to recessions), even as large numbers of new immigrants
continue to enter the United States.

How could this be? How could the number of poor Hispanics rise but the
percentage of Hispanics who are poor fall sharply? Because the Hispanic
population is growing so quickly. Samuelson complained that there were 3.2
million more poor Hispanics in 2006 than in 1990. He did not mention that the
number of non-poor Hispanics -- including doctors, teachers, small-business
owners, waiters and members of the armed forces -- grew by 20 million over the
same period. (And contrary to Samuelson's implication that the Center on Budget
and Policy Priorities ignores poverty increases among Hispanics to avoid
upsetting its supporters, we reported frequently in the 1990s on the rising
numbers of poor Hispanics and the role of immigration in contributing to that
increase.)

Nor  was poverty the only issue on which Samuelson's focus was too narrow. He
noted, correctly, that Hispanics accounted for 41 percent of the increase, since
2000, in the number of Americans who lack health insurance. That sounds
alarming, until you realize that Hispanic population growth accounted for 51
percent of total U.S. population growth over this period.

In fact, Hispanics also accounted for 60 percent of the increase in the number
of people with insurance. And the percentage of Hispanics who are uninsured grew
more slowly than the percentage of non-Hispanics who lack insurance.

Poverty, race, ethnicity and immigration are complicated and controversial
issues, and they arouse strong passions. That's all the more reason that we
should be careful how we use data  to tell a story. We should not oversimplify a
complicated story, as the normally careful Samuelson has done here.

The writer is executive director of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              376 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 19, 2007 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Fairfax Hopefuls Spar on Spending;
Illegal Immigration Also Debated in Chairman's Race

BYLINE: Bill Turque; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 993 words


The two major candidates for chairman of the Fairfax County Board of Supervisors
clashed on transportation, immigration and government spending in their first
full-blown debate yesterday, with Republican challenger Gary H. Baise saying
that the "failed leadership" of Democrat Gerald E. Connolly has led to a decline
in the county's quality of life.

"I think it's beginning to deteriorate," said Baise, 66, a lawyer and Nixon-era
Justice Department official running for his first elective office. He said the
county needs "a new approach, a private-sector approach."

Connolly, 57, seeking his second term as chairman, urged the audience not to
"buy the salesmanship" that the county is in trouble.

"He would have you believe that things are going to hell in a handbasket.
Nothing could be further from the truth," Connolly said, citing high test scores
in the Fairfax school system, declining tax rates and unprecedented investments
in transportation improvements.

"We've built a quality of life that is the envy of the United States," he said.

The one-hour exchange, sponsored by the Fairfax County Chamber of Commerce at
the Westin Tysons Corner hotel and moderated by Derek McGinty of WUSA (Channel
9), was lively but civil and substantive.

Baise, a trial lawyer who represents corporate and agricultural clients in
environmental cases, went on the offensive from the start. He said the
chairmanship is the only elective office he will ever seek, a reminder to the
audience that Connolly is expected to run for Congress if Rep. Thomas M. Davis
III (R-Va.) gives up his Northern Virginia seat to run for the U.S. Senate.

"I'm not running for higher office," Baise said. Later in the debate, Baise
asked Connolly about his plans for Congress.

"Yes or no?" he said.

Connolly refused to answer, saying that Fairfax residents will decide in
November whether he is committed to the chairmanship. "My voters will make up
their minds about this race and my future."

The two candidates displayed differences on immigration policy. Connolly and the
supervisors have resisted pressure from Prince William County and other
jurisdictions to follow their lead in trying to drive out illegal immigrants.

Connolly said that immigration enforcement is a federal responsibility and that
the county is best suited to focus on symptoms of the immigration problem, such
as overcrowded housing. The county created a task force on the housing problem
this year.

Baise accused Connolly of "ducking leadership" and said that if he is elected,
police and other local agencies would take a more active role in removing
illegal immigrants, whom he called "these people."

"We're focused on what we can do something about," Connolly said. "You cannot
ask local government to somehow step in for the federal government. What we're
not going to do in Fairfax County is political posturing for demagogic reasons.
. . . That's a past era, something that doesn't represent Fairfax County and its
values."

On government spending, Baise depicted Fairfax under Connolly and the board as
wasteful. He promised stricter scrutiny of tracking where county dollars go.

"We are in a spending frenzy in this county," he said. "If the money comes in,
spend it."

Baise cited a study by the Thomas Jefferson Institute for Public Policy, a
conservative Springfield think tank, that said Fairfax has spent a billion
dollars more over the past four years than would have been the case if spending
had kept pace with the consumer price index. (Baise said after the debate that
he didn't know whether the study was accurate.)

As an example, Baise cited the "four or five lobbyists" assigned by the county
to Richmond when the General Assembly is in session. "That's one of the first
things I'd cut," he said.

Connolly defended the lobbyists, saying that all but one are assigned to
Richmond temporarily and return to other duties when the session ends. "That
lobbying team has brought home hundreds of millions of dollars and protected us
from predatory legislation," Connolly said.

Baise replied: "I wonder what some of the state senators and state delegates [in
the audience] thought of that answer?"

"I thought it was great," said a voice from a table near the back of the hotel
ballroom, to laughter.

The two men also highlighted their differences on transportation and
development. Baise said the planned Metro extension to Tysons Corner and Dulles
International Airport has been plagued by excessive costs and lack of
competitive bidding and transparency.

"Mr. Connolly, that's not leadership. That's not even abdication of leadership.
That's lunacy," Baise said. He proposed scrapping the project as planned and
placing the rail line along the median of the Dulles Access Road, skipping
Tysons Corner.

Connolly said that the rail construction contract is online for anyone to see
and that the real catastrophe would be not having a rail link to the airport.

Baise also criticized Connolly and the board for relying on campaign
contributions from developers of Tysons Corner and other projects.

"You can't take money and make fair decisions," said Baise, who has declined
donations from developers who do business with the county."

Connolly said Fairfax has some of the most stringent laws requiring elected
officials to disclose their financial ties to builders.

Baise aggressively parsed Connolly's record, while the incumbent was silent
during the debate about Baise's career as a corporate litigator in environmental
cases.

But at a news conference before the luncheon, where he accepted endorsements
from the Fairfax chapters of the Sierra Club and the League of Conservation
Voters, Connolly raised questions about Baise's representation of what he called
"environmentally challenged" clients.

Among Baise's past clients is FMC Corp., former owner of Avtex Fibers in Front
Royal, once among the state's biggest corporate polluters.

For more about Virginia politics, see
http://blog.washingtonpost.com/virginiapolitics/.http://

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Board of Supervisors Chairman Gerald E. Connolly, left, and GOP
challenger Gary H. Baise.
IMAGE; By James M. Thresher -- The Washington Post; Baise, right, tried to get
Connolly, the Fairfax incumbent, to clarify his intentions about running for
Congress.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              377 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 20, 2007 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

The Outsider Is In: An Immigrant's Stories;
In Life as in His Acclaimed Work, Author Junot DÃ­az Unites Two Selves

BYLINE: Bob Thompson; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 2450 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Understanding the immigration experience may be impossible if you haven't been
through it. But it helps to hear Junot DÃ­az talk about classified ads.

DÃ­az is the author of "The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao," a novel published
early this month to immediate acclaim. He's sitting in the lobby of the
venerable Algonquin Hotel trying to describe how it felt to be a 6-year-old kid
from the Dominican Republic plunked down in New Jersey in 1974, at "the end of
one world, the beginning of another."

He didn't speak much English for years -- out of stubborn-mindedness, perhaps,
or a child's sensitivity to ridicule -- but he started reading it pretty much
right away. By the time he was 9, he was compulsively consuming newspaper
classified pages. They were, he says, "a window into a world I had no access
to."

One day that window opened just a crack.

Someone had placed an ad offering free books. DÃ­az called and reached an
elderly woman who lived maybe four miles from his house. "I have 500 books and I
don't want to throw them away," she told him. "If you can get over here and get
them, you can have them."

No adult in his life would have cared that he wanted those books, so being
driven to pick them up was out. But he realized that if he took a shopping cart
and made three or four trips, he could get them all.

"That was the first time I found 'The Borrowers,' " he says, referring to Mary
Norton's children's classic about unseen, Lilliputian-scale people who live by
"borrowing" from normal-size humans. Other favorites from this unlikely trove
were titles by explorer and naturalist Roy Chapman Andrews, "the guy who went to
Mongolia and found the dinosaur eggs" -- DÃ­az still dreams of traveling to
Mongolia himself -- and a variety of "books for young people, like 'On Hygiene.'
Great stuff!"

He had a problem, however.

"Bookworm" was not an acceptable identity in the universe he had to navigate to
survive.

His solution was a twist on the superhero narratives he was also absorbing. On
the surface, rather than a mild-mannered Clark Kent type, he would be a tough
guy. "Hypermasculinity and virility" were what his family and community valued,
so he would act like "the most completely normal Dominican immigrant kid."

And when he stepped into that phone booth to become his true self?

"My nerd part was my secret identity," he says.

'How Does It Feel . . . ?'

 DÃ­az is a trim man of 38 with a not-quite-shaved head and a small, neat beard.
He wears jeans and a colorful striped shirt (untucked) and this day gives off no
hyper-male vibes, unless you count the swear words with which he reflexively
laces both writing and conversation.

His father, a veteran of the Dominican military, "was so [expletive] masculine,"
DÃ­az says. "He was into boxing, he got a black belt in judo when I was, like,
10. . . . He was very much a public tough guy, my dad."

The elder DÃ­az preceded the rest of the family to the United States, leaving
his wife and children to make do as best they could. (His mother found a
low-wage job in a chocolate factory.) After he finally brought them to New
Jersey, he left them again.

The middle of five children, DÃ­az says he started writing "because I read so
damned much. I just wanted to participate in this thing that I loved."

In high school he tried to write a horror novel, a la Stephen King. "It didn't
work." In college, at Rutgers, he discovered creative writing classes. He wrote
for hours every day. "It was all junk," he says now, "but it was like this
dream."

A few years later, the dream came explosively true.

DÃ­az had honed his writing skills in grad school at Cornell, sent out reams of
short fiction to magazines that ignored it, worked multiple dead-end jobs. Then
one day he got a call from the editor of Story magazine, who'd been struck by
the power and freshness of his voice. Before long he had an agent and a
collection of linked stories up for auction. Riverhead bought it as part of a
six-figure, two-book deal.

Published in 1996, "Drown" drew far more attention than your average debut.

"DÃ­az has the dispassionate eye of a journalist and the tongue of a poet," said
Newsweek. And: "Talent this big will always make a noise."

"So, Junot Diaz, How Does It Feel to Be a Literary Sensation?" read a headline
in the Los Angeles Times.

"Drown," as the author told the Times of London, was both "deeply fictional and
deeply autobiographical." The first-person narrator -- sometimes unnamed,
sometimes called Yunior -- appears both as a child in the Dominican Republic and
as a tough, troubled immigrant kid trying to make his way in New Jersey. In one
story, he shoplifts, deals dope and becomes estranged from an older friend who's
chosen college. In another, "How to Date a Browngirl, Blackgirl, Whitegirl, or
Halfie," he parses race and class complications in the world he's been forced to
adopt. In a third, he tries, with some difficulty, to present his family
narrative from his father's point of view.

DÃ­az was jarred by his success. "When you get a break from fighting for your
life," he says, "all these debts that you've been deferring suddenly come due."
He now had the luxury of getting depressed.

"It changed his identity," says novelist Francisco Goldman, a close friend. "It
was very, very difficult." He'd been an outsider, then "all of a sudden he was a
successful American."

DÃ­az made several attempts at the promised second book, but they didn't work
out. He earned his living teaching, at Syracuse and then at MIT. A decade went
by.

Finally, he finished "The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao," which New York
Times critic Michiko Kakutani promptly praised as "original" and "galvanic."

Like "Drown," it is narrated in large part by Yunior. Like that first book, too,
it centers on a family of Dominican immigrants. But that's where the obvious
similarities end. "Oscar" is filled with strong women. And the title character
-- at least on the surface -- is as unlike Yunior as he could possibly be.

Oscar de LeÃ³n (the "Wao" is a nickname derived from a mispronunciation of Oscar
Wilde) is an overweight, fantasy- and science-fiction-loving, impossibly
un-macho kid who "looked straight out of a Daniel Clowes comic book." At one
point, he upsets Yunior, with whom he's sharing a Rutgers dorm room, by chalking
a phrase from "The Fellowship of the Ring" on their door.

"In [expletive] Elvish!" Yunior reports.

Then: "Please don't ask me how I know this. Please!"

Superhero twist, anyone? It's hard to read these lines and not see Yunior as
Junot DÃ­az, trying to keep his "completely normal" mask on.

Which would make Oscar his secret nerd identity, revealed at last.

'No Less Absurd Than Hobbits'

 Annie Proulx met DÃ­az not long after the publication of "Drown." The author of
"The Shipping News" and "Brokeback Mountain" had pegged him as "an exciting
young writer." But some years later, when DÃ­az was up for tenure at MIT and
Proulx was asked to read a portion of "Oscar" before writing a letter of
support, she "approached the task with trepidation."

Too many wonderful first story collections, she explains in an e-mail, are
"followed by less exciting novels."

As it turned out, she needn't have worried.

"The work is fresh and pulsing with a vitality rare in American literature,"
Proulx wrote in her letter of support. It is "richly slangy, gliding in and out
of Spanish and English in almost a newly-invented lingua, threaded with reeking
doom, heat, hair, inquieto, and the unsatisfiable yearning of alienated yet
closely-bonded characters."

All this plus hilarious footnotes, extended metaphors from Tolkien and
characters out of Marvel Comics, too.

DÃ­az says he borrowed the footnote notion from a favorite Caribbean novel,
Patrick Chamoiseau's "Texaco." Written in a wildly non-academic voice (yet
nonetheless educational), the notes offer edgy evocations of the largely
forgotten horrors perpetrated by Dominican dictator-for-life Rafael Trujillo,
without whom the Dominican diaspora is impossible to understand.

Tolkien shows up everywhere -- Trujillo is Sauron, his henchmen are Ringwraiths,
a guarded upper-class enclave is "so Minas Tirith" -- but the references are
never explained. Neither, for the most part, are allusions to the Marvel
universe and to numerous other works of pop or high culture. If you're
unfamiliar with Galactus the planet-eater or the works of Joseph Conrad, you're
on your own, just as you are in the many untranslated Spanish passages.

DÃ­az's failure to explain and translate was in part an effort to suggest the
immigrant point of view.

"There's always a space in every immigrant's life which is reserved for what you
don't understand," he says. "In this book, I wanted there to be for everybody an
area that they didn't understand, so that we would all share, in one place or
another, this moment of unintelligibility."

A related point: Those pop-culture references aren't there just because he and
Oscar love what DÃ­az calls "the genres." Immigration is such an apocalyptic
upheaval, he says, that "the quote unquote realistic novel," which tends to
"marginalize extreme experiences," has trouble evoking it.

Time-travel narratives come much closer, he thinks.

And hey: "Some of the myths that nation-states hold dear are no less absurd than
Hobbits."

By way of example, DÃ­az mentions "benevolent occupations," "exporting
democracy" and "American exceptionalism." He discusses the myth of painless
immigrant assimilation, which, like the magician's trick of misdirection,
"exists so that no one looks any further."

Mythology, he concludes, should be an equal-opportunity realm:

"If it's okay for people to have these fantastic myths to help them organize
their beliefs, I might as well deploy the fantastic myths of my childhood to
help me organize and give meaning to things which there isn't language to give
meaning to."

'Consequences Catch Up to You'

But perhaps the central myth of DÃ­az's childhood -- one with which, in his
novel, all the major characters must contend -- is the myth of hypermasculinity,
the notion of how real men are supposed to behave.

Short version: They're supposed to chase every  skirt they see.

The specific culture DÃ­az grew up in, he says, was one "where having a lot of
girlfriends was a given, and, for my father, was a big part of what he
considered his identity."

In "Drown," Yunior's father drags him along when he visits a lover. In real
life, DÃ­az decided not to be like his dad, but he couldn't seem to help
himself.

"You say to yourself, 'I'm not going to be like my parents in this way,' " he
recalls. "And I can still remember the day when I betrayed that constant
mantra."

He was at Rutgers. He had a girlfriend, "and I was always super-serious about my
girlfriend." But one day some friends showed up at his apartment with a bunch of
eager women who had just failed tryouts at a local strip bar.

Diaz excused himself: "I was like, 'Oh, I've got to go to bed now.' " His
friends derided him. As he sat on the edge of his bed, he remembers thinking:
"I'm weak. I'm [expletive] weak. I'm just going to do this."

A few years back, he published a nonfiction piece in the New Yorker that hinged
on infidelity. In it, he's about to travel to the Dominican Republic for the
first time in almost 20 years when his traveling companion, a woman he cares
deeply about, learns that he's cheated on her. The relationship does not
survive.

"She broke my heart, that girl did," DÃ­az wrote, "which was a fair trade,
considering that I'd broken hers first."

"Consequences catch up to you," he says now. "There comes a point where you're
taking more out of the world than you're putting in." He started asking himself,
"Why am I always so miserable, and why is it that all the people that used to
date me hate me?"

"The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao" is dedicated to DÃ­az's fiancee,
Elizabeth de LeÃ³n, who is a lawyer in the New York attorney general's office.

Writing his novel, DÃ­az says, he was obsessed with the concept "of a society
that so values certain kinds of masculinity."

He created Oscar -- the nerd who doesn't look like he has an ounce of macho in
him, the terminally lonely guy who wants desperately to be a Dominican ladies'
man -- as "my foil, my way of talking about these kind of issues."

He created Oscar's fierce mother, the beautiful, scarred Belicia, whose life is
almost destroyed when a Trujillo lieutenant takes her as a teenage mistress.
(DÃ­az got so enamored of Belicia, in fact, that she almost took over the book.)

He created Lola, Oscar's equally fierce and beautiful sister, who shares
narrating duties with Yunior and would be his perfect love if his "completely
normal" male ego would only shrink enough for him to stop running around.

DÃ­az, says Francisco Goldman, digs into the macho hang-ups of Latino men the
same way Philip Roth took on "the things that most discomfited Jews -- savagely
and comically and bravely." But Goldman, whose mother was born Guatemalan, is
also concerned that writers such as DÃ­az and himself "break this stereotype
people have" of Latino writers.

"It's not our job to explain ethnicity," he says.

As for DÃ­az himself: In the course of a two-hour conversation, he repeatedly
confirms that immigration is "the root of who I am as an artist." Yet he's just
as comfortable weighing in on innumerable other literary topics.

He brings up the English children's writer Enid Blyton, another of his childhood
favorites.  "As a kid, I was comforted so profoundly by writers who could never
have imagined me," he says.

He holds forth on writers he loves, from Kiran Desai to Edwidge Danticat to
Alexandre Dumas. Right now, he's immersed in "Grotesque," by the Japanese writer
Natsuo Kirino. He thinks the greatest living American writer is Samuel Delany, a
name better known to science-fiction aficionados than to the reading public
generally ("his text that I recommend to everyone is his labyrinth novel called
'Dhalgren' ").

What will he be working on next?

Well, there's one of the projects he started before "Oscar," a historical
fantasy that sometimes gets referred to as "a Caribbean 'Lord of the Rings.' "
He's written one volume, but doesn't know when he'll get to the three more he's
planned.

But first, he'll go back to something he calls "my destruction of New York City"
novel, of which he'd written a couple hundred pages before the Sept. 11 attacks.
In it, he invents a persecuted minority -- people so neurologically sensitive
that they can't be lied to, and die of emotional burnout before they're 30 --
who turn on the humans oppressing them.

It's hard to know what to make of this without reading it, of course, but it
does make one thing perfectly clear:

Junot DÃ­az has outgrown the need to conceal his inner nerd.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Helayne Seidman For The Washington Post; "My nerd part was my
secret identity," Junot DÃ­az says of growing up in a macho culture. This
duality informs his new novel, "The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao."
IMAGE; By Helayne Seidman For The Washington Post; The success of his 1996 book,
"Drown," created difficulty for Junot DÃ­az in that it "changed his identity,"
says a fellow novelist. After years as an outsider, "all of a sudden he was a
successful American."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              378 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 21, 2007 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Dozens Charged In Money Sting;
Ties to al-Qaeda Mentioned in Investigation

BYLINE: Raymond McCaffrey; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 785 words


The operators of two money-transfer businesses in the District, including a man
suspected of attempting to provide funding to al-Qaeda, are among 45 people
charged in an international investigation of alleged money laundering and other
crimes, federal authorities in Maryland announced yesterday.

Operation Cash-Out, as it was called, spanned more than four years and included
elaborate stings that also exposed what authorities described as efforts to
bribe Maryland tax officials and federal immigration officials. The defendants
included suspects in Spain, Canada and Belgium. Nearly all were born in
Pakistan, authorities said, and many of those in the United States were in the
country illegally.

Four indictments made public yesterday describe hawalas, money exchanges used in
many Muslim countries, that operate by transferring money around the globe
without reliance on traditional banking systems and regulations.

In recent years, law enforcement authorities have cracked down on the informal
exchanges, which investigators have long suspected Osama bin Laden has used to
move money and finance the activities of his terrorist network.

"It's a crude form of Western Union," said James A. Dinkins, a special agent in
charge of the Baltimore office of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
speaking at a news conference.

As the indictments describe the stings, cooperating witnesses provided millions
of dollars in cash to hawala operators at meetings in Laurel, the District and
elsewhere. That money was then given, less commissions, to recipients who were
also cooperating witnesses. The indictments describe cash handoffs of $100,000
or more in Madrid, Amsterdam, Sydney and other cities.

U.S. Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein said the indictments represent the "focus of the
federal government post-9/11." The operation, Rosenstein said, was intended to
"send a message to potential terrorists."

Although one of the principal defendants, Saifullah Ranjha, has a residence in
Laurel, an area where authorities once traced the path of the terrorists
involved in the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, Rosenstein said there are "no
allegations here that link this investigation to 9/11."

None of the defendants was on terrorist watch lists, officials said.

Arrests were made throughout the day, and more than three dozens defendants were
in custody last night.

Authorities are seeking more than $5.1 million in forfeitures as well as
ownership interests in two convenience stores in Snow Hill, Md., a small,
historic town on the Pocomoke River in Worcester County. Your Stop Food Market
and Chicken Man Food Store are owned and operated by brothers Mohammad Riaz
Gujjar and Mohammad Ijaz, naturalized U.S. citizens who were among the
defendants named yesterday.

The investigation involved several agencies, including U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, the FBI and the IRS.

In some cases, authorities said, cooperating witnesses told the hawala operators
that the money they wanted to transfer came from illegal drug trafficking,
providing the basis for the money laundering charges. The indictment states that
Mohammad Ahsan, 49, a Laurel resident who was born in Pakistan and owns Pak
Exchange Services in the 1900 block of 14th Street NW in the District, is
accused of conspiring to launder $520,000 in money he thought was derived from
illegal drug activity.

The indictment alleges that Saifullah Ranjha operated Pak American Money
Transfer, a D.C. business with offices in the 200 block of 11th Street NE. He is
accused of conspiring with five others to launder more than $2.2 million that
they received from a cooperating witness.

The hawalas described in the indictments allegedly failed to comply with federal
laws related to licensing and federal reporting requirements for
money-transmission businesses.

According to the indictment, Ranjha, 44, transferred money through his hawala
for a cooperating witness who told him the funds would be used to support
al-Qaeda. The indictment does not say how much money he allegedly intended to
pass from the witness to the terrorist group.

Some of the defendants allegedly promised to pay almost $500,000 -- and did pay
much of it -- to a cooperating witness in the belief that the money would be
delivered to a U.S. immigration official in exchange for permanent resident
cards.

The indictment also alleges that the brothers who own the convenience stores in
Snow Hill conspired to pay $450,000 in bribes that they thought would be given
to an official of the Maryland Comptroller's Office. Federal officials alleged
that the men wanted the release of more than $1.8 million in state sales and use
tax assessments levied against their convenience stores and other businesses.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Todd Dudek -- Associated Press; Agents from the FBI and other
agencies conduct a raid on a home in Snow Hill, Md., yesterday as part of an
international investigation.
IMAGE; By Steve Ruark -- Associated Press; U.S. attorney for Maryland Rod J.
Rosenstein, second from left, says the international sting operation was meant
to send a message to possible terrorists.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              379 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 24, 2007 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Sacco & Vanzetti Case Is on Trial Again in Boston Exhibit

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C04

LENGTH: 538 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


More  than 80 years after Nicola Sacco and Bartolomeo Vanzetti were executed in
Boston, they still inspire impassioned debate about whether they were guilty of
the murders of two men during a 1920 payroll robbery.

But in a new exhibition at the state's highest court, the guilt or innocence of
the Italian immigrants and committed anarchists is not as important as the
question of whether they received a fair trial.

"The Case of Sacco and Vanzetti: Justice on Trial" explores not only the trial
itself but the tension and political turmoil of the times. The exhibit
highlights the prejudice against immigrants that was prevalent then,
particularly against foreigners who believed in communism, socialism or
anarchism.

Sacco and Vanzetti were arrested several weeks after a payroll clerk and a
security guard were shot and killed during an armed robbery at a shoe factory in
Braintree, south of Boston. Their arrests came during the "Red Scare," a period
characterized by a widespread fear of political radicals, a series of bomb
attacks against U.S. government officials and retaliatory raids in which
thousands of suspected radicals were arrested and deported.

Their 1921 trial drew international attention.

After they were convicted and sentenced to die in the electric chair,
supporters, including political dissidents, unionists and Italian immigrants,
staged demonstrations across the United States and Europe to condemn what they
considered a miscarriage of justice. Poet Edna St. Vincent Millay was among the
protesters arrested in Boston.

The exhibit, which opened earlier this month and will run indefinitely, is
displayed in a small room in the John Adams Courthouse, where the Supreme
Judicial Court hears appeals in cases ranging from property disputes to
sensational murder cases. Placards and photographs guide visitors through the
story of the two men. There is also a computer terminal where visitors can link
to the Web site of law professor Douglas Linder and read trial transcripts,
statements Sacco and Vanzetti made at their sentencing and letters they wrote
from prison.

SJC Chief Justice Margaret Marshall said the exhibit is part of the high court's
effort to give the public opportunities to learn about the legal system. It is
open free of charge to visitors during courthouse hours.

"What I think they can take away from this exhibit is that they understand that
we really do live in a country where we try our very best to make sure that
people receive a fair trial, but that sometimes there may be a perception that a
mistake is made," she said.

"This is a chance to go back and look at the circumstances of that trial and see
if there's anything we can learn that will teach us about our system of
government."

The case has been the subject of countless books, plays, popular songs and even
operas. The exhibit includes a copy of Millay's poem, "Justice Denied in
Massachusetts," and a small sampling of what has been written about the case. A
1920s-style radio lets visitors listen to Joan Baez, Woody Guthrie and Pete
Seeger sing about the pair.

Some who have studied the case see parallels between the antagonism toward
immigrants in Sacco and Vanzetti's time and the country's current divide over
immigration.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              380 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 28, 2007 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Celebrating Arts, Culture With More Serious Tone;
Immigrants Confronting Key Legal Issues

BYLINE: Sylvia Moreno; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 859 words


In years past, Santos Lopez Gonzalez has been a featured performer at his
school's Hispanic Heritage Month celebration, strumming his guitar to the words
of one of his country's most beloved anthems, "Patria Querida"  by Salvadoran
composer Alvaro Torres.

"Beloved Mother Country" is a song about nostalgia, about the melancholy that
comes with living far from home in the gamble to make a better life.

"It is like the moment we feel now in this country," said Lopez, a culinary arts
and GED student at the Carlos Rosario International School by day and a sautÃ©
chef at a District hotel by night. "We are over here working hard and facing a
lot of problems, like the immigration issue."

This year, more than any other in recent memory, the annual Hispanic Heritage
Month observation in the District, traditionally a celebration of colorful
folkloric dance troupes, brassy mariachis and pulsating salsa dance bands, has
taken a more serious tone.

This is a time not only to commemorate Latino roots, arts and culture, but to
discuss the recent wave of proposed laws in the Washington area and other parts
of the country that organizers have denounced as racist and anti-Latino.

"The winds are not blowing in our direction," said Pedro Aviles, executive
director of the National Capital Immigrant Coalition, which co-sponsored a town
hall meeting today on immigration with the Central American Resource Center and
the Latino Federation of Greater Washington.

"We need to discuss the threats, the opportunities and the strategies to move
our community forward in light of the anti-immigrant atmosphere we're in,"
Aviles said. "This is both a celebration and a reflection."

That discussion was factored into this year's District commemoration of Hispanic
Heritage Month, a week-long observation sponsored by Fiesta DC, a nonprofit
organization. What was once just a parade has evolved this year into a week of
events that included a health fair, an arts gala and a discussion on issues
facing professional, as well as immigrant, Hispanic women. Fiesta DC culminates
Sunday in the Mount Pleasant neighborhood with a Parade of Nations, three
musical stages and a children's literacy fair.

The town hall meeting on immigration this afternoon is to be held at the Carlos
Rosario School in Columbia Heights, where tens of thousands of adult immigrants
have gone the past 31 years to learn English, acquire job skills, take
citizenship-preparation classes and be coached on filling out income tax forms.

"In this school, we pride ourselves on how to help immigrants become good
citizens," said Sonia Gutierrez, executive director and founder. "We take our
responsibility very seriously."

Many immigrant advocates believe the area's large Latino immigrant community is
in crisis.

Among the issues they cite: Undocumented individuals cannot legalize their
status because of Congress's failure this year to pass comprehensive immigration
reform; and Latinos in general believe they might become victims of
discrimination and profiling under proposals in Prince William County to
restrict public services to illegal immigrants and allow police to check
immigration status. Similar proposals are under discussion in Frederick,
including denying emergency public services to undocumented immigrants.

"It's fine we celebrate our heritage, but at the same time, it's critical we
express how upset we are and to do that through elections," said Gustavo Torres,
executive director of Casa de Maryland, a Silver Spring organization that has
been an advocate on behalf of immigrants for more than two decades. "That's the
beauty of our democracy."

An estimated 225,000 legal immigrants in the Washington area are eligible to
become U.S. citizens. Citizenship would give them the right to vote, a campaign
that area advocacy groups plan to focus on leading up to the 2008 presidential
election, Torres said.

He is scheduled to speak at the town hall meeting, along with Arlington County
Board member Walter Tejada, Maryland State Delegate Ana Sol Guiterrez
(D-Montgomery County) and other immigrants rights advocates.

"There's a lot of confusion and a lot of anxiety and, regrettably, the politics
of fear have been used effectively by those who intend to create fear of
immigrants: that they don't pay taxes, that they're all criminals and a drain on
public services," Tejada said.

"Of course there are challenges,  and we need to make sure that we have a legal
and orderly immigration system in this country," he said. "However, the
realization we need to come to is that our immigration system is broken and
those in charge of fixing it have failed."

The local discussion has lost sight of the breadth of the Latino community in
Washington, a combination of U.S. citizens and legal residents, as well as
undocumented immigrants, said Saul Solorzano, executive director of the Central
American Resource Center. Many believe that all Latinos have been unfairly
stereotyped as illegal.

"The feeling in the immigrant community is that many people are under stress
because of the way the debate is going," he said. "But life goes on. We need to
celebrate as we find ways to fight these challenges."

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photos By Preston Keres -- The Washington Post; Culinary arts
student Santos Lopez Gonzalez, right, helps prepare a meal at the Carlos Rosario
International School in the District.
IMAGE; Lopez Gonzalez, a student at Carlos Rosario International School, works
at night as a sautÃ© chef at a District hotel. He has played guitar at his
school's heritage celebration.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              381 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 28, 2007 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Muslim Activist Leaves Va. Panel;
Web Videos Show Talk of 'Jihad Way'

BYLINE: Tim Craig; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1046 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND, Sept. 27


-- A prominent Northern Virginia surgeon and Muslim activist appointed by Gov.
Timothy M. Kaine to a state immigration commission was forced to resign Thursday
after videos surfaced of him referring to the "Israeli war machine" as well as
statements he made seven years ago in support of the "jihad way" in the Middle
East.

Last month, Kaine (D) appointed Esam S. Omeish, chief of the division of general
surgery at Inova Alexandria Hospital, to a 20-member panel that is spending six
months examining whether Virginia needs to do more to curtail illegal
immigration.

On Thursday, videos surfaced showing Omeish, who is also president of the Muslim
American Society, giving speeches about Israel's relationship with its Arab
neighbors.

After reviewing the videos, which were brought to Kaine's attention by a caller
to his live monthly radio program, Kaine asked for Omeish's resignation from the
Virginia Commission on Immigration.

"Dr. Omeish is a respected physician and community leader, yet I have been made
aware of certain statements he has made which concern me," Kaine said in a
statement. "Dr. Omeish indicated he did not want this controversy to distract
from the important work of the commission."

The resignation could be embarrassing for Kaine as he tries to respond to calls
to do more about illegal immigration. Republicans are using the overall issue to
try to win votes in this fall's campaign for control of the General Assembly.

Kaine has taken a measured approach, placing blame on the federal government's
failure to secure the borders and enact immigration reform. He has said he
wanted the 20-member immigration commission, which the General Assembly created
this year, to develop recommendations. House and Senate leaders appointed 10
members of the committee; Kaine appointed the other 10.

Omeish, of Fairfax County, is also on the board of directors of the Dar Al
Hijrah Islamic Center in Falls Church. He graduated from Georgetown University.
He was unavailable for comment.

In one of the videos, at http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lajn3zOoWt4, Omeish is
shown speaking in August last year at a rally on the Mall in opposition to
Israel's invasion of Lebanon that summer. Omeish demands that Israel release
Lebanese political prisoners and condemns President Bush's use of the phrase
"Islamic fascism."

"The invasion of Lebanon, the destruction of its infrastructure and the
deliberate targeting of civilians during the barbaric and disproportionate
Israeli war machine is indeed criminal and must end now," Omeish says on the
video.

In another video, at http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E6t5QkFtks4, Omeish is
speaking at a "Jerusalem day" rally in Lafayette Square. In the clip, dated Dec.
22, 2000, he urges the crowd to stand with Muslims fighting in the Middle East.

"We, Muslims of the Washington metropolitan area, are here today in subfreezing
temperatures to tell our brothers and sisters that you have learned the way,
that you have known the jihad way is the way to liberate your land," Omeish
says. "And we, by standing here today despite the weather, we are telling them
we are with you. We are supporting you." The clip shows 38 seconds of Omeish's
speech, so the context of his remarks about jihad are unclear.

The Washington-based Investigative Project on Terrorism, which tracks what it
thinks are radical Muslim groups, posted both videos on YouTube.

Omeish told the Associated Press late Thursday that his comments in the videos
were taken out of context and that his reference to "the jihad way" was not a
call for violent attacks.

"In Islam, jihad is a broad word that means constant struggle -- struggling
spiritually, emotionally, intellectually, physically -- in all respects. So my
words were in support of people who are resisting occupation and people who are
trying to . . . remove oppression from their land," Omeish said.

Kaine appointed Omeish to the immigration panel because the governor wanted the
group to be diverse and include a Muslim representative, administration
officials said. The legislation establishing the panel also required that at
least one member be a medical professional. Kaine said he will replace Omeish
with another Muslim.

Omeish is on the board of directors of the Dar Al Hijrah center, one of the
Washington area's oldest and largest mosques. It was scrutinized after the Sept.
11, 2001, terrorist attacks. At Inova Alexandria, Omeish was the surgeon on call
after the Pentagon attack.

The FBI and the federal 9/11 commission concluded that two of the Sept. 11
hijackers briefly worshiped at the mosque after one of them befriended its imam
in San Diego. FBI officials have said they found no evidence that the imam, who
has since resigned and left the country, had prior knowledge of the attacks.

In 2005, Omeish joined a group of moderate Muslim clerics in the United States
in denouncing Islamic terrorism overseas.

The Islamic center is closely affiliated with the Muslim American Society.
Several of the group's founders had been active in the Muslim Brotherhood, a
movement that started in Egypt in the 1920s and advocates a purer, more
restrictive form of Islam in the Middle East.

Before the videos surfaced, Del. C. Todd Gilbert (R-Shenandoah) had written a
letter to Kaine on Tuesday expressing concern about Omeish's links to the Muslim
American Society.

"There are many of our fellow Muslim citizens who value our democratic
institutions and constitutional guarantees," Gilbert wrote. "The origins,
affiliations and goals of the Muslim American Society, however, should be a
matter of grave concern to all Virginians."

Before he saw the videos, Kevin Hall, Kaine's spokesman, dismissed Gilbert's
letter as xenophobic. After Omeish resigned, Gilbert praised Kaine for acting
swiftly to remove him.

"I would hope that the governor's staff was vetting candidates for state
commissions a little better, but I am certainly pleased the governor himself has
taken action," Gilbert said.

Hall said the governor's office carefully scrutinizes appointees to state
commissions. "But I think it is fair to say that YouTube was not part of the
vetting process in this case," Hall said. "It certainly will be from here on
out."

Staff writers Pamela Constable, Dan Eggen and Mary Beth Sheridan contributed to
this report.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Youtube; Esam S. Omeish, seen in a video posted online, was on
the Virginia Commission on Immigration.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              382 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 30, 2007 Sunday
                                 Met 1 Edition

WEEK IN REVIEW;
Sept. 23-29

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C04

LENGTH: 777 words

Doctor Ousted From Immigration Board Video Comments Prompt Action by Governor

 A prominent Northern Virginia surgeon and Muslim activist appointed by Gov.
Timothy M. Kaine to a state immigration commission was forced to resign after
videos surfaced of him referring to the "Israeli war machine" as well as
statements he made seven years ago in support of the "jihad way" in the Middle
East.

Kaine (D) had appointed Esam S. Omeish, chief of the division of general surgery
at Inova Alexandria Hospital, to a 20-member panel that is spending six months
examining whether Virginia needs to do more to curtail illegal immigration.

After viewing videos showing Omeish, who is also president of the Muslim
American Society, giving speeches about Israel's relationship with its Arab
neighbors, Kaine asked for the doctor's resignation.

Democrats Label GOP as Out of Touch Assembly Needs New Direction, Leaders Say

House and Senate Democratic leaders launched a statewide tour to try to regain
control of the Virginia General Assembly, arguing that Republicans have failed
to adequately address transportation, public education and health care.

Hoping for a repeat of Democrats' recent success, party leaders in Virginia said
the Nov. 6 election will be a referendum on whether voters are ready for a new
direction in the General Assembly.

Democratic leaders said the Republican majority has stymied the state's quality
of life because it is too conservative and out of touch with the concerns of the
average voter.

Executions Might Be Delayed Supreme Court to Rule on Lethal Injection Method

The Supreme Court's decision to consider whether lethal injection is cruel and
unusual punishment will probably delay at least one Virginia execution scheduled
for next month and could have a wide-ranging effect in the state, depending on
what the justices decide, lawyers said. There have been 70 executions by lethal
injection in Virginia since the mid-1990s.

If the court rules in a Kentucky case that lethal injection is unconstitutional,
it would have a dramatic effect on capital punishment in Virginia and elsewhere,
experts said. But the ruling won't come until next year, possibly as late as
June. Virginia has 20 inmates on death row, but just one has a scheduled
execution date: Christopher S. Emmett, on Oct. 17.

Most Kids Are Not Changing Schools Option to Attend Better Performers Is
Underused

 This fall, about 170 Northern Virginia children transferred from elementary
schools that fell short of academic goals to schools with better math and
reading test scores, exercising an option under the federal No Child Left Behind
law: Children in schools that struggle year after year can move to
better-performing schools. Most of their peers, however, stayed behind.

Northern Virginia's experience mirrors the regional and national picture five
years after the law took effect. Only about 1.2 percent of 5.4 million children
nationwide who are eligible for such moves are taking advantage of the federal
offer.

One Judge Rules Driver Fees Illegal Arlington Decision Is Not Binding on Other
Cases

An Arlington County General District Court judge has ruled that Virginia's
abusive-driver fees are unconstitutional, saying they violate guarantees of
equal protection because they apply only to state residents.

Judge Dorothy H. Clarke ruled in the case of Oscar R. Hernandez, who was charged
July 5 with driving without a license in Arlington. Under the law, which has
triggered widespread complaints, Hernandez would face a civil fee of $300 a year
for three years in addition to any criminal fines.

Clarke's ruling is thought to be the first decision of its kind in Northern
Virginia. It is not binding outside of Arlington or for other District Court
judges in the county, and it could be overturned by a higher court.

Across the Region Stadium Delays; Slots in Maryland; More MARC

Â· Expansion of the Navy Yard Metro station is seven weeks behind schedule, and
the team's proposal to use an 800-space parking garage under the U.S. Department
of Transportation headquarters two blocks away was rejected by the federal
government because of security concerns. The stadium is to open in April.

Â· Maryland Gov. Martin O'Malley (D) said he will propose slot machine gambling
legislation "very similar" to a failed 2005 plan that sought to legalize 9,500
machines at racetracks and other locations in Allegany, Anne Arundel, Frederick
and Harford counties.

Â· Maryland transportation officials outlined an ambitious expansion of MARC
train service that would extend it across the Potomac River into Northern
Virginia and more than triple the system's capacity in the next three decades.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Youtube; Stepping Down In YouTube videos, Esam S. Omeish spoke
of the Israeli-Arab conflict in terms that led to his resignation.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              383 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 30, 2007 Sunday
                                 Met 1 Edition

Politicization of Immigration Dims Lights at Beacon of Help

BYLINE: Marc Fisher

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 828 words


In Seung Hui Cho's short, disturbed life, there was one hopeful chapter. For
about four years while he was in middle and high school, the boy who would
become the Virginia Tech shooter was in the care of therapists who used art and
play to draw him out of his muted world and show him how to cope.

Fairfax County's school system sent Cho to the Center for Multicultural Human
Services in Falls Church, which, for 25 years, has found ways to connect with
mentally ill children of immigrants as well as people who find asylum in the
United States but bear the wounds of war, poverty and dislocation.

In the aftermath of the Virginia Tech tragedy, after we've learned how
dangerously limited the state's mental health system is, you'd think places such
as CMHS would be more valued than ever. You'd be wrong. The center, founded as a
foster care program for orphaned refugee children, is on the verge of closing.

"To be honest, this month, I don't know how things are going to come together to
make payroll," said Dennis Hunt, longtime director of the center, which relies
on local and federal government grants and donations from corporations,
foundations and individuals.

With the feds cutting back on mental health funding and illegal immigration
emerging as a highly emotional political issue, the center is seeing most of its
traditional sources of money dry up. "We're getting feedback from corporations
that maybe this is something they don't want to be involved in because of the
climate right now," Hunt said.

As a result, the center is saddled with $500,000 in debt and was forced to lay
off half of its staff of 85 counselors and case managers.

Although the center doesn't require its clients to divulge their legal status,
Hunt said about 80 percent of the immigrants who get help from CMHS -- with
mental health, housing, legal issues, gang prevention and English-language
instruction -- are in this country legally. The center treats about 8,000 people
a year, mostly in Fairfax but also from throughout Northern Virginia.

Many are people such as Getahun Lema, an Ethiopian social worker who was
tortured because of his opposition to his country's political powers. Lema, who
came to the United States in 2003 and works as a security guard, heard about
CMHS from a friend and sought help for depression. He got far more than therapy:
Counselors and case managers helped him win asylum and thus legal status. They
provided him with transitional housing so he could bring his wife and children
from Ethiopia.

"Psychologically and socially, they provided for me so that my family could come
together," said Lema, 46. "They showed me how to find a job, how to work with
the American system. In America sometimes, you are confused. Here, they tell me
I will be okay, America is a land of opportunity. When I am here, I think I am
in my country."

Lema beams as he boasts about his son, who is in college, and his younger
children, who attend "the best school in Virginia," Lemon Road Elementary School
in Falls Church.

Therapist Abdel Mostafa, an Egyptian immigrant and physician who cares for many
of the center's African and Middle Eastern clients, said Lema is typical of
immigrants who might be here legally but find themselves depressed and lost in a
new place where no one knows about the torture they escaped. "Many of them see
no way out except suicide or being a criminal," Mostafa said.

With short-term help, however, most CMHS clients quickly gain confidence and
find jobs and friends. "If we can help them with their housing and legal issues,
it's amazing how their mental health gets better, too," said Ricarda Dowling,
the center's development director.

The anti-illegal immigration fervor sweeping Northern Virginia has made the
center's work much more difficult, Hunt said. CMHS counselors describe a panic,
especially among Hispanic immigrants, some of whom they say are afraid to enroll
their children in school for fear of provoking a visit from police. (When CMHS
started, its clients were mostly from Vietnam and other Southeast Asian
countries. Today, clients come from more than 50 nations, with El Salvador,
Bolivia, Vietnam, Peru, Cameroon and Ethiopia supplying the most.)

Despite the political and media spotlights on illegal immigration, none of the
case managers I spoke to have seen any new reluctance on the part of employers
to hire immigrants. Counselors say most employers understand that most
immigrants are here legally and that the United States remains a beacon for
victims of war around the world.

So the center is organizing a celebration of immigration and a fundraiser called
"We Are America Now" Nov. 2 in McLean, with Hong Le Webb, the Vietnamese-born
wife of Sen. James Webb (D-Va.), as chairwoman.

But it's a tough time: "We still don't have a solid sponsor for the event," Hunt
said. "The corporations are backing away. We've been told, 'Why don't you say
it's about 'diversity' instead of 'immigrants'?"

E-mail: marcfisher@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              384 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 30, 2007 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Letters To the Editor

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW02

LENGTH: 924 words

Police-Powers Resolution Is 'Another Scare Tactic'

One of the most important votes the Prince William Board of County Supervisors
will take comes Tuesday.

The board will decide whether to direct county police to expand their
participation in the enforcement of federal immigration laws. If this directive
would change anything substantively, then it might have some merit. But the
principal change will be to continue to promote the divisiveness and discord
that have been the board's benchmarks for the past nine months.

County police already participate in enforcing federal immigration laws, period!
When they pick up someone they suspect is a criminal and perhaps here illegally,
does anyone really think they let them go? Of course not. They haul them off to
jail, and the jail contacts U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

This resolution is another scare tactic, a right-wing ploy designed to take an
obvious problem and promise the public they will deal with it. In this case, the
board chairman and the Gainesville supervisor are attempting to fool voters
again. They got away with it last November when they promised to curb growth in
the midst of a real estate downturn. The public was fooled. Well, fool me once,
and shame on them. Fool me twice, and shame on me!

Four of the finest, hard-working, public-service-oriented supervisors since I
moved here in 1972 are Hilda M. Barg (D-Woodbridge), Maureen S. Caddigan
(R-Dumfries), John D. Jenkins (D-Neabsco) and Martin E. Nohe (R-Coles). They
come with one agenda: to serve the public. It is clear they are all
knowledgeable about county affairs and do not carry any ideological baggage.

It is especially interesting that Caddigan, Jenkins and Nohe took the board to
task at the last meeting about the costs of implementing the resolution. They
howled at the almost $3 million per year cost. But the plan will cost
considerably more than $3 million. For every nickel the board spends on county
operations,  it is committed to spend a similar amount on the school budget. As
a result, the $3 million becomes $6 million.

In addition, the county attorney's office will need funds for more attorneys or
outside counsel to handle the lawsuits that will follow. La Raza and the
American Civil Liberties Union are licking their chops at the prospect of
racial-profiling litigation. Those costs will pale relative to county taxpayer
liability if we lose any lawsuits. And there are inevitable increases as
unforeseen issues come up. For example, personnel and administrative costs for
protecting the county's interests when racial-profiling issues come up could be
significant.

Those costs need to be weighed against benefits. If there would be any change in
the number of undocumented immigrants sent to ICE, as is the common perception,
that is one thing. But that is not the case. County police and federal agents
have been picking up criminal illegal immigrants for the past several years,
quietly and effectively.

But ICE has a ceiling for the county of 40 hardened criminals per month. And
that will not change under current plans. In other words, this is another hoax
being played on county taxpayers by politicians who seek to keep themselves in
office while they plan for the next election. Another cost, according to Police
Chief Charlie T. Deane, is that the resolution will close many helpful
investigative avenues for county police in the Latino community.

The county had severe budget restraints last year, and they will get worse in
the coming years as real estate values decline. How, then, do supervisors pay
for the non-crackdown crackdown? Last year, in a cutting frenzy, the chairman
tried to close neighborhood libraries and programs for our youths and seniors.
In addition, the county's domestic-relations judges were incensed with the
closure of the post-disposition program, a safety net for problem youths. Those
programs on an individual basis cost a lot less than $3 million.

The chairman has also bragged that this type of resolution would be the first of
its kind in the nation. That means we would be the guinea pig for federal
courts, which recently overturned similar resolutions by other localities.

It is also noteworthy that immigration was not even listed as a problem by
county  residents when the University of Virginia conducted the annual residents
survey this spring. Yet it is now. Why?

The media reported earlier that the resolution had its origins when the
Washington-based, right-wing, anti-immigrant Federation for American Immigration
Reform helped the Gainesville supervisor draft the resolution. Certainly there
are immigration problems in Prince William and many other parts of the nation.
In our case, the intensity of the problem -- with the bombs, demonstrations,
marches and the KKK -- has been orchestrated by FAIR. It is plain to see that
Prince William is being used as another test case by FAIR.

The county could spend more resources enforcing neighborhood crowding
ordinances. Residents have been on a roller coaster with regard to illegal
immigration. The plans on the table have been touted across the region as a
crackdown, when it turns out they have no substance.

Some supervisors seem to be simply going along with the chairman so they won't
look like they are pro-illegal immigration. But they are prolonging the problems
by chasing headlines rather than doing something.

Please contact your supervisor and say you want real action on the problems ,
not a lot of meaningless rhetoric . . . expensive rhetoric.

Kevin M. Raymond

Woodbridge

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              385 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             October 1, 2007 Monday
                                 Every Edition

2 N.Va. Firms Win Immigration Document Deals

BYLINE: Nick Wakeman; Special to the Washington Post

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. D04

LENGTH: 527 words


The Department of Homeland Security has awarded two contracts worth $225 million
each to a pair of Northern Virginia companies for document management at four
immigration services centers.

SI International of Reston and Stanley Inc. of Arlington received the three-year
contracts from the department's U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services
agency. Each company will support two centers that process visa applications and
other immigration petitions.

The four centers together handle more than 5 million paper applications a year.
Many of the documents come in from U.S. embassies around the world. SI will
support centers in Dallas and Lincoln, Neb., while Stanley will support centers
in Laguna Niguel, Calif., and St. Albans, Vt.

The contractors will run mailrooms and provide data entry, fee collection and
records management services. They also will be responsible for ensuring that
application files contain all the information needed to make a decision on a
petition, officials with both companies said.

For SI, the contract is a role reversal. During the past six years, the company
has been a subcontractor at the centers with JHM Research and Development of
Silver Spring as the prime contractor. JHM won the previous contract through a
small business set-aside, but the new contract was awarded through an open
competition that allowed any business to bid, said Brad Antle, SI's chief
executive.

Under the new award, JHM is on SI's team as a subcontractor. Other team members
include Lockheed Martin, Zimmerman Associates, HeiTech Services, iDox Solutions,
Unisys and Base One Technologies.

SI officials estimated that their two centers could require up to 800 employees,
including subcontractors.

Being the prime contractor gives SI an opportunity to build a closer
relationship with the immigration agency, Antle said. Homeland Security is an
important customer for the company, representing up to 20 percent of its
revenue, Antle said. In 2006, SI reported $462 million in revenue.

For Stanley, the contract is its first with the immigration agency, said Pat
Flannery, vice president of corporate development. "This is a new customer for
us so we are very excited," he said.

The award will help the company expand its business with Homeland Security,
Flannery said. About 3 percent of Stanley's revenue comes from the cabinet
agency, through work performed for the Coast Guard. For fiscal 2007, ended March
31, Stanley reported $409.4 million in revenue.

Stanley has started a 60-day transition as it takes over work at its two centers
from JHM, said Kristen Moulin, Stanley's transition manager and deputy program
manager for the contract. The change should be completed by the end of November.

Moulin said Stanley will draw from its experience at the State Department, where
it processes passport applications. "It is a high-volume environment," she said.

Stanley officials declined to name their partners on the contract but estimated
that as many as 1,000 people could be working on the project between their two
centers.

Nick Wakeman is editor of Washington Technology magazine. For information

on this and other contracts,

go to www.washington

technology.com.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              386 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             October 8, 2007 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Immigrant Proposal Divides Frederick;
Official Suggests Denying Services

BYLINE: Philip Rucker; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1150 words


The immigrant community in Frederick County grew quickly and quietly in the
first half of this decade. Priced out of such places as Adams Morgan, Silver
Spring and Manassas, many Latinos migrated up Interstate 270, drawn by
Frederick's booming construction and retail service industries.

Longtime residents of the once-sleepy exurb began to notice: Latin groceries
cropped up on the so-called Golden Mile of shopping. The school system budget
for language interpreters grew by $1 million in two years. And this spring, a
spotlight turned on a Frederick immigrant enclave when a Salvadoran man and his
four children were found dead in their townhouse.

But still, people kept quiet -- until a county commissioner suggested in August
that Frederick deny public services, including schooling, to immigrants in the
United States illegally. Commissioner Charles A. Jenkins's proposal to follow
the lead of Prince William and Loudoun counties in targeting illegal immigrants
sparked a firestorm in Frederick, whose foreign-born population has nearly
tripled this decade and is the fastest-growing in Maryland.

As the county board prepares to vote tomorrow whether to advance Jenkins's
proposal to the state legislature, Frederick is a community deeply divided.

Racial tensions are flaring, and fear has taken hold among immigrants, some of
whom say they feel this county 40 miles north of Washington is trying to push
them out. Residents are speaking out, and loudly.

A public forum on the issue last week stretched past midnight with dozens saying
the proposal is an unconstitutional violation of civil rights. Further,
opponents say, immigration policy is the province of Congress, not county
commissioners.

Jenkins and his backers say illegal immigrants are sucking up public dollars,
especially in the schools, where the cost to teach English has soared. "My
proposal was that if you're going to avail yourself of benefits that are
provided by taxpayer dollars that you at least demonstrate that you belong in
this country legally," said Jenkins, a Republican.

Immigration, particularly the debate on how to address those who are in the
county illegally, has suffused the Washington region.

In July, county supervisors in Prince William and Loudoun approved resolutions
to deny certain public services to illegal immigrants, but they have run into
legal and financial barriers. In Anne Arundel, County Executive John R. Leopold
(R) issued an executive order in August banning businesses with county contracts
from employing workers in the country illegally.

But Frederick's government charter does not give its county board the power to
take such action. The five county commissioners can vote only to recommend that
the county's state senators and delegates introduce Jenkins's proposal as a bill
in the 2008 state General Assembly.

It is uncertain whether the proposal will win support from a majority of the
commissioners. If it does, the bill will stand little chance before the state's
liberal legislature. Even Jenkins acknowledges this much.

"I don't think it will even make it to Annapolis," he said.

And so the proposal is more a symbolic statement -- a fractious one.

"For a proposal like this to cut at the heart and bring tension, it's just a
divisive proposal that will turn back all of the hard work that has been done to
bring our community together," said Guy Djoken, president of the local NAACP
chapter.

Salvadoran native Rosi Arriaza, who rings up customers at the A-International
Market on West Patrick Street in the west end of town where many immigrants are
settling, agreed.

"People here are scared," Arriaza said under the chatter of a telenovela. Two
weeks ago, when police  pulled into the parking lot, she recalled telling
customers: "Go home. Don't stay here. It's dangerous."

"People are scared that the government will send them home," she said.

"I've been here 20-something years, and I've never seen something like this
before," said Oscar Lazo, who also emigrated from El Salvador and runs a Mexican
restaurant a few doors down. "It's like we are being chased out."

"We just came here to work hard and improve the economy of this county," Lazo
added. "We are not coming here to create problems for the county."

In 2000, Frederick County had about 7,800 foreign-born residents. By last year,
according to the U.S. Census Bureau, that number had soared to more than 19,000
-- an estimate some community leaders call conservative.

"If indeed there was a homogeneity 15 years ago, today there's much more
diversity," said the Rev. John Deckenback, who opposes Jenkins's proposal. "Some
people reminisce that they want to roll the clock back to being a Sleepy Hollow,
being a nice little village on the edge of the D.C. metropolitan area."

The influx of immigrants has hit a nerve. One resident wrote in an e-mail to the
commissioners, "Is Frederick County a 'Sanctuary County' for illegal aliens? In
my observation, illegal aliens are operating with impunity here."

Another wrote, "It's about time. Finally someone is taking serious, tangible
action."

Jenkins said he was persuaded to introduce his proposal after a series of summer
budget meetings in which county officials said they needed more money for
interpreters who speak Spanish. The school system asked for $2.9 million for
interpreters, up from $2.2 million the year before.

There are about 1,200 English-language learners in the school system, about 800
of whom speak Spanish as their primary language, according to school data.

"It came to me: Do we ever ask for citizenship status for people who are
availing themselves of these public benefits?" Jenkins said. "The answer to that
was, 'No, we don't.' "

Commissioners President Jan H. Gardner (D) has been one of Jenkins's most vocal
critics. "On the surface, when he says people who aren't paying in should be
denied services, there's some logic there," she said. "But when you look into
it, it falls apart."

"I think there is a tremendous amount of concern about illegal immigration out
there. Everybody is passionate about it," Gardner said. "The question to us is,
do we have a role in addressing it?"

The short answer, she said, is no. The U.S. Supreme Court ruled in 1984 that
states cannot deny illegal-immigrant children access to public education.

"I think it's wrong for elected officials to propose a solution to a real or
perceived problem by breaking the law," Gardner said. "It leads to anarchy."

Jenkins said he's willing to use Frederick as a test case and take it to the
nation's high court. But doing so could cost millions in legal fees.

Ultimately, what Jenkins's proposal has accomplished is that community leaders
are talking about the demographic changes in Frederick.

"We need to embrace it and discuss it as opposed to sweep it under the rug and
hope it goes away," said Del. Richard B. Weldon Jr. (R), chairman of the
Frederick delegation. "It isn't going to go away."

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Susan Biddle -- The Washington Post; Guy Djoken, president of
the Frederick County NAACP chapter, briefs a group opposed to the proposal on a
meeting he had with the commissioners.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              387 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 9, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Latinos Unite Across Classes Against Curbs on Immigration

BYLINE: Pamela Constable; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1359 words


JosÃ© Marinay wears tailored suits, plays racquetball twice a week and displays
photos of family-owned racehorses in his Annandale office. For years, the
Colombian-born businessman thought he had little in common with the area's
illegal immigrants, often villagers from Mexico and Central America who sleep 10
to a house and push lawn mowers or scrub pots for a living.

But the battle in Prince William County, where a measure to curb illegal
immigration has thrown the Latino community into turmoil, changed his mind.

"This situation has brought together people who never would have sat in one room
before," said Marinay, 50, who owns a real estate settlement company that has
offices across Northern Virginia and a mainly Latino clientele. Since the
measure was passed in July, he said, business has fallen 80 percent at his
Manassas office, and he will probably close it. He also said a sense of growing
hostility toward Latino immigrants has affected him.

"I dress well, and I drive a nice car. But on the weekends, when I am in shorts
and sandals and I haven't shaved, I look Latino enough to scare a few folks,"
Marinay said. "There is a definite chill in the air. We may be a fragmented
community, we may eat or celebrate in different places, but now they are looking
at us in the same way. If we don't unite and work together, we will all sink."

Although not yet enacted into law, the resolution passed by the Prince William
Board of County Supervisors has created a sense of siege and solidarity
throughout the county's wider Latino community of about 30,000. Rumors circulate
that people will be arrested if they board buses or drop off their children at
school. Some legal residents, who bought homes and opened businesses, expecting
to stay for years, say they are thinking of leaving.

"When we came to Manassas 20 years ago, it was a beautiful place. We were full
of enthusiasm and optimism. But in the last three months, that has all gone
away," said Carlos Alvarado, 45, a Salvadoran immigrant whose variety store
sells fresh corn tamales, piÃ±atas and frilly girls' dresses. Many customers are
too broke or scared to shop, he said. "Everyone is talking about moving to
Maryland or North Carolina, and I am almost bankrupt."

Sponsors and advocates of the resolution assert it is neither anti-Latino nor
anti-immigrant. They insist it is aimed at stopping the steady influx of illegal
immigrants during the past decade, who they complain are crowding neighborhoods
and burdening schools. The measure would deny some services to illegal
immigrants and allow local police to turn them over to federal officials.

At first, the region's Latino community was conflicted in its response,
reflecting differences in class, education levels, immigration status, national
origin and ideological roots. Within the business community, potential allies
saw each other as economic rivals first.

The split was exacerbated by the confrontational actions of a group in Virginia,
Mexicans Without Borders, that staged a number of protests against the measure,
including a one-week store boycott in August. The group has called for a one-day
countywide work stoppage today. Last month, the group put up a huge Liberty Wall
in Manassas with a sign that condemns "racism against Hispanics." The sign was
half torn down by vandals last weekend.

Many established Latino immigrants in Northern Virginia said they disapproved of
such tactics, saying they feared the efforts would turn community goodwill
against them, too. But as the firestorm over illegal immigration has spread,
more affluent Latinos in the area, including entrepreneurs from Colombia and
Venezuela, have come to realize they have a personal and economic stake in
resolving the issue.

In August, a regional Latino business coalition was formed to seek subtler ways
to fight anti-immigration measures, such as through personal lobbying and
economic power. Coalition leaders said that it was hard to get some
entrepreneurs involved but that more are being spurred to action by a mixture of
self-interest, guilt and sympathy for those they once considered a lower class
of immigrant.

"This is definitely not business as usual. If people can't buy groceries, they
can't buy cars or houses," said Marinay, a coalition official. Other members
work in real estate, banking, entertainment and insurance. "We are a wealthy
group, and we have invested millions in this region," he said. "Why can't we get
these people off our backs? It's our own fault for not being united."

Ricardo Juarez, a leader of Mexicans Without Borders, said that despite their
tactical differences, he has come to appreciate the efforts of Marinay's
committee. At a county hearing last Tuesday, Juarez and several Latino business
owners testified against the resolution, using nearly identical arguments and
similarly polite tones.

"We can march. They can lobby. We are each doing our part," Juarez said later.
"We all want to solve the problem, and we all have to coexist in the community."

Ruben Andrade, who owns several cafes and clubs in Prince William, embodies the
contradictions that have pulled successful Latinos in several directions on
illegal immigration. A war refugee who came to the United States 25 years ago,
he worked menial jobs and faced his share of discrimination. Now, he prides
himself on running stylish establishments and criticizes Latino laborers who
pick fights in bars and throw trash in the streets.

"We need to educate our people," Andrade said. "If your neighbor asks you to
pick up your garbage, you don't tell them to go to hell. You need to learn
English and respect the rules." On the other hand, he said, "this law will hurt
the entire community. It is not against illegal immigrants; it is against all
Latinos, and we must fight it together."

In Maryland, where attitudes toward immigrants have been more relaxed, at least
one measure similar to Prince William's has been proposed in the city of
Frederick, and Latino leaders throughout the state's suburbs are increasingly
worried that the illegal immigration controversy will engulf the region.

A handful of Latino businessmen in Montgomery and Prince George's counties have
joined meetings of the Virginia coalition. Gilbert Mejia, a Salvadoran
restaurant owner, was the host of a recent meeting at his La Frontera restaurant
in Gaithersburg. He said the fear of arrest and harassment among Latino
immigrants has become so widespread that business at his restaurant has fallen
sharply this summer.

"Look at this place. Normally, we would be full for lunch," said Mejia,
gesturing around a room full of empty tables. "People are afraid the attitude
from Prince William will drift here, that Maryland will be the next target. I
have been in this country 27 years, and I've invested hundreds of thousands of
dollars. We need to know what's coming our way."

In Prince William, many immigrants who have never joined a protest or a
committee, but have spent years quietly securing a niche for their families,
find themselves drawn to the unfamiliar fray of public debate. Last Tuesday,
about 200 Latinos filled an overflow room outside a supervisors meeting in which
the July resolution was being discussed, although a final vote was postponed.

One was Jesus Calva, 40, who lives with his wife and two children in Lake Ridge,
a woodsy townhouse community. Calva entered the United States illegally as a
teenager and started working as a tree trimmer for $3 an hour. Today, he makes
$27 an hour with a large construction company, and he helped rebuild the
Pentagon after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attack. On his living room wall is
a certificate of thanks signed by former defense secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld.

"I have always appreciated this country, and it really upsets me to hear about
this law," said Calva, who spoke briefly at last Tuesday's hearing. Afterward,
he strode outside, sat down on a curb and began to weep in frustration. "Even
when I was illegal, I worked hard for everything I got, and I paid a lot of
taxes," he said. "If they don't like us, why don't they just say so? I love my
home, but I don't want to live in a place where I am hated."

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Pamela Constable -- The Washington Post; Jesus Calva, 40,
lives with his wife, Raulina, daughter, Michelle, and son, Andrew, in Lake
Ridge. "If they don't like us, why don't they just say so?" asks Calva, who once
was an illegal immigrant.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              388 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 11, 2007 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Pro-Immigrant Sign Takes Another Hit;
Banner Torn in 3rd Attempt to Deface Message to County

BYLINE: Christy Goodman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. LZ09

LENGTH: 341 words


The pro-immigrant billboard in Manassas was vandalized.

Again.

The 12-by-40-foot sign that sits on private property at 9500 Liberty St. and
faces the Virginia Railway Express station was torn late Saturday or early
Sunday.

It was the third attempt to deface the billboard that calls on Prince William
County to "stop your racism to Hispanics," according to members of the
Woodbridge Workers Committee, a pro-immigrant organization that had a news
conference in front of the sign Monday afternoon.

Two partially burned Molotov cocktails were found under the sign a few weeks
ago. When the sign was first erected, someone had tried to tear it down, but the
property owner, Guadencio Fernandez, repaired it. Several anti-immigrant
messages have been left on the property.

"This is a symbol of the racial division this resolution has caused in the
county," said Nancy Lyall of the Woodbridge Workers Committee, referring to
Prince William's resolution to deny services to illegal immigrants in the
community.

As Lyall spoke during the news conference, a man drove by in a maroon minivan,
leaned out of his window and yelled, "Go home!"

Fernandez  said he is unsure when the sign will be replaced.

"After the new resolution has been passed, we feel fear walking down the
street," said Fernandez, who said Spanish-speaking people in the area no longer
have rights. He carries his passport to readily prove his status, he said.

Fernandez also said he has no idea who vandalized the sign. The police report is
considered inactive, said Manassas City Police Chief John J. Skinner. "There are
no leads or suspects to follow up on. We have not received any tips. No one has
called to say they found a portion of the banner that was cut or taken away," he
said.

Evidence from the Molotov cocktail incident was submitted to the state crime lab
for testing, Skinner said.

The Woodbridge Workers Committee and Mexicans Without Borders used the destroyed
sign, which they call "the Liberty Wall," as a backdrop to announce Tuesday's
work stoppage and protest in the county.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Loudoun County

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Christy Goodman -- The Washington Post; The Woodbridge
Workers Committee had a news conference at "the Liberty Wall," which is on
private property.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              389 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 14, 2007 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

Justice Is Exhibit A in Museum Display;
Massachusetts Court Explores Whether Immigrant Anarchist Duo Got a Fair Trial

BYLINE: Denise Lavoie; Associated Press

SECTION: FOREIGN; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 1008 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


More than 80 years after Nicola Sacco and Bartolomeo Vanzetti were executed in
Boston, they still inspire impassioned debate about whether they were guilty of
the murder of two men during a 1920 payroll robbery.

But in a new exhibition at Massachusetts's highest court, the guilt or innocence
of the Italian immigrants and committed anarchists is not as important as the
question of whether they received a fair trial.

"The Case of Sacco and Vanzetti: Justice on Trial," explores not only the trial
itself but the tension and political turmoil of the times. The exhibition
highlights the prejudice against immigrants that was prevalent then,
particularly against foreigners who believed in communism, socialism or
anarchism.

Sacco and Vanzetti were arrested  weeks after a payroll clerk and a security
guard were shot and killed during an armed robbery at a shoe factory in
Braintree, south of Boston. Their arrests came during the "Red Scare," a period
characterized by a widespread fear of political radicals, a series of bomb
attacks against U.S. government officials and retaliatory raids in which
thousands of suspected radicals were arrested and deported.

Their 1921 trial drew international attention.

After they were convicted and sentenced to die in the electric chair,
supporters, including political dissidents, unionists and Italian immigrants,
staged demonstrations across the United States and Europe to condemn what they
considered a miscarriage of justice. Poet Edna St. Vincent Millay was among the
protesters arrested in Boston.

The exhibition, which opened last month  and will run indefinitely, is displayed
in a small room in the John Adams Courthouse, where the Supreme Judicial Court
hears appeals in cases as disparate as property disputes and sensational
murders. Placards and photographs guide visitors through the two men's story.
There is also a computer terminal where visitors can link to  law professor
Douglas Linder's Web site and read trial transcripts, statements Sacco and
Vanzetti made at their sentencing and letters they wrote from prison.

SJC Chief Justice Margaret Marshall said the exhibition is part of the high
court's effort to give the public opportunities to learn about the legal system.
It is open for free to visitors during courthouse hours.

"What I think they can take away from this exhibit is that they understand that
we really do live in a country where we try our very best to make sure that
people receive a fair trial, but that sometimes there may be a perception that a
mistake is made," she said.

"This is a chance to go back and look at the circumstances of that trial and see
if there's anything we can learn that will teach us about our system of
government."

The case has been the subject of countless books, plays, popular songs and even
operas. The exhibit includes a copy of Millay's poem, "Justice Denied in
Massachusetts," and a small sampling of what has been written about the case. A
1920s-style radio lets visitors listen to Joan Baez, Woody Guthrie and Pete
Seeger sing about the pair.

Some who have studied the case see parallels between the antagonism toward
immigrants in Sacco and Vanzetti's time and the country's current divide over
immigration.

"Anytime you have a large influx of immigrants into an area, there tends to be
economic dislocations, competition in the marketplace, and that generates
hostility in some quarters toward the new immigrant group," said Linder, who
teaches at the University of Missouri at Kansas City School of Law and features
the Sacco and Vanzetti case in his courses and on the Web site he developed to
provide historical information about famous trials.

"It was a time where the immigration issue was on the front burner. One could
imagine a similar case arising today where some Mexican American immigrant was
involved in some celebrated crime."

Former governor Michael S. Dukakis (D) sparked controversy on Aug. 23, 1977 --
the 50th anniversary of the executions -- when he issued a proclamation
declaring the date Sacco and Vanzetti Memorial Day. Dukakis said he probably
would have pardoned the two men, but the law would not allow him to do so
posthumously.

Dukakis, the son of Greek immigrants, said he had doubts about their guilt, but
mainly issued the proclamation because he believed they had not received a fair
trial.

"They had very unpopular political views and they were Italians, and I think
that had a lot to do with it," Dukakis said.

The case prompted the Massachusetts State Legislature to change the way
first-degree murder cases are reviewed by the high court. Previously, the court
had the authority to review only questions of law raised by a defendant's lawyer
to determine if a new trial was warranted. In 1939, the legislature passed a law
that requires the high court to do a complete review of all the evidence in
every first-degree murder case. The court can reduce a conviction or order a new
trial if it finds a substantial likelihood that there was a miscarriage of
justice.

The exhibition was put together by Barbara Berenson, senior administrative
attorney for the state Supreme Judicial Court, after she came across pieces of
an earlier exhibit that were in storage at the Commonwealth Museum, the state's
history museum. Berenson, together with Carole Doody, an art director and
graphic designer for the state Social Law Library, added more details and
documents from the trial, as well as more photographs and more information about
the international impact of the case.

Cynthia Malm, a cultural landscape historian who is training to become a
volunteer tour guide for the court, said she was struck by similarities between
the hostile climate in which Sacco and Vanzetti were tried and the bitter debate
over immigration today.

"Eighty years ago, we had a fear of change, of uprising. Now, we're living in a
time in the 21st century where we sometimes cast a wary eye on someone who seems
different," she said.

"Our judicial system was founded on ideas of fairness, and I think this case is
an important part of history."

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By William B. Plowman -- Associated Press; "Justice on Trial"
tour guides Erna and Kent Lawrence and Nancy Kurtz.
IMAGE; Associated Press; The 1920s police booking photos of Nicola Sacco and
Bartolomeo Vanzetti.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              390 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 14, 2007 Sunday
                                 Met 1 Edition

WEEK IN REVIEW;
Oct. 7-13

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C04

LENGTH: 643 words

Obama Makes First Md. Campaign Stop Presidential Hopeful Draws Crowd in Pr.
George's

Sen. Barack Obama (D-Ill.) attracted thousands of supporters to Prince George's
Community College in Largo for his first presidential campaign appearance in
Maryland.

Obama, who focused on themes that included health care, energy independence and
ending the war in Iraq, spoke to one of the nation's most affluent African
American communities in an attempt to convince voters that he has a real chance
of becoming the nation's first black president.

Illegal-Immigration Crackdown Rejected Frederick County Plan Would've Denied
Services

The Frederick Board of County Commissioners voted 3 to 2 to reject a proposal
that would have denied public services, including an education, to illegal
immigrants.

But the commissioners approved resolutions to Congress and the General Assembly
calling on lawmakers to reform immigration policies. The resolutions say the
rapid influx of immigrants is creating social tensions in Frederick and is
taxing the local government.

Because Frederick's charter does not allow home rule, the board voted only on
whether to recommend that the county's senators and delegates introduce the
proposal as a bill in the legislature.

Pr. George's Seeks to Curb 'McMansions' Permits for Large Additions Would Be
Required

Prince George's County officials are drafting legislation that would require
some homeowners to secure a permit for large additions and would set new height
limits for houses.

The proposal comes in response to the number of large houses being built in the
county's older communities. Homeowners in several towns in northern Prince
George's would need a permit to add more than 500 square feet to a home --
including patios, decks and breezeways.

28 Staph Infections Reported at Schools Anne Arundel Officials Confirm Only One
Case

After reports of bacterial skin infections among more than two dozen students,
officials in Anne Arundel County sent letters home urging better hygiene. But
officials say there is no outbreak and no need to panic.

Students or their parents have reported 28 staphylococcus infections at four
high schools. County health officials said they have confirmed one case.

Venezuelan Ambassador Uninvited Montgomery Official Had Sought a Meeting

Montgomery County Council member Marc Elrich (D-At Large) rescinded an
invitation to Venezuela's ambassador this month to meet with community leaders
and possibly get involved in funding social programs after criticism from local
Venezuelan and Cuban immigrants who oppose the leftist government of President
Hugo ChÃ¡vez.

Elrich said he was surprised by the outcry, describing it as "silly" because
U.S. government leaders meet with representatives of countries they disagree
with all the time. Elrich said nonprofit groups interested in meeting with the
ambassador would still do so but not with the county's help.

Across the Region GWU Posters; Metro Fares; D.C. Soccer Stadium

Â· Posters appeared on the George Washington University campus carrying
anti-Islamic messages, and the students who produced them said they were trying
to mock a group they thought was trying to arouse fear of Muslims, according to
a message sent to the campus newspaper.

Â· Metro board members delayed for two weeks consideration of proposals to raise
fares to give them more time to consider three plans they put forth as
alternatives to one recommended by General Manager John B. Catoe Jr. The plans
highlight the differences between suburban members, who want to keep parking
rates and rail fares low, and urban members, who want to keep bus fares low.

Â· D.C. United owner Victor B. MacFarlane said he has started looking at sites
for a new soccer stadium in the suburbs. He expressed frustration with the
administration of Mayor Adrian M. Fenty (D) over negotiations for a stadium in
the city.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Nikki Kahn -- The Washington Post; Trying to Hold On George
and Jacqueline Prunty fear losing their Prince George's home, which has gone
into foreclosure. They are part of a lawsuit against a firm they say siphoned
equity from homes.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              391 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 15, 2007 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

When Immigration Goes Up, Prices Go Down

BYLINE: Shankar Vedantam

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 861 words


Last week, a gallon of gas at an Exxon station in the tony suburb of Bethesda
cost $2.99.

At an Exxon station in the less affluent suburb of Wheaton, a gallon cost $2.63
-- 36 cents less.

Both Exxon stations are located near a subway line that goes to downtown
Washington. Both are in the same county: Montgomery.

Why would the same company charge you 14 percent more for an identical product
in one location?

Because it can.

That's the simple answer. The free market relies on the willingness of consumers
to punish businesses that overcharge. If you are willing to pay extra for the
convenience of filling up your car at an expensive gas station on your way to
work, rather than the cheaper one that is a little out of your way, why blame
Exxon for taking your money?

But there is also a more interesting answer, which brings us to the subject on
tap: The difference in gas prices may have to do with the fact that Wheaton has
many more immigrants who are not yet fully assimilated into the economy than
does Bethesda. Immigration, economist Saul Lach recently found, plays a powerful
role in holding down prices. For every 1 percent increase in the ratio of
immigrants to natives, prices go down by about 0.5 percent, according to Lach's
new study  about the effects of 200,000 Jews immigrating to Israel from the
former Soviet Union in 1990.

Aviv Nevo, an  economist at Northwestern University in Evanston, Ill., said
immigrants to the United States -- and price-conscious consumers in general --
have the same effect: "The broad principle is immigrants change the mix of
consumers and will likely change the relative prices of different products."

While sudden increases in immigration could drive up the cost of housing and
retail items where production cannot be ramped up quickly, Nevo said merchants
quickly realize there is more profit to be made by decreasing prices on everyday
items: "You decrease the price by 10 percent but increase the amount you sell by
200 percent."

Lach's research has particular resonance given the contentious debate over
immigration that has recently roiled the Washington area and the nation. Several
jurisdictions in Virginia and a few in Maryland are attempting crackdowns on
illegal immigrants. Arguments about immigration often revolve around cost. Poor
and recent immigrants are said to crowd schools and stretch public services.

Prince William, Stafford and Loudoun counties, which have recently experienced
dramatic changes in the ratio of immigrants, have led the local effort to deny
services to undocumented foreigners. If Lach's thesis is correct, however,
successful measures might have the opposite effect than the one desired -- as
immigrants are pushed away, prices on everything from diapers to dairy items
might go up. (Instead of paying more money for social services, residents will
pay more money to Exxon.)

Lach's thesis -- that immigration acts as a brake on inflation -- is unusual in
that it explores the effect immigrants have on the demand side of an economy,
and not just as workers who lower the costs of child care, for example, by
increasing the labor pool.

Lach said in a new paper published in the Journal of Political Economy that
immigrants tend to do what Bethesda drivers do not do often enough: They go the
extra mile to the cheaper gas station. Lach found that new immigrants spend much
more time comparison-shopping than natives -- perhaps because their economic
circumstances force them to look for the best deals, or because they have more
discretionary time to compare prices, or because they have not yet developed
brand loyalties.

Whatever the reason, they force markets to run more efficiently, and thereby
make cheaper prices available for all.  Lach's study was based on an analysis of
915 products at 1,837 retail stores in 52 cities, after the abrupt influx of
200,000 immigrants to Israel from countries in the former Soviet Union. The
economist, who works at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, collected 199,425
price quotes.

"Immigrants are more sensitive to prices and also are more inclined to search
for lower prices," Lach said in an e-mail. "This prompts stores not to increase
their prices as often or as steeply . . . or even to lower their prices in order
to capture as many immigrant customers as possible. The population at large
should benefit from this downward pressure on prices because stores cannot
discriminate between natives and immigrants."

Joshua Angrist, an economist at MIT, said Lach's paper is interesting, but added
that research also shows the poor sometimes pay more for things because
retailers tend to avoid setting up shop in poor neighborhoods. Wealthy people
also have more financial leverage for expensive purchases.

The downward effect on prices that Lach found was most evident for everyday
items. Ironically, what the research suggests is that poor, new immigrants --
the folks who trigger the most concern  among anti-immigration activists --
might impose the strongest brake on prices because they are hungriest for good
deals. Once settled, immigrants apparently join the ranks of people who pay
$2.99 for a gallon of gas that elsewhere  costs $2.63.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              392 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 17, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Justice Dept.'s Focus Has Shifted;
Terror, Immigration Are Current Priorities

BYLINE: Dan Eggen and John Solomon; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1560 words


The Justice Department under the Bush administration has retreated from
prosecutions of mobsters, white-collar criminals, environmental crimes and
traditional civil rights infractions, new department data show.

As part of a series of policy shifts that have greatly transformed the
administration of federal justice, the department has strongly emphasized
immigration and terrorism-related investigations. It has also devoted new
attention to areas important to conservative activists, such as sex trafficking
and obscenity, according to the department's own performance and budget numbers.

Such dramatic changes form a backdrop as the Senate Judiciary Committee
considers today the nomination of former federal judge Michael B. Mukasey to be
President Bush's third attorney general.

From 2000 to 2006, for example, there were large drops in the number of
defendants related to environmental offenses (down 12 percent), organized crime
(38 percent), white-collar crime (10 percent), bank robbery (18 percent) and
bankruptcy fraud (46 percent), according to Justice Department statistics
provided this week to The Washington Post. Money-laundering prosecutions related
to drugs were also down nearly 25 percent, while the number of drug cases
overall was stagnant.

There were simultaneous jumps in prosecutions related to immigration (up 36
percent), weapons cases (87 percent), official corruption (15 percent), and,
most dramatically, terrorism and national security cases (876 percent). Indeed,
Justice Department funds devoted to counterterrorism programs in Washington have
tripled since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.

Department officials say the surge in resources for national security and
terrorism probes, in particular, reflects the intense administration efforts to
prevent another attack. But the number of terrorism-related defendants has been
relatively small: Prosecutions peaked at 818 in 2003 and fell to 635 by 2006,
and most of these were not for terrorist acts or plans.

The result is a department far less focused on the mob bosses, drug kingpins and
bank robbers who have dominated much of its history, even as new FBI studies
show a substantial rise in murders and other violent crimes over the past two
years. The change has been so marked that, in a speech to a police group this
week, FBI Director Robert S. Mueller III signaled a desire to reinvigorate the
department's emphasis on traditional crime-fighting.

"We are realizing that national security is as much about reducing the number of
homicides on our streets as it is about reducing the threat of terrorism,"
Mueller said Monday in New Orleans at a convention of the International
Association of Chiefs of Police. "Today, in pockets around the country, we are
seeing the first steady increase in street-level crime since 1993. As a result,
we must view criminal threats differently than we did in the immediate aftermath
of September 11."

Justice Department spokesman Peter Carr said some categories of crime have been
key priorities of the Bush administration, including terrorism, illegal gun
possession and child exploitation. He also noted that overall prosecutions for
all crimes are at an all-time high.

"Clearly, since September 11, the administration's top priority has been
counterterrorism," Carr said. "That's reflected in the creation of the National
Security Division and the vast resources we've devoted to investigating and
prosecuting terrorism cases. . . . The department's commitment to all areas of
federal prosecution is shown through the president's funding requests to
Congress, which have shown steady increases for all department divisions over
the past six years."

The statistical trends examined in this article are based on numbers provided by
the Justice Department's Executive Office for U.S. Attorneys. The trends are
similar, but not identical, to recent findings by the Transactional Records
Access Clearinghouse (TRAC), an independent research organization at Syracuse
University that tracks monthly Justice Department prosecution statistics.

Several favorite conservative causes saw marked increases in prosecutions during
the first six years of the Bush administration. The number of defendants
prosecuted for child-pornography offenses nearly tripled, from 594 in President
Bill Clinton's last year in office to 1,549 in fiscal 2006. Likewise, obscenity
prosecutions more than tripled, from eight defendants in 2000 to 26 last year.

While traditional civil rights cases fell, the number of defendants prosecuted
for human-trafficking-related crimes rose from just two in 2000 to 65 six years
later.

Perhaps most strikingly, the department's statistics show that Justice is now in
large part an immigration enforcement agency: More than 19,000 defendants were
charged with immigration violations in federal district courts in 2006,
surpassing every other category except drug crimes. The data compiled by TRAC
indicate that federal magistrates handled and disposed of an additional 18,000
immigration cases in 2006.

Carr said the surge in immigration cases was largely caused by demands from
Southwestern states to beef up enforcement along the border with Mexico. "This
is a targeted -- rather than national -- emphasis in the states that are facing
incredible immigration challenges," he said.

Asked about the shifts, David Laufman, a former senior Justice Department
official who prosecuted some of the nation's most prominent terrorism cases in
Northern Virginia, said that the FBI, after the Sept. 11 attacks, turned
increasingly to state and local law enforcement agencies to pick up some of the
slack in non-terrorism areas.

He also said that a portion of the increased immigration prosecutions stemmed
from a strategic decision by the administration to use such cases to detain or
deport terrorism-related suspects when there was not enough evidence of other
crimes.

"Prevention and disruption of terrorism was a paramount priority, and
immigration prosecutions became one of the government's most favored tools for
neutralizing people believed to pose a security threat, especially when the
government lacked admissible evidence that the individual had committed a
terrorism offense," Laufman said.

Nan Aron, president of the Alliance for Justice, a liberal-leaning group that
monitors judicial nominations and other justice-related issues, contends that
the shifts in prosecution are part of a broad effort by the Bush administration
to force the Justice Department to target individuals based on politics rather
than purely on law enforcement goals.

"While torture memos and firing scandals have captured the public's attention,
the politicization of the Justice Department under the Bush administration is
far more widespread and insidious," Aron said in a written statement. "Michael
Mukasey, if confirmed, will certainly have his work cut out for him."

Spending on all of the department's programs rose significantly after September
2001, although many showed diminished prosecutions. The department's criminal
division, for instance, experienced a 29 percent gain in spending under Bush
even as its prosecutions of many traditional crimes such as bank robberies and
organized crime plummeted.

The department's environmental crimes section also experienced a 44 percent
spike in its budget, and its staffing reached a record 40 full-time prosecutors
in 2007. Yet, by 2006, the number of defendants prosecuted for environmental
offenses had fallen by 12 percent.

Budgets for the 93 U.S. attorney's offices also grew, by more than 40 percent
over the past six years, although many federal prosecutors say they remain
short-staffed in many areas.

Gene R. Voegtlin, legislative counsel for the police chiefs' organization, said
the federal government's retreat from local crime-fighting has greatly
frustrated local law enforcement agencies. Federal assistance has fallen from
$2.5 billion in 1997 during the Clinton administration to $1.1 billion in the
Bush administration's 2008 budget proposal, according to the police group.

The assistance has declined steadily, while violent crime rose 1.9 percent last
year, following a 2.3 percent rise in 2005, FBI records show. Those two years
saw the first steady increase in violent crime since 1993.

Voegtlin, speaking of the federal assistance programs, said that "these are
critical programs designed to target crime around the country that have either
seen massive reductions or outright elimination under this administration. It's
obviously not the only reason crime is going up, but it makes the job of law
enforcement that much harder."

"This administration had its own view on the role of the federal government in
fighting crime at the local level, and it's one we often don't agree with,"
Voegtlin said.

Mueller, in his Monday speech, suggested that while terrorism will remain the
FBI's top priority, "we can provide help on the criminal side."

"Some of you may have less daily contact with FBI agents on drug cases, bank
robberies and smaller white-collar criminal cases," Mueller told the police
chiefs. "You may have asked of us at one time or another, 'Where are you?' Let
me assure you: We are with you. Our emphasis has changed, but we still
understand the impact of violent crime."

Staff writer Spencer S. Hsu, staff researcher Madonna Lebling and database
editor Sarah Cohen contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              393 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 19, 2007 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Focus on Immigration At Issue During Debate;
Stewart and Pandak Square Off Again

BYLINE: Kristen Mack; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 498 words


Days after Prince William County supervisors unanimously approved one of the
nation's toughest crackdowns on illegal immigrants, county board Chairman Corey
A. Stewart reaffirmed in a debate last night that he is staking his reelection
on the issue.

"Sometimes you need to rock the boat. Sometimes you need to butt heads to get
things done, and that's what I've done," Stewart (R-At Large) said during his
latest face-off against Democratic challenger Sharon E. Pandak.

Pandak countered that the county has delayed action on important issues so
Stewart could work for passage of a resolution that "means nothing."

Stewart, 39, a trade lawyer, moved to Prince William from Fairfax County in
2001. Pandak, 54, a lawyer and former county attorney, has lived in Prince
William for 20 years. Her experience and familiarity with the county, she has
said, qualify her for the job.

"Prince William is not a way station for me," Pandak said. "It is my home. I
will not put my personal ambitions before the progress of Prince William
County."

Stewart is "media-crazed," she said, and has spent his time stirring people up
on divisive issues. "His 15 minutes are up," she said.

When prioritizing county issues, Stewart listed immigration third, after
long-term land-use reform and transportation impact fees on developers.

"We let builders get away with murder," Stewart said. "We let them build
subdivision after subdivision without adequate roads. We are living with a
legacy of a failure to control government." Stewart also attributed school
crowding to increased development.

Pandak said she would work to control growth, ease traffic gridlock and
reestablish "a sense of stability" in the county's budget, which she said has
been through "massive swings in tax rates."

Of about 100 people in the audience, only three said they were undecided on the
candidates when Stewart asked for a show of hands.

Stewart and Pandak have gone head-to-head before. He defeated her last year in a
special election to replace Sean T. Connaughton (R), who resigned to head the
U.S. Maritime Administration.

This time, a four-year term is on the line.

Before illegal immigration became Stewart's big issue, his tenure in office was
marked by a yearlong freeze on applications for residential development. He also
pressed to keep tax bills flat by squeezing services and trimming staff.

Illegal immigration became Stewart's signature issue this summer, when he
championed the county's plan to deny some public services to illegal immigrants
and to increase immigration enforcement by police.

The county's stance evolved over time. Early Tuesday, after listening to 12
hours of emotionally charged testimony, the board passed a measure curtailing
the services it can legally withhold, including help for substance abuse,
homeless assistance and county programs for the elderly.

Last night's debate was sponsored by the Prince William Committee of 100, a
nonpartisan group that hosted a series of candidate forums this election cycle.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Supervisor Chairman Corey A. Stewart
IMAGE; Democratic challenger Sharon E. Pandak
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              394 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 20, 2007 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

On the Ballot in Fairfax;
Leadership for the region's largest and richest jurisdiction

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 1076 words


FAIRFAX COUNTY, long one of the nation's wealthiest and best-educated
jurisdictions, is now also among the most diverse. A quarter of its residents
are foreign-born, mainly immigrants from Asia and Latin America; they have
contributed to the county's stunning economic vitality, enriched its culture and
transformed its schools. With a population approaching 1.1 million, a budget
well over $3 billion, thousands of public employees, and complex challenges
involving transportation, affordable housing, growth and illegal immigration,
the county needs -- and for the most part has enjoyed -- competent, committed
leadership.

In elections Nov. 6, voters will decide whether to retain or reshape that
leadership. The Post's endorsements in contested Board of Supervisors races
appear in bold:

County Board Chairmanship: Gerald E. Connolly, the Democratic incumbent, has
more constituents than any other locally elected leader. Elected at large, Mr.
Connolly has put his hyperkinetic, assertive and at times bullying political

talents to work in pushing for a rail link to Dulles, enhanced public services,
affordable housing and forward-looking environmental policies. Mr. Connolly's
opponents -- Republican Gary H. Baise, an affable, silver-tongued environmental
lawyer, and the Independent Green Party's Gail Parker, a one-issue candidate
pushing rail transit -- have only a passing acquaintance with the local issues
and communities that Mr. Connolly knows intimately. While Mr. Connolly may jump
ship next year if he runs and is elected to Congress, he is easily the best
candidate in this  race.

Braddock District: Democrat Sharon S. Bulova, elected to the board a decade ago
from this central Fairfax district, has distinguished herself as one of its most
effective, conscientious and constituent-oriented members, a leader on the
Northern Virginia Transportation Commission and on issues involving rail transit
in particular. Even her opponent, Independent Green candidate Carey C. Campbell,
an accountant and civic activist, acknowledges her outstanding service.

Dranesville District: The Republican incumbent, Joan M. DuBois, has a
condescending, confrontational streak that does not sit well with some
constituents in a northern Fairfax district that includes some of the richest
Zip codes in America. Still, she knows her stuff and has taken intelligent,
moderate stands in favor of rail to Dulles, funding a center for day laborers in
Herndon and affordable housing. She deserves a second term. Her opponent, John
W. Foust (D), is an experienced civic activist who narrowly lost to Mrs. DuBois
four years ago. He has positioned himself as a proponent of slower growth while
insisting on a tunnel through Tysons Corner for the rail line to Dulles, which
at this point would jeopardize the project.

Hunter Mill District: Supervisor  Catherine M. Hudgins (D), after eight years in
office, has established herself as a constructive voice on affordable housing
and social services, particularly mental health. She faces token opposition from
three independent candidates -- Mike J. "Spike" Williams, a customer service
representative; retired diplomat Marie T. Huhtala; and environmentalist
Geraldine A. Butkus -- all of whom have limited backgrounds in county affairs.

Lee District: The retirement of the immensely effective T. Dana Kauffman (D)
leaves an open seat that his top aide for the past decade, Jeff C. McKay, is
perfectly qualified to fill. Mr. McKay, who is also a reserve deputy sheriff, is
hard-working, effective and politically canny; if anyone can make the jump to
the board look easy, he can. His opponent, Republican Douglas R. Boulter, is a
personable retired Army officer running on a slow-growth platform. But the real
contrast in this race is in experience; Mr. McKay has it in spades.

Mason District: Penelope A. "Penny" Gross, Democratic incumbent, is respected
for her knowledge of environmental and personnel issues. In a heavily Democratic
district, she is a shoo-in for reelection against Republican Vellie S. Dietrich
Hall, a management consultant who, in a county with one of the lowest murder
rates in the nation, has quixotically tried to make an issue of it.

Mount Vernon District: Incumbent Gerald W. "Gerry" Hyland (D) has logged five
terms of high-energy constituent service and has extensive regional experience.
His Independent Green Party opponent, Bruce H. Ryan, doesn't pretend to match
that; he has no community service record and says his views are similar to Mr.
Hyland's and he merely wants to give voters a choice.

Springfield District: In this open-seat race, Republican Pat S. Herrity has the
advantage of his name; his father, Jack, was chairman of the county board in the
1980s and a fixture of Fairfax politics. But the younger Mr. Herrity has had
scant civic involvement beyond the limited role he has played as a business
lobbyist, and his inexperience shows in his shaky grasp of issues beyond
business interests. His opponent, Democrat P. Mike McClanahan, a small-business
owner, is not much better-versed in county affairs but has a broader background.
He has been a volunteer with the county's juvenile court and started a nonprofit
group to counsel teenagers on safe driving. Mr. McClanahan would clearly make
the better supervisor.

Sully District: Independent Green Party candidate David William Gillis Jr., a
first-time candidate challenging incumbent Republican Michael R. Frey, comes up
short in discussing almost any issue. In contrast, Mr. Frey's grasp of balanced
transportation strategies and their importance to development policies makes him
a valuable, independent-thinking member of the board.

Â·

Other ballot issues:

Commonwealth's Attorney: Democrat Raymond F. Morrogh, a 24-year veteran of the
Fairfax County commonwealth's attorney's office and a longtime deputy to
Robert F. Horan Jr., has earned the right to succeed his boss by dint of
experience and his sensible and fair-minded approach to the job. Mr. Morrogh's
worthy Republican opponent, Patrick A. McDade, has worked as a prosecutor, in
Arlington, for only two years, yet offers some intriguing ideas that Mr. Morrogh
would be wise to consider about how to increase funding for the perennially
short-staffed office.

Bond referendum: Voters should say yes to the county borrowing $110 million for
badly needed road and transit improvements.

Other editorial endorsements can be found at
http://www.washingtonpost.com/endorsements.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              395 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 21, 2007 Sunday
                                 Met 1 Edition

WEEK IN REVIEW;
Oct. 14-20

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C04

LENGTH: 602 words

Supreme Court Blocks Execution Lethal Injection's Pain Potential Under
Microscope

The Supreme Court stopped the execution of Virginia death row inmate Christopher
Scott Emmett, a move legal experts said might signal a nationwide halt to lethal
injections until the justices decide next year whether the procedure amounts to
cruel and unusual punishment.

The court granted the stay just four hours before Emmett was to be put to death.
It is the second time it has stopped an execution since agreeing to decide
whether lethal injections carry the potential for pain that would violate
constitutional standards.

Fairfax Studying Services for Immigrants Supervisor Asked for List of What Can
Be Denied

Fairfax County officials are trying to determine which, if any, county services
can be denied to illegal immigrants. But County Executive Anthony H. Griffin
said he ordered the examination for informational purposes, at the request of
Supervisor Michael R. Frey (R-Sully), and has no plans to recommend a change in
the county's policy of policing illegal behavior rather than immigration status.


Panel Worried About Saudi-Backed School U.S. Urged to Check for Religious
Intolerance

A federal panel urged the State Department to shut down a Saudi
government-supported private school in Northern Virginia unless it can prove
that it is not teaching religious intolerance.

The U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom criticized what it called
the promotion of religious extremism in Saudi-run schools around the world,
including in the kingdom. It leveled particular criticism at the Islamic Saudi
Academy, which operates two campuses in Fairfax County, expressing "significant
concerns" that the school is promoting a brand of religious intolerance that
could prove a danger to the United States.

Slaying Suspect Had Been Out on Bond Man Allegedly Kills Stranger, Holds Police
at Bay

The Woodbridge man accused of killing a stranger in a popular Fairfax County
park Wednesday was convicted two weeks ago of attacking another woman with a
Taser in Culpeper but was allowed to remain free until his sentencing in
December.

Fairfax police have charged Kevin C. Kline, 18, with murder in the shooting of
Joan M. Gillinson, 80, in Huntley Meadows Park; Kline's motive was unknown.
Minutes after her body was discovered, police said, Kline jumped on a commuter
bus and, as police closed in, threatened to kill himself. He surrendered
peacefully four hours later.

Authorities in Culpeper charged Kline with malicious wounding, abduction and
burglary after an attack on a woman with a Taser in March, Culpeper Sheriff Lee
Hart said.

Kline was released on $15,000 bond and went to trial Oct. 1. A jury convicted
him of malicious wounding and abduction and recommended a five-year prison
sentence. Although prosecutors asked that Kline's bond be revoked, a Culpeper
Circuit Court judge allowed him to remain free until his sentencing Dec. 19.

Pr. William Backs Tougher Traffic Stops Officers Can Check Residency Status if
Warranted

Within months, traffic stops in Prince William County may carry serious
consequences for thousands of residents as police officers begin checking the
immigration status of anyone who breaks the law, whether for speeding or
shoplifting, if they have probable cause to believe that person is in the
country illegally.

In a unanimous vote, the county supervisors also cut off certain services to
illegal immigrants who are homeless, elderly or addicted to drugs.

Affected programs include bus tours for senior citizens, leadership training
programs for adults, and rental and mortgage assistance.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Hyungwon Kang -- Reuters; Passage of Time Israeli official
Ehud Barak, second from right, joins a wreath-laying at the Tomb of the
Unknowns. A debate is raging over whether to replace or rebuild the tomb, which
has growing cracks.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              396 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 21, 2007 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

On the Ballot in Fairfax;
Leadership for the region's largest and richest jurisdiction

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 1076 words


FAIRFAX COUNTY, long one of the nation's wealthiest and best-educated
jurisdictions, is now also among the most diverse. A quarter of its residents
are foreign-born, mainly immigrants from Asia and Latin America; they have
contributed to the county's stunning economic vitality, enriched its culture and
transformed its schools. With a population approaching 1.1 million, a budget
well over $3 billion, thousands of public employees, and complex challenges
involving transportation, affordable housing, growth and illegal immigration,
the county needs -- and for the most part has enjoyed -- competent, committed
leadership.

In elections Nov. 6, voters will decide whether to retain or reshape that
leadership. The Post's endorsements in contested Board of Supervisors races
appear in bold:

County Board Chairmanship: Gerald E. Connolly, the Democratic incumbent, has
more constituents than any other locally elected leader. Elected at large, Mr.
Connolly has put his hyperkinetic, assertive and at times bullying political

talents to work in pushing for a rail link to Dulles, enhanced public services,
affordable housing and forward-looking environmental policies. Mr. Connolly's
opponents -- Republican Gary H. Baise, an affable, silver-tongued environmental
lawyer, and the Independent Green Party's Gail Parker, a one-issue candidate
pushing rail transit -- have only a passing acquaintance with the local issues
and communities that Mr. Connolly knows intimately. While Mr. Connolly may jump
ship next year if he runs and is elected to Congress, he is easily the best
candidate in this  race.

Braddock District: Democrat Sharon S. Bulova, elected to the board a decade ago
from this central Fairfax district, has distinguished herself as one of its most
effective, conscientious and constituent-oriented members, a leader on the
Northern Virginia Transportation Commission and on issues involving rail transit
in particular. Even her opponent, Independent Green candidate Carey C. Campbell,
an accountant and civic activist, acknowledges her outstanding service.

Dranesville District: The Republican incumbent, Joan M. DuBois, has a
condescending, confrontational streak that does not sit well with some
constituents in a northern Fairfax district that includes some of the richest
Zip codes in America. Still, she knows her stuff and has taken intelligent,
moderate stands in favor of rail to Dulles, funding a center for day laborers in
Herndon and affordable housing. She deserves a second term. Her opponent, John
W. Foust (D), is an experienced civic activist who narrowly lost to Mrs. DuBois
four years ago. He has positioned himself as a proponent of slower growth while
insisting on a tunnel through Tysons Corner for the rail line to Dulles, which
at this point would jeopardize the project.

Hunter Mill District: Supervisor  Catherine M. Hudgins (D), after eight years in
office, has established herself as a constructive voice on affordable housing
and social services, particularly mental health. She faces token opposition from
three independent candidates -- Mike J. "Spike" Williams, a customer service
representative; retired diplomat Marie T. Huhtala; and environmentalist
Geraldine A. Butkus -- all of whom have limited backgrounds in county affairs.

Lee District: The retirement of the immensely effective T. Dana Kauffman (D)
leaves an open seat that his top aide for the past decade, Jeff C. McKay, is
perfectly qualified to fill. Mr. McKay, who is also a reserve deputy sheriff, is
hard-working, effective and politically canny; if anyone can make the jump to
the board look easy, he can. His opponent, Republican Douglas R. Boulter, is a
personable retired Army officer running on a slow-growth platform. But the real
contrast in this race is in experience; Mr. McKay has it in spades.

Mason District: Penelope A. "Penny" Gross, Democratic incumbent, is respected
for her knowledge of environmental and personnel issues. In a heavily Democratic
district, she is a shoo-in for reelection against Republican Vellie S. Dietrich
Hall, a management consultant who, in a county with one of the lowest murder
rates in the nation, has quixotically tried to make an issue of it.

Mount Vernon District: Incumbent Gerald W. "Gerry" Hyland (D) has logged five
terms of high-energy constituent service and has extensive regional experience.
His Independent Green Party opponent, Bruce H. Ryan, doesn't pretend to match
that; he has no community service record and says his views are similar to Mr.
Hyland's and he merely wants to give voters a choice.

Springfield District: In this open-seat race, Republican Pat S. Herrity has the
advantage of his name; his father, Jack, was chairman of the county board in the
1980s and a fixture of Fairfax politics. But the younger Mr. Herrity has had
scant civic involvement beyond the limited role he has played as a business
lobbyist, and his inexperience shows in his shaky grasp of issues beyond
business interests. His opponent, Democrat P. Mike McClanahan, a small-business
owner, is not much better-versed in county affairs but has a broader background.
He has been a volunteer with the county's juvenile court and started a nonprofit
group to counsel teenagers on safe driving. Mr. McClanahan would clearly make
the better supervisor.

Sully District: Independent Green Party candidate David William Gillis Jr., a
first-time candidate challenging incumbent Republican Michael R. Frey, comes up
short in discussing almost any issue. In contrast, Mr. Frey's grasp of balanced
transportation strategies and their importance to development policies makes him
a valuable, independent-thinking member of the board.

Â·

Other ballot issues:

Commonwealth's Attorney: Democrat Raymond F. Morrogh, a 24-year veteran of the
Fairfax County commonwealth's attorney's office and a longtime deputy to
Robert F. Horan Jr., has earned the right to succeed his boss by dint of
experience and his sensible and fair-minded approach to the job. Mr. Morrogh's
worthy Republican opponent, Patrick A. McDade, has worked as a prosecutor, in
Arlington, for only two years, yet offers some intriguing ideas that Mr. Morrogh
would be wise to conside about how to increase funding for the perennially
short-staffed office.

Bond referendum: Voters should say yes to the county borrowing $110 million for
badly needed road and transit improvements.

Other editorial endorsements can be found at
http://www.washingtonpost.com/endorsements.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              397 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 22, 2007 Monday
                                 Every Edition

Customs Enlists Rosetta to Train Officers' Tongues

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. D02

LENGTH: 406 words


Unlike Rosetta Stone's magazine ads, there probably won't be any hardworking
farm boys and Italian supermodels connecting at Immigration and Customs
Enforcement. But the Arlington company's new three-year contract with the
federal agency may help knock down some linguistic barriers faced by the
nation's border guards and immigration agents.

The language-learning software provider landed a $775,000 deal with ICE, a
division of the Department of Homeland Security, to supply 15,000 agency
employees around the county with software discs and online programs offering
instruction in 30 languages. Spanish and Arabic are the agency's most pressing
language needs for it to carry out missions of immigration and customs
investigations, detention and removal operations, intelligence and federal
protective services.

Yet recent ICE activity shows far broader possibilities for languages involved
in suspected immigration and customs violations. The agency arrested a
Connecticut woman for trying to export military components to China. An Illinois
man was arrested after being charged with being in possession of child
pornography and having sex with a minor in the Philippines. A former Bosnian
Serb soldier was found guilty of lying about his military history to gain
refugee status in the United States.

Rosetta Stone, also known for its ubiquitous airport kiosks, has a track record
of supplying software to government agencies. Its biggest federal contract is a
$4.2 million agreement with the U.S. Army. Under the Army contract, which began
in 2005, the firm tailored its language program to military personnel preparing
for deployment in Iraq and Afghanistan. Rosetta Stone now has more than 100,000
registered Army users on its online and software CD programs, which focuson
words that would be used at checkpoints and warfare terminology like "humvees"
and "tanks."

The company said ICE purchased the software instead of hiring language
instructors at its various offices because the computer programs give employees
flexibility to study at work or home. It's also a lot cheaper than a real
teacher.

"Most of us, if we've had to take language in school, we go into a classroom and
the most difficult component is speaking, particularly in front of your
classmates," said Linda Trude, vice president of institutional sales. "This
helps them build confidence and success, and it works."

Shy immigration enforcement agents?

-- Cecilia Kang

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              398 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 22, 2007 Monday
                                 Every Edition

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. D04

LENGTH: 562 words


CyberData Technologies of Herndon won a five-year contract worth up to $27
million from the General Services Administration to provide a business
intelligence framework for the organization's Public Buildings Service.

Global Analytic IT Services of Alexandria won a 10-year, $51 million contract
from the Education Department to provide managed security services.

General Dynamics of Falls Church won a five-year, $300 million contract from the
National Security Agency to provide secure phones for use at the Defense and
Homeland Security departments.

MIL of Bowie won a seven-year, $110 million contract from the Federal Aviation
Administration to provide information technology and financial management
services.

Office Remedies of Herndon won a five-year, $10.6 million contract from the
Bureau of Labor Statistics to provide data collection services for the agency's
Current Employment Statistics program.

SRA International of Fairfax won a five-year, $24.7 million contract from the
Homeland Security Department to provide programmatic and technical support to
the Sector Specific Agency Executive Management Office.

Science Applications International Corp. of McLean won a $76 million contract of
up to five years from the Defense Department to provide support for business
transformation initiatives.

SI International of Reston won a $20.5 million contract from Immigration and
Customs Enforcement to review bonds and manage case inquiries for illegal
immigrants in custody.

TeleCommunication Systems of Annapolis won an $8 million contract from the
Defense Department to support spectrum management of the Wideband Global SATCOM
Satellite and to monitor and service the Defense Satellite Communications
System.

Honeywell Technology Solutions of Columbia won an $8.3 million contract from the
Naval Air Warfare Center Aircraft Division to provide engineering and logistics
services.

L-3 Communications Titan of Reston, Intelligence Systems Division, won a $29.1
million contract from the 950th Electronic Systems Group for engineering
services.

International Development and Resources of Fairfax won a contract of up to $150
million from the U.S. Special Operations Command for technical, engineering,
logistics and program management services.

Integrated Support Systems of Arlington won a contract of up to $25 million from
the Department of Justice for case information support services.

Hensel Phelps Construction of Chantilly won a $60.7 million contract from the
Navy for expansion and renovation of the National Maritime Intelligence Center
in Suitland.

Sauer Compressors of Stevensville, Md., won a $1.4 million contract from the
Navy for the air compressor systems.

CVG of Chantilly won a $1.3 million contract from the Navy for the commercial
broadband satellite program.

Biscayne Contractors of the District won a $2.1 million contract from the U.S.
Postal Service for renovations.

Davis Brody Bond of the District and Freelon Group of Durham, N.C., won a $3
million contract from the Smithsonian Institution to provide architectural and
engineering services for the National Museum of African American History and
Culture.

Booz Allen Hamilton of McLean won an $18.1 million contract from the Department
of Health and Human Services to provide research and development for the
Management Support Center for the Clinical and Translational Science Awards.

-- Judith Mbuya

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              399 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 24, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

WORLD IN BRIEF

SECTION: FOREIGN; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 637 words

FRANCE

Curbs on Immigration Approved

 French lawmakers adopted a hotly contested bill Tuesday that would institute
language exams and potential DNA testing for prospective immigrants, making it
more difficult for families to join relatives in France.

The DNA amendment is meant to verify claims of family ties.

The Socialist Party plans to take the issue to the Constitutional Council, which
ensures that all laws conform with the constitution, in hopes of getting the DNA
amendment dropped. The move delays the bill's formal passage into law.

AFGHANISTAN

Security Is Seen Worsening

 Afghans believe security in their country has deteriorated compared with last
year, but they say life is better now than under Taliban rule, according to a
U.S.-funded survey released Tuesday.

About 46 percent of more than 6,200 adults surveyed nationwide said security is
the biggest problem, while 29 percent cited unemployment. The survey was
conducted by the Asia Foundation and paid for by the U.S. Agency for
International Development.

Civilian Deaths Reported in Strike

NATO and Afghan troops called in airstrikes during a battle against insurgents
that left 20 suspected guerrillas and several civilians dead, Afghan officials
said Tuesday.

The casualty figures varied widely. Afghan officials said three to 12 civilians
were killed in the fighting Monday in Wardak province. A NATO spokesman said
soldiers were investigating the incident to see if civilians had perished.

SAUDI ARABIA

Laura Bush Opens Cancer Facility

First lady Laura Bush helped launch a screening facility in Saudi Arabia on
Tuesday as part of a U.S.-Saudi initiative to raise breast cancer awareness in
the kingdom, where doctors are struggling to break long-held taboos about the
disease. The visit is part of a regional tour to highlight the need for
countries to cooperate in the fight against breast cancer. Bush, whose mother
and grandmother suffered from breast cancer, was scheduled to meet with King
Abdullah and breast cancer survivors.

ARGENTINA

Ex-President Charged in Killings

 A federal judge charged former president Fernando de la RÃºa with five counts
of manslaughter Tuesday in connection with deadly street riots in December 2001.

Judge Claudio Bonadio also said the former president is being prosecuted on
charges stemming from injuries to 172 others during street clashes between
demonstrators and police that year. De la RÃºa was not ordered detained. His
attorneys have said he is innocent.

De la RÃºa resigned in December 2001, halfway through an elected four-year term,
as the country suffered the worst economic collapse in its history.

* * *

Despite Threat, Bhutto Plans Campaign Trip

Former premier Benazir Bhutto said she had received a new death threat but will
start campaigning in Pakistani cities in the next couple of days, while avoiding
mass rallies. Five days after the bombing that killed 140 at her homecoming
procession in Karachi, Bhutto said her attorney had received a letter from an
unidentified "friend of al-Qaeda" threatening to slaughter her "like a goat."

Olmert Avoids a Bribery Probe

 The Israeli state prosecutor decided not to open a criminal investigation of
Prime Minister Ehud Olmert on suspicion that he accepted bribes in two real
estate deals. Olmert is facing three separate criminal probes in unrelated real
estate and political corruption cases. Olmert has denied any wrongdoing, but the
probes have clouded his efforts to restart peace talks with the Palestinians.

Israeli Attack Kills Militant Leader in Gaza

An Israeli airstrike in the Gaza Strip killed Mubarak Hasanat, a leader of the
Popular Resistance Committees, which has been responsible for rocket fire into
Israel. Israeli military officials said more than 15 projectiles were launched
during the 24 hours preceding the air attack.

From News Services

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              400 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 25, 2007 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Dreams Crushed;
The Bush administration vs. young immigrants

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 308 words


IT WAS always a long shot for supporters of an immigration measure known as the
Dream Act to round up the 60 votes needed to advance the bill in the Senate. But
it didn't help matters yesterday when the Bush administration, having supported
a comprehensive immigration reform bill containing essentially the same
provision, came out against the bill on the morning of the vote. This helped
quash the hopes of tens of thousands of promising young people who find
themselves, through no fault of their own, in this country illegally. The
failure of the Dream Act -- it got just 52 votes -- leaves them no realistic
hope of achieving legal status.

The Dream Act, sponsored by Sen. Richard J. Durbin (D-Ill.), would have
addressed a small but especially deserving fraction of the estimated 12 million
people in this country illegally. Those who entered the country before age 16,
lived here for at least five years and graduated from high school with
unblemished records could obtain conditional legal status for six years. During
that period, they would have to spend at least two years in college or the
military. Only then would they qualify to become legal permanent residents.

In its policy statement yesterday, the administration asserted that it was
"sympathetic" to the plight of these young people but insisted that the measure
"falls short" because it would create "a special path to citizenship that is
unavailable to other prospective immigrants -- including young people whose
parents respected the nation's immigration laws." Of course, the
administration-backed comprehensive immigration reform measure, which failed
earlier this year, also provided for special, expedited treatment of young
people in this category. The administration had no problem with the provision
then, and its complaints now seem as cowardly as they are unpersuasive.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              401 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 25, 2007 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

In Brief

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. GZ02

LENGTH: 523 words

Workshop on Cutting Emissions

 Residents who want to learn how to reduce carbon dioxide emissions can
participate in a "carbon buster leadership" workshop at 6:30 p.m. today at
Discovery Communications in Silver Spring. Participants will learn ways to
reduce energy use and save money. The session is presented by Montgomery County
Department of Environmental Protection, Discovery Communications and the Cool
Capital Challenge, a regional partnership of residents, local leaders, schools,
businesses and others to reduce the region's annual carbon dioxide emissions by
1 million pounds by April. To register, call 240-777-7775.

Women's Immigration Issues

The Montgomery County Commission for Women is hosting "Women in a New World" a
free program to discuss the issues, challenges and opportunities for women who
have immigrated to the United States. The forum, taking place tomorrow at the
Executive Office Building, 101 Monroe St., in Rockville, begins with
registration at 11:30 a.m. and runs from noon to 1 p.m. For information, call
240-777-8334.

The following topics and panelists are scheduled:

Â· "Pathways to America: The ABCs of Visas," presented by Yun Jung Yang, an
immigration lawyer and member of the Commission for Women.

Â· "Pioneers in a New Land: Montgomery County's Immigrant Community," presented
by Patricia Hatch, a program manager of the Maryland Office for New Americans.

Â· "Living in Two Cultures: Special Issues Confronting Muslim Women," presented
by Fauzia Rashid, a member of the Commission for Women.

Â· "Parenting in a New World: Immigrant Women, Children and School," presented
by Teresa Wright, a teacher and member of the Montgomery County public schools'
ESOL Parent Outreach.

College Fair, Aid Information

Rep. Albert R. Wynn (D-Md.) is sponsoring a free college fair and financial aid
workshop from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. Saturday at Northwestern High School in
Hyattsville. Information about continuing education programs, financial aid,
scholarships and admissions  will be available. More than 140 colleges and
universities are to  be represented at the fair, as well as vocational schools,
lenders, experts from the U.S. Education Department and Maryland Higher
Education Commission. For more information, call 301-773-4094.

Free Halloween Cab Rides

The Washington Regional Alcohol Program will offer free cab rides to prevent
impaired drivers from getting on the road on Halloween night, from 8 p.m. Oct.
31 to 4 a.m. Nov. 1. Montgomery residents 21 and older  can call the SoberRide
program at 800-200-8294 and receive a free ride worth up to a $50 fare.

Auditions for King Celebration

Montgomery County's Office of Community Partnerships and the Dr. Martin Luther
King, Jr. Commemorative Committee are having a talent call for groups and
individuals and who would like to perform in the annual Martin Luther King Jr.
Celebration. Auditions are from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Saturday in the Executive
Office Building, lobby level auditorium, 101 Monroe St.. in Rockville. The
celebration is scheduled for  Jan. 21 at the Music Center at Strathmore. For
information, call 240-777-2523.

-- Compiled by MICHAEL TUNISON

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Montgomery South

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              402 of 402 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 5, 2007 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

A Mob-Rule Moment

BYLINE: David S. Broder

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 735 words


Former senator Fred Thompson has begun his unannounced quest for the Republican
presidential nomination by telling audiences in New Hampshire that Washington is
badly out of touch with the country.

As a senior campaign adviser put it to The Post's Michael Shear, Thompson
believes that "the politicians have lost their connection with what people
really want and what they really expect."

Few if any of the other 17 men and one woman vying for the presidency would be
bold enough to challenge Thompson's claim. The belief that official Washington
is deaf to the people's wishes is a staple of political rhetoric for both
Republicans and Democrats -- even those, including Thompson, who have operated
inside the Beltway for decades.

Let a reporter who is not running for anything suggest that exactly the opposite
may be true: A particularly virulent strain of populism has made official
Washington altogether too responsive to public opinion.

From Aristotle to Edmund Burke, philosophers have written of the healthy tension
that normally exists between the understanding and strategies of leaders and the
sentiments and opinions of their people.

In today's Washington, a badly weakened president and a dangerously compliant
congressional leadership are no match for the power of public opinion --
magnified and sometimes exaggerated by modern communications and interest group
pressure.

The latest cave-ins involve immigration and trade policy, and both seriously
threaten the national interest.

The collapse of the immigration reform bill in the Senate last month means that
the broken border system, which allows a continuing flood of illegal immigrants
to enter the United States with no hope of attaining the responsibilities and
privileges of citizenship, will continue for at least two more years. No one is
talking of reviving the effort until after the 2008 election installs a new
president and Congress.

With all its shortcomings, the defeated legislation offered some prospect of
improving at least some aspects of that broken system. But it was buried by an
avalanche of phone calls to the Capitol from good citizens decrying what they
had been told on many talk radio stations and by some conservative politicians:
that it was an amnesty bill.

Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a man I have criticized on other occasions,
stood his ground and produced 33 Democratic votes to move to close debate --
much to his credit. But Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, who had promised to
support the bill, which was President Bush's last hope for a major domestic
victory, saw only a dozen Republicans rally to that cause -- and then bailed out
himself, voting no.

Predictably, McConnell blamed the defeat on public sentiment. The bill "wasn't
the people's will," he told the Louisville Courier-Journal. "And they were
heard."

The House was no more courageous. A day after the Senate folded on immigration,
the Democratic leadership of the House quietly scuttled the president's
authority to negotiate trade agreements for the United States.

The "fast-track" process, in which Congress casts only an up-or-down vote on
trade deals negotiated with other countries, has been the key to a vast
expansion in world trade. But the resulting trade agreements have run into
populist protests from labor and liberal groups that blame them for the loss of
U.S. manufacturing jobs.

The Bush administration has responded to Democratic pressure by including
enforceable new labor and environmental standards in several pending bilateral
trade agreements. But the action by the House means that any further deals are
unlikely as long as Bush is president.

I think labor and the environmentalists have made a good case for including
their protections in these trade deals. But ending the president's negotiating
authority will only do our country damage. "America needs to remain open for
business to the 95 percent of the world's consumers living outside the United
States," said U.S. Trade Representative Susan Schwab. And she is right.

The point is pretty basic. Politicians are wise to heed what people want. But
they also have an obligation to weigh for themselves what the country needs. In
today's Washington, the "wants" of people count far more heavily than the
nation's needs.

You can win elections by promising people what they want. But you win your place
in history by doing what the country needs done.

davidbroder@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved
