
                               1 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 27, 2007 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Unions Split on Immigrant Workers

BYLINE: Krissah Williams, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Financial; D01

LENGTH: 804 words


Union leaders are fundamentally divided over how to best tackle immigration
reform as they wrestle with how to convert illegal immigrants from job threats
to dues-paying members. The split reflects long-standing questions over the
place of undocumented immigrants in the labor movement.

One side supports a guest-worker program, which could permit hundreds of
thousands of immigrants to enter the country annually depending on the needs of
U.S. businesses. The other side says such programs encourage employers to pay
less, exploit immigrant workers and drive down working conditions for everyone.

The Service Employees International Union, with many immigrants among its 1.8
million members, backs the guest-worker idea, leading it to an unusual
labor-business alliance with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.

The AFL-CIO, a federation of 54 unions, calls guest-worker programs exploitative
and wants immigrants who enter the country to do so as permanent residents, not
temporary workers.

Eliseo Medina, executive vice president of SEIU, which broke from the AFL-CIO in
2005 over strategic differences, said his union recognizes "the reality of the
marketplace and the economy." A guest-worker program could give immigrant
workers the right to unionize and eventually petition for citizenship, he said.

Immigration reform, which congressional leaders and President Bush have called a
priority, has wide implications throughout the U.S. labor movement. Last year,
the Senate proposed a guest-worker program that would have made immigrants
temporary residents and employers responsible for requesting their green cards.

Unions universally opposed that proposal and are trying to shape a plan to their
liking, but their divided voices could dilute their message.

Immigrants are the fastest-growing sector of the U.S. workforce and organizing
them has been a priority for unions as they shift from a message of "protect
American jobs."

"It's a sea change from the early 1990s when immigrant labor was viewed by many
as the enemy of organized labor," said Harley Shaiken, director of the Center
for Latin American Studies at the University of California at Berkeley. "Now
labor recognizes the reality of 12 million undocumented people in this country
and the complexity of how to regularize that."

When thousands of immigrants marched on the National Mall last year, many of the
organizers were union leaders. The spokesman for the Washington region's
immigrant coalition was also the leader of a SEIU local. AFL-CIO leaders also
stood with immigrant activists at marches, and last year they formed an alliance
with a national group of day-laborer centers.

For some, guest-worker programs awaken memories of the government-sanctioned  --
and flawed  --  Bracero Program that operated from 1942 to 1964. It locked
immigrants, mostly Mexican men, into English-language contracts that they could
not understand and made them beholden to farm bosses. At the end of their
contracts, under which they picked sugar beets, cotton and other crops for long
hours and low pay, the immigrants were deported.

Ana Avendaño, the AFL-CIO's associate general counsel, called today's
guest-worker programs, which tie immigrant workers' visas to their U.S.
employers, "modern-day Bracero Programs."

"The bells and whistles they are currently adding to the temporary workers
programs are bound to fail, they have been proven to fail," she said.

Medina said the SEIU advocates a guest-worker program with visas that would let
workers change jobs, join unions and petition for permanent residency.

"Workers that come here would have full protections of our labor rights,
including the right to organize, and they would have an independent method of
enforcing those rights," Medina said.

SEIU's support of a revamped guest-worker program reflects a desire to create
politically tenable immigration reform. Bush has said that his support of
immigration reform hangs on the inclusion of a temporary-worker provision.

"Immigrants really want something. There's such desperation for some resolution
of this mess," said Ruth Milkman, a professor of industrial sociology at the
University of California at Los Angeles.

But SEIU's temporary-worker proposal is nothing like the president's plan to
connect "willing employers with willing workers" or the guest-worker provisions
floated in Congress, which would not give workers the right to independently
petition for permanent residency.

Finding middle ground could be tough. Broad support is needed to change
immigration laws, said proponents of increased immigration, who have been
pushing to rewrite the laws for years.

"As the process goes along, I think there's a framework for the labor movement
to come together," Medina said. "It won't be an easy process, but it can
happen."

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                               2 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 23, 2007 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                                Suburban Edition

Immigration Reform Revisited;
Bipartisan Bill in House Includes Guest-Worker Program

BYLINE: Darryl Fears; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 672 words


A bipartisan proposal for comprehensive immigration reform that would allow
millions of illegal immigrants to participate in a guest-worker program and
possibly gain citizenship was introduced in the House yesterday, the first to be
submitted since Democrats took control of Congress this year.

The proposal from Reps. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.) and Luis V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.) is a
far cry from a measure passed by the Republican-controlled House in 2005 that
focused on tough enforcement actions to reduce illegal immigration. The House
bill died in a conference committee along with a competing Senate bill that was
similar to the Flake-Gutierrez proposal.

Flake said the legislation is needed because current laws have failed to seal
the border and to stop the hiring of illegal workers. "This bill addresses that
problem by bolstering border security, increasing interior enforcement, and
creating a temporary worker program that's enforceable and fair," he said.

Gutierrez acknowledged that opponents of guest-worker programs inside and
outside the House will try to pick the bill apart. "I know that there are those
out there already revving up their fax machines, ready to malign and
mischaracterize this legislation," he said.

The bill seeks to clamp down on illegal border crossings from Mexico while
allowing some illegal workers and their family members already in the United
States to legally remain for up to six years if they pay a $1,000 fine for
breaking the law and continuously hold a job.

Illegal immigrants who become guest workers could eventually become citizens if
they have broken no additional laws, leave the country, return legally, pay a
second $1,000 fine and become proficient English speakers.

Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.), an outspoken opponent of illegal immigration and
guest-worker programs, called the legislation amnesty for lawbreaking
foreigners.

"It's another attempt to change the color of the lipstick they keep putting on
the pig," said Tancredo, who is exploring a run for president. "This color is no
more attractive than the others they slathered on. It's a debacle."

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, said
the new bill will fail. "I don't think it has any more chance than the Senate
bill did last year," he said. "The Democratic majority doesn't change things as
much as you might think."

Even as congressional action on immigration is looming, a coalition of black
civil rights groups including the National Urban League and the NAACP, and
immigration advocates such as the National Council of La Raza and the National
Immigration Law Center, is trying to hash out a proposal that would require
employers to pay a fair wage to illegal workers and give them the same labor
protections as American jobholders.

Once agreement is reached on the language of the proposal, activists say they
will press congressional allies to attach the ideas to an immigration bill as it
moves through the legislative process.

Proponents of the idea say it is an attempt to build bridges between civil
rights organizations and immigration groups that would bring together the
country's two largest minorities, Latinos and African Americans, groups that do
not always agree when it comes to immigration.

"There's a sense that we want to work closely with the Latin American community,
but we also want to talk about our concerns," said Marc Morial, president of the
National Urban League.

As immigrants marched in Washington, Chicago, Phoenix, Dallas and Los Angeles
last year, Morial said he was torn between an urge to advocate for immigrants
and an urge to guard against the impact of illegal workers on black
unemployment.

"There are serious problems that U.S.-born workers face at the low-wage end,"
said Deepak Bhargava, executive director of the Center for Community Change, a
group that assists a network of immigrant organizations. "If people expect
support from African American leaders without addressing those concerns, then
you are not going to have your expectations met."

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

CORRECTION-DATE: March 24, 2007



CORRECTION:  A March 23 article about immigration reform incorrectly said that
the National Immigration Law Center advocates paying a "fair wage" to illegal
immigrants. The center advocates only equal labor protections for those
immigrants.

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Reps. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.), left, and Luis V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.)
say their bill will bolster border security, increase interior enforcement and
create a fair worker program.
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 30, 2007 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Guest-Worker Program Part of Government's Immigration Plan

BYLINE: Darryl Fears; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 472 words


The Bush administration yesterday circulated a new plan for immigration reform
that would create a guest-worker program for illegal immigrants currently in the
country but would require them to return home and pay a large fine to gain
permanent U.S. residency.

On the enforcement side, the plan calls for deploying about 6,000 additional
Border Patrol agents along the southern border, together with 200 miles of
vehicle barriers, 370 miles of fencing and a 300-mile virtual wall of electronic
sensors. An employment verification system would feature new, tamper-proof
identification cards for immigrants.

The administration has worked on the plan in closed-door sessions with
Republican senators since President Bush called for comprehensive immigration
reform in his State of the Union address in January. Homeland Security Secretary
Michael Chertoff and Commerce Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez have led those
discussions, an administration spokesman said.

"We're working with them to build a proposal that will address the problem of
illegal immigration and deliver a system that is secure, productive, orderly and
fair," said the spokesman, Scott Stanzel. "We hope that this is something that
can move forward and reach the president's desk this year."

A bipartisan bill introduced last week in the House was condemned as an amnesty
for illegal immigrants by some Republicans because it calls for a temporary
guest-worker program that would give participants a chance to become legal
residents.

Under the administration's plan, illegal immigrants would have to register for
temporary status six months after its enactment. "Any alien wishing to
transition to legal status must come forward during this time," according to
talking points on the plan, "and every household member must be separately
enrolled."

Background checks would follow, and cards, known as Z-visas, would be issued
allowing the illegal immigrants to work. The visas would have to be renewed
every three years, and an applicant would have to pay each time a $2,000 fine
and a $1,500 processing fee.

To get permanent legal residency, Z-visa holders would have to return to their
home countries and apply to reenter the United States legally through U.S.
embassies and consulates. They would also have to pay two large fines, $2,000 to
apply and $8,000 if approved.

The plan would scale back legal immigration based on family reunification. It
calls "migration of extended family members" a problem because too many people
have applied for entry under that designation. "It will take over 30 years to
finish processing them on our current path," the administration said in its
talking points. The proposal would eliminate preferences for siblings and adult
children, and give the government discretion to redirect the 50,000 visas that
are issued annually for that purpose.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 10, 2007 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Bush Makes Push To Resolve Status Of Illegal Workers

BYLINE: Michael A. Fletcher; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 808 words

DATELINE: YUMA, Ariz., April 9


President Bush outlined the latest version of his plan to overhaul the nation's
immigration laws Monday, renewing his support for a guest-worker program for
those with low skills and issuing a vague call for a resolution of the legal
status of the estimated 12 million undocumented workers in the country.

Speaking at the dedication of a state-of-the-art Border Patrol station here, a
few miles from the U.S.-Mexican border, Bush called on Congress to pass the type
of comprehensive immigration legislation that he has been pushing with little
success since his earliest days as president. Bush said the overhaul should
combine increased border security and added pressure on employers who hire
illegal immigrants with a legal avenue for large numbers of guest workers to
come into the country, while resolving the status of  undocumented workers
already here.

"Congress can pass a comprehensive bill, and I can sign it into law this year,"
Bush said, without offering a detailed proposal.

Since becoming president, Bush has viewed immigration as an issue on which he
could make his mark as a "compassionate conservative" while extending the reach
of the Republican Party to the fast-growing ranks of Latino voters, who tend to
lean Democratic. But the swirling politics surrounding the emotional issue have
left Bush groping for a viable path toward a solution, even as his political
capital continues to be drained by the war in Iraq.

Saying that "family values don't stop at the Rio Grande River," Bush spoke of
the hardworking immigrants who risk their lives to sneak across the southern
border to provide for their families and contribute to the national fabric in
the same way immigrants have for generations. In passing any new legislation, he
said, Congress should honor "our proud history as a nation of immigrants."

Bush came under pressure from many Republicans who wanted him to do more to stop
illegal immigration before last fall's midterm elections. While the pressure
caused the president to support an "enforcement only" measure as a first step
toward revamping immigration policy, the strategy did not necessarily help some
of the staunchest advocates of border-security policies.

Here in Arizona, a state keenly affected by illegal immigration,  Gov. Janet
Napolitano (D), who favors a guest-worker program, had a convincing reelection
victory. Meanwhile, then-Rep. J.D. Hayworth (R), who had raised the specter of
mass deportations of illegal immigrants, lost his reelection bid to Democrat
Harry E. Mitchell, who favors a more balanced approach.

Some advocates say Bush is aware of those lessons and of the future implications
for the GOP among Hispanic voters. "He wants a legacy on immigration, to be
sure," said Frank Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum.
"But politically, if the Republicans repeat their 30 percent 2006 Latino
performance, they can't win the White House and take back the Congress. Period."

Even as he has talked repeatedly about the need for comprehensive changes,
including in a televised address from the Oval Office, Bush has slid to the
right on the issue. He deployed thousands of National Guard troops to help
patrol parts of the border with Mexico and signed into law a bill to build a
wall along about a third of the 2,100-mile frontier.

Now Bush appears poised to embrace a more punitive overhaul plan than he has
talked about in the past. Under the proposal, written  with GOP senators,
undocumented workers could apply for three-year work visas, renewable at a cost
of $3,500 each time. To become legal permanent residents, they would have to
return to their home countries, apply for reentry at a U.S. embassy or
consulate, and pay a $10,000 fine.

The proposal, which White House aides have called just one of many ideas the
president will consider, has drawn strong rebukes from immigration activists and
business groups. After details of the White House plan were leaked to the media
last week, thousands of protesters in Los Angeles took to the streets.

"The administration's initial proposal is a step back, in our view, from the
president's address to the nation last year," said Kevin Appleby, director of
migration and refugee policy for the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops.

During his visit to Arizona, Bush attempted to highlight improvements in border
security in recent years. He toured areas of the state's border with Mexico
where illegal immigrants once could  overwhelm the Border Patrol simply by
rushing across. The deployment of National Guard troops, increases in the number
of Border Patrol agents and improvements in technology have deterred such bold
tactics, he said.

Last year, Border Patrol agents apprehended an average of 400 people a day
attempting to sneak into the country in the Yuma sector of the border. Bush said
that figure is now down to 140.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Gerald Herbert -- Associated Press; President Bush, shaking
hands at Yuma International Airport, has viewed immigration as an issue on which
he could make his mark as a "compassionate conservative."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 21, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Allen, Webb Are Not Spotlighting Their Positions on Immigration;
They Differ on Guest-Worker Program and Limited Legalization

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B05

LENGTH: 996 words


Millions of protesters took to the streets this year to demand amnesty for
unauthorized immigrants. Congress debated immigration bills for months before
approving a 700-mile border fence. In several fiercely contested political races
nationwide, illegal immigration has taken center stage.

The candidates in Virginia's Senate race, meanwhile, have barely touched it.

Republican Sen. George Allen and his challenger, Democrat James Webb, have stark
differences on the issue. While both call for sealing the borders, Allen brooks
no sympathy for illegal immigrants and favors guest-worker plans. Webb supports
legalization for some immigrants and opposes broad programs for temporary
foreign labor.

Analysts say the relative absence of immigration in the race reflects the
increasingly tricky proposition of campaigning on polarizing topics, especially
in a traditionally conservative state with a changing political landscape. In
recent elections, Northern Virginia voters' allegiance has shifted toward
Democrats.

"Statewide in Virginia, I think it's a lot thornier," said Mark J. Rozell, a
public policy professor at George Mason University. "With the divide . . . it's
really hard to say that someone can play this issue one way and know that he's
going to benefit."

Studies show that Virginia's illegal immigrant population has swelled in recent
years and that growth has been densest in Northern Virginia. Herndon voters this
spring ousted Town Council members who backed a hiring site for immigrant day
laborers, but Republican Jerry W. Kilgore lost the Northern Virginia suburbs  --
and the governor's race  --  after a campaign in which he vowed, among other
things, to crack down on illegal immigrants.

In a recent Washington Post poll, 59 percent of likely Virginia voters said
immigration would be important in their choice for senator  --  but only after
issues such as terrorism, Iraq, the economy, ethics in government, health care
and taxes.

Nationally, most candidates campaigning on immigration are of the
tough-on-illegal-immigration  persuasion, like Allen. But Allen has battled
accusations of insensitivity to minorities since the summer, when he called an
Indian American campaign worker for Webb a "macaca."

"Immigration, like it or not, is an issue that touches on race," said Steven A.
Camarota, research director at the Center for Immigration Studies, which favors
limiting immigration.

Asked about the Herndon day-labor center at a Richmond debate this month, Allen
responded: "We should not be rewarding illegal behavior because all that will do
is encourage more illegal behavior."

Parting ways with President Bush, Allen voted this session against a failed
Senate bill that would have given some illegal immigrants a path to citizenship.
The senator leans toward House Republicans on immigration, favoring
enforcement-only approaches that aim to close the borders.

"First and foremost, Virginians want our borders secured," said Dick Wadhams,
Allen's campaign manager. He said Allen considered Congress's final border fence
bill a "good start."

To address the question of the nation's estimated 12 million illegal immigrants,
Allen wants stepped-up punishment of their employers, Wadhams said. Strict
enforcement, Allen reasons, will dry up the source of jobs over time. Allen
backs expanded guest-worker programs that supply migrant labor to farms and
skilled employees to tech companies.

That position is a key difference between Allen and Webb, who rails against
corporate interests and bemoans the struggle of the middle class. He criticizes
large-scale guest-worker programs, saying more oversight is needed so jobs do
not go to cheaper foreign labor. Unlike Allen, Webb supports giving a path to
legalization to immigrants who have been in the United States long enough to
have planted deep roots.

"That in some way means sorting out people who have long ties with their
community in the name of fairness and reality," Webb said. But he added: "I'm
not for amnesty. I want to make that clear."

Webb said the Herndon day-labor center is an acceptable way to locally manage
the effects of a failed federal immigration system. On his Web site, he calls
for the United States to strengthen border security above all else and to turn
next to the questions of illegal immigrants and a guest-worker plan. In an
interview, he did not emphasize the need for border security as strongly. And he
added a fourth component: pressuring  --  and helping  --  Mexico to stem
migration through economic development.

Webb has been endorsed by a group of Latino leaders called Adelante Con Webb,
which chose Webb in part for his vision of a broad overhaul of immigration laws,
said Arlington County Board member Walter Tejada (D), a member of the group.

But Tejada said the endorsement came only after Webb met with the group and
justified his views on affirmative action, which he has called "state-sponsored
racism." Now Webb says he supports it for blacks but not for other ethnic
minorities, unless poor whites are included. Webb says the position is based on
fairness and hews to the program's original intent.

"We really understood and realized that this man really is about opportunity,"
Tejada said.

Allen earned the endorsement of the Latino Coalition, a nonpartisan advocacy
group that has often backed GOP proposals and is headed by former Bush appointee
Hector V. Barreto, who resigned as head of the Small Business Administration in
April. Robert de Posada, the Latino Coalition's president, called Webb's
affirmative action position "extremely insulting."

As Virginia governor, de Posada said, Allen "opened doors for Hispanics" by
appointing several Latinos, including former Virginia Transportation secretary
Robert E. Martinez. That prompted the coalition, which favors legalization for
illegal immigrants, to overlook Allen's immigration views.

Staff writer Michael D. Shear contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                               6 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          December 13, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Illegal Workers Arrested In 6-State ID Theft Sweep

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu and Krissah Williams, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 963 words


Federal agents targeting illegal immigrants raided meatpacking plants in six
states yesterday, arresting hundreds of workers on the uncommon charge of
identity theft and shutting down the world's second-largest meat processing
company for much of the day.

About 1,000 U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents with search warrants
entered plants owned by Swift & Co., of Greeley, Colo., charging that "large
numbers" of workers illegally assumed the identities of U.S. citizens or legal
residents by using their Social Security numbers to get work, ICE officials
said.

Company and union officials said agents, some dressed in riot gear, locked down
six beef- and pork-processing plants early in the morning, segregating workers
into groups of citizens and non-citizens after questioning. Some illegal workers
were bused to detention facilities hours away, labor officials said.

ICE officials would not say how many people were arrested, pending a news
conference today in Washington. About 90 percent of Swift's 15,000 U.S.
employees work in three shifts at the plants, company officials said.

The crackdown was another step in the federal government's campaign against
illegal immigration, and like some recent raids it targeted job sites, the
magnet drawing many of the nearly 12 million illegal immigrants. But the move
was unusual for several reasons.

U.S. authorities cast the 11-month investigation as an attack on identity theft,
not on typical immigration violations. Swift officials were not charged, despite
recent administration vows to get tough on companies as well as workers.

The sweep also highlighted flaws in the main program through which the
government helps employers authenticate workers' identification documents,
underscoring how weak government ID requirements and poor coordination with the
Social Security Administration have frustrated enforcers for decades. Swift has
been participating in the program for years.

Yesterday's raid "shows the weakness of the current system, the ways illegal
workers have been able to find employment in the legitimate economy, and the
need for enforcement efforts to focus on the work site and not just the border,"
said Deborah W. Meyers, senior policy analyst at the Migration Policy Institute,
a nonpartisan think tank in Washington.

Although many illegal workers by definition commit document fraud to get jobs,
the government's use of identity theft charges could reframe the immigration
debate for the public and spotlight how sharing Social Security data could fight
such abuses, she said.

In a brief teleconference with reporters, Julie L. Myers, assistant secretary of
homeland security for ICE, said that "the signal we're intending to send here
is, 'We're serious about work site enforcement, and those individuals who steal
identities of U.S. citizens will not escape action from us.' " She said the
government would also pursue vendors of fake documents, former workers and
legitimate residents who sold their Social Security numbers.

Raids took place in plants in Greeley; Grand Island, Neb.; Cactus, Tex.; Hyrum,
Utah; Marshalltown, Iowa; and Worthington, Minn.

ICE spokesman Marc Raimondi said investigators will decide whether those
arrested will face immediate deportation, prosecution or detention pending other
legal proceedings. U.S. officials noted the participation of the Federal Trade
Commission, which routinely shares data on identity theft victims with federal
and state law enforcement agencies.

In 1998, similar raids at 40 meatpacking plants in and around Nebraska found
that nearly 20 percent of workers had invalid documents. The vast majority
disappeared before questioning.

Worker advocates condemned yesterday's raids, which came without warning. They
advised detainees to remain silent and contact attorneys.

"These actions today by ICE are an affront to decency," said Mark Lauritsen, a
spokesman for the United Food and Commercial Workers union, which sought an
injunction in court to halt the raids and planned protests around the country.
Federal agents essentially stormed plants "in an effort designed to terrorize"
workers, he said.

In Grand Island, as many as 250 workers from a shift of more than 600 were
detained as two buses and 10 ICE vans sat outside the plant gates, said Mike
Mary, spokesman for UFCW 22 Local. From Worthington, Swift workers were bused to
South Dakota, said UFCW spokeswoman Jill Cashen.

"This is not a systematic way to address the deep problems plaguing the
immigration system," Cashen said.

In an interview, Swift's president and chief executive, Sam Rovit, also
criticized the arrests. He said that his firm's practices are similar to those
of its competitors and that "everyone in the whole agriculture sector should be
worried."

"Swift has played by the rules and relied in good faith on a program explicitly
held out by the president of the United States as an effective tool to help
employers comply with applicable immigration laws," said Rovit, whose company
reported $9.4 billion in sales in 2006. "Swift believes that today's actions by
the government . . . raise serious questions as to the government's possible
violation of individual workers' civil rights."

Rovit cited promises made by the government to protect employers who voluntarily
submit information about workers to a federal program called Basic Pilot, which
confirms the authenticity of Social Security numbers against federal databases.
Swift has run all new U.S. hires through the program since 1997.

Studies show that Basic Pilot suffers from data errors, has an unacceptably high
false-alarm rate and cannot detect fraudulent use of borrowed or stolen Social
Security numbers. Congress is hoping to expand the program as part of beefed-up
enforcement.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                               7 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 17, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Party Shift Won't End Immigration Debate;
Election Discouraged Some Who Had Sought Overhaul;
They Misjudged the Democrats

BYLINE: Rick Montgomery and Scott Canon, Kansas City Star

SECTION: A Section; A11

LENGTH: 909 words

DATELINE: KANSAS CITY, Mo.


On election night, Rep. Tom Tancredo thought, "It's all over with." He was
preparing to cede the fight to rid America of millions of illegal immigrants.

Tancredo, the Colorado Republican who staked his career on getting tough with
border crossers, saw some of his staunchest GOP allies, including Rep. Jim Ryun
(Kan.), bounced at the polls. Although Tancredo won another term, the Democrats
took Congress, and he assumed "amnesty," as hard-liners label it, was just
around the bend.

Even President Bush spoke the next day of seeking "some common ground with
Democrats" on at least one of his priorities: granting guest-worker status and a
path to citizenship to people who entered the United States illegally.

Perhaps Tancredo had not read the Web site of Ryun's Democratic rival, Nancy
Boyda:

"Crack Down on Illegal Immigration  --  When American corporations knowingly or
negligently hire illegal workers, they lure immigrants into America, weaken our
borders, and create unfair wage competition for American workers. This is
unacceptable."

The debate that roiled the nation this spring is far from over.

"On further reflection," Tancredo said, "I've the distinct impression . . .
there's no enthusiasm at all for a guest-worker or amnesty plan."

Speaker-elect Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) signaled her party's reluctance to address
the issue of 12 million illegal immigrants by leaving immigration off her to-do
list for the first 100 hours of the 110th Congress.

"It's going to be a toss-up whether we get anything done" before the 2008
presidential election, said Jeanne Butterfield, executive director of the
American Immigration Lawyers Association. "And doing nothing is bad. . . . More
of the same is untenable."

Of the more than 100 members of the "immigration reform" caucus formed by
Tancredo, 95 percent were reelected.

And Democratic gains will not necessarily translate to sympathy for illegal
immigrants or their employers  --  not when newly elected Democrats such as
Heath Shuler of North Carolina and Brad Ellsworth of Indiana voiced clear
support for GOP bills for stiffer penalties and bigger fences.

"They can't vote for amnesty," said Steven A. Camarota, director of research at
the Center for Immigration Studies, which favors restrictions on immigration.
"Any of these Democrats who were just elected are going to be saying to
themselves: 'I just won in a Republican-ish district. This isn't going to be
popular.' "

In Kansas's 2nd District, "they don't want something that even looks like
amnesty," said Boyda, who said she would oppose a guest-worker program as
outlined in the Senate bill that was rejected by the House GOP.

Her district stretches from southeast Kansas through Topeka and Manhattan. "We
don't have large packing plants or fields picked by hand," leaving Kansas on the
"short end" of a cheap-labor economy that presses down on wages of legal
workers, Boyda said. She added that Democratic leaders "are sending me a clear
message to reflect my district."

Yet nationally the ideas of expanding temporary-work permits and letting illegal
immigrants apply for U.S. citizenship have broad appeal.

A Gallup poll in May, taken after mass protests by Latinos objecting to the
House's proposed raft of new restrictions and enforcement measures, showed 63
percent of Americans somewhat or very sympathetic toward illegal immigrants.

A similar majority said illegal immigrants working in the United States should
remain and become citizens if they meet certain requirements over a period of
time.

The blocked Senate bill, proposed by Sens. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) and John
McCain (R-Ariz.), would have offered citizenship to illegal workers who paid
back taxes and a $2,000 penalty for breaking the law, studied English and
civics, cleared background checks, and worked six years without legal problems.

Opponents called it "amnesty."

Democratic pollster Celinda Lake said the GOP was trying this year "to find hot
buttons" to put Democrats on the defensive.

"I don't think we did ourselves any favors when we engaged the public in a major
topic and didn't pass the legislation to deal with it," said Sen. Sam Brownback
(R-Kan.), who backed the Kennedy-McCain plan.

Instead of being a top-tier issue for Republicans, immigration "turned out to be
a second-tier issue that turned out Latinos," said Frank Sharry, the executive
director of the National Immigration Forum.

Exit polling indicated that barely a fourth of Hispanics voted for Republicans.
Bush pulled more than 40 percent of Hispanic votes two years ago.

The Democrats could "reap a windfall with Latino voters going into 2008," said
Andrea LaRue, an immigrant rights lobbyist.

If the 2006 vote offered no clear mandate on immigration, as LaRue and Sharry
say, it did recalibrate the odds for an overhaul by flipping party control of
Congress. Then again, any new measures will require crossover alliances:
big-business Republicans joining social-justice Democrats for relaxed
immigration standards, culturally conservative Republicans and Democratic labor
unions teaming up for stricter enforcement.

Almost all agree that the first year of the new Congress offers the best window,
if lawmakers tackle the issue at all.

Even then, passing Kennedy-McCain would send millions flooding into immigration
offices for citizenship in 2008, Camarota said.

"Do the Democrats want that in a presidential-election year?" he asked. "I don't
think so."

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                               8 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 17, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Colo. Lawmaker Considers Run For President

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: A Section; A06

LENGTH: 131 words


Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.), one of Congress's most outspoken opponents of
illegal immigration and guest-worker programs, said yesterday that he will take
the first step toward a 2008 presidential bid.

Tancredo said in a statement that he decided to form a presidential exploratory
committee after visiting Iowa last weekend.

"The one thing I heard over and over is that they don't believe the other
contenders care about the same things that they do," Tancredo, 61, said.

None of the White House candidates, the five-term lawmaker added, "reflects the
grass-roots, majority belief of Americans that our borders must be secured, that
employers who hire illegals must be prosecuted, and that no one who has broken
our immigration laws should ever be put on a 'pathway to citizenship.' "

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                               9 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 19, 2007 Friday
                                 Final Edition

2 Charged With Harboring Illegal Workers

BYLINE: Jerry Markon, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B02

LENGTH: 413 words


People in this country illegally were allowed onto the Quantico Marine Base and
worked there on a construction project, federal officials announced yesterday as
they charged two men with harboring the workers.

Federal agents arrested the two men at an apartment complex in Dumfries, where
prosecutors said the men leased apartments for the workers. Fourteen immigrants
were also detained, including three found on the base.

The immigrants never gained access to sensitive information and did not pose a
threat to national security, court documents said. Federal officials said they
were working on building a housing complex.

Court documents said the immigrants worked for a company owned by Richard
Eversole, 58, who was charged yesterday in U.S. District Court in Alexandria.
Eversole, a U.S. citizen, obtained Department of Defense vehicle stickers from
Quantico, which allowed the men to enter the base with limited inspection at the
front gate, the documents said.

Also charged with conspiracy to harbor illegal aliens was Juan Martinez, 24, who
was also here illegally and deported from the United States in 2004. A third
man, Jacob Bocanegra, 36, was charged with unlawful reentry into the United
States and remains a fugitive.

Lawyers for the defendants had not been appointed as of late yesterday, and
Eversole and Martinez remained in custody.

A Quantico spokeswoman referred calls to the Naval Criminal Investigative
Service, which began the investigation in March after a tip from an employee of
Eversole's company. A spokesman for that agency, Ed Buice, said security at
Quantico "is by necessity not as strict as some other bases because the town of
Quantico is close by." He added that those charged had "knowingly circumvented
the gate security that was there. Ultimately, the responsibility rests with the
people who were charged with this crime."

The case is the latest in a series of investigations in which immigrants
illegally in this country were found to be working at U.S. military facilities
in California, New Mexico and several other states. Bill Reid, special agent in
charge of the Washington field office for U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, said the agency is trying to prevent it from happening again,
especially at bases and other critical facilities such as nuclear plants.

"The hazard is that you have an individual who gains access to these places and
you don't know who they are," he said. "You have no way of checking them."

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              10 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 19, 2007 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Illegal Workers Were Allowed on Marine Base, Authorities Allege

BYLINE: Jerry Markon, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B05

LENGTH: 413 words


People in this country illegally were allowed onto the Quantico Marine Base and
worked there on a construction project, federal officials announced yesterday as
they charged two men with harboring the workers.

Federal agents arrested the two men at an apartment complex in Dumfries, where
prosecutors said the men leased apartments for the workers. Fourteen immigrants
were also detained, including three found on the base.

The immigrants never gained access to sensitive information and did not pose a
threat to national security, court documents said. Federal officials said they
were working on building a housing complex.

Court documents said the immigrants worked for a company owned by Richard
Eversole, 58, who was charged yesterday in U.S. District Court in Alexandria.
Eversole, a U.S. citizen, obtained Department of Defense vehicle stickers from
Quantico, which allowed the men to enter the base with limited inspection at the
front gate, the documents said.

Also charged with conspiracy to harbor illegal aliens was Juan Martinez, 24, who
was also here illegally and deported from the United States in 2004. A third
man, Jacob Bocanegra, 36, was charged with unlawful reentry into the United
States and remains a fugitive.

Lawyers for the defendants had not been appointed as of late yesterday, and
Eversole and Martinez remained in custody.

A Quantico spokeswoman referred calls to the Naval Criminal Investigative
Service, which began the investigation in March after a tip from an employee of
Eversole's company. A spokesman for that agency, Ed Buice, said security at
Quantico "is by necessity not as strict as some other bases because the town of
Quantico is close by." He added that those charged had "knowingly circumvented
the gate security that was there. Ultimately, the responsibility rests with the
people who were charged with this crime."

The case is the latest in a series of investigations in which immigrants
illegally in this country were found to be working at U.S. military facilities
in California, New Mexico and several other states. Bill Reid, special agent in
charge of the Washington field office for U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, said the agency is trying to prevent it from happening again,
especially at bases and other critical facilities such as nuclear plants.

"The hazard is that you have an individual who gains access to these places and
you don't know who they are," he said. "You have no way of checking them."

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              11 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 23, 2007 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Janitorial Service Officials Charged in Sweep of Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A10

LENGTH: 631 words


Three top executives of a janitorial service used by such national restaurant
chains as Hard Rock Cafe and ESPN Zone face charges of tax evasion, fraud and
harboring illegal immigrants, U.S. officials announced yesterday, after
overnight raids in 18 states netted about 200 undocumented workers.

Authorities unsealed a 23-count indictment returned Feb. 15 by a grand jury in
Grand Rapids, Mich., against co-owners Richard M. Rosenbaum, 60, and Edward
Scott Cunningham, 43, and controller Christina A. Flocken, 59, of
Rosenbaum-Cunningham International Inc., of Palm Beach, Fla.

The trio allegedly failed to pay $18.6 million in federal employment taxes on
$54 million in custodial and grounds-keeping contracts between 2001 and 2005 at
the chains, which also included House of Blues, Planet Hollywood, Dave and
Busters, Yard House and China Grill, U.S. officials said. The restaurants'
parent companies were not charged.

Raids targeted 63 locations in 17 states and the District of Columbia, from
California to Florida and New York, including ESPN Zone restaurants in
Washington and Baltimore, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials
said. Illegal workers face administrative charges and deportation.

The case marked the latest wrinkle in a renewed campaign by the Bush
administration to crack down on employers as Congress debates an overhaul of the
nation's immigration laws. ICE arrested 716 individuals on criminal charges last
year, up from a few dozen in recent years.

The government lost a criminal case against Tyson Foods employees in 2003, ended
a criminal investigation against Wal-Mart in 2005 after negotiating an $11
million civil fine, and charged workers but not managers in raids against
meatpacker Swift & Co. last year, but it continued to target smaller companies
with criminal probes. Subjects included a California fence-building company, a
Kentucky home-building firm, a Texas-based transportation pallet firm, and a
temporary labor service in Ohio.

Commercial cleaning services are a $100 billion U.S. industry employing nearly 1
million workers across the private sector. According to prosecutors, RCI
supervisors and about 155 on-site managers allegedly hired hundreds of workers
since 1997 without job applications, W-4 tax withholding or I-9 employment
eligibility forms, or W-2 wage and tax statements. The company recruited through
word of mouth and advertisements at job fairs, festivals and in Spanish-language
newspapers. In one case, an employee allegedly bought 20 phony green cards.

The trio allegedly paid workers in cash and set up shell companies, with such
names as Ricurt Inc., Monker and Sunchaser Service Corp., to hide assets from
the Internal Revenue Service, the indictment said. Dividing nearly $7 million,
defendants allegedly purchased "racehorses, fancy boats and lavish homes" in
Florida and California, said Department of Homeland Security Assistant Secretary
Julie L. Myers. Assistant U.S. Attorney Hagen Frank said Rosenbaum was arrested
in central Florida. Cunningham and Flocken are expected to surrender to
officials soon, an ICE spokesman said.

John Vandevelde and Jeffrey Rutherford, attorneys for Cunningham, released a
statement noting that the use of undocumented workers "pervades many industries
throughout the United States," and added that his client was cooperating fully
and "expects to resolve this matter to everyone's satisfaction."

Vincent J. Marella and Evan Jenness, attorneys for Rosenbaum and Flocken,
respectively, did not respond to requests for comment.

The investigation began 20 months ago after tips by a cleaning crew at the Grand
Traverse Resort in Michigan. Earlier, a former RCI supervisor, two ex-employees
and a state of Michigan employee pleaded guilty to related charges.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              12 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 30, 2007 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

69 Immigrant Workers Held in Baltimore Area Raids

BYLINE: Pamela Constable and N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 926 words


Federal immigration agents detained 69 workers from Latin America and Africa
yesterday after raids on nine businesses that used a Baltimore-based temporary
employment agency suspected of providing illegal immigrants, authorities said.

The raids on the Baltimore area companies were part of a stepped-up nationwide
campaign by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement against firms suspected of
employing illegal immigrants.

Agents also seized the $600,000 bank account of Jones Industrial Network, the
employment agency under investigation for allegedly supplying illegal workers to
firms that included the sportswear manufacturer Under Armour and bonded
warehouses in or near the Port of Baltimore.

Authorities said the Jones firm was the sole target of their criminal
investigation because it bore responsibility for determining the legal status of
workers it provided under contract. No Jones officials faced arrest or charges
yesterday, they said.

At an afternoon news conference outside the shuttered Jones headquarters, a
block from Baltimore's Inner Harbor, tearful relatives of several detained women
pleaded for them to be released, saying they had young children at home or were
pregnant. One man carried his 4-month-old son in a car seat.

"There was no one to pick up my little brother at school today," said Daysy
Lopez, 24, an immigrant from Mexico, who said her mother was among those
detained. Her 8-year-old brother, David, played on the sidewalk while carrying a
school knapsack.

Jose Ramirez Sanchez, 30, a construction worker from Mexico, said his wife,
Anadelia Carrillo, 28, was four months pregnant when she was arrested at her job
early yesterday at a clothing warehouse operated by Under Armour, just south of
Baltimore.

"Instead of taking away people who are hurting the country or doing murders,
they are taking away people who work hard and want this country to get ahead,"
Sanchez said, burying his face in his sweat shirt as he fought back tears. "They
chase us like animals and say they are doing it for the good of the country."

Immigration officials, who announced the raids at a news conference in a
Baltimore hotel, said that they might release as many as 20 detained workers on
humanitarian grounds so they could care for their children, but that they would
still face immigration charges. All were detained on suspicion of being in the
United States illegally.

"We're evaluating 20 cases. We believe there may be grounds for humanitarian
releases," said James Dinkins, acting special agent in charge of the Baltimore
field office of ICE. Officials said they had set up a toll-free, 24-hour hotline
for detainees' relatives to call for information. The number is 866-341-3858.

The raids were the latest in a series of actions. In December, several hundred
people were taken into custody in raids on meatpacking plants operated by Swift
& Co. in six states. This month, federal agents detained more than 300 employees
of a leather goods manufacturer in New Bedford, Mass.

Yesterday, activists from CASA of Maryland, a nonprofit group that helps
immigrants, as well as several labor and church representatives, asked that
immigration officials halt work raids and deportations until Congress passes a
comprehensive immigration reform law. They said current laws often lead to
separating parents from their children, including those who are U.S.-born
citizens.

Officials said the workers detained yesterday were being held and processed in
Baltimore. They said some would be sent to detention centers in Maryland and
Pennsylvania, except for any who are released on humanitarian grounds.

One detained woman, who was eight months pregnant and said she was not feeling
well, was taken to a hospital during a raid, said ICE spokeswoman Jamie
Zuieback.

Many of the workers were laborers such as offloaders and packagers. Some of the
women worked labeling and packaging clothes, their relatives said. Officials
said the detainees had come from Mexico, Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, Costa
Rica, Ecuador, Kenya, Cameroon and Ghana.

In addition to the Jones firm, officials said the eight raided facilities were
operated by Under Armour and Dixie Printing and Packaging Corp., in Anne Arundel
County; Tessco Technologies and BP Castrol, in Baltimore County; and Pritchard
Brown, C. Steinweg, Baltimore Metal and Commodities, and Beacon Stevedoring, all
in Baltimore.

Kevin Haley, general counsel for Under Armour, told the Associated Press that
the company was unaware the employees were illegal immigrants. He said the firm
was "cooperating fully with law enforcement" and had been told it was not a
target of the government's investigation.

"At Under Armour, we are patriots first and last and we're fully committed to
compliance with all laws and regulations," Haley said. "We're furious that
apparently one of the temp agencies we use was not so committed or gave the
appearance of being not so committed."

Dinkins said the ICE inquiry was launched in August after investigators received
an anonymous tip that illegal immigrants were working at the Port of Baltimore.
He said ICE was concerned because the facilities were bonded warehouses. Such
facilities are allowed to store incoming and outgoing cargo before it is
examined by customs agents, during which time it is "very susceptible to
substitutions and tampering," he said.

Efforts to contact Jones officials were unsuccessful, and signs in English and
Spanish were taped inside the firm's front window saying it was closed for the
day.

Staff writer Mary Otto contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photos By Steve Ruark -- Associated Press; Marc Raimondi, a
spokesman for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, briefs reporters. At
right, an Anne Arundel County special operations officer waits outside an Under
Armour facility.
IMAGE; Photos By Steve Ruark -- Associated Press; Marc Raimondi, a spokesman for
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, briefs reporters. At right, an Anne
Arundel County special operations officer waits outside an Under Armour
facility.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 2, 2007 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Pleading to Stay a Family;
Raids on Illegal Immigrants Have Their U.S.-Born Children Fearing Separation --
and Some Are Lobbying Capitol Hill

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1441 words


As the government's crackdown on illegal immigrant workers has intensified in
recent months, so have the consequences for a large subgroup of U.S. citizens:
American-born children of illegal immigrants.

Numbering at least 3.1 million, according to an  analysis by the Urban Institute
and the Pew Hispanic Center, such children range from teenagers steeped in
iTunes and MySpace to toddlers just learning their ABCs.

Until recently, their parents' illegal status had limited impact on these
children's lives, because, although every year hundreds of thousands of illegal
immigrants are detained attempting to cross the U.S. border, once they make it
in, they are rarely caught.

But  the increase in raids against companies employing illegal workers is
beginning to change that.

In December, immigration agents descended on six meat-processing plants
belonging to Swift & Co. and arrested 1,297 illegal workers. At one plant, in
Worthington, Minn., the workers had at least 360 U.S.-born children and probably
many more, according to a local pastor who raised money for them.

Similarly, of  361 workers arrested during a raid of the Michael Bianco Inc.
manufacturing plant in New Bedford, Mass., last month, about  90 were the sole
caregivers for one or more children in the United States, according to federal
and state authorities.

On Thursday, a chubby-cheeked fifth-grader named Jessica Guncay joined the ranks
of  such children when immigration agents raided a Dixie Printing and Packaging
Corp. plant in Baltimore, where her parents were working under false Social
Security numbers.

During an interview in her home in Pikesville the next day, Jessica, 10, said
that although she had known her Ecuadoran parents were in the country illegally,
she never imagined they would be arrested.

"I feel sick inside," she mumbled, staring at her white sneakers.

Her mother, Ana Tapia, who sat next to Jessica on the family's brown velvet
couch, pulled her daughter in for a tearful hug.

Although Jessica's father, Jury Guncay, 45, remains in custody,  Tapia, 40, was
released several hours after the raid so Jessica would not be left without
anyone to care for her. But the black monitoring bracelet around Tapia's ankle
testified to the limited nature of that reprieve: She must remain under partial
house arrest until her case comes up in immigration court.

Her chances of winning a stay of deportation appear slim. Under  rules adopted
by Congress in 1996, a judge cannot allow illegal immigrants to remain in the
United States merely because they have a child who is a U.S. citizen. Instead,
parents must prove that if they were deported the child would suffer
"exceptional and extremely unusual hardship" -- a standard often interpreted to
apply to serious medical cases only.

And so  Tapia is  wrestling with a dilemma that has become increasingly common
for illegal immigrant parents: leave her child to be raised by relatives in the
United States or take her along to an unfamiliar country offering far fewer
opportunities.

In Maryland, she noted, she and her husband earned $11.25 an hour and were able
to provide Jessica with a computer, a modest but tidy brick house and free
access to an elementary school she loves.

Before leaving Ecuador 14 years ago, they could barely afford to sublet a single
room on  Guncay's wages as a metalworker. Now  Tapia worries he will no longer
qualify for even that job because Ecuadoran factory managers prefer younger
workers.

"I don't even know how my husband and I are going to survive there, let alone
support Jessica,"  Tapia said in Spanish.

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which
seeks to limit immigration, said he has sympathy for children in Jessica's
situation -- but no more so than for any other child victimized by a parent's
mistakes.

"Kids often pay for the bad decisions of their parents. If you do something
wrong that sends you to jail, well, your kids suffer for that. If you are
careless with your mortgage and lose your house, your kids suffer along with
you," he said. The parents "knew what they were doing when they had kids here,
knowing that they were still illegal immigrants."

Krikorian applauded the new efforts against employers of illegal workers as a
welcome departure from years of lax enforcement of immigration laws within U.S.
territory.

In fiscal  2004, for instance, the government deported  about 51,000 immigrants
who had been in the United States for more than a year, accounting for just 3
percent of the number of immigrants expelled and less than 1 percent of the
nation's estimated 12 million illegal immigrants.

Krikorian said lawmakers would only make matters worse by granting judges more
discretion to allow those now being arrested to remain in the United States if
they have U.S. citizen children, as proposed in a bill recently introduced by
Rep. Jose E. Serrano (D-N.Y.).

"You'd be making having a kid an automatic get-out-of-jail-free card," Krikorian
said. "You'd basically be saying that every illegal alien gets to stay
permanently just because they had a kid once they crossed the border."

Krikorian also cautioned that by pushing the issue, immigrant advocates will
strengthen sentiment in favor of revoking the automatic citizenship granted to
nearly anyone born on U.S. soil -- a right set forth in the 14th Amendment to
the Constitution.

Indeed, many commentators refer to U.S.-born children of illegal immigrants as
"anchor babies" or "jackpot babies," because once they turn 21, they  could
sponsor their parents for U.S. visas.

Immigrant advocates, however, are increasingly putting such children at the
forefront of their lobbying efforts, convinced that they offer the most
compelling argument for granting illegal immigrants opportunities to legalize.

"Once the average American citizen learns the facts, they are not going to want
these families to be separated. This is about the family values our country
holds most dear," said Emma Lozano, co-founder of Familia Latina Unida in
Chicago, one of several groups that have coalesced around the issue across the
country.

Although still relatively unknown on the national level, the groups -- which
include Freedom Families of New York and Million Babies March of Nebraska --
have been regularly busing members to  Capitol Hill  the  past two years.

Last Tuesday morning, the latest delegation from Familia Latina Unida spilled
out of a Greyhound bus onto a Washington street. Most of the 28 children in the
group wore brown T-shirts printed on the back with the words "Born in the U.S.A.
Don't take my Mommy or my Daddy away." The adult parents and chaperones had
circles under their eyes from the 14-hour  overnight drive from Chicago.

In most cases, their immigration troubles predate the  acceleration of worksite
raids,  stemming instead from mistakes made while applying for legal status,
such as leaving the United States to visit a sick parent while their application
was pending. But the subtle and not-so-subtle signs of stress in the children
offered a glimpse of what  might await those whose parents are now getting
picked up in raids.

There was 8-year-old Juan Manuel Castellanos, who, three years after his parents
fled their home to avoid arrest, still races to close  doors and windows,
fearing that "Immigration comes for my mom."

There was 11-year-old Tania Del Valle, who has Asperger syndrome and took three
months to understand that her father had been deported back to Mexico, then
wept uncontrollably for weeks.

And then there was quiet, preternaturally serious 13-year-old Brenda Benitez,
who said she tries hard not to snap back when her mother tells her to change the
television channel, because her mother is fighting deportation and "I know she
may not be here forever."

Before their meetings with lawmakers, Lozano gathered the children in a church
to practice recounting their stories.

"Okay, so why are you here?" Lozano asked the pint-size  Juan.

"Because I'm trying to get my dad and my mom papers," the boy answered
confidently in English.

"And what are they trying to do to your mom and dad?" Lozana prompted.

"They're trying to take them to Mexico," he said, his voice suddenly becoming
smaller.

"And what's going to happen to you if that happens?"

"I'm going to be left all alone!" he said, bursting into sobs.

His mother, Consuelo Castellanos, watching from a pew nearby, dabbed at her own
tears and admitted to mixed emotions.

"I'm really worried that this is going to traumatize him even more," she said in
Spanish. "But I'm also amazed and proud. I don't know where he gets this
bravery. Normally, he's so shy, but he's so determined to fight for us."

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Nikki Kahn -- The Washington Post; Bertha Rangel, left;
Brenda Benitez; Brenda's father, Rodolfo; and Brenda's sister, Andrea, 8, wait
to see a lawmaker on Capitol Hill.
IMAGE; Juan Castellanos, 8, holds hands with Brayan Pulido, 12, during a prayer
service, after which he planned to share his story with a lawmaker. Juan's
parents, who are from Mexico, face deportation.
IMAGE; Photos By Nikki Kahn -- The Washington Post; While waiting to see a U.S.
House member, Felicitas Valencia, left, holds 3-month-old daughter Jocelyn
Romero as Luis M. Zepeda, 11, Izaithell Aguirre, 5, and Britzy Lino, 6, gather
around her. Twenty-eight U.S.-born children of illegal immigrants came from
Chicago to help lobby for help.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 3, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Ehrlich Attacks O'Malley on Immigration

BYLINE: John Wagner and Mary Otto

SECTION: Metro; B02 , MARYLAND NOTEBOOK John Wagner and Mary Otto

LENGTH: 707 words


With just days remaining in his race for reelection, Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr.
opened a new line of attack on his Democratic challenger  --  on illegal
immigration.

Ehrlich (R) has started airing a television ad in Baltimore that highlights
Baltimore Mayor Martin O'Malley's support for a Maryland law that permits
illegal immigrants to get driver's licenses and his belief that illegal
immigrants should receive in-state rates on college tuition under certain
circumstances.

"Do you support giving driver's licenses to illegal immigrants? How about lower
in-state tuition? Martin O'Malley does," the ad says, before knocking O'Malley
on several other issues.

In an interview yesterday, O'Malley denounced Ehrlich's tactic.

"He's trying to inspire a very reactionary and right-wing base he has that is
way out of step with mainstream Marylanders," said O'Malley, who spent yesterday
campaigning on the Eastern Shore. "That's why he's trying to fan the flames of
nativism and xenophobia."

O'Malley and his aides said Ehrlich signed the 2003 law that opened the door to
granting licenses to immigrants, regardless of their legal status.

Ehrlich spokesman Henry Fawell disputed that, saying the state is granting such
licenses based on an interpretation of the law by the state attorney general's
office. Fawell said Ehrlich would never sign a law that had the effect of
providing licenses to illegal immigrants.

O'Malley said he supports providing driver's licenses, as well as in-state
tuition, to those immigrants who pay state taxes and live in the state because
"it is not in Maryland's best interests to create a permanent underclass of
citizens."

It's no secret that Baltimore Mayor Martin O'Malley and his city's top
prosecutor, Patricia C. Jessamy, a fellow Democrat, have had a rocky
relationship.

But waiting outside a Baltimore police union hall at an event yesterday with
Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. (R), Jessamy made it clear she was not using the
occasion to endorse either candidate in the governor's race.

"I'm not making an endorsement in this election," she said. Jessamy and Ehrlich
were at the hall to address a regional gathering of law enforcement officers
investigating gang violence.

"The governor is here because he is being governor," she said.

Jessamy stressed that gang violence "is not a Democratic or Republican issue."

Maryland's statewide chapter of the Fraternal Order of Police called on Mayor
Martin O'Malley yesterday to "come clean" and make public his original
application to the state bar.

O'Malley, the Democratic nominee for governor, would have been required to
disclose a 1987 arrest on a charge of driving under the influence of alcohol
unless the arrest record had been expunged.

O'Malley has said very little publicly about the charge, on which he was
acquitted, since it came to light in media reports last week. He has declined
media requests to release his bar application, saying he is staying focused on
issues important to Marylanders' future.

"Although his arrest and acquittal twenty years ago on a driving under the
influence charge may be irrelevant to his ability to serve as governor, his
ability to tell the truth completely and without qualification is extremely
relevant," the police union, which has endorsed Republican Gov. Robert L.
Ehrlich Jr., said in a statement yesterday.

"I have nothing more to say on that," O'Malley said when asked about the matter
yesterday. "That was last week's distraction."

In response to media requests, Ehrlich released his bar application last week.

Former North Carolina senator John Edwards, the Democrats' 2004 vice
presidential nominee, became the latest in a parade of the party's political
heavyweights to come to Maryland in advance of Tuesday's election.

Appearing at Morgan State University in Baltimore, Edwards told a crowd of about
300 people that "the future of the world is at stake" in the midterm elections
and the 2008 presidential elections.

Tomorrow, Sen. Barack Obama (D-Ill.) is coming in to rally the troops, and
former vice president Al Gore is scheduled to appear Monday with Baltimore Mayor
Martin O'Malley, the party's nominee for governor, at the Leisure World
retirement community in Montgomery County.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              15 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 24, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Prince William Lawmaker Asks U.S. to Pay Costs

BYLINE: Timothy Dwyer, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B02

LENGTH: 738 words


Providing local services to illegal immigrants in Prince William County last
year cost at least $3 million, and a county lawmaker yesterday decided to send
the bill to Congress.

Supervisor W.S. Covington III (R-Brentsville) wrote a letter to House Speaker
Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) and Vice President Cheney  --  in his role as Senate
president  --  citing the county's severe budget crunch and politely asking for
reimbursement.

Covington made the letter public yesterday, a day after the county released a
study he had requested to determine how much money illegal immigration is
costing county government.

The $3 million estimate is probably low. "We cannot give you an accurate or
dependable answer . . . regarding the total cost to serve the illegal
population," concluded the study, written by County Executive Craig S. Gerhart.

Prince William, where about 20 percent of residents are foreign-born, is one of
several areas in Northern Virginia grappling with a wave of new residents, many
of them illegal immigrants. Local government officials, frustrated that the
federal government has not been aggressive in curbing the problem, have begun
taking action.

Last week, Prince William became the first  county in the area to propose
allowing its jail to take on the federal task of screening undocumented
immigrants for deportation. Yesterday in Richmond, a House committee approved a
bill that would ban taxpayer money going to religious and charitable groups that
provide assistance to illegal immigrants.

The legislation was sponsored by Jackson Miller, the newly elected Republican
delegate from Manassas, who said he was upset that taxpayers' money was used to
fund a day-laborer center in Herndon in 2005.

The county government study was able to determine only the specific costs of
illegal immigration at the county jail and juvenile detention center and the
administrative costs of processing emergency Medicaid applications at hospitals
and clinics.

Most of the $3 million was spent housing illegal immigrants at the jail,
according to the study.

Gerhart said the county could not determine how much the school system spends on
illegal immigrants, because students are not required to provide proof of legal
status.

Prince William's study was unusual because it was the first attempt by a local
government in the region to determine the price tag of funding local services
for illegal immigrants, according to the Metropolitan Washington Council of
Governments and the National Council of La Raza, a leading Hispanic civil rights
group.

"What I learned from this," Covington told the Prince William Board of County
Supervisors yesterday, "is that it is going to get a lot worse before it gets
better, and the ultimate burden is going to be on local governments." He invited
the board to sign the letter with him.

In his message to Pelosi and Cheney, Covington asked that Congress conduct a
study of its own.

"We need functioning immigration laws that protect the quality of life for local
taxpayers," he wrote. "We believe that the U.S. Congress is in charge of
determining the number of illegal immigrants. We respectfully request that the
U.S. Congress determine the cost that illegal immigration places on localities.
In particular, we ask that Congress commence a federal study to determine the
effect of illegal immigration upon our public education system."

Covington noted that although the county could not determine the impact on the
school system, the number of non-English-speaking students has risen
dramatically in the last five years. "While the finite effect on this local
jurisdiction is not completely known  . . . our schools and other public
programs have been greatly undermined," Covington said.

Prince William is facing a revenue shortfall of $18 million this year and has
determined that it must cut about $22 million from next year's budget, a process
that is just beginning. The study noted that county analysts also could not
determine how much economic benefit illegal immigrants  --  or any residents,
for that matter  --  bring to the county.

"I think there is a reason why there is a dearth of these studies," said Michele
Waslin, director of immigration policy research for the National Council of La
Raza. "I think it is really difficult to do. I am very glad that they recognized
that the total immigrant population is not an approximation for illegal
immigrants."

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              16 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 24, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Locked in Squalor;
Immigrant detention centers don't meet basic standards.

SECTION: Editorial; A22

LENGTH: 441 words


NO MATTER your position in the debate over immigration policy, you no doubt
agree that the United States ought to treat those accused of violating
immigration law humanely. As it happens, so does U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement (ICE), which for years has had guidelines on the books governing the
treatment of detainees (about 27,500  of whom are locked in its facilities every
night). And, according to the agency's spokesman, ICE is very good at meeting
its  standards.

But a report released by the Department of Homeland Security's inspector general
last week suggests the opposite. The study examined five facilities and found
violations of basic ICE guidelines in every one. Among the more upsetting: roach
and rat infestations; limited access to clean underwear; dirty food trays and
undercooked poultry; faulty ventilation; and, perhaps  most disturbing,
constricted access to counsel. Unlike other types of prisoners in the United
States, noncitizens held for violations of immigration law have no right to
state-provided legal representation, but ICE's guidelines specify that they must
have access to law libraries and to working telephones with up-to-date phone
numbers connecting to free legal aid services. The inspector general found that
phones often did not work and that the law libraries were often obsolete. In one
facility, not one of the 12 numbers for legal services worked.

In its defense, ICE says that the report's findings are not statistically
significant because the inspector general  examined only a small number of
facilities and that the report does not reflect the state of other detention
centers. A spokesman points to the results of inspections ICE regularly conducts
across the whole system as evidence that the agency does not have a problem
complying with its own rules. Yet the very inspections ICE touts found each of
the five facilities the report examined to be acceptable, failing to catch many
of the problems the inspector general identified. This suggests that internal
information describing better conditions in other detention centers is probably
also  inaccurate.

In a written response to the report, ICE agreed that it needs to review its
inspection regimen. That's a start. The next step should be promulgating the
guidelines it professes to have no problem meeting as agency regulations, which
would give them the force of law and provide a greater incentive to comply. If
ICE's claims are true, it should have no argument with making regulations of its
own guidelines. If the inspector general's portrait is indicative, the nation is
failing a basic standard of human decency.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              17 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 31, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Proposals

SECTION: A Section; A09

LENGTH: 126 words


The Virginia House of Delegates approved a bill yesterday to address illegal
immigration. Other bills under consideration by the General Assembly would:

*  Ban state money for social welfare programs at churches, educational programs
and charities that provide services to illegal immigrants.

*  Give state and local police the authority to enforce federal immigration
laws.

*  Make it a misdemeanor to be in Virginia illegally.

*  Deny in-state tuition to illegal immigrants and prohibit them from enrolling
in a state university or college.

*  Establish a Commission on Immigration as an advisory commission in the
executive branch to analyze the impact of immigration on the state and make
recommendations on related policies in education and employment.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              18 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 28, 2007 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                                Suburban Edition

House Heats Up Over Bill to Give Illegal Immigrants In-State Tuition

BYLINE: Annapolis Notebook

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 668 words


One of the most emotional debates of the Maryland General Assembly session came
shortly after 8 p.m. Monday as the House of Delegates took up a bill to allow
undocumented immigrants who have lived in Maryland for a length of time to pay
in-state tuition at state  universities and community colleges.

They currently must pay out-of-state tuition.

Republican opponents said the General Assembly would be sanctioning illegal
immigration and take away in-state spots from minority students who are legal
residents of Maryland.

Del. Patrick L. McDonough (R-Baltimore County) told his colleagues, "We are
aiding and abetting people who are in this state illegally." His voice rose in
anger. "Welcome to Maryland. We are a sanctuary state. We will provide services
to you. We will break the rule of law."

The comments infuriated many Democrats, who rose to speak for the bill. The most
eloquent was Del. Melvin L. Stukes (D-Baltimore), who spoke with the fervor of a
preacher. He compared opposition to undocumented students with the 1700s view of
slaves as less than human.

"Do I need anyone to remind me of the mind-set that existed then and still
exists today, that some people were considered three-fifths of a human being?"
Stukes asked, his voice rising. "Are we still saying that some people are less
than whole? I don't think so."

The bill passed 81 to 57. It now goes to the Senate, where its prospects are
uncertain.

-- Lisa Rein

Court May Be Named for Judge

The Senate introduced a measure yesterday to rename the district court in
Rockville, where L. Leonard Ruben, one of Montgomery County's best-known judges,
collapsed and died last week.

Sen. P.J. Hogan (D-Montgomery) sponsored the late-filed bill renaming the
courthouse in Ruben's honor.

Ruben, the husband of former Maryland state senator Ida G. Ruben, died outside
the district courthouse in downtown Silver Spring on March 21, probably of a
heart attack, his son said. Ruben was 81.

-- Ovetta Wiggins

Sudan Divestiture Bill Is Passed

The state pension board will have the authority to pull the state's investments
from companies that do business with Sudan under a bill that has received final
approval in the House and Senate.

The 2007 Darfur Protection Act does not require automatic divestiture. But
Treasurer Nancy K. Kopp (D) and Comptroller Peter Franchot (D), who support the
measure, said the pension board would use its authority to divest from companies
that continue to do business with the Sudanese government.

The violence in the western region of Sudan has left more than 450,000 people
dead since 2003. The country's Arab government has attempted to crush a rebel
movement by destroying villages across Darfur, leaving more than 2.5 million
homeless and languishing in refugee camps -- actions the U.S. government has
labeled genocide.

-- Ovetta Wiggins

New PSC Members Sworn In

Gov. Martin O'Malley (D) administered the oath of office yesterday to his four
recent picks to serve on the embattled Public Service Commission, leaving them
with this charge: "Go forth and regulate!"

With yesterday's event, Steven B. Larsen formally became chairman of the
five-member panel that regulates Maryland's utilities, and Lawrence Brenner,
Susanne Brogan and Harold Williams joined him.

During last year's campaign, O'Malley accused Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. (R) and
his PSC appointees of being too friendly with the industries they regulate.

Yesterday, the governor also submitted his third supplemental budget of the
legislative session, which makes relatively minor tweaks to the $30 billion
budget that lawmakers are expected to pass in coming days.

Among the changes are bumps in the salaries of PSC members. Larsen will make
$185,000 a year, and other members will make $125,000.

O'Malley also suggests increases in funding for the University of Maryland at
College Park,  the Maryland Zoo in Baltimore and the Maryland Emergency
Management Agency and to facilitate the state's participation in a Regional
Greenhouse Gas Initiative.

-- John Wagner

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

CORRECTION-DATE: March 31, 2007



CORRECTION:  A Metro item in some March 28 editions incorrectly said a district
court that Maryland senators want to rename for the late Judge L. Leonard Ruben
is in Rockville. It is in Silver Spring.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 7, 2007 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigrant Tuition Bill Falters in Md. Senate

BYLINE: Ovetta Wiggins; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 764 words


The threat of a Senate filibuster has stalled a bill approved by the House of
Delegates that would offer in-state tuition to undocumented immigrants in
Maryland.

With the 90-day session ending Monday, the measure's chance of passing is
dimming quickly. The bill's lack of progress underscores the extent to which
immigration has become a flashpoint, even in a state as liberal as Maryland.
Several lawmakers said this week that it was politically untenable to wade into
the thorny issue of immigration legislation.

The bill, which has the support of Gov. Martin O'Malley (D), was approved by the
House last month, 81 to 57, after an emotional debate on the floor.

Opponents of the bill argued during that debate that it sanctioned illegal
immigration, whereas proponents said it was discriminatory not to offer the same
tuition rates to all high school students.

The bill has faced stiffer opposition in the Senate, where Sen. Joan Carter
Conway (D-Baltimore City), who chairs the Senate Education, Health and
Environment Committee, said yesterday that she didn't have enough votes to get
the bill out of committee. Even if it were to move to the floor, a "filibuster
seems very solid," she said.

Senate President Thomas V. Mike Miller (D-Calvert), who voted for a similar
measure in 2003, said this week that it might be difficult for some senators to
"justify subsidizing students when their parents came here illegally."

Miller said that if a poll were taken of Maryland voters, they probably would
oppose the bill 2 to 1.

"It's going to be a close call if it comes on the floor of the Senate," he said.

"It's a shame," said Del. Victor R. Ramirez (D-Prince George's), the bill's
sponsor. "Their parents pay taxes; it's only fair that they pay in-state
tuition."

Dozens of students, wearing blue T-shirts that read, "We Have a Dream," rallied
in front of the State House yesterday, urging lawmakers to pass the bill before
the session ends.

They were joined by several elected officials, including Lt. Gov. Anthony Brown
(D) and Comptroller Peter Franchot (D).

One student, who would give only his first name, Marco, said he was an honor
roll student at Bladensburg High School. He said his dream was to be a
pediatrician, but the cost of out-of-state tuition could stymie his goal.

The difference between the in-state and out-of-state tuition rate at the
University of Maryland is nearly $14,000. At Prince George's Community College,
it is more than $2,000.

Legal residents qualify for the reduced rate at Maryland universities if they
have lived in the state for one year. They can get the in-state tuition rate at
community colleges if they have lived in the state for three months.

But undocumented immigrants cannot qualify for in-state tuition because they
can't prove residency.

Under the bill, undocumented immigrants who had attended high school in Maryland
for at least two years would qualify for in-state tuition.

They would have to prove that they or their parents paid state income taxes for
at least a year before graduation, and they would have to submit an affidavit
that they would apply for permanent residency within 30 days.

Conway said she would "prefer not to see the bill die" and is working on
amendments that would make it palatable to some opponents, including one that
would increase the number of years a student must attend high school in
Maryland, raising it from two years to four.

The measure would cost the state about $1.1 million by 2012, according to a
legislative analysis.

Sen. Andrew P. Harris (R-Baltimore County) said he would lead the filibuster on
the Senate floor if the bill makes it out of committee.

"Why should we give even more incentives for illegal immigrants to flock to
Maryland?" asked Harris, a member of the Senate committee. "Maryland is already
one of the few states to give illegal immigrants driver's licenses."

Former governor Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. (R) vetoed an in-state tuition bill that
passed the General Assembly in 2003, arguing that the legislation would reward
illegal behavior and allow illegal immigrants to take spots away from legal
Maryland residents.

Immigration advocates remained optimistic that the bill would pass this session.

"Everyone knows we have a broken immigration system," said Kim Propeack,
director of Casa of Maryland Inc., an immigrant advocacy group that organized
yesterday's rally. "These kids are the innocent bystanders of this broken
system."

Ten states have passed similar bills since 2001, according to the legislative
analysis, but at least four of those states have considered repeals in recent
years.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Marvin Joseph -- The Washington Post; Maryland's labor
secretary, Thomas E. Perez, right, joined students in Annapolis to urge approval
of a bill granting in-state tuition rates to undocumented immigrants.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 26, 2007 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Fight Against Immigrant Smuggling Follows Money Trail

BYLINE: John Pomfret, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A02

LENGTH: 1194 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


In 2001, Arizona state prosecutors trying to stem the growing tide of immigrant
smuggling found a Western Union outlet in the border town of Douglas that was
doling out more than $91,000 a month  --  this in a community where the per
capita income was barely $10,000 a year.

People across the country, prosecutors said, were sending money to the little
Western Union shop in Douglas  --  and scores others like it in Arizona  --  to
pay smugglers to sneak illegal immigrants into the United States.

To fight back, Attorney General Terry Goddard employed a controversial technique
known as a damming warrant to seize $17 million in money transfers into hundreds
of Western Union locations in Arizona, prosecute scores of immigrant smugglers
and deport hundreds of people in a program he marvels at because of its "elegant
simplicity."

On the surface, the warrants were a success. Between mid-2005 and mid-2006,
according to Goddard's office, transfers of $500 and more into Arizona fell from
$36.8 million a month to just $2.8 million. The only problem was that all of
Goddard's other sources indicated that immigrant smuggling was still booming in
Arizona.

So on Sept. 21, Goddard expanded the program, issuing a warrant blocking all
Western Union money transfers of $500 and above from 26 states with a
significant population of illegal immigrants to a group of Western Union outlets
in the northern Mexican state of Sonora. He also planned on issuing warrants
blocking money transfers through Western Union to nearby states such as Nevada.

Western Union sued to block the Sonoran warrant. "We felt that the state was
overreaching," said Peter Ziverts, Western Union's vice president for
compliance, "because none of this money ever touched Arizona. So how could
Arizona claim it was involved in a state crime?"

On Jan. 9, Maricopa County Superior Court Judge Kenneth L. Fields agreed,
quashing the warrant and ruling that it was "unconstitutional as applied under
the Commerce Clause, Foreign Commerce Clause, Due Process Clause and the Fourth
Amendment of the United States Constitution."

This legal battle is but one of more than 10 state and federal cases in Arizona
over how to police illegal immigration. The cases underscore the pitfalls faced
by local law enforcement as it intensifies its fight against immigrant smuggling
and undocumented workers. Tactics prosecutors believe are a godsend in the
crackdown are often, in the words of one federal law enforcement official,
"either brilliant or illegal."

Arizona has emerged as the hothouse for new, sometimes controversial tactics to
confront illegal immigration because, as Goddard said in an interview, "we have
it rubbed in our face on a daily basis."

Since the mid-1990s when a federal crackdown in San Diego and El Paso forced
illegal immigrants into the desert, Arizona has become the highway through which
millions of crossers enter the United States. In fiscal 2006, the U.S. Border
Patrol apprehended more than 510,000 people attempting to unlawfully enter the
United States via Arizona, half of the total for the 2,000-mile-long southern
border, according to government statistics.

Phoenix is recognized as the hub of the immigrant smuggling trade, stocked with
safe houses where illegal immigrants, known as pollos, or chickens, are held
until   relatives or friends pay about $1,600 a head and they are moved out on
the highways that crisscross the city. In an affidavit filed late last year,
Goddard's office contended that Phoenix-based immigrant smuggling enterprises
had annual revenues of $1.7 billion to $2.5 billion. The Phoenix Police
Department estimates that 50 percent of that city's murders involve either an
illegal immigrant as assailant or victim.

Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Maricopa County, home to 3.5 million people, has made his
department one of the first local law enforcement agencies in the nation to
direct its deputies to arrest illegal immigrants under a state law. So far 400
have been arrested, although Arpaio's tactics are the subject of a lawsuit.

In addition to the Western Union suit, Goddard's fight against immigrant
smugglers, who are sometimes called coyotes, has also prompted a federal lawsuit
by a group of Western Union customers who allege that the attorney general's
office seized their money and never returned it.

According to the suit, Goddard's investigators did not tell the senders that
their transfers had been blocked (a charge Goddard did not dispute) and handed
money over to recipients only after they had proved that the transfers were not
being used for illegal activity. "So much for innocent until proven guilty,"
said Matthew Piers, the lead attorney in the case.

"We have law enforcement run wild down there," Piers said. "We support
interdiction of money for coyotes, that's an activity well worth stopping. But
the warrants in Arizona are so broad as to be ridiculous."

Goddard's prosecutors said 91 percent of the people whose money was seized were
involved in either drug or immigrant smuggling. Joshua Hoyt, executive director
of the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights, which interviewed
more than 400 of Western Union's customers to help prepare the case, said that
while the "clear majority" of the money senders were illegal immigrants, only a
small fraction were involved in felonies. "This is a legal equivalent of a
drive-by shooting," he said. "People were sending money to their relatives to
buy medicine and food."

Goddard said he has proof that immigrant smugglers were continuing operations in
Arizona and using Western Union branches in Sonora to stash their cash.
According to an attorney general's office affidavit, a suspect, who had been
picking up his cash in Arizona, received $270,000 within two months from a small
Western Union stand in Sonora, another garnered $136,000, a third $113,000.

"It is obvious to us that they've just moved the cash aspect of their business
out of state," he said, "but the smuggling operations remain in Arizona."

Goddard's tactics were also controversial because of federal concerns that his
office was overreaching. When ICE Director Julie Myers visited Arizona in late
2005, Gov. Janet Napolitano (D) suggested that they hold a joint news conference
in support of the warrants. Myers declined, officials from both the state and
federal governments said. And ICE pulled out of the state's financial crimes
task force.

But in recent months, relations between ICE and the Arizona state government
have improved. A new special-agent-in-charge, Alonzo Peña, arrived from Texas
after Napolitano pressured the federal government to transfer his predecessor,
law enforcement officials said. ICE will soon rejoin the state's financial
crimes task force.

In an interview, Peña said ICE is considering using the surveillance warrants as
a tactic to fight immigrant smuggling; that way at least law enforcement could
avoid Western Union's argument that Arizona was overreaching.

"I am not really concerned about what happened in the past," Peña said, "We just
want to get in and participate . . . as long as it's legal and can be introduced
in court."

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              21 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 29, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

The Raids at Swift & Co.

SECTION: Editorial; A26

LENGTH: 307 words


The recent arrests of illegal immigrants at meatpacking plants had little to do
with  identity theft ["Illegal Workers Arrested in 6-State ID Theft Sweep,"
front page, Dec. 13].

Workers in those plants are not stealing identities to take out mortgages or to
collect someone's Social Security benefits. I had my identity stolen by someone
right here in Washington. That person applied for loans, credit cards and
mortgages, and no one in law enforcement did a thing.

This raid was about persecuting those too powerless to complain. Meatpacking is
backbreaking. It pays a little above minimum wage, relies on a steady stream of
cheap labor and has an extraordinarily high injury rate. Instead of penalizing
these workers, we should thank them for doing dangerous jobs to put food on our
tables.

If the federal government is genuinely interested in cracking down on identity
theft, it should prosecute the thieves who ruin people's lives by falsely
applying for credit in their names. The government could begin by calling me and
finding the person who tried to turn my life upside down.

DEBBIE BERKOWITZ

Washington

*

Swift & Co. meatpacking plants were raided in six states, resulting in the
arrest of hundreds of workers under the pretext that those workers had gained
employment through "identity theft."

This is just another way to harass immigrant workers. Not surprisingly, the
story went on to say that the real culprits, Swift's top officials, "were not
charged, despite recent administration vows to get tough on companies as well as
workers."

I was pleased to read in the same day's Post that Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich
(D) announced measures to improve the lives of legal and illegal immigrants by
providing better health care, education and other services. My hat's off to you,
governor.

VINCENT M. VACCA

Washington

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              22 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      February 5, 2007 Monday 3:00 PM EST

Increase in Arrests Strains Immigration Agency;
Repatriation of Non-Mexican Illegals, Increase in Workplace Sweeps Force
Construction of Texas Tent City

BYLINE: John P. Torres, Director, Office of Detention and Removal Operations,
washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 1447 words



HIGHLIGHT: John P. Torres, director of U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement's Office of Detention and Removal Operations, was online Monday,
Feb. 5 at 3 p.m. ET to discuss a recent Post article on the agency's detainee
housing, as well as increases in workplace sweeps for illegal workers and
efforts to track down fugitive and criminal illegal immigrants


John P. Torres, director of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement's Office of
Detention and Removal Operations, was online Monday, Feb. 5 at 3 p.m. ET to
discuss a recent Post article on the agency's detainee housing, as well as
increases in workplace sweeps for illegal workers and efforts to track down
fugitive and criminal illegal immigrants

Border Policy's Success Strains Resources (Post, Feb. 2)

Immigration Raid Nets 53 in Texas (AP, Jan. 31)

Special Report:The Battle Over Immigration

John P. Torres -- who has been with ICE and its precursor, INS, for 20 years --
oversees nearly 6,000 law enforcement officers assigned to 24 field offices and
an operating budget of nearly $2 billion. The office has grown under his
leadership and has increased the number of illegal immigrants detained from
19,718 a day in 2005 to about 26,500 now, and a projected 32,000 this summer.

The transcript follows.

____________________

Columbia, Mo.: What does the increase in illegal immigrants detained mean? Does
it also mean there are more illegal immigrants coming to this country?

John P. Torres: Congress has provided us funding to detain more illegal aliens.
The additional space has allowed ICE to end the practice of "catch and release"
along the southwest border. In effect, we are housing a higher percentage of the
number of illegal aliens that are entering the country.

Recent U.S. Border Patrol statistics indicate that their arrests have dropped
dramatically across the southwest border as a result of the deterrent effects of
detention and other border enforcement.

_______________________

Denver: Can you please describe the profile of the detainees, the numbers of
males vs. females? Also are there any children being detained? Are any efforts
being made to keep detained families together and intact?

John P. Torres: ICE currently operates two family detention centers. This allows
ICE to detain family units together and deters smugglers from smuggling children
in an effort to avoid detention. Historically, families were released from
custody because of a lack of family detention space. Smugglers used this
loophole, placing children and babies at great risk, knowing that the smuggled
aliens would be released into the community when arrested. The children and
babies in these schemes often were not with their parents; in fact they often
were with complete strangers. These "Rent-A-Baby" schemes have since all but
ceased now that families are being detained together.

_______________________

Raleigh, N.C.: I would like to have career with your department, is there a
local office I would apply at?

John P. Torres: Thanks for your interest. You can get more information about a
career at ICE from our Web site. ICE's Office of Detention and Removal
Operations is authorized to hire an additional 2,500 employees this year. These
jobs, as well as jobs for other ICE programs, are listed on the career link
above.

_______________________

Washington: With the increased influx of detainees, what additional contracting
opportunities do you anticipate, where do you see them occurring and what type
of services do you anticipate being increased?

John P. Torres: Potential contracting opportunities include transportation,
medical, and IT modernization.

_______________________

Sacramento, Calif.: What is being done to make sure that there are no human
rights violation taking place in these tent cities. It is a well-known fact that
ICE has a problem with hiring woman and the lack of women normally leads to the
lack of compassion. (Let's not mention the women involved in the Iraq prison
scandal.) The last thing that we need is to be accused of abusing these people.

John P. Torres: ICE has some of the highest detention standards in the industry.
The standards exceed those set by accrediting organizations and are in fact
posted on our Web site. These standards were developed in coordination with
non-governmental organizations. We review all of our approximately 330 detention
facilities annually to ensure that they meet these standards.

_______________________

New York: I heard that in some places, detained illegal immigrants are put in
private prisons? is that true?

John P. Torres: ICE has eight contract detention facilities that are operated by
private companies, including Corrections Corporation of America and the GEO
Group. These facilities are required to meet or exceed our 38 national detention
standards. (See above answer.) These facilities also are subject to annual
review.

_______________________

Fairfax, Va.: What is the current policy on marriages based on fraud?

John P. Torres: Marriage fraud is illegal as found in Titles 8 and 18 of the
United States Code. Violators are subject to felony prosecution, which is
punishable for up to five years in prison.

In 2006, ICE launched 11 Document and Benefit Fraud Task Forces throughout the
country to investigate marriage fraud and other forms of benefit fraud. These
resulted in 235 investigations, 189 arrests and 80 convictions in 2006 alone.

_______________________

Washington: Dear Mr. Torres, do you have the ethnic breakdown of those illegal
immigrants detained? I'm especially interested in the figure of Chinese illegal
immigrants. Is there a trend indicating an increase in the number of Chinese
illegal immigrants detained? As for those non-criminal illegal immigrants, how
are they treated in the detention center?

John P. Torres: ICE currently has approximately 700 foreign nationals from China
in our detention facilities. The detention standards apply to all foreign
nationals equally regardless of nationality. All incoming detainees are assessed
to determine a risk level for officer safety reasons based upon their criminal
history and past violent behavior. Similarly classified detainees are housed
together.

ICE's Office of Intelligence analyzes smuggling patterns to identify recent
trends, and that information is shared with Special Agents for investigative
purposes.

_______________________

Yorktown, Va.: Mr. Torres: I would like to see the penalties against employers
strengthened with jail time if they employ more than 10 illegals. There is no
way that they can get that many wrong if they are checking the ICE Web site. A
printout/report is what should be required to prove they verified their status.
This would give the employers and verifiers and easy way to do what is required
without an added expense to anybody. No extensive training is needed to check
the Web site. If we don't get communication between the IRS, Social Security
Administration and Homeland Security when it comes to duplicate social security
numbers, there always will be an open window for illegals and terrorists to move
freely in our country. It is a matter of National Security to put an end to it
now.

John P. Torres: Jobs are the incentive for many illegal aliens to come to the
United States. ICE has significantly increased its work site enforcement
efforts, and in fact last year set a new record in terms of work site
enforcement cases -- as evidence by the recent Swift, Wal-Mart, and IFCO cases.
In 2006, ICE arrested 716 people for criminal violations and another 3,600
people for administrative (deportation) violations, a seven-fold increase since
2002.

_______________________

York, Pa: For those illegal immigrants who are removed from the country, and are
OTM (Other than Mexico) and therefore require flights from the U.S., who pays
for these flights, and how much do they cost per year?

John P. Torres: Last year, ICE set a record with more than 190,000 formal
deportations. This is in addition to the 1 million voluntary removals effected
by the U.S. Border Patrol. Of the 190,000 removed, 85,000 were criminal aliens
requiring officer escorts for public safety reasons. ICE coordinates with the
U.S. Marshals and Bureau of Prisons to fly many of these often dangerous aliens
back to their home country at the U.S. taxpayer's expense. ICE constantly
reviews the process to build efficiencies in an effort to use taxpayer funds
wisely. In fact, ICE, in coordination with the U.S. Department of Justice,
leased two additional jets today to meet increased demands.

_______________________

John P. Torres: Thank you for the opportunity to answer your questions on this
important subject. Please visit our Web site to get the latest information
regarding ICE operations. Have a good evening, Goodbye.

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over Live
Online discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts;
guests and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not
responsible for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2007 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 2, 2007 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Border Policy's Success Strains Resources;
Tent City in Texas Among Immigrant Holding Sites Drawing Criticism

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu and Sylvia Moreno, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1530 words

DATELINE: RAYMONDVILLE, Tex.


Ringed by barbed wire, a futuristic tent city rises from the Rio Grande Valley
in the remote southern tip of Texas, the largest camp in a federal detention
system rapidly gearing up to keep pace with Washington's increasing demand for
stronger enforcement of immigration laws.

About 2,000 illegal immigrants, part of a record 26,500 held across the United
States by federal authorities, will call the 10 giant tents home for weeks,
months and perhaps years before they are removed from the United States and sent
back to their home countries.

The $65 million tent city, built hastily last summer between a federal prison
and a county jail, marks both the success and the limits of the government's new
policy of holding captured non-Mexicans until they are sent home. Previously,
most such detainees were released into the United States before hearings, and a
majority simply disappeared.

The new policy has led to a dramatic decline in border crossings by
non-Mexicans, according to the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency.

But civil liberties and immigration law groups allege that out of sight, the
system is bursting at the seams. In the Texas facility, they say, illegal
immigrants are confined 23 hours a day in windowless tents made of a Kevlar-like
material, often with insufficient food, clothing, medical care and access to
telephones. Many are transferred from the East Coast, 1,500 miles from relatives
and lawyers, virtually cutting off access to counsel.

"I call it 'Ritmo'  --  like Gitmo, but it's in Raymondville," said Jodi
Goodwin, an immigration lawyer from nearby Harlingen.

An inspector general's report last month on a sampling of five U.S. immigration
detention facilities found inhumane and unsafe conditions, including inadequate
health care, the presence of vermin, limited access to clean underwear and
undercooked poultry. Although ICE standards require that immigrants have access
to phones and pro bono law offices, investigators found phones missing, not
working or connected to non-working numbers.

With roughly 1.6 million illegal immigrants in some stage of immigration
proceedings, ICE holds more inmates a night than Clarion hotels have guests,
operates nearly as many vehicles as Greyhound has buses and flies more people
each day than do many small U.S. airlines.

Gary Mead, assistant director of ICE detention and removal operations, said the
agency is proud of its record, calling Raymondville "a modern, clean facility"
that meets federal standards  --  "which we believe are among the highest you'll
find anywhere." Mead added: "We think the conditions of confinement there are
both humane and consistent with all the rights they should be entitled to."

Despite its spartan conditions, the facility in Willacy County, 260 miles south
of Austin, is a key to President Bush's drive to create a channel for temporary
foreign workers and a path toward legalization for as many as 12 million illegal
immigrants living in the United States.

To do so, the government must convince skeptics that it can credibly enforce
laws aimed at illegal immigrants and their employers, and can hold and deport
those caught by the U.S. Border Patrol. At the same time, the administration and
its allies argue that even additional detention beds will be overwhelmed without
new channels for legal immigration.

Accordingly, the United States has embarked on a huge prison building and
contracting campaign, increasing the number of illegal immigrants detained from
19,718 a day in 2005 to about 26,500 now, and a projected 32,000 this summer.

About 80 percent of ICE's beds are rented at 300 local and state jails
nationwide, concentrated in the South and Southwest, or at eight sites run by
contractors such as the Corrections Corporation of America and Geo Group Inc.,
in places such as Houston, San Diego and Aurora, Colo.

ICE recently added a 1,524-bed facility in Stewart County, Ga., and a 512-bed
center in Taylor, Tex., for immigrant families, both run by Corrections Corp.

With the new beds, the administration has imprisoned and deported virtually 100
percent of non-Mexicans caught since August, under faster proceedings that deny
hearings to all but asylum seekers.

The administration says this has deterred many others. After quadrupling over
four years, the number of non-Mexicans apprehended fell 35 percent in 2006, to
108,026.

But immigration experts and U.S. authorities say the impact of the prison boom
will be hard to sustain and still is absorbing only a drop in the bucket of
illegal immigration. The Border Patrol made 1.1 million apprehensions last year
--  mostly Mexicans who were promptly returned across the border  --  but
estimates 500,000 people evaded capture or entered legally and then overstayed
visas.

An additional 630,000 are at large, ignoring deportation orders, and 300,000
more who entered state and local prisons for committing crimes are to be
deported but will probably slip through the cracks after completing their
sentences.

U.S. authorities acknowledge that gains from the latest crackdown will be
fleeting without the major changes the president wants.

"The short answer is, it is not sustainable," Mead said. "There comes a point
where we can't detain any more people. Hopefully, prior to getting there, the
deterrence factor will kick in."

The increased tempo of operations is a strain. ICE has no modern nationwide
system to track its facilities' populations. It relies on an antiquated computer
system created in 1984.

Every day since July, six officers have manually tracked and transferred
detained immigrants among 24 regional offices, matching bodies to vacant beds
and airplane seats in a Detention Operations Coordination Center, Mead said. "We
have all of the information," he said. "It's a question of automation."

Legal advocates contend that some of the older facilities where immigrants are
housed are in deplorable condition and that growing pains afflict even new
facilities.

Under fire in Taylor, for example, ICE has expanded hours of daily schooling for
children from one to seven hours to meet Texas guidelines.

In Willacy County, one of the country's poorest, ICE has set up 10 huge tents on
concrete pads, surrounded by 14-foot-high chain-link fences looped with barbed
wire. Each "sprung structure" holds about 200 men or women, divided into four
"pods." Similar temporary buildings were used for troop recreational facilities
in Iraq.

The center is part of a chain of facilities in South Texas with 6,700 new
immigration detention beds. At a cost of $78 a night per bed (compared with an
ICE average of $95 a bed), the Willacy facility is not only cheaper than any
bricks-and-mortar prison but also faster to construct, move or dismantle, Mead
said.

Detainees are subject to penal system practices, such as group punishment for
disciplinary infractions. The tents are windowless and the walls are blank, and
no partitions or doors separate the five toilets, five sinks, five shower heads
and eating areas. Lacking utensils on some days, detainees eat with their hands.

Because lights are on around the clock, a visitor finds many occupants buried in
their blankets throughout the day. The stillness and torpor of the pod's
communal room, where 50 to 60 people dwell, are noticeable.

Goodwin described a group of women who huddled in a recreation yard on a recent
40-degree day with a 25-mph wind. "They had no blanket, no sweat shirt, no
jacket," she said. "Officers were wearing earmuffs, and detainees were outside
for an hour with short-sleeved polyester uniforms and shower shoes and not
necessarily socks."

Perhaps more troubling, lawyers said, large numbers of immigrants have been
transferred from Boston, New York, New Jersey and Florida, far from their
families and lawyers. Because some immigration judges do not permit hearings by
teleconference, detainees are essentially deprived of counsel.

Immigration violators in the United States are held on civil grounds and have no
right to appointed lawyers. But federal guidelines call for providing them law
libraries, telephones and phone numbers for legal aid.

Joining a lawsuit last week, the American Civil Liberties Union alleged that
severe overcrowding at a Corrections Corp. facility in San Diego poses an
unconstitutional risk to detainees' health and safety, arguing that as
administrative detainees, illegal immigrants should be treated better than
convicted criminals.

The National Lawyers Guild and five other groups petitioned the Department of
Homeland Security last month to set binding regulations for detention sites,
saying U.S. standards set in 2000 are not enforceable.

And the New Jersey Civil Rights Defense Committee has announced a campaign to
stop ICE's use of county jails.

"The standards are there," said David A. Martin, a former general counsel of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, ICE's predecessor agency, who advocates
concentrating detention centers in perhaps 10 cities to ensure access to lawyers
and oversight. "But there are some real indicators federal standards are not
well monitored or policed. We ought to do better."

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              24 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       April 10, 2007 Tuesday 2:00 PM EST

Cities Setting Own Immigration Rules

BYLINE: Anthony Faiola, Washington Post Staff Writer, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 3806 words



HIGHLIGHT: In the aftermath of a series of raids in 2004, the Hightstown, N.J.,
town council unanimously approved a sort of immigrant bill of rights. Joining a
growing list of cities enacting a no-questions-asked policy on immigration
status, Hightstown now allows its undocumented residents to officially interact
with local police and access city services without fear of being reported to
federal authorities.


In the aftermath of a series of raids in 2004, the Hightstown, N.J., town
council unanimously approved a sort of immigrant bill of rights. Joining a
growing list of cities enacting a no-questions-asked policy on immigration
status, Hightstown now allows its undocumented residents to officially interact
with local police and access city services without fear of being reported to
federal authorities.

On the other side of the debate, Hazleton, Pa., last year passed the Illegal
Immigration Relief Act -- being challenged in federal court -- which denies
licenses to businesses that employ illegal immigrants, fines landlords $1,000
for each illegal immigrant discovered renting their properties and requires that
city documents be in English only.

Washington Post staff writer Anthony Faiola was online Tuesday, April 10 at 2
p.m. ET to discuss the trend of cities setting their own rules regarding illegal
immigrants, either creating a safe haven for them or denying them basic
services.

The transcript follows.

Looking the Other Way on Immigrants (Post, April 10)

____________________

Anthony Faiola: Thanks all for joining this chat; we're dealing with a topic
that has lots of heated opinions on both sides. So let's go ahead and start
hearing some of them...

_______________________

Funny: I couldn't help noticing that all of the "sanctuary cities" you write
about happen to be Ivy League college towns -- meanwhile the cities going in the
other direction are all blue-collar. Hmm ... so lets see. Politically dominant
location full of trust fund kiddies and inheritor class folk who only stand to
gain from cheapo labor, and have nothing to lose ... "sanctuary city"! Reverse
the demographics, and you get the reverse. What an utter shocker. I couldn't
help but notice you didn't interview the lowly union locals or other peons in
the rarified air of Hew Haven to get their take.

Anthony Faiola: Thanks for the question and comment. Actually, cities including
Los Angeles and Portland also consider themselves to be sanctuary cities to some
extent. So it's not just the "blue cities" but the trend certainly seems more
common in liberal states.

_______________________

Moved out of St. Louis: I moved out of my hometown of St. Louis last year. There
is a suburb of St. Louis named Valley Park that enacted some laws to keep
immigrants out of apartments, business, etc. Trust me -- there were very few
Hispanics living in the entire metro area, much less Valley Park. Sure, there
were many Vietnamese, for instance, in a certain area of St. Louis, but very few
Hispanics. The laws were enacted to satisfy people that are scared and racist --
Valley Park was a lower-middle-class to working-class community for many years,
so I guess they are trying to improve their image or whatever.

My husband and I are living in a relatively small community (300,000) in the
southeast. New homes in our subdivision are being built by Hispanic men. I am
sure our home was built by Hispanic men. Our grocery stores have many sections
dedicated to the preferred foods of Hispanic people. Businesses tout their
bilingual capabilities. My husband and I think it is a riot that some community
in the southeast is more accepting of Hispanics than some old river city in the
Midwest that had a very small Hispanic population. Sure, nobody wants crime,
petty thefts, lower property values and other problems that we associate with
"poor" and uneducated people, but this country was built on the immigrant
experience. We should try to remember that.

Anthony Faiola: Interesting comments I wanted all here to see...

_______________________

Houston: Thanks for writing such a heartwarming piece about a city that
recognizes the value these workers add to society. The border crossing (or
overstayed visa) may be the only illegal act these people ever commit. They come
here looking for a better life for their families and just want to contribute.
Why do you think the debate is so focused on Spanish-speaking immigrants? There
are so many African, Irish, British, Canadian, Chinese, etc. immigrants who have
come here illegally (or stayed illegally), but no one profiles them. This debate
has become so polarizing that it makes me wonder if we're returning to the days
of internment camps for the "others" that society doesn't know how to handle.

Anthony Faiola: Thanks for the question and comments. You raise a great point --
the debate is very centered on Hispanics, while Asians, Africans and others are
typically underplayed. My sense is that this is largely due to numbers.
Hispanics tend to make up the largest and most organized immigrant pools, which
is one reason we see them so highly focused on.

_______________________

Washington: Historically, during previous waves of immigration, it happened far
enough apart to integrate them (meaning English, American customs, etc.). This
isn't the case this time, and by not slowing it down to help people assimilate
we are creating a permanent underclass. Plus, the debate is being poisoned by
terms like "racists." The fact is the rampant illegal immigration has flooded
and bankrupted schools and hospitals and has overcrowded prisons (in some areas
worse than others). Taxpayers, like the residents in that town in Pennsylvania,
are sick and tired of having their tax dollars go to services for people who
don't pay taxes or are illegal, not to mention the crime, gangs and health
issues. I am not saying kick everyone out, but we need to get a handle on the
flow before offering citizenship.

Anthony Faiola: Thanks for your question. You raise valid points here about the
harm that can come to some communities. In others, like Hightstown, N.J.,
however, the mayor of the town and many others have said just the opposite -
that the influx of Hispanics helped new businesses thrive and pumped in some new
life there. Certainly that isn't always the case, but it's worth considering.

_______________________

New York: In a city of immigrants (illegal), why do I feel comfortable granting
amnesty to some and not to others? Because some immigrants completely embrace
America, her culture and language, but some don't. Why is it that I can
communicate with Romanian, Ukrainian, Polish, Nigerian, Bangladeshi and Chinese
immigrants, but I can't with Mexican and South American ones? Immigrants south
of the border brought this intensity on themselves, so I support any ordinance
to make sure they are deported. Why is it not okay to allow some immigrants to
stay and some to leave? "It's not fair" is not an argument!

Anthony Faiola: Welcome from our reader New York -- where I'm also based for The
Post.

You raise a fascinating point. Some have claimed that the core problem is
assimilation -- or the lack of it. That Spanish-speakers have less incentive,
than, say, a Polish immigrant to operate in the English-speaking world of
America because Spanish is so prevalent here.

_______________________

New York: Good afternoon Mr. Faiola. I find the illegal immigration debate
conflicting as moderate Democrat whose parents legally immigrated to the U.S. in
the 1970s. Because my family has achieved the "American dream," I certainly can
sympathize with individuals' desire to escape countries with poor
economic/political conditions. However, illegal immigrants don't pay income tax
and often send money out of the country. Initiatives like these cost money. How
are cities like Hightstown paying for these services, and what kind of support
do they receive from the larger community?

Anthony Faiola: Another great question from New York. In fact, in Hightstown and
many other cities, immigrant advocates argue that the undocumented aliens often
do pay taxes. Some of them have false social security numbers, paying into a
system they may never be able to draw out of. Others are paying in different
ways -- through sales taxes etc. But certainly this isn't monitored closely and
one can't quibble with your uneasy feelings on this.

_______________________

Severn, Md.: Is the immigration debate as much to do about racism as anything
else? Latinos are the "invisible" class of this society. When we talk about
racism, it is in terms of black vs. white, but Latinos are the largest minority
in the U.S. They seem to be invisible in any discussion on race. CNN did a show
on racism, PBS a documentary on WWII, and both shows failed to mention or
provide a Latino component to its program. It's wrong to do racial profiling on
blacks, but racial profiling is permitted by police, financial and educational
institutions, health groups and governments on latinos because they are Hispanic
and the majority of illegals are Hispanic. A poll tax, voter tests, and the
provision of identification to vote were debated and found unconstitutional
because they discriminated unfairly on poor or illiterate blacks. However,
drivers license citizenship requirements are geared not toward terrorism, but
towards terrorizing Hispanics to prevent them from residing in a state or easily
finding work. It is time that racism toward latinos be approached when
discussing motives towards immigration. Americans romanticize the Italian,
Polish and Irish immigrations in movies and culture. It seems ironic that these
immigrants are white!

Anthony Faiola: Thanks for the comments -- now here for all to see.

_______________________

New York: My family came to this America legally from Spain 100 years ago via
Cuba. I grew up in Miami, where thousands of kids had to endure a bilingual
education system that kept the Cuban people down. Today things are different
because most Cubans have come to grips with balancing their culture with being
American. It is this process that has created great minds like JFK, Al Smith and
Jacob Javits. Why do you think legal immigration and patriotism is a bad thing?

Anthony Faiola: My sense is that many people do realize that legal immigration
is a plus for this country; the issue becomes hot because most immigration flows
today are coming in illegally. This is why you have such a major debate on going
not only in Washington, but also across Main Street America.

_______________________

Assimilation vs. temporary worker: There also is an issue that many illegal
immigrants from Latin America are not here to assimilate, but rather to
accumulate a nest egg and eventually go back home -- or at least, that's what
the tell themselves when they first arrive. The reality four years later may be
a different matter. Would a guest worker program be a realistic alternative?

Anthony Faiola: Thanks much for your question. The guest worker issue is
currently a hot topic in Washington with President Bush relaunching the idea.
Some feel this is one way to handle it; but others are say allowing guest
workers in -- and only guest workers -- would separate them from their families
and effectively create a lower grade caste system in America.

_______________________

Dayton, Ohio: I'm struck by a quote from one of the robbery victims, Julio "...
at least I didn't feel like I was the one who committed a crime." But Julio, you
did! Of course you're entitled to equal protection, regardless of how you got
here, but if you broke the law to get in, at some point you're going to have to
face the consequences. Otherwise we're looking at anarchy.

Anthony Faiola: Dayton -- interestingly put. I think the issue for a community
like Hightstown is that they see the undocumented immigrants there as members of
their community, no matter how they got there. They aren't saying Julio is in
the country legally, but they are saying that immigration control should be left
to the feds.

_______________________

Hightstown, N.J.: I was thrilled to see the article about my town in The
Washington Post online, which I read everyday. I am very proud of the position
Hightstown is taking with regard to the newest residents. The immigrants may
have an illegal status with regard to our immigration laws, but they are
taxpayers, and the ones who own houses in our community are taxpayers, too. We
are a very-low-crime borough, and I am proud of the way our police interact with
all the residents of our borough. Our Mayor and Council are seeking ways for us
all to live together in harmony. For those who consider us a la-di-da suburb of
an Ivy League town (Princeton), I assure you that we always have been borough of
people of mixed incomes and societal status. What I am most proud of, I guess,
is that we treat our newest residents as fellow human beings, not "aliens."

Anthony Faiola: I thought everyone would benefit from reading these comments
from the source of today's story. That's for your thoughtful words, Hightstown.

_______________________

Arrggghhh! "it's not just the "blue cities": Please don't pretend this is
ideological. I made that comment and I'm a liberal, in many ways a radical. The
point is class. In my experience -- and your article showed the same -- if the
politically dominant class is the inheritor crowd, you get a "sanctuary cities"
mentality; if it's working class you get the reverse, regardless of ideology.
Again, I wonder what a lowly peon competing with low-cost illegal labor in New
Haven would have to say -- but you didn't interview any of them. All you have
noted is people reflecting self-interest, not ideology. If your wages are bidded
down and your job is at risk to low-cost labor, you oppose this. If you are in a
noncompetitive field (funny how inheritor class gigs always seem to be in this
clump, even when they easily could be offshored on merits) you only see bennies,
so you love it. The ideological argument is just a distraction.

Anthony Faiola: Thanks for your comments. I can tell you that several business
owners I spoke with in Hightstown indicated they had trouble finding workers
willing to work in lower grade jobs until the immigration boom happened there in
recent years. That may not be the case in every town, of course.

_______________________

Re: New York's comment: The problem is assimilation also has to do with a stigma
attached to Hispanic immigrants. I have a friend who is the highly-trained
manager of major IT network who changed his name from Juan to Antonio to seem
less Hispanic and more Spanish (as in Spain). I think the lack of incentive also
has to do with avoiding the stigma as much as anything.

Anthony Faiola: Interesting. I wonder if your friend finds that people are
treating him differently, particularly given that Antonio and Juan are both
common names in Spain as well as Latin America. Most curious to know if he lies
to people about where he is from, and whether that changes the way people view
him.

_______________________

Washington: What you first commenter was saying was that "blue-collar" cities --
and their workers and taxpayers -- have been losing out greatly from liberal
states and cities hiring cheap, immigrant labor. This is the crux of the problem
... U.S. "blue-collar" citizens losing good-paying (mostly construction) jobs to
cheap, unskilled immigrant labor. Instead of hiring competent carpenters,
plumbers, etc., construction companies have for years undercut their labor costs
by hiring unskilled immigrant labor while skilled "blue-collar" U.S. workers
can't find work. This undermines the American lifestyle.

Anthony Faiola: That's certainly one side of the coin. On the other hand, there
are business owners out there who will tell you that it's very hard to find
anyone these days willing to flip burgers for minimum wage inside pricey cities
besides undocumented immigrants. If Americans demand cheap prices, then there
must be a pool of cheap labor. Immigrants are providing that to some extent.
Maybe too much? I think that's what the debate is all about.

_______________________

Falls Church, Va.: I'm an immigrant who came to the U.S. legally, and my brother
is applying to come to the U.S. legally. He's been waiting for more than ten
years now. I think it's extremely unfair that people who stay in the U.S.
illegally are being considered for amnesty while the rest of the legal
applicants still are waiting.

Anthony Faiola: Thanks Falls Church. You make a very valid point.

_______________________

Seattle: Republicans out West last fall largely ran on anti-immigrant platforms
and spent a considerable amount of time accusing Democrats of being "soft on
immigrants." Why should the Democrats now work with Bush on an immigration
policy about which Bush's own party spent months trashing Democrats?

Anthony Faiola: Thanks much for you comments. I think the answer to that
question is that if Washington is going to reach any sort of consensus on this
issue, the two parties need to work together. Otherwise, there will be more
deadlock -- something I find that most people on both sides of the fence are
tired of.

_______________________

Lyon, France: In France, people have chosen to "look the other way" for decades.
Now France is being destroyed by an overwhelmed welfare system, not to mention
crime and terrorism. Do you see this happening in America?

Anthony Faiola: Thanks for tuning in from France. Curious to know whether French
cities are taking the immigration debate into their own hands too?

_______________________

Dayton, Ohio: What about the "broken-windows" theory? The local authorities
deliberately are ignoring one section of criminal activity -- could this provide
an atmosphere where more and more law enforcement is eroded away?

Anthony Faiola: Thanks for the question. In cities like Hightstown, Trenton, New
Haven, Newark and others that have adopted these types of laws, police officials
insist that such measures have actually helped them reduce crime by opening up
channels of communication with the immigrant community. But certainly we'd have
to take a more detailed look at the issue to say for sure.

_______________________

Pittsburgh: Should Bush get the amnesty he wants -- and yes, it's amnesty -- for
this 12 million, where does it end? And most importantly -- who pays for health
care, schools, services and entitlements commonly available to low-wage workers?
I barely am hanging on financially, but I'm not entitled to any "help" from my
government. So, what is the cost to the taxpayer estimated to be should all
these people become citizens?

Anthony Faiola: Pittsburgh -- thanks for the comment/question. Certainly one can
understand your frustration. I think those who support a kind of amnesty for
immigrants would argue that making them legal would force them to pay taxes in
the same manner as other Americans, thus creating a greater accountable source
of revenue for federal, state and local governments.

_______________________

Florida: The cities that are denying business licenses to employers of illegals
are well within their rights. If you focus on the word "illegal," you can see
that a business buying stolen goods, or selling crack, or whatever, also is
dealing in illegality. FYI: Another reason for the greater "acceptance" of
non-Hispanic immigrants (besides language skills) is that most of the people who
have entered the country illegally (as opposed to entering legally, then staying
too long) have done so across the porous Mexican border. We get a few boats
every now and then here in Florida, but most of our illegals are tracked to have
come here on I-10 from Texas.

Anthony Faiola: Thanks Florida - here's your comments posted. I lived in Miami
for almost a decade, and in other parts of Florida for several more years.
Because the influx of Cubans received special immigration status due to Fidel
Castro, your issue with undocumented residents is somewhat special.

_______________________

Cheap labor?: Isn't the use of cheap illegal immigrant labor here in the U.S.
just analogous to the outsourcing of service and manufacturing jobs to
third-world countries? Seems like the reality is that big business wants to turn
even greater profits -- and one way to achieve this is by paying illegals less,
thus reducing the size of our middle class.

Anthony Faiola: Interesting point. But if Americans were willing to pay more for
Big Macs or a cup of coffee, perhaps both the workers and the companies could do
better. You are likely to find that in Western Europe and Japan, prices tend to
be higher than in America -- but workers laboring in low scale jobs also tend to
get better pay and benefits.

_______________________

Washington:"My family came to this America legally from Spain 100 years ago via
Cuba." There was no "legal" 100 years ago -- and for that matter, there hardly
is today. For all the talk of "following the rules" and "waiting in line," I've
yet to hear anyone actually describe what the rules are. So maybe you can help
-- if I were an average Mexican with a small family and some education but not a
lot, would it even be possible for me to legally immigrate to the U.S.? I am the
child and grandchild of immigrants who did nothing in particular to "deserve"
their chance at the American dream, and I am not convinced that we have created
a fair standard for those who want a piece of that dream today.

Anthony Faiola: Thanks for your comments - here they are, posted for all to see.

_______________________

Willing to work in lower-grade jobs: Sigh, more mythology. "Jobs Americans won't
do" ... for peanuts. I'll bet none of those business owners mentioned ... oh, I
don't know ... "paying more"? Nope. That might mean they take in less, and we
all know that the ever-increasing disparity between the top 20 percent quintile
and everyone else is good. Could we please at least be honest in our discussion?

Anthony Faiola: thanks for your comment. I certainly won't dispute the pull of
corporate greed in all of this, but I also think - to stay honest - you need to
ask yourself if you are really willing to pay more for products and services if
it means giving the person behind the counter a better wage.

_______________________

Anthony Faiola: We're winding down our hour here and time for me to get back to
work. But a huge thank you to all who took part in this discussion today. Stay
tuned for more on this important subject in the days and weeks to come - and
feel free to message me through the Web site for more specific answers or
suggestions.

_______________________

washingtonpost.com:

Imus discussion: Can someone put the link under discussions for the Don Imus
controversy topic? I know there was one at 1:00 or 2:00 today. Where is it? It's
not under discussions or transcripts or schedule?

washingtonpost.com: Eugene Robinson fielded the questions about Imus for us
today, following this morning's column on the topic. Here's the link.

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over Live
Online discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts;
guests and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not
responsible for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2007 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 20, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Policing Program Worries Latinos;
N.Va. Agencies Split on Program

BYLINE: Candace Rondeaux, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 761 words


A recent push to enlist local law enforcement agencies in the search for people
illegally in this country is driving more immigrants underground, according to
immigrant civil rights groups.

"Latinos are feeling more and more under attack regardless of their immigration
status. We know people are afraid to go to the doctor, to go to school, to
report crimes," said Michele Waslin, director of immigration research at the
National Council of La Raza, the nation's largest Latino civil rights group.

Already, two Northern Virginia law enforcement agencies and about 20 others
elsewhere in the United States have begun to form partnerships with U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement. But others are holding back, saying the
program could poison relations between officers and immigrant communities.

The immigration bureau has offered the program since 1996, when Congress passed
the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act. But it has been
only within the past year, when the national debate over immigration reform
ignited, that the recruitment campaign intensified and interest in the program
has grown.

Local officers who take the federal training program, known as 287(g), have
access to the immigration agency's databases, enabling them to quickly determine
whether suspects in custody are illegal immigrants. They can then complete the
necessary paperwork to detain illegal immigrants and expedite the deportation
process.

Participating local agencies, which pay for the database software and training,
generally focus on illegal immigrants involved in criminal activity. The program
does not give officers carte blanche to conduct wide-ranging immigration sweeps.

Loudoun County Sheriff Stephen O. Simpson (R) told several members of the
Loudoun Board of Supervisors this week that he would like some officers in his
gang unit to receive the federal training. Last month, Herndon Police Chief
Toussaint E. Summers Jr. also expressed interest.

Simpson's proposal received a warm reception Wednesday from several county
supervisors. The full board may vote on the issue before year's end.

But at a meeting last week, Simpson received a very different response from some
fellow law enforcement leaders when he suggested taking a regionwide approach to
participating in the program. Some worry that it could drive a wedge between
officers and the immigrant community.

"It's a touchy subject, because we want the public to feel comfortable reporting
crime," said Fairfax County Sheriff Stan G. Barry (D). "So we don't want to
create the impression that if you're here illegally and something happens to you
or a friend that you're going to be deported if you report it."

Barry, who did not attend the chiefs' meeting last week, said his agency is
interested in the program, but he won't make a decision until he learns more
about it.

Law enforcement agencies in Maryland and the District say that they are not
interested and that immigration is a federal matter.

"The mayor would rather see our officers helping people deal with crime and
safety than asking about their immigration status," said Vince Morris, spokesman
for District Mayor Anthony Williams (D).

"He feels strongly that immigrants have a great tradition of contributing to our
city and our country, and he has no interest in putting obstacles in their way
for political reasons," Morris added.

Nationwide, seven agencies have signed on, including the Arizona Department of
Corrections and the Florida Department of Law Enforcement. But that number is
expected to triple soon, Immigration and Customs spokesman Mike Gilhooly said.

"We get hundreds of inquiries," Gilhooly said. "There's been a great deal of
interest in this recently."

Waslin, with the Latino civil rights group, said anti-immigrant sentiment
sparked by the national debate over immigration reform this year is driving
interest in the program.

"It's election season, and the anti-immigrant sentiment is out there, and some
people are trying to use immigration as a wedge issue. It's more evidence of the
fact that we need comprehensive reform at the federal level," Waslin said.

Purcellville Police Chief Darryl C. Smith agreed, saying immigration is a
federal matter.

He added that he does not have enough staff manpower to allow officers to be
away from the station for the month-long training and that the program is not as
far-reaching as some might believe.

"I think it raises unrealistic expectations about how illegal immigration is
going to be handled in the community," Smith said.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              26 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 27, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Bush Signs Bill Authorizing 700-Mile Fence for Border

BYLINE: Michael A. Fletcher and Jonathan Weisman, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A04

LENGTH: 946 words

DATELINE: WARREN, Mich. Oct. 26


President Bush signed a measure Thursday authorizing the construction of a fence
along 700 miles of the U.S.-Mexico border, an action that conflicts with his own
stated vision of immigration reform but one championed by many Republicans
facing reelection in November.

Speaking at a White House ceremony before a day of campaigning for GOP
candidates in Iowa and Michigan, Bush said the barrier will help the United
States plug the porous Southwest border.

"Unfortunately, the United States has not been in complete control of its
borders for decades and, therefore, illegal immigration has been on the rise,"
Bush said. "We have a responsibility to address these challenges. We have a
responsibility to enforce our laws. We have a responsibility to secure our
borders. We take this responsibility seriously."

Bush portrayed the measure as a key step toward comprehensive immigration
reform, but the fence bill passed by the GOP-controlled Congress put him in a
tight squeeze with international allies and his own immigration principles on
one side, and the electoral needs of his party on the other.

Bush has said that immigration reform would work only if stepped-up enforcement
is accompanied by a guest-worker program that would create a legal path for
large numbers of low-skill workers to enter the United States. The president has
also endorsed providing the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants already in
the United States a chance at citizenship, saying such a humane vision of
immigration is in keeping with the nation's history and traditions.

But those positions were rejected by congressional Republicans, who advocated
tougher enforcement to slow the flood of illegal immigration that is
overwhelming many communities, particularly in the West and Southwest. They
passed legislation that would do as much.

"Today marks another step forward in making America safer and in stemming the
tide of illegal immigration," House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert (R-Ill.) and
Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) said in a statement. "The American
people demand border security, and this Republican Congress and President are
committed to achieving operational control of the border through an
enforcement-first approach."

The government of Mexican President Vicente Fox made it clear that he  wanted
the bill vetoed. A statement by Mexico, and signed by 27 other Organization of
American States members on Wednesday, expressed concern about the bill, calling
it "a unilateral measure that goes against the spirit of understanding that
should characterize how shared problems between neighboring countries are
handled and that affects cooperation in the hemisphere."

Such concerns were outweighed by the pleadings of congressional Republicans
eager to back up their tough talk on border security with a legislative
accomplishment. The president's signing ceremony was followed by a blizzard of
statements from GOP lawmakers hailing the law.

House Majority Leader John A. Boehner (Ohio) called it "a major victory in
Republicans' efforts to make a real difference in securing our borders."

The fence bill is a far cry from the comprehensive measure that cleared the
Senate, which would have paired tough border security provisions with new paths
to lawful work and citizenship for foreign workers and the nation's  illegal
immigrants. It is a small piece of the more modest House bill that included a
fence and measures to crack down on the hiring of undocumented workers.

Democrats dismissed the legislation as pointless. Only a fraction of the
billions needed to finance the fence has been appropriated, and much of the
construction might not be feasible. In swaths of Arizona, the fence would have
to climb steep, desert crags and plunge into deep ravines.

Without border agents to patrol the barrier, smugglers would blast holes in
remote stretches, some critics have said. "The bill the president signed today
represents the worst in election-year politics," said Rep. Silvestre Reyes
(D-Tex.). "It is an empty gesture for the sole purpose of sending a false
message about the security of our nation."

Though he signed the measure into law, Bush emphasized that  other immigration
changes are needed. "We have more to do," he said. ". . . We must reduce
pressure on our border by creating a temporary-worker plan. Willing workers
ought to be matched with willing employers."

Though the new law authorizes the construction of a 700-mile fence, it remains
far from clear how much fencing will  be built.

Department of Homeland Security spokesman Russ Knocke declined to say if the
department is committed to building a 700-mile barrier. Instead, he cited the
DHS commitment to test by next year a $67 million, 28-mile "virtual fence" that
includes physical walls, vehicle barriers and remote monitoring south of Tucson.

Analysts, meanwhile, debate the effectiveness of a fence.

Since the United States began building a 66-mile barrier in San Diego in 1990,
illegal immigration has been rerouted to more remote areas, with many migrants
now being funneled through the treacherous desert south of Arizona.

Later in the day, Bush traveled to Iowa, where he campaigned for GOP
congressional candidate Jeff Lamberti, a state senator who is trying to unseat
Rep. Leonard L. Boswell (D). Campaign officials said the luncheon raised
$400,000.

Bush then traveled to Michigan, where he headlined a fundraiser for GOP Senate
candidate Mike Bouchard, who is trailing  incumbent  Debbie Stabenow (D). That
event raised $700,000, officials said.

Weisman reported from Washington. Staff writer Spencer S. Hsu in Washington
contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              27 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 13, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Democrats May Proceed With Caution on Immigration;
Explosive Issue Not A Top Priority For Incoming Leaders

BYLINE: Darryl Fears and Spencer S. Hsu, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 1202 words


When election results started rolling in Tuesday, Cecilia Muñoz said that she
and other immigration advocates were "holding our breath." One by one,
Republicans who had fought tooth and nail for stricter immigration laws fell,
turning control of Congress over to the Democrats.

By morning, a 700-mile Mexican border fence passed by Republicans in a
pre-election gambit had fallen flat with voters. A sharply worded GOP bill that
targeted illegal immigrants and spurred marches by millions of Latinos in the
spring appeared likely to fade into memory.

"I think this is the best environment we've had on the issue in quite some
time," said Cassandra Q. Butts, a senior vice president for the pro-immigration
Center for American Progress.

But when it comes to immigration, things are never easy. In the days after the
election, Democratic leaders surprised pro-immigration groups by not including
the issue on their list of immediate priorities. Experts said the issue is so
complicated, so sensitive and so explosive that it could easily blow up in the
Democrats' faces and give control of Congress back to Republicans in the next
election two years from now. And a number of Democrats who took a hard line on
illegal immigration were also elected to Congress.

"It's not without its challenges, for sure," said Jeanne Butterfield, executive
director of the American Immigration Lawyers Association. "You've got opposition
in both parties. You still have restrictionists in the Republican Party. You
have Democrats who've been reluctant to move on any kind of worker program."

Butterfield predicted that lobbyists and Democrats have less than a year to move
legislation that could put some 12 million illegal immigrants on a path to legal
residency, before the looming 2008 elections make a deal politically impossible.
And analysts say the fate of President Bush's proposal to create a temporary
worker program for 200,000 immigrants is in doubt, with labor's allies in
charge.

In recent days, advocates have been burning up the phone lines talking to one
another and to try to determine whom House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi
(D-Calif.), the presumed speaker of the next Congress, will appoint to key
committees, and how the new Democratically controlled Congress will approach the
issue.

Major challenges lay ahead. The Mexican border remains a sieve where an
estimated 100,000 immigrants sneak into the country every year. Conservatives in
the House, and some Democrats, want the border sealed with manpower, fencing and
technological gadgets before they will even consider guest workers.

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which
opposes increased immigration, said Democrats should implement an enforcement
program first. Anything else might be political suicide.

"The Democrats need to get their majority reelected in the next two years,"
Krikorian said. "My sense is that the Democrats have grown up enough to know
they can't get reelected trying to get everything they want."

Immigration experts are on the lookout for the kind of compromises that led to
the flawed immigration reform laws of 1986 and 1996. In those years, a White
House and Congress split between the two parties passed watered-down laws
requiring employers to check the legal status of new hires to satisfy businesses
and immigration advocates. They also failed to give enforcement agencies the
money, staff, technology or practical ability to do the job.

The miscues paved the way for an explosion of illegal immigration.

"The question is, will this just be another split-the-baby approach, such as we
saw in 1986," said Robert Bonner, commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border
Protection from 2003 to 2005, "or are we actually going to do something that is
going to seriously achieve the objectives of controlling the border?"

At the White House Friday, the Bush administration struck a bipartisan chord,
trumpeting both border enforcement and a guest worker initiative. "The President
believes a temporary guest worker program, where you will know if you're in or
you're out, is going to relieve pressure on the border and also reduce the
incentive for people to travel from Central America through Mexico in search of
such jobs," said White House spokesman Tony Snow.

Bush supports a proposal by Sens. John McCain (R-Ariz.) and Edward M. Kennedy
(D-Mass.) to allow foreign nationals currently outside the country to work in
the United States temporarily. Illegal immigrants now in the country could work
too, but only if they pay a $2,000 penalty for breaking the law, pay back taxes,
undergo a criminal check, learn English, take civics lessons, go to the back of
the employment line and then work six years with no legal problems.

The McCain-Kennedy bill would also strengthen the border and create a
computerized system to check the legal status of workers. The Senate bill would
authorize spending $400 million to expand a pilot program used by 5,000
employers to cover new hires by more than 8 million U.S. companies within 18
months.

But some experts are skeptical. The non-partisan Migration Policy Institute has
said that the pilot system is flawed, will take at least three years to
implement, and will fail unless it is made much more accurate. The MPI panel,
co-chaired by former congressman Lee H. Hamilton (D-Ind.) and former senator
Spencer Abraham (R-Mich.) also said other steps are needed, such as producing
tamper-proof Social Security or other employment ID card based on fingerprints
or other unique identifying features.

Others say thousands of immigration investigators are needed to verify legal
workers and track down those who remain in the country illegally.

James W. Ziglar, former commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, said if Congress does take up an overhaul, "the recognition that
enforcement has to be of equal stature is something that will occur this time,
because the lessons learned from the 1986 act are still burning very brightly in
the minds of people on both sides of the debate."

Muñoz, a vice president at the National Council of La Raza, the nation's largest
Latino civil rights group, said Democrats should move carefully ahead with a
plan that satisfies both sides.

"This notion that it's dangerous to vote to support comprehensive immigration
reform I believe to be false," she said. In Arizona, she said, voters rejected
anti-immigration Republicans Randy Graf and Rep. J.D. Hayworth.

But, to show how complicated the issue is, Arizona voters also approved three
referenda to make life tougher for illegal immigrants.

Anti-immigration Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.), who was distraught after the
election, believing a guest worker program was inevitable under the Democrats,
now says he's changed his mind.

"It seemed to me that it was not going to be as easy for them as I had
anticipated or feared," Tancredo said. "They're not putting it out there as
their number one, out-of-the-box issue."

The more he thought about the issue, the more cloudy the future seemed.

"I don't know," he said. A temporary guest worker program "could certainly
happen. I may be just skipping past the graveyard."

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              28 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 17, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrants Mistreated, Report Says

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A08

LENGTH: 637 words


U.S. authorities mistreated suspected illegal immigrants at five prisons and
jails nationwide, violating federal standards meant to ensure safe and humane
custody, according to a government report released yesterday.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officials and contractors denied
timely medical treatment to some of the immigrants, failed to disclose and
justify disciplinary actions against them, and improperly limited  access to
relatives, lawyers and immigration authorities, according to the Department of
Homeland Security  inspector general.

Detention officers  failed to establish a system to report abuse and violated
health and safety rules by neglecting to monitor prisoners on hunger strikes or
suicide watches and by serving undercooked food, the report said.

The report comes amid a sharp increase in  illegal immigrants in U.S. detention
as Congress and the Bush administration debate an overhaul of immigration laws
and promise tougher enforcement of existing laws. Civil liberties and immigrant
advocacy groups are stepping up scrutiny of conditions. Jorge Bustamante, the
U.N. special rapporteur on human rights of immigrants, has asked to visit U.S.
detention centers next month.

Critics of the agency called the report disappointing, contending that it
watered down recommendations and ignored the most serious allegations of abuse
collected since June 2004, which they said included physical beatings, medical
neglect, food shortages and mixing of illegal immigrants in administrative
custody with criminals.

"It took two years for them to come out with this? It's incredibly
disappointing," said Judy Rabinovitz, a lawyer with the ACLU immigrants rights
project.

Eric Lerner, a spokesman for the New Jersey Civil Rights Defense Committee,
called the report a "whitewash" that was delayed to suppress controversy. Bryan
Lonegan, a lawyer with the Legal Aid Society in New York City, said that DHS has
not designated 38 detention standards implemented since 2000 as federal
regulations, making them unenforceable.

A spokeswoman for Richard L. Skinner, the DHS inspector general, said the report
was delayed because its scope was reduced.

In a written response to the report, DHS Assistant Secretary Julie L. Myers
concurred at least partly with nine of 13 findings and promised changes. But she
said they "do not indicate any systemic failure" at nearly 400 facilities where
ICE is authorized to house as many as 27,500 people a night, because they were
based on individual allegations at a small sample of sites.

ICE operations are "generally in compliance with its National Detention
Standards," Myers said.

The audit examined the U.S.-owned and operated Krome Service Processing Center
in Miami, a contract Corrections Corporation of American facility in San Diego,
and local jails and prisons in Berks County, Pa., and Hudson and Passaic
counties, N.J.

In December 2005, ICE ordered all suspected illegal immigrants removed from the
Passaic jail in Paterson, N.J., after a string of critical news accounts,
including the disclosure that guards used police dogs against prisoners. DHS has
since barred that practice.

Although illegal immigrants are held on administrative grounds and are supposed
to be segregated by high, medium and low risk, authorities often house them
together with criminals, the report said.

Many contract and state and local correction officers were unaware of separate
U.S. standards for detained immigrants, the 54-page report noted. ICE itself
overlooks violations in annual inspections, the report said. "A final rating of
Acceptable was given to all five detention facilities," the report said.
"However, our review of the five facilities identified instances of
non-compliance . . . that were not identified during the ICE annual inspection."

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              29 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 18, 2007 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

State, Local Policing Authority Is Sought;
Attorney General Wants Enforcement Of Federal Laws

BYLINE: Amy Gardner, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B08

LENGTH: 520 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND Jan. 17


--  Virginia Attorney General Robert F. McDonnell (R) called Wednesday for
legislation and an executive order to allow state and local police to enforce
federal immigration laws in an effort to crack down on violent criminals who are
in the country illegally.

Flanked by lawmakers from Manassas, Prince William County and Herndon  --  three
Northern Virginia communities with large Latino populations and plenty of public
pressure to get tougher on undocumented residents  --  McDonnell said law
enforcement must be given more tools to stop such criminals.

With training from the Immigration and Customs Enforcement branch of the
Department of Homeland Security, state and local officers would have broader
authority to detain individuals suspected of immigration violations, McDonnell
said. As a result, fewer violent criminals would get away.

"We have no ability to detain people for violation of federal immigration law,"
McDonnell said.

Gov. Timothy M. Kaine (D), however, reiterated that he does not intend to sign
an executive order of the sort McDonnell endorsed. He said immigration
enforcement is a federal duty, not a state one.

"What we want to do is demand of our federal delegation and legislators that
they provide appropriate funding for anti-immigration activity, and not take the
pressure off by having the Virginia taxpayers pay the bill," Kaine said.

Kaine also said the proposed legislation is not needed because local governments
already have authority to team with the federal government.

McDonnell said that of millions of illegal immigrants in the country, about
80,000 have been convicted of violent crimes and deported to their home
countries, only to return to the United States to commit more crimes.

The attorney general did not have data on how many undocumented immigrants
suspected of violent crimes have eluded prosecution because state or local
police were unable to detain them. He emphasized that the authority he sought
for state and local police would apply only to individuals suspected of violent
crimes. McDonnell said the federal government would pay for the training. His
proposals drew criticism from some groups that support the rights of legal
immigrants.

Cristina M. Rebeil, a lawyer with the Virginia Poverty Law Center, said the
proposals would probably increase racial profiling of individuals suspected of
being undocumented immigrants. She also said the measures would discourage legal
immigrants from coming forward as crime witnesses or victims.

"We're seeing a huge amount of hostility from law enforcement," she said. "From
our side, we only see it increasing, so we can only imagine what would happen."

In a related matter, the Prince William-Manassas Regional Jail Board approved a
move to authorize local enforcement of federal immigration law in the regional
jail. The measure was backed by Jail Superintendent Charles "Skip" Land and
would give jail staff members who receive training the power to initiate
deportation proceedings for immigrants with criminal records.

Staff writers Theresa Vargas and Michael D. Shear contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              30 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          February 14, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Charles Norwood;
Ga. Congressman Pushed for Patients' Bill of Rights

BYLINE: Patricia Sullivan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B07

LENGTH: 673 words


Rep. Charles Whitlow Norwood Jr., 65, a Republican from Georgia who tirelessly
promoted a patients' bill of rights and who sought stricter immigration
policies, died Feb. 13 of cancer and lung disease at his home in Augusta.

For eight years, Rep. Norwood battled idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, undergoing
a lung transplant in 2004. He then was treated for non-small cell lung cancer,
often a side effect of immune-suppression drugs, his office said. Cancer was
discovered in his liver shortly after he was reelected to his seventh term last
year. Rep. Norwood announced last week that he was forgoing further treatment.

A colorful tobacco-chewing dentist first elected to public office during the
1994 GOP  sweep of Congress, Rep. Norwood did not hesitate to stand up for his
conservative principles, even if it meant criticizing his party. Last year, the
plainspoken legislator called fellow Republicans who backed compromise
immigration legislation "turncoats."

Warning that the nation faces a "true invasion" of illegal immigrants, he called
for putting nearly 40,000 troops on the U.S.-Mexico border. He co-wrote a
provision to the recent Deficit Reduction Act that bars illegal aliens from
getting Medicaid.

"After years of listening to 'advocates' whine about compassion for those who
intentionally break our laws for financial gain, I'm glad to see us finally
showing some compassion for our own poor and sick who abide by the law," he said
a year ago in a news release.

Rep. Norwood worked throughout much of his career to pass a patients' bill of
rights, aimed at giving people  better access to health care and greater ability
to sue insurers. Over a decade, the bill passed through the House twice, but it
failed after compromises needed to avoid a presidential veto caused Rep. Norwood
to lose support in Congress. He reintroduced the bill before leaving Washington
last week.

He criticized government intrusion into personal and business practices and was
one of 33 House members who voted against renewing the Voting Rights Act last
year, arguing that it discriminates against Southern states over long-past
racial transgressions.

Born in Valdosta, Ga., Rep. Norwood attended public schools until going to
Baylor School, what was then a military academy in Chattanooga. He was a student
there when he fatally shot a close friend as the two were playing quick-draw
with what they thought was an unloaded pistol. A staunch advocate for gun
rights, Rep. Norwood later said the accident convinced him that the best gun
control is education and training.

He graduated from Georgia Southern University and received a doctorate in dental
surgery from Georgetown University in 1967, serving as president of the dental
student body. He served in the Army Dental Corps, with a combat tour in Vietnam,
where he was one of the first participants in an  Army outreach program that
delivered dentists to forward firebases, his office said. Rep. Norwood also
provided some of the first field-based dental treatment of military guard dogs
and assisted in non-dental trauma care in Mobile Army Surgical Hospitals. He
received two Bronze Star Medals.

After his discharge, he began a private dental practice in Augusta and  founded
a wholesale nursery and a laboratory that manufactured dental devices.

In 1994, the relative unknown defeated  Democratic incumbent Don Johnson,
becoming the first Republican to represent his  northeastern Georgia district
since Reconstruction.

"Many of us were talking about the very things that were in the [Contract With
America] before there was a contract," he told The Washington Post that year.
"It gave me a title for what I was saying."

House members debating the war in Iraq yesterday  briefly interrupted
proceedings for a moment of silence in his honor. His seat is expected to be
filled in  a special election.

Survivors include his wife of 42 years, Gloria Wilkinson Norwood of Augusta; two
sons, Charles Norwood and Carlton Norwood, both of Augusta; and four
grandchildren.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              31 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 23, 2007 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Stricter Immigration Law Dominates Smith R?sum?

BYLINE: Sylvia Moreno; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 544 words


Rep. Lamar S. Smith may boast an A-plus voting record rating from the National
Rifle Association, and he may be hailed in Republican circles for trying to
inject firearms into a D.C. voting rights bill. But his crowning legislative
achievement to date is a sweeping immigration reform bill that not only targeted
illegal immigrants, but also foreigners living in the United States legally.

The Texas Republican, whose district encompasses part of San Antonio and several
counties in central Texas Hill Country, authored the Illegal Immigration Reform
and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 -- a law so far-reaching that analysts
have compared it to "totally rewriting the tax code of the United States,"
according to the Texas Observer.

The IIRAIRA -- pronounced "Ira-Ira" -- dramatically affected the lives of many
undocumented and legal immigrants. Among its provisions: Parole or bond for
certain immigrants is severely restricted or eliminated. Deportation waivers are
now rare. Minor infractions committed by legal permanent residents in the United
States -- such as shoplifting or writing bad checks -- are now deportable
offenses. And even if the infractions occurred decades ago, the legal immigrant
is still deportable because the provisions of the law when it was signed were
retroactive.

"He was the key author and the brains behind and the machine behind getting the
1996 immigration law passed which, from our perspective, was the harshest
crackdown on immigrants in 70 years," said Angela Kelley, deputy director of the
National Immigration Forum in Washington.

Smith, 59, was the chairman of the immigration subcommittee of the House
Judiciary Committee in 1996 during the construction of IIRAIRA and today is the
ranking minority member of the same panel.

In introducing the motion to pull down the D.C. voting rights bill and send it
back to committee with the provision that it be returned with a guarantee of the
right to own firearms in Washington, Smith said, "It is high time we rectify
this wrong."

"The prohibition of firearms in the District of Columbia is as ineffective and
deplorable as it is unconstitutional," Smith said.

But his intended target was the full House seat for the District and an
additional "at-large" representative for Utah, both of which he said he believes
to be unconstitutional and will "have serious practical consequences." The bill,
if enacted, "could lead to years of protracted litigation," Smith said.

In the past decade of his congressional tenure, Smith has been criticized by
Democratic opponents and a few local newspaper columnists as being "a Beltway
insider" out of touch with Texas who spends more time in his homes in Virginia
and Massachusetts than in central Texas.

Nonetheless, Smith has handily won his seat for years, garnering 60 percent of
the vote last fall in a district that had been redrawn by a federal court just a
few months before.

Smith's Congressional District 21 was affected by the remapping of adjacent
Congressional District 23, whose boundaries were redrawn to include more
minority voters. That adjustment added four GOP-leaning Hill Country counties to
Smith's district, in which two-thirds of the voters already voted Republican.

Staff researcher Meg Smith contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Smith says a bill adding a House seat would be unconstitutional.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 26, 2007 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Hope for Illegal Immigrants;
A bill in the House sounds the opening bell for real reform.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 671 words


THE BATTLE over immigration reform was joined in Congress last week with the
introduction of sweeping legislation that would toughen enforcement, tighten
border controls and provide eventual citizenship for millions who entered the
country illegally. That the opening legislative salvo came in the House, where
real reform went nowhere in the last Congress, and that the bill has bipartisan
sponsors generated fresh optimism that the broken-down immigration system may be
replaced by a workable one. The optimism will be justified, though, only if the
White House, which has been trying to coax a consensus on immigration from
divided Republican lawmakers, sticks to its guns and fashions a blueprint for
action that is both practical and comprehensive.

The House bill, sponsored by Rep. Jeff Flake, an Arizona Republican, and Luis V.
Gutierrez, an Illinois Democrat, is a sound starting point for the debate. It
should appeal to Republicans concerned about enforcement and border security,
whose support will be needed in both houses of Congress. And it should also be
attractive to Democrats determined to provide a pathway to citizenship for the
12 million illegal immigrants already here and for future immigrants who will
enter the country on legal work visas.

Thick as a phone book, the bill is similar in structure, and in some details, to
one introduced in the last Congress by Sens. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) and
John McCain (R-Ariz.), with whom Mr. Flake and Mr. Gutierrez worked closely last
year. For immigration hawks, there is plenty to like: Before the bill's
citizenship provisions kick in, stringent new standards on workplace enforcement
and border security would have to be satisfied. They include a major build-up in
personnel and technology monitoring the nation's border. In addition, the
legislation requires tougher penalties for a range of immigration-related crimes
and the creation of a system whereby employers can electronically verify that
employees and job applicants are authorized to work here.

The bill would require immigrants here illegally to cross a border and then
reenter the country legally -- in theory on the same day, or even within hours
-- thereby "rebooting" and legitimizing their status at any time within six
years. This is a political fig leaf that will allow immigration hawks to claim a
symbolic victory, but it will be a Pyrrhic victory if it establishes a system so
onerous or risky that immigrants simply decide it isn't worth it and remain in
the shadows. For now, the bill's sponsors affirm that the "rebooting"
requirement will be sufficiently flexible and common-sensical -- providing
waivers for single parents, for instance, and allowing heads of household to
"reboot" on behalf of their families -- that most illegal immigrants will
comply.

Conservatives opposed to citizenship for illegal immigrants are fond of
pillorying it as "amnesty." This bill provides nothing of the sort. In addition
to requiring lawful reentry to the country, it would entail immigrants paying a
$2,000 fine and any back taxes they owe, clearing a security and background
check, learning English and civics, compiling a felony-free record, and
submitting proof of past employment. Only after six years and after satisfying
those requirements could workers apply for permanent residency status, which
could lead to citizenship.

The Senate, which proved much more receptive to realistic immigration reform
than the House last year, has so far produced no legislation this session,
despite pledges from Mr. Kennedy and Mr. McCain that they remain intent on doing
so. As the Bush administration continues to plug away with Republicans, it
realizes that time is short; any bill up for debate too late this year will be
at risk of succumbing to the passions engendered by next winter's presidential
primaries. President Bush will have precious few chances to add to his domestic
policy legacy before he leaves office. Immigration reform may be his last, best
hope. The moment for pushing is now.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 2, 2007 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Talking Nonsense;
The Bush administration's plan on immigration is divorced from reality.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 562 words


PREOCCUPIED with scandal at home and war overseas, the Bush administration is
resting its hopes of making a dent in the nation's domestic agenda largely on
its stated goal of overhauling immigration policy. Yet the White House is doing
too little to craft a plan that can attract bipartisan support and effectively
reshape the nation's unrealistic rules on immigration. Rather than nudge its
Republican allies toward such a strategy, the administration seems more intent
on placating party hard-liners.

A week after sensible, bipartisan legislation to reform immigration policy was
introduced in the House, the administration circulated a collection of talking
points last week. The document, the product of meetings between senior
administration officials and Republican senators, is a step backward -- not only
from legislation passed by the Senate last year but also from the general
proposition that any genuine reform must be workable. In particular, the
document offers up a template for punishing immigrants with repeated and
possibly indefinite fines even after they emerged from the shadows to secure
legal status.

In addition to toughening enforcement and beefing up the border, President Bush
has spoken reasonably of providing an eventual path to citizenship for the
estimated 12 million undocumented immigrants already in the country. But the
discussion document released by the White House, while declaring breezily that
most illegal aliens "will eventually all be processed through the system,"
provides no real avenue for that to happen. Rather, the administration would
require that an undocumented immigrant pay $3,500 in fines and fees every three
years to remain here, plus an $8,000 fine if and when his or her application for
legal permanent residence was accepted -- which might be never. In the meantime,
immigrants who had legalized their status in the United States would not have
the right to sponsor their relatives to join them. That would diminish the
chances that immigrants already here could assimilate, establish communities and
unify their families. It is a blueprint for social problems.

Nor would future immigrants, on whose labor the nation's economy similarly
depends, be treated realistically. Although it is estimated that some 400,000
immigrant workers will be needed annually to satisfy demand in the labor market,
the White House plan would insist that these "temporary workers" leave every two
years and remain out of the country for six months, for a maximum of six years'
work here. That stricture invites rule-breaking, both by workers and by
employers, who need a reliable and experienced workforce. The administration
concedes that "model" employees should be eligible to apply to stay in the
country permanently, but it provides no additional visas that would help make
that possible. Temporary workers would also be barred from bringing wives and
children with them, ensuring the growth of a sizable class of single, rootless
men and their attendant social problems.

At its heart, the White House plan is a political document, not a workable
program destined for success in the real world. It seems more intent on
punishing illegal immigrants than in forging a framework to deal with them
forthrightly. It may appease some immigration hawks, but it will not address a
problem that Americans overwhelmingly say they want fixed.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 22, 2007 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Rally Against Illegal Immigration Scheduled;
Radio Hosts Enlisted in Effort, Which Is Aimed at Rousing Area Activists Before
Week of Lobbying

BYLINE: Pamela Constable and N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 1347 words


As the debate over immigration reform takes shape in Congress, radio talk show
hosts will headline a rally against illegal immigration across from the White
House today as a preamble to a week of lobbying on Capitol Hill.

Organizers hope the radio personalities, whose shows across the country often
are forums for heated anti-immigrant rhetoric, will galvanize an array of groups
into a potent force. The effort is aimed at reflecting grass-roots concerns
raised by Washington area residents, such as over job centers for mostly
immigrant day laborers in Herndon and Gaithersburg.

"We all see the illegal aliens marching down the streets, screaming, 'We are
America' and 'We demand citizenship.' We are trying to offer a venue where
Americans can come and express their support for secure borders and an equal
application of existing laws," said D.A. King, an ex-Marine from Georgia who
leads the Dustin Inman Society, which is sponsoring the rally.

Surveys show that a majority of Americans favor tightening security along the
border with Mexico. But the public is divided on how to treat the more than 10
million illegal immigrants who live in the United States.

A recent Washington Post poll found that 81 percent of people said the
government was "not doing enough" to stop illegal immigration. But 62 percent
said those already in the country should be offered a chance to keep their jobs
and apply for legal immigration status, while 35 percent said they should be
deported.

Most legislative proposals call for some path toward legalization for those in
the country illegally.

Organizers of today's demonstration say they plan to focus on three issues:
improving border security, opposing amnesty for immigrants living illegally in
the country and enforcing U.S. laws, including those against hiring illegal
immigrants.

In the Washington region, activists said, many residents have strong negative
opinions about illegal immigration but are fearful of being labeled anti-Latino
if they speak out. The activists also said people tend to become more energized
by problems in their communities, such as loitering laborers or crowded housing,
than by national policy debates.

"People don't want to be vilified or called racists. They will send an anonymous
e-mail but not go to meetings," said George Taplin, who heads the Virginia
chapter of the Minuteman Civil Defense Corps, an Arizona-based group that has
led efforts to seal the U.S.-Mexico border. Taplin said some local activists may
go to the rally, but only if they belong to national groups.

Greg Letiecq, an activist from Manassas, said that the rally was "a wonderful
idea" but that it would be difficult to persuade a sizable group of residents to
take part, even though many are concerned about local problems associated with
illegal immigrants, especially crowded housing.

"People send me e-mails saying we need to do something, but they don't have the
time, the vision or the background to pull it off," he said.

There is clearly a strong undercurrent of anger against illegal immigrants among
area residents. In Herndon, plans to open a job site for immigrant day laborers
last year led to a protracted fight that bitterly divided the town and drew
national media attention. A similar proposal in Gaithersburg also aroused local
opposition, although the center opened last week without incident.

Reports in The Post about the problems of illegal immigrants regularly elicit
floods of angry e-mails and online messages, often anonymous.

Some of the worries are specific, such as complaints that immigrants overburden
schools and hospitals or bring gang violence. Others are vague and emotional.
They include fears of being inundated by foreigners, indignation at expensive
accommodations made to newcomers who do not speak English and concern that the
quality of community life is deteriorating. The complaints often express
frustration with the government, which is seen as having done little to address
the overall problem.

Here is a sampling of recent messages:

"I don't feel sorry for illegal aliens who broke our laws crossing our borders."

"When you get people who don't respect the law, you have a country that doesn't
respect the law."

"I am so tired of watching Latinos in my neighborhood . . . leaving their empty
Corona bottles all over the yard."

"Why are all of these people still speaking only Spanish after so many years?"

"The emergency rooms in my town are packed. . . . all our money is going to
these illegals. . . . I am simply out of sympathy."

"They [are] taking our jobs."

"If they are criminals they deserve no help."

"Wait in line like my grandparents did."

"Do something to fix your problems at home rather than just running away and
becoming another country's problem."

"If we do not defend ourselves there will be no USA at all worth having."

"Deport them all."

Many speakers scheduled to address the rally represent national or regional
advocacy groups that draw on common sources of funding and have overlapping
boards or staffs.

In many cases, the common denominator is John Tanton, a Michigan ophthalmologist
who founded the influential lobbying group Federation for American Immigration
Reform about three decades ago.

Of 15 speakers, at least seven have links to either FAIR or Tanton's private
foundation, U.S. Inc. K.C. McAlpin is executive director of ProEnglish, a wholly
owned project of U.S. Inc. Radio host Terry Anderson has received thousands of
dollars in funding from U.S. Inc. and is a founder of a group of African
Americans opposed to illegal immigration that FAIR helped create. Col. Al
Rodriguez is chairman of a group that FAIR co-organized for Latinos opposed to
illegal immigration.

One speaker, Roger Hedgecock, has achieved a national following. He is a
conservative radio host in San Diego whose show has long been a lightning rod
for sentiment against illegal immigrants. Hedgecock's aides said the organizers
hope to bring more than 1,000 supporters from California and other states, who
will spend the week visiting members of Congress and holding other events.

In contrast to this scripted plan, a year ago, several million mostly Latino
immigrants unexpectedly poured into the streets of Los Angeles, Dallas, Chicago
and other cities to protest immigration legislation in Congress. The largely
spontaneous burst of activism astonished the nation and appeared to signal a
political coming of age for the country's large Latino population.

There is no indication that pro-immigrant or Latino groups will be out in force
today, but a group calling itself D.C. Students for a Democratic Society has
called for a noisy counter-demonstration. It has circulated unsigned fliers
titled "Nobody is Illegal!" that ask supporters to bring noisemakers and signs.

One reason for the pent-up frustration over illegal immigration is that Congress
has failed to produce immigration reform for the past several years, although
some activists argue that no new law is needed. Last year's proposals collapsed
in partisan fighting, and the divide is even more poisonous this year, with
predictions that no final bill will emerge.

At the state level, proposals aimed at denying benefits to illegal immigrants
have been defeated in the Virginia and Maryland legislatures in the past several
years. Activists blame business interests that employ illegal immigrants for the
defeats, but others said the growing influence of Latino and immigrant-rights
groups has played a role.

Taplin said the high-profile controversy over the Herndon day-labor site had
begun to galvanize longtime residents in other area communities. He said his
organization is now working with groups in Manassas, Culpeper and Harrisonburg
in Virginia, where large numbers of illegal immigrants work in farming, poultry
plants and the service sector.

"Herndon has given people more courage," he said. "We are trying to get the
grass roots going, and we have thousands of supporters. For most people, it's
only a matter of keeping your head down until you're sure it's okay to put it
up."

Staff writer Krissah Williams contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     December 7, 2006 Thursday 12:00 PM EST

Potomac Confidential;
Washington's Hour of Talk Power

BYLINE: Marc Fisher, Post Metro Columnist, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 6082 words



HIGHLIGHT: It's a post-election extravaganza on Potomac Confidential, a chance
to weigh in on all the results in Maryland, Virginia and the District.


It's a post-election extravaganza on Potomac Confidential, a chance to weigh in
on all the results in Maryland, Virginia and the District.

Post Metro columnist Marc Fisher was online Thursday, Dec. 7, at Noon ET to look
at what happens to the U.S.-born children of deported illegal immigrants, the
D.C. government's effort to evict a mentally disabled man, and the slow-growth
movement in the Virginia and Maryland suburbs.

Check out Marc's blog, Raw Fisher.

In his weekly show, Fisher veers wildly from serious probing to silly prattle,
and is open to topics local, national, personal and more.

Archives: Discussion Transcripts

A transcript follows.

____________________

Marc Fisher: Welcome aboard, folks.

Lots of reaction to this week's columns on the District's efforts to evict a
mentally disabled man from a group home for all the wrong bureaucratic reasons,
and on the dilemma posed by the case of an illegal immigrant who is about to be
deported, but has young children who are U.S. citizens. How far are we willing
to go to make it clear that illegal immigrants are not welcome--far enough that
we take on the cost of an untold number of children who might become wards of
the state?

On to your many comments and questions, but first, the Yay and Nay of the Day.

Today, breaking format, both the Yay and the Nay go to the same winners, the
suburban taxpayers who pressured elected officials in Prince William, Loudoun
and Montgomery counties this week to move toward freezes on development as a way
of slowing growth and sending a message to state legislators that they ignore
Washington-area problems at their peril.

The Yay goes to those who've taken a hard line on growth because it's long past
time that legislators, especially in Richmond, understand that they can no
longer pretend that congestion and other growth issues will just go away. But
the same folks get a Nay because there's a reactionary undercurrent to these
moves, a statement by those who've moved to new suburbs most recently that they
want to close the door behind them and deny others the same benefits that they
enjoy. More important, much of the opposition to growth is really opposition to
density, and density is the most crucial tool planners have to assure that there
be some affordable housing in the futures of fast-growing communities.

Your turn starts right now...

_______________________

Vienna, Va.: Good blog today. Immigration is a very hard issue. I am sympathetic
with the family in question, in particular the kids. It's generally not a good
idea for government to break up families, unless it's absolutely necessary.
Thanks to the way government works, kids who become wards of the state all too
often end up becoming adults who are wards of the state, specifically the
criminal justice system.

I don't blame the woman for trying to seek a better life for herself. But
there's something wrong with her message of "I broke your laws to come here, but
now that I am here you should ignore your laws." Laws matter. A nation really
can't be a nation if it can't control its borders or enforce its laws (and
maintain a unifying culture).

Economic reality is fueling the migration. Until that dynamic changes, the
people will keep coming. So we need to make a new national policy that
acknowledges this fact, yet also provides effective border protection while
ensuring that new immigrants will assimilate.

washingtonpost.com: Deporting a Model Noncitizen ( Post, Dec. 7)

Marc Fisher: Sure, laws matter, but they matter most when they reflect a
consensus in society about how to handle a particular issue, and in the case of
immigration, we are very far from any consensus. Instead, we're riddled with
contradictions. A lot of us want the gov't to get tough on illegals, but at the
same time, we're happy to wink at illegals who work for us either directly or
indirectly. As long as we have that contradiction, we won't get any significant
control over the situation.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Your article on a "model non-citizen" is fraught with
inaccuracies and half truths. It's amazing you call yourself a journalist. What
are we, Marc, if we don't accept the rule of law? We become anarchists.

Try applying your logic of not following the rules and laws of this country in
rearing your own children. Stop enforcing the rules you use to teach your
children right from wrong, good behavior from bad. What you're asking society to
do in the case of Ms. Alvarez is no different which is to turn a blind eye
towards illegal behavior.

Should we release murderers and rapists because they have children back home to
raise? What about drug dealers? I'm sure they have nice families at home too.
Where in your estimation does the rule of law begin? When it's convenient to
you?

washingtonpost.com: Deporting a Model Noncitizen ( Post, Dec. 7)

Marc Fisher: I'm not advocating that Alvarez or anyone else break the law; I'm
simply stating what we all know is the fact: People like Alvarez can be
deported, but if they are compelled to be here, whether for economic or family
reasons, they will risk their lives to get on the next bus to San Diego, and
then the process starts all over again. Is the current effort to halt that
process a good use of our tax dollars?

_______________________

Bethesda, Md.: Thanks for your thoughtful column today examining both sides of
the illegal immigrant issue. Of course, the question occurs, where is the father
of the two children and the father of the one Ms. Alvarez was carrying? Were
they illegal, too?

In any event, may I suggest you look at the illegal-immigrant drunken driver in
Howard Co., who killed a young Marine and his date at Thanksgiving? That's the
true scandal, how a person was able to get a driver's license in Maryland
without proof of citizenship and kills two young people. Was there insurance to
help the families of the deceased? Why is Maryland one of only nine states that
does not require proof of citizenship to get a license? This issue will blow up
in 2008 with the federal Real ID Law, and Marylanders will suffer.

washingtonpost.com: Deporting a Model Noncitizen ( Post, Dec. 7)

Marc Fisher: Excellent question, and I tried to address that briefly in the
column: The father in this case is wholly absent, gone from the area, out of the
kids' lives. Would the state have easier access to him to force him to
contribute to the kids' upkeep if he were a legal resident? Probably.

_______________________

Laurel, Md. : Your opinion piece was extremely disturbing. Personally, I don't
think her being here is a "big deal" -- I am certainly extremely liberal when it
comes to this. But I do understand that there must be limits. Having said that,
given that she will be deported -- is it absolutely necessary that the kids are
reduced to only one day per month to see their mother? That, to me, seems harsh,
severe and immoral.

washingtonpost.com: Deporting a Model Noncitizen ( Post, Dec. 7)

Marc Fisher: The visiting hours at the detention facility do seem very harsh,
but of course that's not nearly as harsh or expensive as deporting the mother
and leaving the children behind. While I support the idea of deporting someone
who so cavalierly ignored the laws of this country, I am stopped short by the
idea that these kids could become wards of the state and cost U.S. taxpayers
many tens of thousands of dollars each year.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: I've always liked your column, but the last few weeks have
been particularly impressive. Washington finally has the city columnist we
deserve -- or perhaps we need. Of course, you still occasionally come off as a
pig-headed blowhard (How can you have never smelled smoke from another
apartment? Even if you haven't, just asking around would have opened your eyes,
if not your ears.), but it works well as part of the total package.

Marc Fisher: Could work as a new ad slogan for the column: The only pig-headed
blowhard you'll ever need.

Thank you. Oink.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: I've got another instance of particularly egregious
bureaucratic bungling on the part of the D.C. government. Like your situation
with the group home, it may benefit from some sunshine and phone calls from
everyone's favorite Metro columnist. Details are too long to go into here -- is
there an e-mail I could use to contact you?

Marc Fisher: Sure--marcfisher@washpost.com

I can't get to all the many good stories that readers tell me about, but I try
to push into the best of them as often as I can, and some of the others get into
the paper in other forms.

_______________________

Derwood, Md.: Marc,

Any idea how soon Bobby Haircut will be able to finally get around to mowing my
lawn and trimming my hedges for me?

Marc Fisher: Do you have any time this afternoon? I hear he's available. (Also
available for security guard duty, if you happened to catch Gov. Haircut's cameo
on HBO's The Wire this week.)

_______________________

Alexandria, Va.: Did you read the article on the water cafe ?

Man, I am just getting to be an old fogey I guess but what is up with that?
First of all, if it's some kind of response to decreasing water quality, why are
they serving three kinds of water? I mean they have mostly clean, very clean and
super clean, as near as I can tell. Why not just super clean? And super clean
means distilled water. Did you ever drink distilled water? You would never
choose to do that unless you are some kind of germophobe.

washingtonpost.com: How'd You Like Your Water? ( Post, Dec. 7)

Marc Fisher: I can't wait to get out there to try the stuff. Some readers may
recall that a few years back, I conducted a semi-scientific taste test out on
the sidewalk in front of the Post, asking passersby to judge the taste of
bottled water, distilled water, tap water from various local systems, and
swimming pool water.

You'll never believe what won.

Perhaps Rocci can find a link....

_______________________

Alexandria, Va.: What's the best stop to get off of to go to the Christmas Tree
lighting at the White House tonight? None of them look that close.

Marc Fisher: McPherson Square is probably your best bet--it's just a few blocks
from there.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Marc,

Your column Tuesday about John Cook and Eugene Sampson made my blood boil. Is
the D.C. govt. still living under the legacy of the incompetent bureaucrats who
owe their jobs to the Barry years ("Bureaucrats for Life" appointed by the Mayor
for Life), or does each administration perpetuate the incompetence that
characterizes this city?

Do we dare hope for better from the Fenty administration?

washingtonpost.com: The District Bureaucracy Bears Down On a Dream ( Post, Dec.
5)

Marc Fisher: Now is the time to hope for better. Can Fenty's emphasis on energy
and accountability make a difference in some of the agencies that are most
deeply set in old and cynical ways? I hope so, and I think it's fair to expect
so in some parts of the government. Some other parts have proven fairly
impervious to reform--the schools bureaucracy being the chief example. But
nobody thought the motor vehicle bureau could be tamed, and yet Williams did
that. Health is a tougher task, but so far, Fenty has been hiring almost
uniformly impressive people.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: Thanks for taking my question, Marc. Related your article on the
district's bureaucracy creating problems for a mentally disabled group home, do
you think Mayor Williams made any progress in reforming some of these
unnecessary bureaucractic hurdles that citizens must contend with. Will Mayor
Fenty be more effective in this area?

Marc Fisher: Mayor Williams made a good deal of headway in reforming some of the
more difficult agencies in town, but Consumer and Regulatory Affairs remains a
bit of a tangle, and some, such as Fire, are in truly sorry shape.

_______________________

Falls Church, Va.: Marc, a little city vs. suburb question/consideration. I was
at the Skins game this weekend and overheard the guy next to me explain to his
kid what all the flags were on the other side of the stadium. There were the
P.G. County, Md., U.S., Va., and D.C. flags all flying above FedEx. It got me
thinking of the chances that the suburbs would be recognized at the new baseball
stadium (they aren't at RFK). Somehow I think the city government isn't as warm
to the idea of recognizing the areas where close to 90 percent of our region's
population lives as vice versa.

Marc Fisher: Interesting question--I share your skepticism that such a welcome
would come naturally to the city administrators who run the stadium project, but
my bet is that the Nats' owners would very much want to make that sort of
gesture, so my bet is that you will indeed see something along those lines.

_______________________

Frederick, Md.: Derwood, do you really want Haircut to trim your hedges? What if
they turn out looking like his cut?

Marc Fisher: Lots of folks like that highly manicured look for the hedges. Me,
I'll take the Tony Williams/Michael Steele approach for any hedges I might ever
own--mow em down, go for the clean cut.

_______________________

Ballston, Va.: I'm no fan of The Post for a variety of reasons, but I must give
credit where credit is due. The stink The Post raised about Fairfax County's
inane decision to insert itself into the volunteer safety net that's looking out
for the homeless is worthy of kudos. The County's foray into nannyism gave way
to a momentary return to sanity in large measure because of the Post's scrutiny.
So bravo, y'all did something good for a change.

Marc Fisher: Grudging thanks are often more rewarding than steady support, so
your words are most appreciated and I will pass them along to the reporters on
that story. Fairfax certainly made a quick 180 on that one, and rightfully so.
What a boneheaded notion, and all dressed up in faux-righteousness about a class
distinction that doesn't exist: Everybody likes a home-cooked meal, whether rich
or poor.

_______________________

Alexandria, Va.: Why do so many people get obsessed over process rather than the
actual decision? The perfect example of this is Mayor-elect Fenty's decision of
Cathy Lanier as Police Chief.

Of course it is too early to know if this was a wise decision, but these sort of
decisions is what Fenty was elected to do. Instead, we read story after story of
how people were upset with the process.

Marc Fisher: In the early days of any administration, everybody's hunting for
signs of how the new guy will do business, so it's natural that folks examined
the process behind the choice of Lanier as police chief. I like that he picked
someone very well respected from within the department; she seems feisty and
tough.

_______________________

Stanton Park, Washington, D.C.: Hi Marc,

Do you have any reaction to the D.C. City Council railroading approval of this
demolition of the Capital City Market at Florida Ave., NE without any input from
residents or business owners?

All I can say, is good riddance, Vincent Orange. I'm glad you're gone from the
council and calling it a "blight" shows you've never visited the place.

And I hope the new council will re-evaluate this.

Marc Fisher: I'm very worried about the potential loss of some fabulous
businesses in the food market there, including my favorite Italian sub within 40
miles of here. I don't like the idea that the city can take over a collection of
thriving businesses and declare them to be failures just so it can give a big
fat contract to some highly connected developer. That said, that is a
fast-changing part of town that could use a lot more density and street life.

_______________________

washingtonpost.com: Taking the Waters ( Post, July 11, 1996)

_______________________

Boston, Mass.: Just as a clarification to your recent article. Say a group home
for the disabled were to burn to the ground one sad day and it came to light
that there were more people residing there then their permit allowed. Would you
support the city or the residents families in the inevitable lawsuit?

Marc Fisher: Depends on what the real cause of the fire were, right? Obviously,
no one wants 30 disabled folks crowded into a facility equipped for five. This
case was wildly different: Five clients in a house that could easily handle well
more than that; the city knew this, yet did nothing even after one of the most
responsible care agencies on the planet repeatedly and persuasively made its
case. That it took the publication of a newspaper column to push the city to do
something is not remotely encouraging.

_______________________

Shady Grove, Md.: Marc, you really stirred up the nut farm with the gun in parks
blog. Children love to play amongst the trees but if guns are allowed in parks,
the parents would have to prohibit them from doing so due the fear that someone
would shoot at anything that moves in the woods!

washingtonpost.com: Your Handy Gun Guide: Libraries No, Parks Yes ( Raw Fisher,
Dec. 6)

Marc Fisher: I thought that at least here might be a place where gun fans might
agree that people deserve some respite from weapons, but no, the religion of the
individual right to bear arms requires that there be no exceptions to that
mythical right. Still, I thought the discussion on the blog was quite revealing
and I'm grateful that folks on both sides hashed things out with a nice mix of
rhetorical savagery, reason and emotion.

_______________________

You made a typing error ...: You typed the following.

"A lot of us want the gov't to get tough on illegals, but at the same time,
we're happy to wink at illegals who work for us either directly or indirectly."

Now it may have just been quick chat shorthand, but I think you meant to type
...

"A lot of those stinky working class peons want the gov't to get tough on
illegals, but at the same time, I and my social circle of connected six-figure
plus income pundits, bylined WaPo reporters, etc. ... are happy to wink at
illegals who work for us either directly or indirectly, as they provide us with
cheap kitchen remodels and nannies which would be priced out for us hiring
domestic working class peons. As long as that contradiction exists, I and my
social circle will continue to mostly get our way because we have all the money
and connections."

Marc Fisher: My fingers must have slipped. Thanks for the correction.

_______________________

Chevy Chase, D.C.: There are so many people in my life that echo the Alvarez
story to me. Hard-working, tax-paying folks for Honduras and San Salvador, to
name two countries I am particularly aware of. I don't know if they are legal or
not (and I have no intention of asking) ... but I think they deserve to stay. It
is these kinds of people that have made America the country that it is. They
provide the life blood to an aging complacent population. I really think we need
this sort of people more than they need us.

Marc Fisher: I don't know that we need such people--I'd far rather that some of
those jobs go to people who were born here who have been displaced from jobs
that have been shipped overseas. But to the extent that our economy has always
depended on new immigrants and that many natives are not willing to do the
often-difficult physical labor that immigrants handle, I see your point.

_______________________

Silver Spring, Md.: I am literally a Mayflower descendant, and can prove it if
you are interested, but I really and truly wish all those opposed to
undocumented immigrants had been born into those immigrants' situations. They
would have a very different view of the situation.

Marc Fisher: Send me the proof, you illegal you.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Good afternoon, Marc. I have two questions about Ira Mehlman's
position as expressed in your column "Deporting a Model Noncitizen." According
to your column, Mr. Mehlman "suggests scrapping the law that grants citizenship
to anyone born on our soil." First, did Mr. Mehlman give any indication of
whether he wanted to "scrap" the whole Fourteenth Amendment, or just the clause
granting citizenship to anyone born in the Unite States? Second, Mehlman sounds
like a German name. If we do scrap the automatic-citizenship clause in the
Fourteenth Amendment, should we start by deporting Mr. Mehlman?

Marc Fisher: Just the part that guarantees citizenship to anyone born on our
soil. That seems to me a position so extreme that it calls into question the
rest of his stances on immigration; eliminating birthright citizenship would
certainly make things easier for the government, but it would so drastically
change the nature of American citizenship that our identity in the world,
already diminished, would suffer terribly. What keeps this country a leader in
innovation and higher education is the hope that we extend to folks who come
here knowing that their children will be Americans.

_______________________

Immigration: Surely a dilemma, but I'm curious about what wasn't mentioned in
your piece. Why wasn't she more vigilant about checking on her hearing date?
Seems to me that should have been paramount to her. Maybe not checking every day
or even every week, but once a month? If getting to stay legally in the U.S. is
her priority, is it too much to ask that she keep on top of that?

Marc Fisher: Right--that's the big flaw in her argument. If she were really
intent on doing the right thing once she got here, she'd have made it her
business to follow the immigration procedures by the book.

_______________________

Gainesville, Fla.: Hey Marc,

I'll be back home over the holidays and plan on going by the Florida Avenue
market. Where is this suprememly delicious Italian sub sold there?

Marc Fisher: A. Litteri, a glorious bit of Italy tucked away in the D.C.
wholesale market--very much open to all, not just wholesalers.

http://www.litteris.com/

_______________________

washingtonpost.com: Deporting a Model Noncitizen ( Post, Dec. 7)

_______________________

Your Wreaths for Veterans' Cemeteries article...: was wonderful, Marc. Thank you
so much for letting me and thousands of others know about it. I e-mailed copies
to friends across the country and will send hard copies with my Christmas card
to older relatives with no computer access.

Could your producer post a link so that anyone who missed it the first time
could also enjoy it.

washingtonpost.com: 'Rest easy, sleep well my brothers. Know the line has held,
your job is done.' (Post, Dec. 3)

Marc Fisher: Thanks very much--huge reaction to Sunday's column. Should be quite
a crowd of volunteers out there next week at Arlington.

_______________________

Annapolis, Md.: Here's hoping the D.C. Council takes notes on the Annapolis
Market House debacle before it destroys a working market. After bravura displays
of managerial incompetence, we now have a market house with half the number of
vendors and double the prices. Now,it is literally the same cost to sit down in
a neighboring restaurant and eat lunch as it is to buy in the market house.
Maybe you guys will get something equally useless.

Marc Fisher: Thanks--sounds like it's worth a visit if only for some instruction
on how not to do it.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: Just to let you know, the neighbors who still had their
Halloween lights up took them down after you posted my comment! Now I'm waiting
to see if they put up Christmas lights at all and if they put them up, how long
they stay up.

Marc Fisher: We aim to serve.

_______________________

Stupidity aloft: The story about the flight from DCA to DFW that had to make an
emergency landing because a passenger was striking matches just floored me. Each
time I think I have seen the ultimate in stupidity, something like this happens
and leaves my jaw hanging open. That woman should get a bill from the airline
for the extra fuel, the landing fee at BNA, and whatever additional costs were
incurred.

The fact that she was not charged also leaves me amazed. Since when is stupidity
a "get out of jail free" card?

washingtonpost.com: Lit Matches Prompt Emergency Landing ( Post, Dec. 7)

Marc Fisher: You're right, she should receive an invoice in the mail, but at the
very least, some good public shaming is in order, so spread that story widely.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Hi Marc -- Once again we have another tragic accident and
death involving a teenager driving an SUV. When are these stupid parents going
to realize that an SUV is just too much vehicle for an inexperienced 16-year-old
to be driving? Yes, I've heard all the arguments about different kids having
different driving skill levels and "I know what's best for my child". Once
again, the parents were obviously wrong. Your thoughts?

Marc Fisher: I have to move into pig-headed blowhard mode on this one: I don't
think there's any possible excuse for 16-year-olds driving, period. I say this
as the father of a 15 year, 11-month old who isn't going near a steering wheel
for many months to come. The only reason we let 16 year olds on the road is for
the convenience of parents who are sick and tired of shuttling their kids
around, and that is a really lame excuse.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: I think the article about the group home and the immigrant
mother both are issues about government employees following the law (which is
better than we had before Tony Williams). Immigration spokesman Dean Boyd seems
pretty happy to say he's just following the law because he can overlook the fact
that he's ruining, absolutely destroying the family's lives.

Those local D.C. officials felt like they, too were following fire laws and
regs.

But it's the holiday season, and if you can't stop seeing the letter of the law
and see the larger impact, you are truly blind.

Marc Fisher: One word: Discretion.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: I am saddened and outraged by Marina's story. Thank you so much
for bringing this to the public's attention. I know that rational, compassionate
immigration reform will take time (let's hope the new Congress will show some
courage next year), but what I want to know is how we can help Marina and her
family NOW. Do they need financial support? In-kind contributions? More
representation for her appeal? Connections with higher-ups who have a heart and
don't just recite simplistic legal codes? Please let us know. Thanks!

Marc Fisher: I've had a number of requests for info on how to help Marina
Alvarez; since she's in detention, it's hard to communicate with her, but I'm
asking her lawyer for information on that and hope to have an answer for you
shortly.

_______________________

Crystal City, Va.: Marc, you wrote "... many natives are not willing to do the
often-difficult physical labor that immigrants handle ..." This is false! Many
natives are not willing to do these jobs for sub-minimum wages, but if the
supply of cheap and illegal labor is restricted employers will be forced to
raise wages to realistic levels.

Marc Fisher: I hope you're right about that, but I'm not yet persuaded.

_______________________

washingtonpost.com: A. Litteri, Inc.

_______________________

19th and L St., NW, Washington, D.C.: Re the comment from the Mayflower
descendant: I know that hundreds of thousands of these illegals come from
abhorrent situations, but I hold that it is not up to the United States to solve
the sins and shortcomings of the rest of the world. For two examples of why this
is a bad idea, I give you Vietnam and Iraq.

Marc Fisher: I'll agree that many of our foreign adventures are foolish in
concept or failures in execution, but I think the evidence is pretty good that
the immigrants we get out of those adventures do generally wonderful things for
our country--the Vietnamese are an excellent example of that phenomenon.

_______________________

Bowie, Md.: Regarding the illegal immigrant's children. You said they will
become wards of the state, but can't she take her children with her? She said
she did not want to, but in the absence of her giving custudy to someone in the
U.S., why can't the gov't have her take her kids with her? And when the kids are
old enough, to come back to the states.

Marc Fisher: Of course she could take her kids with her, but she says she won't
do that, because they wouldn't get a decent education in Salvador, because they
don't speak Spanish and because they are Americans, born and raised in this
culture, this language, with friends and so on here. So the legal distinction
between mother--illegal immigrant--and children--U.S. citizens--means a real
dilemma for the rest of us.

_______________________

Maryland: I lived south of the border for three years and had the opportunity to
observe Latin American culture up close. What sticks in my mind the most is that
the rule of law in many of those countries is inconsistently applied, if at all
applied, and corruption, graft, and use of one's official position for personal
enrichment the commonplace, if not the norm. Could it be that so many illegals
come here with little or no respect for the rule of law, since they've never
seen it operate equitably or honestly in their native lands, and therefore
regard it as something to be ignored or disregarded?

Marc Fisher: Makes sense to me. That doesn't relieve them of their obligation to
learn and follow our laws and expectations, but it perhaps explains some of what
we're witnessing.

_______________________

N.W. D.C.: Marc -- I have a question concerning steam vents downtown. Why --
outside the FBI Building and near Judiciary Square (but on the Penn Ave side) --
do the steam vents in the street exhale evil smelling steam?

I'm just suspicious as it seems a bit curious this happens around distinctly
federal or city buildings, but none of the private office buildings seem
affected?

Marc Fisher: Now you want sweet-smelling steam emerging from the bowels of the
big city's underground? Demanding crowd, huh?

If stuff is going to come up from the underworld, I want it to be foul, vile,
revolting stuff--preferably slime green.

_______________________

McLean, Va.:"That seems to me a position so extreme that it calls into question
the rest of his stances on immigration; eliminating birthright citizenship would
certainly make things easier for the government, but it would so drastically
change the nature of American citizenship that our identity in the world,
already diminished, would suffer terribly."

The U.S. is relatively unusual in granting citizenship to (almost) all children
of foreign nationals on U.S. soil, so I doubt our reputation would suffer too
much. Outside the Americas in fact, 'jus solis' citizenship is quite unusual.

I am adamantly opposed to changing the 14th amendment, though.

Marc Fisher: But it's exactly that unusual status that helps define us as a
country apart from others, as a place with higher ideals, a beacon of hope.
Don't we need more of that, not less?

_______________________

Madison, Wisc.: In the corporate world we usually try to solve for a problem
across an operational horizon of some number of relevant years. If we applied
that kind of thinking to our immigration conundrum, we would have to account for
the fact, for instance, that we will need immigrants to attend our aging
population. It would be instructive to those in the "Deport Them All" camp to
visit and elder care facility to see who is caring for our seniors.

Marc Fisher: Very interesting--though again, it would be nice to think that that
growth slice of the economy could provide work for native-born Americans
displaced by technological change and globalization.

_______________________

Downtown: Marc,

Are you sitting near Gene Wang? Tell him to answer my fantasy football questions
(pick on of Rhodes, Jacobs and D. Williams). It's important. Seriously. And
what's up with all the Gene's at the Post anyway? You never meet any in real
life.

Thanks for your help.

Marc Fisher: Due to budget cuts, all of the Genes at the paper have been merged.
You will therefore find somewhat sluggish response to your comments made to
Weingarten, Wang, Robinson and others. Please be patient with us as we merge
some of our bylines for your future reading pleasure. The Bob project is
slightly delayed because of the size of the endeavor.

_______________________

Devil's Advocate, Va.: About Fairfax County's brief ban on home-cooked meals
distributed at shelters.

It's easy to find stories about rather disturbed individuals who are discovered
to be keeping dozens, or hundreds of animals in their homes. Usually, the
animals are in awful shape, the house is covered in critter-droppings, and it's
a bad situation for everyone involved.

Now, suppose one of these "pet-collectors" decides to do something nice for the
homeless this holiday season and prepare a nice, home-cooked meal for the folks
at their local shelter.

I think I can see where a problem might arise here.

Marc Fisher: And you think that isn't already happening at some of the
top-dollar restaurants in town?

_______________________

Chevy Chase, D.C.: Sorry I signed on late today. RE immigration issues:

I lived in El Paso ten plus years ago. Every nanny and yard man in town was an
'illegal' who walked across from Juarez every day. The reason? They were willing
to work for a lot less than U.S. citizens to mow lawns and mind kids and clean
toilets. And lots and lots and lots of upstanding citizens happily employed them
-- and I'm sure still do, although post-9/11 I'm sure things are tougher to just
come across the bridges every day. But the bottom line is: as long as there is a
demand for illegal immigrants generated by low-wage work, they will come. We
have met the enemy and it is us.

Marc Fisher: Yup.

_______________________

Lost Springs, Wyo.: Looking forward to reading "Something in the Air." Why is
Random House waiting until Jan 7 to release the book? There would have been
holiday sales, no? Of the 100 interviews, did you hit Weasel? He was right in
the middle of arguably the last great radio lineups -- 1980s WHFS. BTW,
"Something in the Air" was a great early '70s rock anthem by Thunderclap Newman
with Pete Townsend producing and playing bass. Good luck with the book!

Marc Fisher: Many thanks--you may be able to find some early copies of the book
slipping into stores ahead of the pub date for those last-minute holiday gifts,
but the idea was to avoid the mass of nonfiction published in the fall of an
election year and get a fresh start for the book in the new year. Apparently,
it's a strategy that's worked well in the past. We shall see.

Weasel's not in the book, sorry to say, but there are some deejays' stories from
around the country that very much track the HFS experience of a station that
captured the imagination of a generation of listeners and then vanished into the
maw of corporate radio.

_______________________

Washington, D.C. Cab: Hi Marc,

Any idea how the metered taxi "trial" is going? Will Fenty finally take this
ball and run with it?

Marc Fisher: No idea--I'll put that on the list of things to check--thanks.

_______________________

Alexandria, Va.: I'm posting late, but I think the mom is to blame. Honestly,
she knew her status, and she knew that it could catch up with her someday. She
had no right to have kids if she didn't consider the fact that she might have to
make this decision some day.

Too bad. She broke the law. She's had this consequence hanging over her head
since the day she crossed the border.

It's like the kids who are brought to the country young, brought up as Americans
but end up in trouble and get deported to their home countries. They made the
decision to get in trouble. The possible consequence was deportation. Get over
it.

And I vote the straight Democratic ticket in every election.

Marc Fisher: I like your hard line, but you don't deal with the cost to
taxpayers of taking care of those kids if she leaves them behind.

_______________________

Oakton, Va.: Better slogan:

Marc Fisher may be a pig-headed blowhard, but he is our blowhard.

Marc Fisher: I'm touched. Really.

_______________________

Marc Fisher: That kicks things in the head for today--thanks for coming along,
folks. Sunday's Listener column looks at why the "progressive talk" radio format
has failed to fly in Washington. More online every day on the big blog, Raw
Fisher. Stay warm--watch for flurries, everybody's favorite weather phenomenon.

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over Live
Online discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts;
guests and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not
responsible for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2006 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 23, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

A Set of Borders to Cross;
For Children Seeking Immigrant Relatives in U.S., Journey Is Twofold

BYLINE: Sylvia Moreno, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1894 words

DATELINE: NIXON, Tex.


Seventeen-year-old Guillermo Antonio Iraheta Hernandez traveled thousands of
miles from his native El Salvador only to land in limbo.

Left behind more than a decade ago by his parents, illegal immigrants living in
Northern Virginia, Iraheta made part of his trek to the United States hidden in
the baggage compartment of a Mexican bus. But soon after surreptitiously
crossing the Rio Grande into Texas, he was picked up by the Border Patrol and
brought here to a converted nursing home run by the federal government where 136
children from Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala are temporarily housed.

Iraheta is but one drop in a new and fast-growing stream of illegal immigration
to the United States, those under 18 who are sneaking into the country without
their parents. Authorities say the phenomenon is growing and includes girls
traveling alone and even toddlers being carried by older siblings or entrusted
to smugglers.

Many of those who are apprehended by the Border Patrol end up in a burgeoning
network of shelters set up by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
There they run up against Washington's paradoxical approach to the problem of
children who entered the country illegally without their parents. The government
agency that runs the shelters tries to reunite the children with relatives
living here, regardless of their legal status. Another federal agency works to
deport them  --  as well as their parents. Iraheta's mother and father are
reluctant to come forward to claim their son, fearing that would lead to being
sent back to El Salvador. So are his sisters, who are also in the country
illegally. Even uncles who are legal U.S. residents living in Texas have stayed
away.

"They're afraid this might not be in their best interest," said Iraheta's
sister, Dina. "Nobody wants to help him. Nobody wants to do anything, and that's
the problem."

Iraheta, whose father paid a smuggler $6,000 to bring him into the county, said
he would like to attend high school and college in the United States, perhaps to
study literature.

"Every day I pray that someone in the family will come forward to help advance
my case," the teenager said.

Last fiscal year, the Border Patrol apprehended 115,000 unaccompanied minors, up
from 98,000 in 2001. Almost 7,800 children landed in the federally funded system
of shelters last fiscal year, which ended Sept. 30, 2005  --  25 percent of them
girls, 20 percent under 15.

Fueling this immigration is the crackdown on border enforcement and illegal
immigrants, authorities and immigration experts say. Adults in the United States
without legal papers who used to risk trips to Central America to retrieve
children and make the illegal trip back across the Mexican border are hiring
smugglers instead. Documented immigrants waiting years for approval from
immigration officials to bring their children to the United States legally are
also turning to traffickers.

So the children come alone, undertaking arduous journeys, including treks across
deserts and rivers, led by smugglers who will not hesitate to abandon those who
are sick or weak or cannot keep up. Many of the girls are sexually abused along
the way.

Robert Garza, director of operations of the shelter in Nixon, where Iraheta is
living, said that when he started his job three years ago, he was taken aback by
the young ages of the children brought in by immigration authorities and the
youngsters' stories about their journeys.

"I thought, how can a parent send a child on that long journey, not knowing
what's going to happen?" Garza said. "But it's the environment they come from.
There is no hope, and the only way out of that environment is to come to
America. That's how they see the United States  --  as hope."

Most of the children in the shelters come from Central America. Children from
Mexico who are caught at the border are immediately returned, though the ones
who make it into the United States may end up in shelters if they are caught by
immigration authorities. In the past two years, the shelter system across the
Southwest has grown to 21 from five. Most are in Texas.

Some, like Texas Sheltered Care in Nixon, are plush worlds compared with the
living conditions the juveniles left behind. The shelter in Nixon offers classes
in English, math, carpentry and computer skills. The children get
round-the-clock supervision, plus counseling, medical care and recreation  --
even yoga classes and outings to bowling alleys or local football game pep
rallies.

The shelter's walls are decorated with colorful posters depicting the seasons
and inspirational sayings in English and Spanish. Large flags on the wall
announce the residents' home countries: Honduras, El Salvador, Guatemala,
Brazil. A courtyard garden, tended by the children, is dotted with wooden
crosses they made to memorialize loved ones who died back home  --  part of the
grief counseling offered by one social worker. They get bused weekly to the
local swimming pool, once a whites-only facility. Today it is an
illegal-immigrants-only pool and is owned by Texas Sheltered Care.

Mostly, though, the children wait, hoping social workers can cajole their
parents or other kin to claim them before Immigration and Customs Enforcement
lawyers can persuade an immigration judge to deport them.

"We're a social service agency. We aren't law enforcement," said Maureen Dunn,
director of HHS's Division of Unaccompanied Children's Services, which runs the
shelters. "We want to make sure kids are safe and well cared for and that they
are safely reunified."

Dunn's agency was created in 2004 as the result of a lawsuit settled on behalf
of immigrant children. Before the ruling, children generally were sent to
juvenile detention centers to await deportation. Now, the agency's goal is to
reunite unaccompanied immigrant children with their parents or close relatives.
If that occurs, the children are then ordered to appear in an immigration court
for a hearing that might lead to their deportation. But no one knows how many
keep that court date or how many just melt into the country's underground world
of undocumented immigrants.

"It's kind of a gaping hole in the new wall that's supposedly going up against
illegal immigration," said Don Barnett, a fellow with the Center for Immigration
Studies, which favors tighter borders and immigration controls.

To get custody of their children, many of these parents must appear in person.
While HHS will not turn them in, many fear capture at Border Patrol checkpoints
on highways and in airports, or by the increasing number of local police
agencies that have been given the power to enforce immigration laws. Some
immigrants also just don't believe the assurances of social workers that they
are not an arm of la migra.

"I told them 'No, this is like a school, there are no police here,' " Iraheta
said, describing how he tried to reassure his parents and persuade them to claim
him. "But they're scared to come get me; they don't have the courage."

Many children languish in shelters for weeks, attending immigration court
hearings periodically, until a judge issues a deadline for reunification or a
deportation order.

"I feel sorry for any child that doesn't get reunified, especially if it's
[with] the parents or siblings," said Jose Munoz, one of the Nixon caseworkers.
"Some of it is due to being undocumented, and some of it is they're scared to
travel. . . . What happens is that it becomes an emotional roller coaster for
the child."

Nelvin Johac Lara Pineda, 17, left Honduras with one goal: Get to the United
States, get a job, and send money home because his parents and five younger
siblings are being threatened with eviction from their small home.

The boy's father, a field laborer, borrowed money last year from an acquaintance
to tide the family over while he was ill and unable to work. Lara worked the
fields, too, having left school after fifth grade to help his father support the
family. But this year, with both of them working, they made enough to cover only
the interest payments and none of the loan principal. The lender began
threatening the family with eviction.

"I want to help my father, and I don't want my family to end up on the street,"
said the doe-eyed boy. "For me, it's no problem to be out on the street. But not
for my parents or my brothers."

Lara left Honduras in early May, walking for six days through Guatemala and
traveling through Mexico atop freight trains. He swam the Rio Grande into Texas
one night in late May and was promptly apprehended by the Border Patrol. He was
transferred to Nixon on June 6.

Lara gave his caseworker at Texas Sheltered Care the names of cousins and other
distant relatives in the United States who were called to see if they would
sponsor his release from the shelter. Undocumented also, they did not want to
step forward for fear of being deported.

In mid-September, an immigration judge in San Antonio issued a deportation order
for Lara, and the teenager cried and cried. "I don't know what we're going to
do," he said later. "I've talked to Papi and he still fears that they will be
evicted. I couldn't realize what I came to do. I guess that's it."

After the order, his clothing was restricted: Like other children with
deportation orders, he had to wear red shorts, a white T-shirt, white socks and
brown slippers at all times so the shelter could keep track of him and make sure
he didn't try to run away.

Earlier this month, Lara was put on a plane by ICE agents and sent back to
Honduras.

But not all stories end that way.

Last December, after years of telephone conversations, Yeni Patricia Castillo
Medrano, a tall, soft-spoken 17-year-old from El Salvador, met her father for
the first time. Having obtained legal papers to live in the United States and
travel back home, her father, who lives in Northern Virginia, visited El
Salvador for the first time in 17 years.

She was thrilled to meet him, yet Castillo admitted the visit didn't go well. "I
treated him badly; I spoke to him badly," she said. This is a normal reaction,
immigration experts say, from children whose parents leave home to make a better
life for their families. But in late August, Castillo told her father in a
telephone conversation that she wanted to join him. He paid almost $7,000 to a
smuggling ring to bring her to him.

Castillo and four other teenagers from her village illegally entered Mexico from
Guatemala aboard a makeshift raft, traveled in the baggage compartment of a bus
through Mexico and floated on inner tubes across the Rio Grande.

By the time the Border Patrol apprehended Castillo in south Texas, the girl had
been walking through desert and brush for almost four days. Dehydrated and ill
from heat exhaustion, she was taken to a hospital for an overnight stay.

Twenty days after arriving at the Nixon shelter, Castillo flew from Houston to
Reagan National Airport, where she was reunited with her father, Mardoqueo
Castillo.

The girl and her father hugged tightly upon meeting, and she cried. She was sad,
she said, to leave the girlfriends she had made at the Nixon shelter, but glad
to be with her father.

"How would I not be happy to be here with my loved ones?" she said, before
walking out of the airport terminal, her head on her father's shoulder, her hand
in his.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              37 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 27, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Citizenship Changes Draw Objections

BYLINE: Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A04

LENGTH: 751 words


The Bush administration is considering proposals that would make it tougher for
legal immigrants to gain U.S. citizenship.

The proposals being drafted by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services
(USCIS), a division of the Department of Homeland Security, could nearly double
application fees, toughen the required English and history exams, and ask
probing questions about an applicant's past, such as "Who is your current wife's
ex-husband?"

In an interview yesterday, a USCIS spokesman said the contemplated changes are
necessary to pay increased administrative costs and to standardize an
application that is subjective and varies across the country.

But immigration rights advocates say the changes would amount to a second wall,
a potential barrier against legal immigration that is as formidable as the newly
authorized southern border fence is supposed to be against illegal migrants.

Changes in the citizenship application process are being contemplated amid a
contentious debate over whether the federal government should undertake a
comprehensive reform of immigration policy that includes establishing a guest
worker program, or just build a barrier along the Mexican border and adopt a
get-tough policy toward illegal immigrants and companies that employ them.
Throughout the debate, however, opponents of illegal immigration have said their
quarrel is not against immigrants who are in the country legally.

Groups such as the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights said that
a near-doubling of the $400 application fee is being considered, and that the
new fee would be more than legal residents who earn a minimum wage can pay.
"It's going to take twice as long for those people to save up money to apply for
citizenship," said Fred Tsao, policy director for the coalition. "You won't have
Mom, Dad and children all going to the citizenship ceremony together. You'll
have Mom going first, then Dad, then maybe the children."

Chris Bentley, a spokesman for Citizenship and Immigration Services, took issue
with the coalition's talk of a twofold fee increase.

"A fee review is underway," Bentley said, "but no decision has been reached. I
don't know how they came about that." He did not rule out the possibility that
the fee could double, saying: "When we do the final analysis, we're going where
the math takes us. We have to recoup the costs of processing these
applications." Bentley noted that Congress does not appropriate money to pay the
costs of processing citizenship applications.

The citizenship agency handles about 6 million to 7 million citizenship-related
applications each year. About 1 million of those are N-400 applications from
immigrants hoping to become naturalized American citizens.

A deluge of requests this year and last contributed to a daunting backlog of
nearly 4 million applications. USCIS reported this summer that it whittled the
number to about 40,000, saying it was not responsible for millions of
applications that were filed improperly, had unpaid fees or awaited FBI
background checks.

Bentley said the agency's chief financial officer is expected to complete his
report and fee recommendations by the end of the year. Around the same time, the
citizenship office is expected to complete its recommendations for standardizing
the written and oral English examinations that are required for citizenship.

The office might also replace questions such as "What are the colors of the
flag?" Bentley said, to "What is one of the fundamental principles protected by
the Constitution?"

In recent days, concerns arose about another test  --  for DNA samples.
Immigration officials use the tests to verify the paternity of immigrant parents
who apply to bring their children to the United States.

But lawyers recently complained that officials are starting to require the tests
--  about $800 each  --  even when the relationships are strongly documented by
paperwork.

Immigration advocates say the costs to immigrants keep piling up. They said
USCIS Director Emilio T. González seemed unsympathetic, and perhaps insensitive,
when he said: "American citizenship is priceless. I think people will pay."

"It was a ridiculous statement," Tsao said.

Bentley stood by the statement of his boss, an immigrant from Cuba. "As a
naturalized citizen himself, he feels his citizenship is priceless," Bentley
said. "It's the greatest benefit our country can bestow, and it's a one-time fee
to be a part of the greatest country in the world."

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              38 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 31, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Rep. Hunter to Explore White House Bid

BYLINE: Sonya Geis, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 295 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES Oct. 30


Rep. Duncan Hunter (R-Calif.), chairman of the House Armed Services Committee
and a vigorous opponent of illegal immigration, announced Monday that he is
starting the process of seeking the presidency in 2008.

Hunter, 58, said he will form an exploratory committee for a presidential run,
adding his name to a list of better-known GOP hopefuls such as Sen. John McCain
(Ariz.), Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney and former New York mayor Rudolph W.
Giuliani.

"I've always laid my cards on the table," Hunter said at a news conference in
San Diego. "As I finish my final two years as chairman of the Armed Services
Committee, I'm also going to be preparing to run for president of the United
States in 2008."

The 13-term congressman is known in his suburban San Diego district for advocacy
on immigration and military issues. He was a leader in the construction of a
14-mile fence along the U.S.-Mexico border south of San Diego, and he
cosponsored legislation that President Bush signed last week to build 700 miles
of additional fencing along the border. A Vietnam veteran, Hunter has advocated
for a strong military, sometimes taking positions to the right of Republican
leaders.

Hunter is expected to cruise to reelection next week, but if Democrats win a
majority in the House he would lose his committee chairmanship.

That may be a factor in his unexpected announcement, said John J. Pitney Jr., a
government professor at Claremont McKenna College.

"He has been in Congress long enough to remember what it was like in the
minority," Pitney said. "The difference between being chair of a committee and
being a minority member is like the difference between lightning and a lightning
bug. . . . He may have decided a long-shot presidential campaign is more fun."

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              39 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 31, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Arrests Down 8% for Year;
DHS Credits Deterrent Effect of Enforcement Tactics, but Analysts Are Skeptical

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A05

LENGTH: 943 words


The U.S. Border Patrol apprehended 8 percent fewer illegal immigrants last
fiscal year than the year before, reversing a two-year increase in the
historically volatile benchmark, Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff
announced yesterday.

Chertoff credited the drop of nearly 100,000 apprehensions largely to the Bush
administration's strategy of deporting virtually all non-Mexican border crossers
as fast as they are caught, deterring them and others in what had been the
fastest-growing group of illegal immigrants. After quadrupling the previous four
years, apprehensions of "other than Mexican" border crossers fell 57,144, or 35
percent, to 108,026 last year.

The total number of apprehensions in the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30 was
nearly 1.1 million.

"We have begun to see, for the first time, a significant turnaround in terms of
the number of illegals that we are finding crossing the border," Chertoff said.
"The message here is not 'Time to celebrate, we've done the job.' But rather, we
ought to be encouraged, but even more determined to get the job completed."

Analysts immediately disputed Chertoff's claim of an unprecedented decline in
arrests. Border Patrol apprehensions have risen and fallen like a roller coaster
over the years, peaking at almost 1.7 million in 2000 before bottoming out at
932,000 in 2003. Causes include earlier threats of congressional crackdowns; the
security climate after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks; and changes in
Border Patrol funding and strategies.

Experts instead called yesterday's announcement the administration's latest
effort to walk a political tightrope in its handling of illegal immigration
heading into the Nov. 7 congressional elections.

They said President Bush's aides are trying to placate conservative and other
critics by citing progress in enforcement at the border. At the same time, the
White House is continuing to push for a broader overhaul of immigration policy,
including a temporary-worker program and a chance for 12 million illegal
immigrants to earn citizenship, that is stalled in Congress.

Chertoff backed away yesterday from the Bush administration's pledge to control
the nation's borders by 2008, saying it would be "very, very difficult" without
a guest-worker program, which the House has resisted. Proponents in Congress say
it would take 18 months to six years to set up such a program, after paying for
a long-needed computerized worker-verification system to manage it.

"Certainly, I don't think an  8 percent drop in apprehensions is something that
we should even be paying attention to," said Demetrios Papademetriou, president
of the Migration Policy Institute, which recently called for a comprehensive
overhaul of immigration policy. "We don't see a trend line in apprehensions, and
apprehensions are not the right yardstick," Papademetriou said.

The arrest total does not measure the number of illegal immigrants who evade
capture, experts said, and is affected by fluctuations in law enforcement
efforts to catch border crossers.

Steven A. Camarota, research director for the Center for Immigration Studies,
which backs stronger enforcement and decreased immigration, congratulated the
administration for making significant gains, albeit "very late in the game . . .
from a very low starting point." Citing public polling on Americans' attitude
toward immigration, he said, "The administration finally understands" that
enforcement "is the prerequisite, the starting point, the key to any
discussion."

Chertoff denied any political motivation for the early release of the Border
Patrol statistics, which are usually reported in January. He said he "owed the
public kind of a year-end closeout," since he made similar reports every few
months.

Chertoff cited "a very, very significant increase" and "dramatic" shift in U.S.
targeting of employers whose business models are based on the use of illegal
labor. The United States brought 716 criminal worksite enforcement arrests and
charges in 2006, up from 24 in 1999 and 25 in 2002, Chertoff said.

"Although people will squawk about it, the answer to those squawks is to go
ahead and finish the job of a comprehensive strategy," Chertoff said. "The
answer to the complaints is not to simply turn our backs on violations of the
law."

Under the old catch-and-release policy in the summer of 2005, 80 percent of
non-Mexicans apprehended at the border were let go inside the United States,
pending their hearings, because of a shortage of detention space. But for the
past three months, all non-Mexicans have been held pending expedited
deportation. Word has filtered back to potential border crossers, who are less
likely to try to enter the United States illegally, Chertoff said, and Border
Patrol agents have more time to work on other cases.

Chertoff declined to say whether or when DHS would complete 700 miles of a
double-layered fence on the U.S.-Mexico border recently approved by Congress and
the president. Instead, he cited plans over the next three to six years to build
a "virtual fence" that includes physical barriers, electronic remote sensing and
vehicle barriers, or other measures where fencing is impractical or ineffective.

"I think our ultimate view is that we want to have a virtual fence across the
entire border," Chertoff said. "My disposition is to let the professionals
decide what is the best lay-down of all of this."

Since the United States began building a 14-mile barrier  south of San Diego in
1990, illegal immigration has shifted to more remote areas. But at 1.1 million,
the annual number of apprehensions is about the same as it was in 1991.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              40 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 31, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A07

LENGTH: 535 words


ALLENTOWN, Pa.  --  Advocates for immigrants sued the city of Hazleton on
Monday, seeking to block an ordinance that would impose steep fines on landlords
who rent to people living in the country illegally.

The American Civil Liberties Union said the ordinance and a companion measure
set to take effect Wednesday violate the Constitution because they trample on
the federal government's exclusive power to regulate immigration.

The laws would impose heavy fines on landlords who rent to illegal immigrants,
deny business permits to companies that employ them, and require renters to
register and buy  a renter's permit at City Hall.

*  SAN DIEGO  --  A second Marine charged with kidnapping and murdering an Iraqi
man in Hamdaniyah has agreed to plead guilty to lesser charges, his lawyer said.
Lance Cpl. Tyler A. Jackson, 23, is the third service member to make  a plea
deal in the case.  Seven Marines and a Navy corpsman have been  charged with
murdering Hashim Ibrahim Awad, 52.

*  ATLANTA  --  Sheriffs in several Georgia counties have temporarily agreed not
to enforce the state's sex-offender law against nine elderly and disabled men
who faced eviction from their residences under the law. The consent orders are
in place until a judge rules on the constitutionality of the law, which sets
limits on where offenders may live, work or loiter.

*  CINCINNATI  --  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the 6th Circuit put on hold a
decision that suspended Ohio's identification requirements for absentee voting,
meaning voters applying for the early ballots must continue giving proof of
their ID. A lawyer for the plaintiffs said he would appeal the ruling to the
U.S. Supreme Court.

*  APEX, N.C.  --  The Oct. 5 fire that prompted the evacuation of thousands of
people early this month may have started where chemicals, such as
pool-chlorination tablets, were stored, investigators from the U.S. Chemical
Safety Board said.

*  PINEVILLE, W.Va.  --  One coal miner was killed when a mine shuttle car moved
unexpectedly and struck him and another man, who was seriously injured,
officials said. It was the 43rd mining-related death this year and the 22nd in
West Virginia.

*  LAS VEGAS  --  Authorities have reopened their investigation into a cocktail
waitress's assertion that Rep. Jim Gibbons (R), who is running for Nevada
governor, assaulted her in a parking garage. The case had been closed after the
woman dropped charges, but she has changed her mind, her attorney said.

*  TUCSON  --  More than 40 people were arrested in connection with a family-run
smuggling ring that brought hundreds of illegal immigrants into the country,
officials said. Eleven suspects remained at large.

*  CENTENNIAL, Colo.  --  A 32-year-old man convicted of  sexually assaulting
teenagers was sentenced to 508 years in prison. Zuri-Kye McGhee was convicted in
August of 63 counts, including sexual assault on a child with a pattern of
abuse. Authorities said he targeted 18 boys and one girl ages 13 to 15, using
his youthful looks to befriend them before sexually assaulting them. Soldad
McGhee, his  mother, is accused of helping him in some cases; she is scheduled
to stand trial in February.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              41 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 2, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Jackson H. Miller (R) Age: 39 ...

SECTION: Prince William Extra; T06

LENGTH: 487 words


Age:  39

Residence: Manassas.

Education: BS, urban planning, Virginia Commonwealth Univ.; graduate,
transportation officers course, U.S. Army, Fort Eustis.

Occupation: City Council member; Realtor, Christopher Real Estate Co.; officer,
Prince William County Police Department.

Elected offices/civic activities: Member, Manassas City Council, 2004-present;
president, Prince William County Police Association, 2002-03; member, Grace
United Methodist Church, Manassas; member, Manassas City Republican Committee;
member, Fraternal Order of Police, Battlefield Lodge; past captain, U.S. Army
Reserves.

What is the most urgent problem facing your jurisdiction?

"As a police officer, I am faced with the growing problem of illegal immigration
every day. As a member of the Manassas City Council, I see the effects of
illegal immigration on our public facilities. I will support legislation to give
localities the tools they need to address these issues and start alleviating the
strain placed on our communities. For example, I will work to give local law
enforcement the authority to detain and process for deportation illegal
immigrants who have committed crimes."

Why should voters elect you?

"As a councilman and policeman, I have heard personally and understand
thoroughly the citizens' concerns. My experience makes me the best candidate for
the 50th."

Web site:

www.miller4delegate.com

E-mail address:

info@miller4delegate.com

Age:  57

Residence: Manassas Park.

Education: BA, history, Pennsylvania State University.

Occupation: Project assistant to the chief financial officer, Carteret Mortgage
Corp. Inc.

Elected offices/civic activities: Past secretary, recorder and vice chair, Unity
in the Community; member, League of Women Voters; past director, Manassas Park,
Committee of 100; past vice chair, Manassas Park Electoral Board; graduate, 2006
Sorensen Institute candidate training program; member, Phi Alpha Theta History
Honor Society.

What is the most urgent problem facing your jurisdiction?

"We are currently experiencing a transportation crisis in my district and across
Northern Virginia. I support the establishment of a revenue source that is
specifically focused on transportation needs, and this stream must be 'locked
up' and not diverted for other uses. While we work toward funding solutions, we
must link land use to transportation and other infrastructure improvements.
Growth and development are most certainly key to our continued economic success,
so we must encourage managed growth, for example, around transportation centers,
and limit sprawl in order to minimize the impact of new development on our
roads."

Why should voters elect you?

"I will lead with civility, cooperation and mutual respect. These hold us all
together through good times and through hard times that challenge our
character."

Web site:

www.jeanetterishell.com

E-mail address:

jeanette.rishell@verizon.net

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              42 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 14, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Mo. Panel's Report Links Immigration To Abortion

BYLINE: David A. Lieb, Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A09

LENGTH: 363 words

DATELINE: JEFFERSON CITY, Mo. Nov. 13


A Republican-led legislative panel says in a new report on illegal immigration
that abortion is partly to blame because it is causing a shortage of American
workers.

The report from the state House Special Committee on Immigration Reform also
says  that "liberal social welfare policies" have discouraged Americans from
working and have encouraged immigrants to cross the border illegally.

The statements about abortion and welfare policies, along with a recommendation
to abolish income taxes in favor of sales taxes, were inserted into the
immigration report by Rep. Edgar G.H. Emery (R), the panel's chairman.

All 10 Republican committee members signed the report, while the six Democrats
did not. Some of the Democrats called the abortion assertion ridiculous and
embarrassing.

"There's a lot of editorial comment there that I couldn't really stomach," Rep.
Trent Skaggs said Monday. "To be honest, I think it's a little delusional."

Emery, who equates abortion to murder, defended the assertions.

"We hear a lot of arguments today that the reason that we can't get serious
about our borders is that we are desperate for all these workers,"  he said.
"You don't have to think too long. If you kill 44 million of your potential
workers, it's not too surprising we would be desperate for workers."

National Right to Life estimates that there have been more than 47 million
abortions since the Supreme Court established a woman's right to an abortion in
its 1973 Roe v. Wade ruling. The immigration report estimates that there are
80,000 fewer Missourians because of abortion, many of whom now would have been
in a "highly productive age group for workers."

The statement connecting abortion to illegal immigration was listed under the
report's recommendations on federal social policies and potential state
legislative action on illegal hiring.

"Suggestions for how to stop illegal hiring varied without any simple solution,"
the report states. "The lack of traditional work ethic, combined with the
effects of 30 years of abortion and expanding liberal social welfare policies
have produced a shortage of workers and a lack of incentive for those who can
work."

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              43 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 2, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Language Restriction Proposed In Herndon;
Official Advocates English-Only Rule

BYLINE: Bill Turque, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 642 words


A Herndon Town Council member said yesterday that the town should print official
documents in English only, as a way to encourage Hispanic immigrants to learn
the language.

"The language of the Commonwealth is English," said William B. Tirrell Sr., one
of four new council members and a new mayor elected in May who have raised
concerns about the impact of illegal immigration on the town. "All of our
efforts should be toward encouraging people to learn English. This is an
English-speaking country."

Tirrell first made the suggestion at the end of a council meeting Tuesday night
that featured a lengthy discussion on illegal immigration. The council has
passed a series of measures in recent months designed to discourage illegal
immigrants from living or working in Herndon, where an estimated 40 percent of
the population is of Hispanic descent.

In October, council members voted to require contractors to certify that their
employees are in the country legally. The town is also looking for a new
operator for its day-laborer center to ensure that workers seeking jobs have
legal documents. On Tuesday, the council passed a resolution asking the Virginia
General Assembly to prohibit the hiring of illegal immigrants and to grant
Herndon the authority to license day-laborer sites, which help workers link up
with employers.

The council took no action on Tirrell's proposal, but he said he would probably
raise it again.

Town officials publish a number of documents in Spanish but could not say
yesterday which ones or how many. One Spanish-language brochure, for example,
outlines trash pickup schedules and procedures. When the council voted in
September to apply for enrollment in a federal program to train town police
officers to enforce immigration laws, officials printed a "frequently asked
questions" sheet explaining the details.

Local governments in the Washington region have become more multilingual as the
population has grown more diverse. Fairfax County, where more than a quarter of
the 1 million residents are foreign-born, prints child welfare and traffic
safety brochures in Spanish, Korean, Vietnamese and Farsi.

Tirrell, 59, a retired Naval officer and former member of the town's Planning
Commission, offered the language proposal in the course of broader comments
about illegal immigration.

"It's too big a battle to fight tonight, but I don't know why we don't do
everything we can possibly do to let illegal aliens know that they are not
welcome here," he said, according to this week's Herndon Times. "We need to turn
over all the rocks and expose what's out there."

Herndon Mayor Stephen J. DeBenedittis and council members Connie Haines
Hutchinson, David A. Kirby and Charlie D. Waddell could not be reached for
comment yesterday. Vice Mayor Dennis D. Husch said he "hadn't really thought
about" the language issue and wanted to explore the cost implications before
deciding.

Council member J. Harlon Reece called the notion impractical. "If we expect
people to comply with our ordinances and they don't read or speak English, then
it's counterproductive," Reece said.

Bill Threlkeld, who manages the town's day-laborer center for the nonprofit
Reston Interfaith, said that such a policy would put many of his clients at a
disadvantage.

"I'm a practical man, and I think people should act in a practical way," he
said. For members of the Hispanic population "not ready for prime time" in
English, printing critical documents in Spanish is the only alternative, he
said.

Tirrell said that the issue is complicated by the poor education that many
Hispanic immigrants receive before coming to the United States.

"I sense that some of these folks can't even read their own language," he said.

Threlkeld agreed, estimating that 5 to 10 percent of the immigrants he deals
with are illiterate in their native language.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              44 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 15, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Texas Official's Report Ignites a New Border Conflict

BYLINE: Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A02

LENGTH: 871 words


It is a Texas showdown, a war of words over illegal immigration at the border.

State Comptroller Carole Keeton Strayhorn fired the first shot with a recent
report that, for some, says the unthinkable: Illegal immigrants not only pay
their fair share in taxes, but they are also good for the economy.

"The absence of 1.4 million undocumented immigrants in Texas . . .would have
been a loss to our gross state product of $17.7 billion," Strayhorn said in a
statement. Overall, the report said, illegal immigrants put about $420 million
more into state coffers than they take out.

Strayhorn billed the report as the first ever by a state finance official, a
crucial step forward. But for Texans who believe hundreds of thousands of
illegal immigrants are overrunning their state, the report is a misstep.

State Rep. Leo Berman (R-Tyler), who introduced legislation that would bar Texas
from recognizing children born to illegal  immigrants in American hospitals as
U.S. citizens, called the report "outrageous."

Dan Stein, a spokesman for the Washington-based Federation for American
Immigration Reform (FAIR), which supports measures to deter illegal immigration,
ripped the report as a composite of "design flaws, assumptions and conclusions
in direct contrast to our years of exhaustive studies on this issue, and to our
most recent Texas report, which shows illegal aliens cost Texas taxpayers $3.7
billion annually."

In these times of tough proposals against illegal immigration  in Congress and
huge  protest marches by illegal immigrant workers and their supporters, it is
not surprising that the comptroller's report caused a stir.

An official state document that contradicts  the idea that immigrants are a
financial burden can carry considerable weight as Democrats take control of
Congress, and as potential candidates consider their options in the 2008
presidential election.

Supporters of illegal immigrants embraced the report. John Trasviña, president
of the Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund, said it "confirms what
MALDEF and immigration experts have long known  --  we all benefit from the
contributions of immigrants."

The Texas study may be the first by a state, but it is hardly the first of its
kind. Previous studies on the financial impact of illegal immigrants have been
undertaken by a number of groups, including the nonpartisan Urban Institute and
the Center for Immigration Studies.

Undocumented workers in the Washington area, according to the Urban Institute,
pay a hefty share of taxes, but they contribute less than they should because
many are paid off the books and do not file yearly tax forms. A report by the
Center for Immigration Studies, which favors reduced immigration,  said that
illegal-immigrant households imposed $26 billion in costs on the federal
government while paying $16  billion in taxes. This week, Immigration and
Customs Enforcement authorities raided meatpacking plants in six states in
search of illegal immigrants they said were using illegally obtained Social
Security numbers.

Early in the year, the House tried to crack down on the immigration problem with
a tough  proposal that would have turned  about 12 million illegal immigrants in
the country into instant felons.

Opponents said they went too far, and millions of illegal immigrants and their
supporters marched in Dallas, Los Angeles, Chicago, Washington, Phoenix and
other cities.

That is the environment that Strayhorn stepped into with her report and its bold
introduction: "The Comptroller's report estimates that undocumented immigrants
in Texas generate more taxes and other revenue than the state spends on them."

Drawing on estimates from a report by the Pew Hispanic Center in Washington, the
report said  1.4 million  to 1.6 million illegal immigrants live in Texas, about
14 percent of the U.S. total.

Texas has no state income tax, so immigrants pay sales and property taxes, along
with various state fees. "Undocumented  immigrants produced $1.58 billion in
state revenues, which exceeded the $1.16 billion in state services they
received," Strayhorn reported.

Strayhorn, an unsuccessful candidate  for governor in the last election, favors
a guest-worker program, prompting criticism from opponents who say her report
was motivated by politics.

FAIR said the report  plays down the  impact of illegal immigration by not
counting the children of illegal immigrants who had become U.S. citizens. In a
previous report, FAIR estimated that Texas schools paid more than $1.7 billion
to educate illegal immigrants and the legal children of illegal immigrants in
2003-2004.

"This report is a slap in the face to anyone with common sense," Stein said.

Berman deferred to more conservative reports, such as one from the Lone Star
Foundation in Austin. It says illegal immigrants drain $4.5 billion from the
Texas economy, mostly in health-care costs.

"Parkland Hospital in Dallas, and the public hospital in Houston, has a 70
percent birth rate from illegal aliens," Berman  said.

Trasviña of MALDEF said he hopes Strayhorn's report will compel other
politicians to "reject divisive legislation" by Berman and others "aimed at
forcing undocumented immigrants further into the shadows."

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              45 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 18, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Anxiety On Costs Of Illegal Residents;
Pr. William Board Wants Impact On County Studied

BYLINE: Timothy Dwyer, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 889 words


The Prince William Board of County Supervisors, alarmed at the financial impact
of illegal immigration, has called for a wide-ranging study to determine how
much money the problem is costing the county government.

The board's request for a staff study is unusual. Neither the Metropolitan
Washington Council of Governments nor the National Council of La Raza, a leading
national Hispanic civil rights group, said they could recall any recent studies
by local governments attempting to assess the cost of illegal immigration.

The supervisors' demand for the study signals that illegal immigration will be
an urgent topic for board members heading into 2007, when they are up for
reelection. Supervisors say  a wave of immigrants is driving up costs for
schools, social services, health care and law enforcement.

As a sign of the board's frustration over illegal immigration, one supervisor
wants to go so far as to demand that the federal government reimburse the county
for the additional costs.

"By putting a number on the cost, this gives us an opportunity to push back on
the federal government and say, 'Look what you are doing to us on the local
government level,' " said Supervisor W.S. Covington III (R-Brentsville), who
proposed the study. "I mean, it is the federal government's responsibility to
regulate commerce. They are the ones who are supposed to secure the borders."

County Executive Craig S. Gerhart is supposed to complete the report by Jan. 16.
Covington said he will then propose sending a bill to the federal government for
the full amount.

Prince William, where about 20 percent of  residents are foreign-born, joins a
number of local governments grappling with a wave of new residents, many of them
illegal immigrants. The nearby city of Manassas has been trying to prevent
illegal immigrants from clustering in single-family homes. Herndon also has
approved measures aimed at deterring illegal immigrants from living or working
there.

In Prince William, the development boom has attracted undocumented workers
looking for jobs. Those workers' children have enrolled in county schools, and
the families have used county social services and health-care facilities.

"I can tell you that my constituents are very angry about this issue," said
Covington, who also recently pushed through a one-year freeze on new-home
construction. "I think they are going to be demanding more and more as time goes
on that the appropriate measures are being taken."

At the urging of Supervisor John T. Stirrup Jr. (R-Gainesville), the study will
include the impact on the police department and jail and court system.
Supervisor Maureen S. Caddigan (R-Dumfries) requested that the county's
hospitals and health clinics also be reviewed.

"Illegal immigration is a big problem in Prince William County," Caddigan said.
"We want to have a solution to it and do whatever it takes to solve it. Nobody
is moving on it. The federal government is not doing anything to work on illegal
immigration. It is only getting worse."

County staff members have told the supervisors that it could be difficult to
meet the Jan. 16 deadline because of the holidays and because they are immersed
in preparing the next budget.

"This is a very complex request covering several agencies," said county
spokeswoman Liz Bahrns, adding that agencies have been given two weeks to
respond. "Given the scope of this task, we would expect it to take every bit of
the two weeks to pull the figures together . . . or perhaps longer. We will,
however, have a response . . . by Jan. 16."

Covington, who does not have an estimate for what he thinks illegal immigration
is costing the county, said he is serious about asking the federal government to
reimburse the county. But he said he is realistic enough to know that the county
will probably never get a penny.

"I really think they should pay, but it is more symbolic," he said.

He said his constituents are angry because they are worried about possible cuts
in county services or tax increases, based on falling revenue from the slower
housing market. Residents have told Covington  they are concerned that their
taxes are paying for the education and health care of illegal workers who pay no
taxes.

"You know, as far as educating the children of illegal immigrants, they are
paying the full burden of that," Covington said. "It really boils down to an
accountability issue. I don't think people inherently want to hurt other people.
They don't mind helping other people, but they want to know what the cost is and
want to know that a set of rules apply to everyone and not just some people."

Michele Waslin, director of immigration policy research for the National Council
of La Raza, the country's oldest and largest Hispanic civil rights organization,
said she welcomed the attempt by Prince William to study the issue  --
"assuming that it is based on sound methodology and it is unbiased."

Waslin cited a study released by the comptroller of Texas this month that
reported that illegal immigrants had a positive financial impact on the state
treasury but that they were costing counties hundreds of millions of dollars
each year.

"The study showed that the tax money was going to the state and the counties
were not getting any of those tax revenues," she said. "So the counties end up
footing the cost."

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              46 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          December 20, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Bad News, Good News;
Illegal immigrants are a burden for local government, but they also spur overall
economic growth.

SECTION: Editorial; A22

LENGTH: 535 words


IN DEMANDING a reckoning of the costs local governments bear  for the schooling,
policing and other services provided to illegal immigrants, could Prince William
County's elected officials inspire a wave of such studies around the nation? It
wouldn't be surprising. In suburban jurisdictions such as those around
Washington, local governments bear a financial burden as a result of the influx
of undocumented immigrants  --  particularly those with school-age children.
That, along with the social and political strains occasioned by day-labor
centers, group houses and other issues  associated with illegal immigrants, is a
source of rising resentment for  local governments. Still, while  sympathizing
with local officials struggling to balance their budgets, keep in mind a larger
truth:  Illegal immigrants are an overall net benefit to this country, to the
tune of many billions of dollars.

That point was made most recently in a study issued last week by the Texas state
comptroller, Carole Keeton Strayhorn. The report, the first of its kind by a
state's chief financial officer, concluded that Texas's 1.4 million illegal
immigrants contributed $17.7 billion to the state's $900 billion economy in
fiscal  2005  --  a boon to businesses, employment, and state and federal
government coffers.

Ms. Strayhorn acknowledged that her report was a seat-of-the-pants estimate.
Predictably, it came under immediate attack from groups opposed to illegal
immigration; they  questioned some of its methodology and the conclusion that
the state budget took in more from illegal immigrants than it spent on them. But
the critics managed to overlook the overarching point  --  that illegal
immigrants generated an enormous amount of economic activity in Texas.

The Prince William study was proposed, a few days before Texas released its
report, by W.S. Covington III, a Republican on the county Board of Supervisors.
Mr. Covington acknowledges that illegal immigrants  may contribute greatly to
the overall economy and represent a net gain for federal and state  budgets. But
he suspects that counties such as Prince William are being bled by higher
outlays for schools, health care, prisons and police.

Prince William officials, who have been instructed to produce estimates of what
illegal immigrants cost the county, will do as they're told  --  despite
imperfect data on a range of topics, including the number of illegal immigrants
living in the county. But they will not address the benefits of illegal
immigration, which are harder to measure. How many spinoff jobs do the
immigrants help create? How many new businesses? How much more education aid is
the state able to provide localities as a result of the taxes paid and economic
growth generated by immigrants?

Mr. Covington says that once he has a handle on the budgetary burden that
illegal immigrants  represent for the county, he might send the bill to the
federal government. From a local government perspective, it's an understandable
gesture  --  and a futile one. What it really underlines is the federal failure
to address and rationalize a system that has caused legal, social and political
pain even as it has spurred economic growth.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              47 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 2, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

A Town Where the Law Still Matters

SECTION: Editorial; A16

LENGTH: 200 words


It was sad to see The Post support illegal activity on its editorial page.  The
Dec. 26 editorial "Courting Disorder"  dismissed opposition to the hiring of
illegal immigrants  as an "ideological principle." The town of Herndon is simply
trying to ensure that our federal laws are respected and that the value of U.S.
citizenship is protected.

It's wrong for The Post to argue that local governments should not try to
correct "the federal government's failings" when it comes to non-enforcement of
immigration law. It's the municipalities that suffer most directly from the
massive increase in illegal immigration that's being supported by big business,
the AFL-CIO, the Democratic Party, half the Republican Party (including
President Bush) and now The Post.

Does The Post really think that local governments should sit back and watch as
their streets are flooded with gang violence, poverty and illegal labor?

The town of Herndon is supporting the rule of law, and many communities are
following in its footsteps. Just because the federal government wants to offer
guest-worker amnesty instead of actually enforcing the law does not mean local
governments should roll over.

JON FEERE

Washington

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              48 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 9, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Repeated Arrests of Illegal Immigrants Cited

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 175 words


Illegal immigrants who were caught but released in the United States were often
arrested again, sometimes repeatedly, according to Justice Department data
released yesterday.

The findings by Justice Department Inspector General Glenn A. Fine are based on
a sampling of 100 illegal immigrants arrested by local and state authorities in
2004, the latest complete data available. They show that 73 of the 100
immigrants were arrested, collectively, 429 times  --  on counts including
traffic violations and weapons and drug charges.

Fine's office said its audit could not conclude precisely how many of the
262,105 illegal immigrants charged with criminal histories that year had been
rearrested. "But if this data is indicative of the full population . . . the
rate at which released criminal aliens are re-arrested is extremely high," the
audit noted.

Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff four months ago declared an end to
the "catch and release" practice that for years helped many illegal immigrants
stay in the United States unhindered.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              49 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 12, 2007 Friday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A09

LENGTH: 607 words


A judge temporarily blocked a Dallas suburb yesterday from implementing an
ordinance prohibiting the renting of apartments to illegal immigrants.

The local law had been scheduled to go into effect today in Farmers Branch, the
first Texas municipality to enact a measure aimed at undocumented immigrants. A
state district court judge in Dallas issued a temporary restraining order for
the city, pending a Jan. 22 court hearing on a request for an injunction until a
lawsuit challenging the ordinance goes to trial.

In November, the Farmers Branch City Council passed ordinances prohibiting
landlords from renting to illegal immigrants, declaring English the city's
official language and authorizing local police to seek certification to act on
behalf of the Department of Homeland Security.

The measure affecting landlords was challenged in federal court by the Mexican
American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, the American Civil Liberties Union
and a group of apartment landlords, and in state court by Farmers Branch
resident Guillermo Ramos.

Ramos's suit alleged that the city violated the Texas Open Meetings Act by
debating the ordinance behind closed doors and then voting on it before
residents had a chance to comment. The temporary restraining order was issued in
Ramos's case.

Farmers Branch is a community of almost 28,000 on the northern edge of Dallas.
According to the 2000 census, about 37 percent of the population is Hispanic.

INDIANAPOLIS  --  A man shot and wounded four co-workers Thursday at a
manufacturing business that employs disabled people through Easter Seals,
telling police that he shot them over respect, police said.

Two men and two women were taken to hospitals with non-life-threatening
injuries, Police Lt. Douglas Scheffel said.

Jason Burnam, 24, was arrested inside the Crossroads Industrial Services
cafeteria, said Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Chief Michael Spears.

Burnam indicated to officers that he had targeted the victims, and when asked
why he shot them, he said that "it was over respect," Scheffel said. Police did
not elaborate.

*  WEST PALM BEACH, Fla.  --  Two letters containing a powdery white substance
were discovered  at the Palm Beach County Courthouse, and at least five people
were decontaminated. The FBI said it had no immediate information on what the
substance was or whether the letters contained any threats.

*  BOSTON  --  Newly elected Massachusetts Gov. Deval L. Patrick (D) said  he is
rescinding a month-old policy imposed by his Republican predecessor, Mitt
Romney, that allowed state troopers to arrest illegal immigrants. Patrick said
that he is replacing it with a program to deport illegal immigrants who are
convicted criminals serving time in state prisons.

*  CHICAGO  --  A federal deputy marshal was charged with leaking information
about the cooperation of reputed mobster Nicholas Calabrese with prosecutors as
they investigated the top echelon of Chicago's organized-crime family. John
Thomas Ambrose, 38, a former supervisory inspector of the U.S. Marshals
Service's Great Lakes Regional Fugitive Task Force, surrendered at the FBI's
Chicago office, officials said.

*  EL PASO  --  An anti-Castro Cuban exile being held by U.S. immigration
officials was indicted on one count of naturalization fraud and six counts of
making false statements in a naturalization proceeding, the Justice Department
said. Luis Posada Carriles, 78, is a former CIA operative with ties to the
failed 1961 Bay of Pigs invasion. He has been accused of plotting the 1976
bombing of a Cuban jetliner in Venezuela.

--  From Staff Reports and News Services

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              50 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 21, 2007 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Pr. William Jailers Seek ICE Training;
Staff Could Screen for Deportations

BYLINE: Theresa Vargas, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Prince William Extra; T01

LENGTH: 1076 words


The Prince William jail could soon take on the federal task of screening
undocumented immigrants for deportation after its 10-member board unanimously
decided last week to move forward with Immigration and Customs Enforcement
training.

"I just think this is the right thing to do," jail board Chairman Patrick Hurd
said before the Wednesday night vote.

While several Northern Virginia jurisdictions have discussed taking on the
training, which would streamline the deportation process, Prince William could
be the first local county to adopt it. With the jail board's approval, the
matter now comes before the Board of County Supervisors, and Chairman Corey A.
Stewart (R) has already expressed his support.

On Thursday, a day after the jail board voted, Stewart called a news conference
to announce that he would favor incorporating the cost of the program into the
fiscal 2008 budget, which is being drawn up.

"I don't think we have fully evaluated the fiscal impact," Stewart said. "We
don't think it is going to be significant."

Col. Charles "Skip" Land, the jail superintendent, said for the program to work
locally, the board of supervisors would need to approve the hiring of four more
jail employees. He estimated that the hires will cost the county $220,000 a
year, but he said that the price is far less than the amount spent housing
undocumented immigrants  --  an estimated $2 million-plus in 2006.

"In the end I believe it will save the county and Manassas and Manassas Park
money, and I think it's right for the county," Land said.

The county is facing an $18 million shortfall in revenue for the current fiscal
year, and the board of supervisors has  been told that about $22 million must be
cut from next year's budget. Some departments have already frozen job openings
as a cost-saving measure.

"We may have to move some positions around," Stewart said.

The board will vote on the matter at its Feb. 6 meeting.

Already officials  --  both law enforcement and political  --  have endorsed the
action.

"I am happy that the jail board has taken it up at the local level. That is
where the program belongs and it also, frankly, allows the municipalities to
share the cost of it. That is a real advantage," said Manassas City Council
member Andrew L. Harrover (R). "For me, there is a realization that [the
program] will cost money, but it is something our citizens have been very clear
about. It is a program they support."

Both Prince William Police Chief Charlie T. Deane and Manassas City Police Chief
John Skinner had opposed police officers taking on the federal enforcement,
saying it would further erode the trust between their departments and
immigrants. Instead, both agreed that the task should fall to the jail, which
serves Prince William and its cities.

Deane, who also is on the jail board, said the intention of the program is to
target serious and violent offenders and that some Latinos have told him they
support the program. "When it's focused on criminals, I think the majority of
people are supportive of it," Deane said.

He added that with the jail handling the enforcement, the public will make a
distinction between corrections officers and police officers.

Nancy Lyall of the Woodbridge Workers Committee disagreed.

Some Latinos are already hesitant to report crimes to the police, and local
enforcement of federal immigration law will only further fuel their fear, she
said. She was the only member of the public to speak at Wednesday's meeting.

"They don't care what uniform you are wearing. If you're wearing a uniform, the
perception is, you're a threat," Lyall said.

She told that board that she worries about public safety if the program passes
because some individuals may be deported before receiving a trial, only to make
their way back into the country. She also questioned how much local control will
remain over the program once a deal is made with federal officials.

"I don't think they know to this day how much ICE will dictate to them," she
said.

"It's not a policy of public safety," she added. "It's a policy of neighborhood
cleansing. It's a policy by politicians to lighten their community and that's
deplorable."

Land said that jail officials plan to draft a "tight" memorandum of
understanding with ICE authorities that will set parameters for how the program
will work. He said it will aim at "criminal illegal aliens" brought into the
jail. Jail staff will not arrest people on the streets, as is done in other
jurisdictions, including the jail in Charlotte, which Prince William jail
officials visited this month.

"That's not what we do," Land said. "We work inside the walls."

In Charlotte, where 400 undocumented immigrants are housed at any one time, jail
officials said corrections officers screen using two questions: What country
were you born in? Where are you a citizen? They also bill the federal government
a little more than a $100 a day for housing immigrants awaiting deportation,
Land said. He said the Prince William jail will receive $65 every day that ICE
does not claim an inmate awaiting deportation, and he expects that amount will
rise.

As part of the jail board's approval, the program will be reevaluated in a year.

"We currently have a strong relationship with ICE. We would look to enhance that
relationship through this process," Land told the board.

Before the vote, Hurd said he believed Land had taken an objective look at the
issue, without having pursued an agenda. He said he did not think the board
would have a better opportunity to vote on the issue.

"If we don't act, there will no longer be an apolitical analysis on this issue,"
Hurd said. "It could be soon a political football."

But, with several news conferences last week to address the issue, it was hard
to deny it isn't contentious already.

At Stewart's news conference, he was joined by Virginia Attorney General Robert
F. McDonnell (R), who supports local communities working with ICE to crack down
on illegal immigration. McDonnell had a news conference in Richmond on Wednesday
calling for legislation and an executive order to allow state and local police
to enforce federal immigration laws.

Joining him were lawmakers from Manassas, Prince William County and Herndon.

Loudoun County Sheriff Stephen O. Simpson (R) has also expressed an interest in
the training.

Staff writers Timothy Dwyer and Christy Goodman contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              51 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 21, 2007 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Pr. William Jailers Might Screen for Deportations

BYLINE: Theresa Vargas, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Loudoun Extra; T06

LENGTH: 1076 words


The Prince William jail could soon take on the federal task of screening
undocumented immigrants for deportation after its 10-member board unanimously
decided last week to move forward with Immigration and Customs Enforcement
training.

"I just think this is the right thing to do," jail board Chairman Patrick Hurd
said before the Wednesday night vote.

While several Northern Virginia jurisdictions have discussed taking on the
training, which would streamline the deportation process, Prince William could
be the first local county to adopt it. With the jail board's approval, the
matter now comes before the Board of County Supervisors, and Chairman Corey A.
Stewart (R) has already expressed his support.

On Thursday, a day after the jail board voted, Stewart called a news conference
to announce that he would favor incorporating the cost of the program into the
fiscal 2008 budget, which is being drawn up.

"I don't think we have fully evaluated the fiscal impact," Stewart said. "We
don't think it is going to be significant."

Col. Charles "Skip" Land, the jail superintendent, said for the program to work
locally, the board of supervisors would need to approve the hiring of four more
jail employees. He estimated that the hires will cost the county $220,000 a
year, but he said that the price is far less than the amount spent housing
undocumented immigrants  --  an estimated $2 million-plus in 2006.

"In the end I believe it will save the county and Manassas and Manassas Park
money, and I think it's right for the county," Land said.

The county is facing an $18 million shortfall in revenue for the current fiscal
year, and the board of supervisors has  been told that about $22 million must be
cut from next year's budget. Some departments have already frozen job openings
as a cost-saving measure.

"We may have to move some positions around," Stewart said.

The board will vote on the matter at its Feb. 6 meeting.

Already officials  --  both law enforcement and political  --  have endorsed the
action.

"I am happy that the jail board has taken it up at the local level. That is
where the program belongs and it also, frankly, allows the municipalities to
share the cost of it. That is a real advantage," said Manassas City Council
member Andrew L. Harrover (R). "For me, there is a realization that [the
program] will cost money, but it is something our citizens have been very clear
about. It is a program they support."

Both Prince William Police Chief Charlie T. Deane and Manassas City Police Chief
John Skinner had opposed police officers taking on the federal enforcement,
saying it would further erode the trust between their departments and
immigrants. Instead, both agreed that the task should fall to the jail, which
serves Prince William and its cities.

Deane, who also is on the jail board, said the intention of the program is to
target serious and violent offenders and that some Latinos have told him they
support the program. "When it's focused on criminals, I think the majority of
people are supportive of it," Deane said.

He added that with the jail handling the enforcement, the public will make a
distinction between corrections officers and police officers.

Nancy Lyall of the Woodbridge Workers Committee disagreed.

Some Latinos are already hesitant to report crimes to the police, and local
enforcement of federal immigration law will only further fuel their fear, she
said. She was the only member of the public to speak at Wednesday's meeting.

"They don't care what uniform you are wearing. If you're wearing a uniform, the
perception is, you're a threat," Lyall said.

She told that board that she worries about public safety if the program passes
because some individuals may be deported before receiving a trial, only to make
their way back into the country. She also questioned how much local control will
remain over the program once a deal is made with federal officials.

"I don't think they know to this day how much ICE will dictate to them," she
said.

"It's not a policy of public safety," she added. "It's a policy of neighborhood
cleansing. It's a policy by politicians to lighten their community and that's
deplorable."

Land said that jail officials plan to draft a "tight" memorandum of
understanding with ICE authorities that will set parameters for how the program
will work. He said it will aim at "criminal illegal aliens" brought into the
jail. Jail staff will not arrest people on the streets, as is done in other
jurisdictions, including the jail in Charlotte, which Prince William jail
officials visited this month.

"That's not what we do," Land said. "We work inside the walls."

In Charlotte, where 400 undocumented immigrants are housed at any one time, jail
officials said corrections officers screen using two questions: What country
were you born in? Where are you a citizen? They also bill the federal government
a little more than a $100 a day for housing immigrants awaiting deportation,
Land said. He said the Prince William jail will receive $65 every day that ICE
does not claim an inmate awaiting deportation, and he expects that amount will
rise.

As part of the jail board's approval, the program will be reevaluated in a year.

"We currently have a strong relationship with ICE. We would look to enhance that
relationship through this process," Land told the board.

Before the vote, Hurd said he believed Land had taken an objective look at the
issue, without having pursued an agenda. He said he did not think the board
would have a better opportunity to vote on the issue.

"If we don't act, there will no longer be an apolitical analysis on this issue,"
Hurd said. "It could be soon a political football."

But, with several news conferences last week to address the issue, it was hard
to deny it isn't contentious already.

At Stewart's news conference, he was joined by Virginia Attorney General Robert
F. McDonnell (R), who supports local communities working with ICE to crack down
on illegal immigration. McDonnell had a news conference in Richmond on Wednesday
calling for legislation and an executive order to allow state and local police
to enforce federal immigration laws.

Joining him were lawmakers from Manassas, Prince William County and Herndon.

Loudoun County Sheriff Stephen O. Simpson (R) has also expressed an interest in
the training.

Staff writers Timothy Dwyer and Christy Goodman contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              52 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 24, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A04

LENGTH: 540 words


SANTA ANA, Calif.  --  Federal officials said Tuesday that they arrested more
than 750 illegal immigrants over the past week in and around Los Angeles in what
they described as one of the biggest such sweeps in U.S. history.

The week-long series of raids in the five-county region targeted illegal
immigrants who had previously been deported for crimes or had ignored final
deportation orders.

Of the 761 people arrested, more than half were located in area jails.

More than 450 of the immigrants have already been deported, said Virginia Kice,
spokeswoman for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

*  The Pentagon exempted the Navy for two years from a law protecting marine
mammals, allowing it to continue using military sonar while working on a
long-term plan to comply with environmental regulations. Environmental groups
argue that sonar used in routine training and testing injures and kills whales
and dolphins. The exemption allows the Navy to conduct more than 40 exercises
over the next two years without seeking permission for each under the Marine
Mammal Protection Act.

*  SAN FRANCISCO  --  Eight men were arrested in the 1971 killing of a police
officer that authorities say was part of a black-power group's five-year effort
to attack and kill law enforcement officers in San Francisco and New York.
Police said seven of the eight are believed to be former members of the Black
Liberation Army, an offshoot of the Black Panther Party.

*  ATLANTA  --  A disciplinary hearing ended in the case of a gay Lutheran
minister who could be defrocked for announcing he has a male partner. The
hearing committee  has up to two weeks to make its decision regarding the Rev.
Bradley Schmeling. A ruling against the pastor could prompt his suspension.

*  BOISE, Idaho  --  A man accused of kidnapping two Idaho children, and killing
one of them,  after slaying their family has confessed to the killings of three
other children a decade ago in Washington state and California, federal
prosecutors said. The confessions to the  killings were cited in court papers
saying that the Justice Department intended to seek the death penalty against
Joseph Edward Duncan III.

*  The fatal crash last February of a small jet owned by Circuit City Stores
Inc. was blamed on the pilots flying the airplane too slowly as they approached
the airport at Pueblo, Colo., the National Transportation Safety Board ruled.
The twin-engine jet stalled and plunged into the ground, killing the two-man
crew and six passengers.

*  DALLAS  --  The U.S. Supreme Court  granted the longest-serving prisoner on
Texas's death row a stay of execution. Ronald Chambers, 52, has been on death
row for 31 years and had been scheduled to die Thursday for a 1975 abduction and
murder. Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia issued a one-line order Monday
granting the stay with no explanation.

*  DELRAY BEACH, Fla.  --  A woman cleaning out her dead parents' rented storage
unit discovered a partially mummified baby boy, wrapped in a 1957 newspaper and
stuffed inside a suitcase-within-a-suitcase. The body will be sent to a forensic
anthropologist to determine the cause of death and whether the baby was born
alive, authorities said.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              53 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 31, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Va. House Approves Bill On Illegal Immigration;
Aim Is to Block Access To State, Local Funds

BYLINE: Tim Craig, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1005 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND Jan. 30


The Virginia House of Delegates approved a far-reaching proposal Tuesday to
strip charities and other organizations of state and local funding if any of the
money is used to provide services to immigrants in the country illegally.

The proposal, one of nearly 50 immigration-related bills under consideration by
the General Assembly, could force such groups as the Salvation Army and the
Virginia Association of Free Clinics to verify immigration status before
offering assistance to those in need or risk losing funding.

"This is to make sure the monies that are going to charities and organizations
go to the people they are intended to go to, which is legal immigrants," said
Del. Jackson H. Miller (R-Manassas), the sponsor of the bill. "The ultimate goal
is to make the commonwealth of Virginia an unwelcome place if you are in this
country illegally."

Responded Kitty Hardt, director of program operations at Commonwealth Catholic
Charities: "We don't stop services to look for documentation."

Tuesday's action in Richmond mirrors attempts at the local level to curb illegal
immigration. The city of Manassas, Miller's home town, has been combating
crowding in single-family houses. Herndon has approved measures designed to
discourage illegal immigrants from living and finding work in the town. Prince
William County supervisors have complained about illegal immigration's rising
cost to the county.

Over the next month, delegates and senators are expected to debate bills aimed
at making life difficult for those who have entered the country illegally. There
are bills to deny in-state college tuition to illegal immigrants, punish
employers who hire undocumented workers and expand the power of state and local
police so they can help federal authorities apprehend people in the country
illegally. Other pieces of legislation would make it a crime for an illegal
immigrant to come to Virginia.

Miller's proposal, approved 70 to 29, says an organization cannot use public
funds to provide any service to an illegal immigrant who is 19 or older. If it
does, the organization would be in violation of the law and ineligible for
future funding. The measure now goes to the Senate.

Maj. James Allison, general secretary of the National Capital and Virginia
Division of the Salvation Army, said his organization will have no choice but to
turn people away if Miller's bill is approved. "Our main desire is to get
service to people who need it, without discrimination, but we have to comply by
state, federal and local guidelines as it relates to funding, so we would have
to tighten up," Allison said.

Lawmakers said charitable groups could help illegal immigrants as long as the
money is from their private, not state or local, funds.

Immigrant rights advocates said that taken together, the bills are mean-spirited
and contribute to a growing bias against Hispanics, who make up 6 percent of the
state's population.

"I think they have put together an agenda that says we are going to beat up on
illegal aliens, regardless of their status as children or adults," said Del. A.
Donald McEachin (D-Richmond).

This is the second consecutive year that immigration has been a major issue
before the General Assembly. Last year, lawmakers considered more than two dozen
immigration-related bills, but most were defeated. Lawmakers said some of the
bills stand a better chance this year because all 140 legislators are up for
reelection and Congress has yet to act on a comprehensive immigration reform.

The same scenario is playing out in other state capitals as a growing number of
legislators are vowing to take the lead in stemming the flow of undocumented
workers. In Texas, for example, lawmakers want to prohibit the children of
illegal immigrants from working for the government, and they want to impose
steep fees on money wired to Latin America, according to Governing Magazine.

But advocates for stricter immigration laws say the environment is particularly
ripe in Virginia, which has a Republican-controlled legislature and growing
public angst over the number of illegal immigrants.

"Virginia is receptive. There are a lot of people hearing from their
constituents saying, 'This has got to stop,' " said William Buchanan,
legislative director of the American Council for Immigration Reform. "All across
Northern Virginia, communities are being swept away."

Some political strategists think immigration is a winning issue for Republicans
heading into this fall's legislative races. Last fall, Miller narrowly won his
seat in a special election in Prince William County in which illegal immigration
was a major issue. "The problem is not with legal immigrants; they try to
assimilate. The problem is the illegal aliens; they are not assimilating," said
Bob Rudine, a member of Help Save Herndon.

But Claire Guthrie Castañaga, a lobbyist for the Virginia Coalition of Latino
Organizations, said the General Assembly is considering legislation that will
"create a hostile environment for all people of color."

She pointed to proposals to give state and local police broader authority in
seeking out people in the country illegally, including a proposal being
championed by Attorney General Robert F. McDonnell (R). The bill, up for debate
in the House on Wednesday, would give state and local officers investigating
violent crimes the authority to detain illegal immigrants once they have an
agreement with Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Under current law, police can detain illegal immigrants only if they are felons
or have been deported. "Local law enforcement, like me, are frustrated we have
no ability to enforce the laws, and our citizens are frustrated," McDonnell
said.

Castañaga countered that the policy will lead to situations of racial profiling,
in which police could stop anyone they suspect of being in the country
illegally. "This has implications for everyone who is an immigrant walking down
the street, unless you have a sign that says, 'Hi, I am legal,' " Castañaga
said.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              54 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 31, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Charities' Public Funds Would Be Off-Limits for Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: Tim Craig, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B06

LENGTH: 1005 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND Jan. 30


The Virginia House of Delegates approved a far-reaching proposal Tuesday to
strip charities and other organizations of state and local funding if any of the
money is used to provide services to immigrants in the country illegally.

The proposal, one of nearly 50 immigration-related bills under consideration by
the General Assembly, could force such groups as the Salvation Army and the
Virginia Association of Free Clinics to verify immigration status before
offering assistance to those in need or risk losing funding.

"This is to make sure the monies that are going to charities and organizations
go to the people they are intended to go to, which is legal immigrants," said
Del. Jackson H. Miller (R-Manassas), the sponsor of the bill. "The ultimate goal
is to make the commonwealth of Virginia an unwelcome place if you are in this
country illegally."

Responded Kitty Hardt, director of program operations at Commonwealth Catholic
Charities: "We don't stop services to look for documentation."

Tuesday's action in Richmond mirrors attempts at the local level to curb illegal
immigration. The city of Manassas, Miller's home town, has been combating
crowding in single-family houses. Herndon has approved measures designed to
discourage illegal immigrants from living and finding work in the town. Prince
William County supervisors have complained about illegal immigration's rising
cost to the county.

Over the next month, delegates and senators are expected to debate bills aimed
at making life difficult for those who have entered the country illegally. There
are bills to deny in-state college tuition to illegal immigrants, punish
employers who hire undocumented workers and expand the power of state and local
police so they can help federal authorities apprehend people in the country
illegally. Other pieces of legislation would make it a crime for an illegal
immigrant to come to Virginia.

Miller's proposal, approved 70 to 29, says an organization cannot use public
funds to provide any service to an illegal immigrant who is 19 or older. If it
does, the organization would be in violation of the law and ineligible for
future funding. The measure now goes to the Senate.

Maj. James Allison, general secretary of the National Capital and Virginia
Division of the Salvation Army, said his organization will have no choice but to
turn people away if Miller's bill is approved. "Our main desire is to get
service to people who need it, without discrimination, but we have to comply by
state, federal and local guidelines as it relates to funding, so we would have
to tighten up," Allison said.

Lawmakers said charitable groups could help illegal immigrants as long as the
money is from their private, not state or local, funds.

Immigrant rights advocates said that taken together, the bills are mean-spirited
and contribute to a growing bias against Hispanics, who make up 6 percent of the
state's population.

"I think they have put together an agenda that says we are going to beat up on
illegal aliens, regardless of their status as children or adults," said Del. A.
Donald McEachin (D-Richmond).

This is the second consecutive year that immigration has been a major issue
before the General Assembly. Last year, lawmakers considered more than two dozen
immigration-related bills, but most were defeated. Lawmakers said some of the
bills stand a better chance this year because all 140 legislators are up for
reelection and Congress has yet to act on a comprehensive immigration reform.

The same scenario is playing out in other state capitals as a growing number of
legislators are vowing to take the lead in stemming the flow of undocumented
workers. In Texas, for example, lawmakers want to prohibit the children of
illegal immigrants from working for the government, and they want to impose
steep fees on money wired to Latin America, according to Governing Magazine.

But advocates for stricter immigration laws say the environment is particularly
ripe in Virginia, which has a Republican-controlled legislature and growing
public angst over the number of illegal immigrants.

"Virginia is receptive. There are a lot of people hearing from their
constituents saying, 'This has got to stop,' " said William Buchanan,
legislative director of the American Council for Immigration Reform. "All across
Northern Virginia, communities are being swept away."

Some political strategists think immigration is a winning issue for Republicans
heading into this fall's legislative races. Last fall, Miller narrowly won his
seat in a special election in Prince William County in which illegal immigration
was a major issue. "The problem is not with legal immigrants; they try to
assimilate. The problem is the illegal aliens; they are not assimilating," said
Bob Rudine, a member of Help Save Herndon.

But Claire Guthrie Castañaga, a lobbyist for the Virginia Coalition of Latino
Organizations, said the General Assembly is considering legislation that will
"create a hostile environment for all people of color."

She pointed to proposals to give state and local police broader authority in
seeking out people in the country illegally, including a proposal being
championed by Attorney General Robert F. McDonnell (R). The bill, up for debate
in the House on Wednesday, would give state and local officers investigating
violent crimes the authority to detain illegal immigrants once they have an
agreement with Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Under current law, police can detain illegal immigrants only if they are felons
or have been deported. "Local law enforcement, like me, are frustrated we have
no ability to enforce the laws, and our citizens are frustrated," McDonnell
said.

Castañaga countered that the policy will lead to situations of racial profiling,
in which police could stop anyone they suspect of being in the country
illegally. "This has implications for everyone who is an immigrant walking down
the street, unless you have a sign that says, 'Hi, I am legal,' " Castañaga
said.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              55 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 2, 2007 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Va. House Seeks Illegal Immigrant Restrictions

BYLINE: Tim Craig, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 627 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND Feb. 1


The Virginia House of Delegates pressed ahead Thursday with efforts to enact
tough laws to curtail illegal immigration, including voting to deny in-state
tuition to nonlegal residents, but Senate leaders are moving to block key parts
of the agenda.

Worried that the state's growing minority communities feel under attack, several
senators said they won't support bills designed to punish illegal immigrants and
charities that try to help them.

"People are very concerned about the message on these things," said Sen. James
K. "Jay" O'Brien Jr. (R-Fairfax). "We need to balance the humanity requirements
of every person with the public safety needs of our communities but without a
vindictive and mean-spirited approach."

Immigration rights advocates said that beginning Friday they will hold a
four-day protest in Richmond opposing the legislation.

The debate, which comes amid widespread frustration that Congress has yet to
enact comprehensive immigration reform, exposes a rift between the two
Republican-controlled chambers.

"The fact is, illegal immigrants are costing taxpayers a fortune and putting our
citizens at risk because they don't even belong here," said Del. Jeffrey M.
Frederick (R-Prince William), the sponsor or co-sponsor of more than a
half-dozen immigration-related measures, including one to make it a felony to
harbor an illegal immigrant. "They have no right to be here."

In the past week, the House has approved legislation to strip charities of state
and local funding if they help illegal immigrants, crack down on employers who
hire undocumented workers and empower police officers to help federal
authorities track down people in the country illegally.

On Thursday, the House approved a measure by a vote of 74 to 23 to deny in-state
tuition to illegal immigrants.

"We are trying to put things in place so Virginia is not a magnet for illegal
immigrants," said C.L. "Clay" Athey Jr. (R-Warren), chairman of the House
Republican Caucus Policy Committee.

But the House bills have energized immigration rights advocates, whose protest
will include a fast.

"We feel there are so many of these bills and they are so outrageous because
they are designed to hurt people," said Nancy Lyall, legal coordinator for
Mexicans Without Borders, one of a dozen groups sponsoring the protests.

The protesters may find a sympathetic response from the Senate Courts of Justice
Committee.

Late Wednesday, the committee voted to table a key piece of legislation being
championed by conservatives, including Attorney General Robert F. McConnell (R),
to require state and local police to work with federal authorities in tracking
down and detaining illegal immigrants.

Sen. Kenneth W. Stolle (R-Virginia Beach), the chairman, said the committee
decided not to act because several police departments opposed the measure. Col.
David M. Rohrer, Fairfax County police chief, testified that he worries that
Latinos would be afraid to report crimes or cooperate with police if the bill
was approved, Stolle said.

"Law enforcement officers are not equipped to do civil immigration law," Stolle
said.

But Del. David B. Albo (R-Fairfax) said his constituents are clamoring for laws
to curtail the flow of illegal immigrants. Albo is sponsoring a bill that would
make it a state crime for an illegal immigrant to be in Virginia.

"The federal guys aren't doing anything," said Albo, who later added, "We have
plenty of space in Fairfax" jails.

In an interview with Washington Post reporters and editors Wednesday, Gov.
Timothy M. Kaine (D) countered that state agencies and police already cooperate
with immigration authorities. Kaine said he is concerned that the flurry of
immigration bills up for consideration is harming the state's image.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              56 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 2, 2007 Friday
                                 Final Edition

House Proposes Tough Laws;
Senate Objects to Some

BYLINE: Tim Craig, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B05

LENGTH: 627 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND Feb. 1


The Virginia House of Delegates pressed ahead Thursday with efforts to enact
tough laws to curtail illegal immigration, including voting to deny in-state
tuition to nonlegal residents, but Senate leaders are moving to block key parts
of the agenda.

Worried that the state's growing minority communities feel under attack, several
senators said they won't support bills designed to punish illegal immigrants and
charities that try to help them.

"People are very concerned about the message on these things," said Sen. James
K. "Jay" O'Brien Jr. (R-Fairfax). "We need to balance the humanity requirements
of every person with the public safety needs of our communities but without a
vindictive and mean-spirited approach."

Immigration rights advocates said that beginning Friday they will hold a
four-day protest in Richmond opposing the legislation.

The debate, which comes amid widespread frustration that Congress has yet to
enact comprehensive immigration reform, exposes a rift between the two
Republican-controlled chambers.

"The fact is, illegal immigrants are costing taxpayers a fortune and putting our
citizens at risk because they don't even belong here," said Del. Jeffrey M.
Frederick (R-Prince William), the sponsor or co-sponsor of more than a
half-dozen immigration-related measures, including one to make it a felony to
harbor an illegal immigrant. "They have no right to be here."

In the past week, the House has approved legislation to strip charities of state
and local funding if they help illegal immigrants, crack down on employers who
hire undocumented workers and empower police officers to help federal
authorities track down people in the country illegally.

On Thursday, the House approved a measure by a vote of 74 to 23 to deny in-state
tuition to illegal immigrants.

"We are trying to put things in place so Virginia is not a magnet for illegal
immigrants," said C.L. "Clay" Athey Jr. (R-Warren), chairman of the House
Republican Caucus Policy Committee.

But the House bills have energized immigration rights advocates, whose protest
will include a fast.

"We feel there are so many of these bills and they are so outrageous because
they are designed to hurt people," said Nancy Lyall, legal coordinator for
Mexicans Without Borders, one of a dozen groups sponsoring the protests.

The protesters may find a sympathetic response from the Senate Courts of Justice
Committee.

Late Wednesday, the committee voted to table a key piece of legislation being
championed by conservatives, including Attorney General Robert F. McConnell (R),
to require state and local police to work with federal authorities in tracking
down and detaining illegal immigrants.

Sen. Kenneth W. Stolle (R-Virginia Beach), the chairman, said the committee
decided not to act because several police departments opposed the measure. Col.
David M. Rohrer, Fairfax County police chief, testified that he worries that
Latinos would be afraid to report crimes or cooperate with police if the bill
was approved, Stolle said.

"Law enforcement officers are not equipped to do civil immigration law," Stolle
said.

But Del. David B. Albo (R-Fairfax) said his constituents are clamoring for laws
to curtail the flow of illegal immigrants. Albo is sponsoring a bill that would
make it a state crime for an illegal immigrant to be in Virginia.

"The federal guys aren't doing anything," said Albo, who later added, "We have
plenty of space in Fairfax" jails.

In an interview with Washington Post reporters and editors Wednesday, Gov.
Timothy M. Kaine (D) countered that state agencies and police already cooperate
with immigration authorities. Kaine said he is concerned that the flurry of
immigration bills up for consideration is harming the state's image.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              57 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 3, 2007 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Town Manager Takes Job in Staunton, Va.

BYLINE: Bill Turque, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B10

LENGTH: 364 words


Herndon Town Manager Stephen F. Owen, a key figure in the community's bitter
debate over illegal immigration, resigned yesterday to become city manager of
Staunton, Va.

Owen, 49, served under three mayors  --  Richard Thoesen, Michael L. O'Reilly
and the incumbent, Stephen J. DeBenedittis  --  who all struggled with major
demographic shifts in the western Fairfax town of 23,000, which is now
one-quarter Hispanic.

As town manager, Owen implemented a controversial plan approved by O'Reilly and
the Town Council in 2005 to establish a publicly funded assembly site for day
laborers. The Herndon Official Workers Center was intended to give Latino day
laborers an alternative to soliciting work on the town's streets.

But voter unhappiness over the decision led to the defeat of O'Reilly and two
council members who supported establishment of the center. The new council,
headed by DeBenedittis, is seeking a new operator for the center, one that will
check workers' immigration status. The council also has passed measures designed
to force illegal immigrants out of town, including enrollment of some police
officers in a federal program that will train them to enforce immigration laws
and begin deportation proceedings.

Owen could not be reached for comment yesterday. DeBenedittis said Owen's
departure to a larger municipality was a natural career move unrelated to the
immigration issue.

"I think he's an excellent town manager," he said. "There was no desire on my
part to have him move. I've learned a lot from him, and he's a good friend."

Before he was mayor, O'Reilly served on the council that hired Owen in 2003. He
called Owen's resignation "a tremendous loss" for Herndon.

He said that although Owen never told him explicitly that the immigration debate
compelled him to leave,  the controversy had taken a toll.

"I know that it has been difficult for Steve to go from a council that took
action the way we did and had a different personality than this one," O'Reilly
said. "But I've never known Steve to run from a challenge."

Owens resignation is effective March 1. He  is scheduled to begin work in
Staunton on March 12 at an annual salary of $139,500.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              58 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 5, 2007 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Legislation Without Charity

SECTION: Editorial; A14

LENGTH: 279 words


The Jan. 31 front-page article "Va. House Approves Bill on Illegal Immigration;
Aim Is to Block Access to State, Local Funds" provided a real-world example of
why government should not be in the business of funding charities: The money
comes with strings attached.

In this case, charities that accept funds from the state would no longer be
allowed to give aid to illegal immigrants.

Put another way, these charities would essentially be required by law to be
xenophobic. They would also lose their right to decide for themselves whom they
help. Certain state legislators would rather make that decision for them.

The only way for charities to avoid being bullied like this is to refuse state
aid.

If this legislation makes it to the desk of Gov. Timothy M. Kaine (D), I hope he
has the good sense to veto it.

RYAN YOUNG

Arlington

Regarding the Jan. 31 front-page story "Va. House Approves Bill on Illegal
Immigration":

I would like Del. Jackson H. Miller (R-Manassas) to imagine for a moment that
the bill he is sponsoring has become law.

I would further like Mr. Miller to imagine that he, or someone he knows, suffers
a setback and urgently needs the services of one of the agencies likely to be
affected.

One side of the conversation might go something like this.

"I will need to see proof of insurance and immigration status, please.
Acceptable documents are a passport or federally issued immigration visas."

"No? You don't have such proof of citizenship with you, Mr. Miller?"

"Next."

Most legal residents of the United States cannot, on demand, prove they are here
legally. Most of those people are called citizens.

DAVID A. LANE

Manassas

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              59 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 6, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Latino Groups Lobby for More Rights

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B02

LENGTH: 666 words


As Virginia lawmakers continued to consider a swath of bills aimed at punishing
illegal immigrants and their employers, Latino immigrants and advocates took to
the state Capitol yesterday to press for laws that expand the rights of people
living in the country illegally.

About 100 people, most of them from Northern Virginia, fanned out to lawmakers'
offices, gathered in biting wind for a short rally and attended a lunch visited
by Gov. Timothy M. Kaine (D), who told them that he is committed to keeping
Virginia a "welcoming place" for all.

The second annual Latino Lobby Day, coordinated by a coalition of Virginia
Latino rights groups, drew twice as many people this year, said organizers,
adding that the turnout reflected a heightened sense of urgency this session.
Nearly 50 immigrant-related bills have been proposed in the General Assembly
this year, most of which seek to crack down on illegal immigration.

"We're here to express our outrage at a very mean-spirited set of bills that
have been introduced in the legislature of Virginia," Arlington County Board
Vice Chairman Walter Tejada (D) said at a news conference. Many of the
proposals, he said, "are based on myth and hate."

Yet even as the Latino coalition members  --  including seasoned lobbyists in
suits and day laborers in sweat shirts  --  made their rounds, the Virginia
House of Delegates pushed ahead with efforts to fight illegal immigration.

The House gave tentative approval yesterday to a bill that would make it a
felony to harbor, conceal or shield an illegal immigrant and a measure that
would make it a state crime to illegally be in the United States. A final vote
on the latter bill is scheduled for today, but Senate leaders have indicated
they are unlikely to approve it because local police are not equipped to enforce
immigration laws.

The House has recently passed proposals to deny state and local funding to
charities that assist illegal immigrants, to deny in-state tuition to illegal
immigrants and to allow police to help federal authorities catch such
immigrants. Many of the House-generated bills are expected to fail in the
Senate.

The issue of immigration has been less heated in Maryland's legislature, where
fewer than six immigrant-related bills have been introduced, including a measure
that would bar illegal immigrants from getting Maryland driver's licenses.

In visits to lawmakers' offices yesterday, the Latino lobbyists trained their
arguments on four proposals, opposing three House bills and asking for support
for a Senate bill that would give in-state tuition to many young illegal
immigrants. In many cases, they met with legislative aides or left messages with
receptionists.

"We don't want a free ride," said Carlos Soles, of the Democratic Latino
Organization of Virginia, standing in a hallway while speaking to a legislative
intern for Sen. Kenneth W. Stolle (R-Virginia Beach). "But we have to make sure
that kids have an opportunity to get an education."

In Soles's group was Jose L. Vela, a Bolivian making his first foray into U.S.
politics. In an interview, Vela, 45, spoke proudly of the Arlington citizens
police academy training he completed and his membership in a neighborhood
emergency response team  --  efforts he said show his contributions to his
community.

Vela, who is an illegal immigrant, said the training erased his fear of police.
Some of the laws under consideration could change that, he said.

"The police would be backtracking. People would not trust them," Vela said.

The efforts drew censure from John Kawapisz, legislative director for the
Virginia Council for Immigration Reform, a group that backs most of the
restrictive bills under consideration. After attending the Latino coalition's
news conference, he said organizers were misleading the public by denouncing
some bills as "anti-immigrant." The measures, he said, are anti-illegal
immigrant.

Staff writers Tim Craig and Ovetta Wiggins contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              60 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 7, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Next Stop: Underground;
If Virginia has its way with illegal immigrants

SECTION: Editorial; A16

LENGTH: 531 words


REPUBLICAN state lawmakers in Virginia have advanced a grab bag of legislation
designed to hound, harass and hassle illegal immigrants. The idea, as expressed
by the author of one such bill, Del. Jackson H. Miller of Manassas, is "to make
Virginia an unwelcome place if you are in this country illegally." Translation:
Drive the immigrants out of the state. In this the bills are overwhelmingly
likely to fail, since most immigrants  are likely to remain near jobs despite
official persecution. But the bills do threaten to push undocumented immigrants
further underground, forcing them to live in fear, draw their curtains and keep
their children indoors even as they fill a niche in the local economy.

Many of the measures are so patently obnoxious that they are unlikely to become
law. One bill, Mr. Miller's, would cut off the flow of state and local funds to
charities that might assist illegal, and presumably needy, immigrants. Another
would make it a crime for an undocumented immigrant even to be in Virginia  --
even though immigration is properly the purview of the federal government. There
are bills to deny in-state tuition rates at public colleges and universities to
illegal immigrants, even  to those who have grown up in the state; to withhold
business licenses from firms that would employ the immigrants; and to expand the
power of state and local police to detain them.

Many of the bills are similar to ones making their way through legislatures
across the country, particularly in states whose vibrant job markets have made
them magnets for people who are here illegally. Two years ago,  500
immigrant-related bills were introduced in state legislatures nationwide,
according to a survey by the National Conference of State Legislatures. No
survey is yet available for this year, but it appears,  according to the
evidence from Virginia and elsewhere, that the number will have grown
exponentially.

Not all the Virginia bills are heading for enactment; cooler heads in the state
Senate will make short work of some. Still, taken together, the proposals
transmit a message of hostility to newcomers. And good luck telling
green-card-holders that the state doesn't object to them  --  just to their
cousins and nephews and aunts who lack the right papers.

The fact is, as many of the same conservative Republicans voting for the
anti-immigrant bills know, the primal forces of economics  --  hunger, need, the
human thirst for self-advancement  --  will generally trump official attempts at
discrimination. If there is legislation to penalize landlords who rent to
illegal immigrants, some will evict their tenants, and others will just demand
more money under the table. If employers face sanctions for hiring illegal
immigrants, many will nonetheless continue doing so, perhaps through
subcontractors willing to assume the risk. Lawmakers who propose anti-immigrant
legislation may be responding to the legitimate complaints of their constituents
or to the worst instincts in American politics. Either way, their measures could
inflict considerable pain while failing to solve a problem whose causes, and
ultimate solution, lie with the federal government.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              61 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 8, 2007 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrant Screening Eyed at Jail;
Inmates Illegally in U.S. Would Be Deported

BYLINE: Timothy Dwyer, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Prince William Extra; T01

LENGTH: 702 words


Prince William County moved a step closer Tuesday to becoming the first county
in the region to take on the federal task of screening undocumented immigrants,
when the Board of County Supervisors voted unanimously to consider funding in
next year's budget for new personnel positions and other costs of screening
undocumented immigrants at the county jail.

Col. Charles "Skip" Land, the jail superintendent, said last month that four
additional jail officers would be required, at a cost of $220,000, if the county
were to enter into an agreement with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement to
be responsible for determining the legal status of inmates. The jail's 10-member
governing board approved the plan last month.

Several jurisdictions in Northern Virginia have considered an ICE training
program that is designed to streamline the deportation process by having local
officers do the investigations, but Prince William would be the first county to
adopt it. Once an inmate was found to be illegally in the country, the jail
would notify ICE, which would pick up inmates when they had completed their
local jail time and deport them.

While the supervisors agreed to go ahead and negotiate a deal with ICE, they
said that the cost of any additional jail officers would have to be made part of
the fiscal 2008 budget, which is being finalized by the county staff. The
proposed budget will go to the board next month.

Supervisor Martin E. Nohe (R-Coles) said the jail had housed 3,000
"nonresidents" last year and questioned why it would take four full-time
officers to investigate the legal status if a similar number came through the
jail this year. "I would like to do the program," he said, "but four full-time
positions is the equivalent of 8,000 man-hours, and I wonder if we need all of
that."

A few county residents expressed opposition to the plan for ICE training.

Ricardo Juarez of Woodbridge said the agreement would foster distrust between
the immigrant community and law enforcement. "People are starting to feel that
the relationship between the police and the immigrant community is starting to
be broken," he said. "That trust is starting to be broken."

He said the result would be that immigrants who were victims of crime such as
robbery and domestic abuse would stop reporting them to police.

No residents spoke in favor of the plan.

The vote to consider hiring additional jail officers came one week after County
Executive Craig S. Gerhart sent a letter to the county's nearly 4,000 employees
outlining what "difficult decisions" may have to be made in programs, personnel
and compensation in next year's budget as part of the $22 million in cuts that
must be made.

At Tuesday's board meeting, Gerhart presented $19 million in budget savings to
meet this year's shortfall and be applied to cuts in next year's budget. He said
the revenue crunch has already resulted in freezing the equivalent of 67
full-time positions involving 24 people.

Supervisor Hilda M. Barg (D-Woodbridge) asked if the county could get the U.S.
government to fund the four new jail officers needed to implement the ICE
program because it is a federal program. Chairman Corey A. Stewart (R) told Barg
he is not convinced that the additional officers would be needed to run the ICE
program at the jail.

Supervisor W. S. Covington III (R-Brentsville) said that deporting illegal
immigrants would save the county money in the long run because it would reduce
the need to provide government services to those who are deported.

"I am going to support this because I think it is an important step," Covington
said.

"I think this initiative saves us money," he said. "I think anything we can do
on illegal immigration is going to save us money. We are going to be a welcoming
place for immigrants, not for illegal immigrants."

Before the meeting began Tuesday afternoon, Michael C. May (R-Occoquan) was
sworn in as a new member of the board. His election last month gives Republicans
a 6-2 margin on the board.

Stewart said he appointed May to "take the lead" for the board on reaching an
agreement with ICE to implement the plan. The jail board and the county staff
have begun negotiations with ICE.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              62 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 11, 2007 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

As Groups Battling Illegal Immigration Bud, They Find Criticism and Support

BYLINE: Christy Goodman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; C05

LENGTH: 756 words


Grass-roots groups that aim to rid communities of illegal immigrants are
establishing roots in Prince William County, a response to the area's changing
population that some say incites hatred.

Members of the Virginia chapter of the Minuteman Civil Defense Corps and
HelpSaveVirginia are planning to meet with about 15 "leadership types" in hopes
of starting a Manassas area chapter, said the meeting's coordinator, Greg
Letiecq.

"Folks out there are here illegally. That is wrong," Letiecq said. "And they
should go back to their country and come into the United States legally, so
everything is out in the open and they respect the rule of law."

The move comes as Prince William is asking the federal government to reimburse
$3 million the county estimates it has spent providing services to illegal
immigrants. Meanwhile, Manassas is facing several lawsuits and is being
investigated by the U.S. Department of Justice regarding complaints the city
illegally targeted Hispanic residents while enforcing zoning laws.

The prospect of a local chapter of the Minutemen doesn't sit well with some area
Hispanic leaders.

"It may not be the intent  --  I don't know the intent of many of these people
--  but I know the fact and rhetoric of their actions are creating a hostile
environment for all people of color and all languages of Virginia regardless of
their citizenship status," said Claire Guthrie Gastañaga, a lobbyist
representing the Virginia Coalition of Latino Organizations.

Similar organizations have had impact elsewhere in the region.

HelpSaveHerndon mobilized during May's town elections to support candidates who
campaigned against illegal immigration. That election ousted Herndon's mayor and
two Town Council members.

Virginia's chapter of the Minutemen began in Herndon and made news taking
pictures of contractors hiring workers at the town's day-laborer site.

The Herndon Official Workers Center, operated by Reston Interfaith, has seen a
consistent number of workers, said former Herndon mayor Michael O'Reilly. The
center had an average of 130 workers sign up for jobs over the past five months,
according to figures from Reston Interfaith.

"They took some pictures and held a press conference and said they turned over
names [of contractors] to local, state and federal authorities. To my knowledge,
nothing came of it," said O'Reilly, who called the groups "extreme."

The Minutemen aren't political extremists, said George Taplin, director of the
Virginia chapter.

Taplin called the numbers from Reston Interfaith "manufactured" and said his
organization has witnessed fewer workers signing up and being hired. He did
admit the film crusade against contractors hiring day laborers did not work.

"We've been somewhat less successful, to be honest, to get the authorities to
enforce some of the laws," he said.

The Minutemen have been to Culpeper to help start an organization, and they are
scheduling meetings in Roanoke and Harrisonburg, Taplin said. "We've been trying
to set up the one in Manassas for quite a while," he said.

"It seems that most people are saying the same thing [in Manassas]. It is time
for them to get together and say it together," said Aubrey Stokes, co-founder of
HelpSaveHerndon, who said his organization would offer advice and support for
the budding organization. "I think they are absolutely on the right track."

Prince William Board of County Supervisors Chairman Corey A. Stewart (R) said he
welcomes a new organization's input.

The federal government is "leaving the county with the bag of having to service
residents who are in many cases not paying taxes. We're the ones who are picking
up the tab, and that is what is irritating, not just in Herndon, but the
county," said Stewart, who said addressing illegal immigration is "not hate
mongering" but would not support anything that would make illegal immigrants and
racial minorities "uncomfortable."

But Carlos Castro, owner of Todos Supermarket in Woodbridge, said the start of
anti-illegal immigration groups creates "an anti-Hispanic community."

"I think our board of supervisors is conservative enough. I don't think we need
the help of the Minutemen around here, but we will have to see what they come up
with," Castro said.

If politicians or candidates refuse to support the cause, the Minutemen will
find and exploit the reasons behind the candidates not supporting the law,
Taplin said.

The Minutemen also will "stand in the background" once the group begins to take
action, Taplin said.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 17, 2007



CORRECTION: *  A Feb. 11 Metro article about anti-illegal-immigration groups
seeking to start chapters in the Manassas area misstated the number of people
applying for work at the Herndon Official Workers Center. An average of 130
workers per day sign up.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              63 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 17, 2007 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

GOP Rift Swells in Va. General Assembly;
Bills on Abortion, Immigration Clash

BYLINE: Tim Craig, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1032 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND Feb. 16


The Virginia Senate has rejected efforts by House Republicans to crack down on
illegal immigration and limit abortions, exposing a widening gap within the GOP
over how far the party should go in addressing controversial issues.

With the legislative session scheduled to end next Saturday, the
Republican-controlled Senate and House have staked out dramatically different
positions on bills designed to rid the state of illegal immigrants and give
fetuses additional state-sanctioned protections.

The debate, which comes as all 140 delegates and senators are up for reelection
this year, reflects the Republican Party's struggle nationally to deal with
bills relating to abortion and immigration.

The state Senate's actions this week also underscore how the tension in the
party goes far beyond the years-long feud between the two chambers over whether
higher taxes are needed to pay for transportation improvements.

The House of Delegates, dominated by social conservatives, has approved a number
of bills this year that have prompted outrage from many activist groups,
including measures to put illegal immigrants in county jails and to make it a
felony for a woman to cause her own miscarriage.

Senators, led by moderate Republicans, balked at their House colleagues'
actions, saying that the conservatives were driving away moderate and suburban
voters who have held the keys to recent statewide elections.

"I'm a moderate Eisenhower-type Republican, and I don't believe in all this
interfering in people's personal lives," said Sen. H. Russell Potts Jr.
(R-Winchester), chairman of the education and health committee. "I'm very, very
moderate on the immigration issue."

House Majority Leader H. Morgan Griffith (R-Salem) countered, saying that
Republicans "are just trying to punish people for breaking the law."

In committee actions this week, the Senate killed bills that would have cut off
funding for charities that help illegal immigrants and punished employers who
hire illegal immigrants. Senators also rejected legislation that would have made
it a state crime for undocumented citizens to live in or travel through
Virginia.

The House had also approved several abortion-related bills that had been a
priority of the influential Family Foundation, a socially conservative
organization. But those bills were largely blocked by Potts's committee. On
Thursday, the committee rejected the miscarriage proposal. Legislation to expand
the state's informed consent law by requiring that women be given the option of
having an ultrasound before an abortion was also rejected.

Although much of the focus this election year has been on Democratic efforts to
pick up the four Senate seats needed to regain control, some political
specialists say it is just as likely that conservatives will gain seats. A more
conservative Senate, they say, could make it easier for immigration and abortion
bills to pass the General Assembly next year.

"This could be a very tumultuous year, and you could walk through 100 different
outcomes that could have a lot of consequences," said conservative Sen. Ken
Cuccinelli II (R-Fairfax).

Conservatives are gearing up to try to purge the Senate of its moderate
Republicans, who often form a coalition with Democrats to block many House
initiatives. Five moderate Republicans already face challenges in the June
primary.

"They haven't run in four years, and I hope they find out this summer and in
November how interested people are in these bills," Del. John S. "Jack" Reid
(R-Henrico) said of his Senate colleagues.

Potts, who alienated many members of his party when he launched a bid for
governor as an independent in 2005, refers to House conservatives as the "God
squad crowd."

"I have a strong faith, too, but I don't wear it on my sleeve," said Potts, who
is considering retiring this year instead of running for reelection against two
conservative primary challengers.

Griffith said Potts's comments "show his level of intolerance of others'
beliefs."

One of Potts's challengers, Mark Tate, said that Republican voters need to make
a statement this year that the party is pro-family.

The differing opinions among Virginia Republicans mirror the party's split on
the national level, where moderates and conservatives frequently clash on social
issues, including illegal immigration.

House Republicans have advocated a get-tough approach, saying that the state
should tackle the issue instead of waiting for Congress to act.

"The Senate has demonstrated time and time again it's pro-illegal immigration,"
said Del. Jeffrey M. Frederick (R-Prince William). "It's unfortunate  --  the
people want you to do something about this issue, and the House sent over a
whole lot of ideas, and the Senate rejected them in a span of about 60 minutes."

Frederick, who noted that more than a dozen House Democrats also supported the
GOP-sponsored immigration bills, said that illegal immigration is not a partisan
issue.

But Republicans largely control the agenda in the General Assembly. And Friday,
the divide between the House and Senate was on display when they couldn't agree
on one of the only immigration-related bills still up for debate.

Last month, the House approved a bill denying in-state college tuition for
illegal immigrants. The Senate approved a separate version of the bill that
makes exceptions for those in the process of becoming citizens. The House voted
Friday to reject the Senate bill, meaning that a conference committee will be
needed to sort out the differences.

Potts isn't optimistic that the two sides will agree on a compromise. He
referred to a hypothetical story about a family that crosses the Mexican border
with a child.

"What happens to the little child that comes across the border with his mother
and father, and they have two children [in the United States], and the oldest
child is a valedictorian? We are not going to let her go to James Madison, but
we are going to let the other two go to James Madison?" Potts asked. "What am I
missing here?"

Del. Terry G. Kilgore (R-Scott) said that conservatives are frustrated by the
Senate. "I guess we just have to keep trying," he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              64 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 17, 2007 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

The Settlers' Distinction

SECTION: Editorial; A29

LENGTH: 171 words


In a Feb. 12 editorial cartoon, Tom Toles apparently tried to equate today's
illegal immigrants with the English immigrants settling in Jamestown 400 years
ago. A sign stated: "400th Anniversary! Jamestown, Virginia. Celebrating the
state's first illegal immigrants!"

But all of the English immigrants were well documented and are known by name
even today. If his point was that they were illegal in the eyes of the Native
Americans, then we should note that, unlike those who illegally enter the
country today, the settlers made immediate contact with the Indian authorities
and did not try to surreptitiously blend in.

We know that many of the people the English encountered were killed and that the
natives' land was taken and their culture destroyed as a result of these
"illegal immigrants" establishing a permanent presence in Virginia, which was a
colony, not a state, in 1607.

Uncontrolled immigration can equate to disaster. We learn that through history.
Perhaps that is his point.

--  Wayne Smith

Greenbelt

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              65 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 13, 2007 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Minuteman Project In Turmoil Over Financial Allegations;
Leadership Fight Splits Border Group

BYLINE: Sonya Geis, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 699 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


The Minuteman Project, an anti-illegal-immigrant organization that has monitored
the southern border, is embroiled in a nasty legal fight over accusations of
financial improprieties that has splintered the group and probably will sideline
it during the busiest time of the year for border crossing.

Former leaders of the Minuteman Project accuse founder Jim Gilchrist, 58, of
using $300,000 of the group's money to support his pet causes, including
promoting a book he co-wrote and funding an unsuccessful run for Congress in a
2005 special election. Last month, saying they are the group's board of
directors, they took over the Minuteman Project Web site and bank accounts, and
fired Gilchrist as president.

Gilchrist fired back with a lawsuit accusing his former associates of
defamation. He maintains that they have no standing to fire him from the
California-based organization. He also accuses them of hacking into the
Minuteman Project's Web site, stealing a donor database and pilfering his
personal stationery, all of which the organization relies on to raise money.

"This crisis has put us in a tailspin," Gilchrist said in an interview. The
organization had planned to mobilize members in coming weeks when Congress again
takes up immigration legislation, he said, but it has canceled its plans because
he is busy dealing with legal issues.

The dispute centers on $750,000 in donations raised for the Minuteman Project by
HSP Direct, a now-defunct Herndon direct-mail firm hired by Gilchrist. After the
company deducted expenses, the project received about $100,000.

Deborah Courtney, a Minuteman Project employee until last month, said the group
should have received about $300,000 more. She charges that Gilchrist spent the
money on his own fundraising activities or secreted it in bank accounts that the
group members could not access.

"This is an incredible injustice to the American patriots who donated money,"
Courtney said. "Some of those patriots are mesmerized by Jim's star quality."

Courtney also said Gilchrist improperly got the group a nonprofit postal rate on
mailings when the organization should have paid full price. Courtney, Marvin
Stewart  --  who has taken over as head of the Minuteman Project  --  and
Barbara Coe, a former adviser to the group who heads the anti-illegal-immigrant
California Coalition for Immigration Reform, reported the Minuteman Project to
the Postal Service and to the Internal Revenue Service, Courtney said.

Gilchrist, a retired accountant, said his former colleagues do not understand
basic business practices. He said the fundraising money was spent appropriately
on Minuteman Project expenses.

"I am not about to risk my retirement and my home and the reputation of the
Minuteman Project to engage in some criminal enterprise," he said. Gilchrist
calls his accusers "rogue people who had a false perception of millions if they
could take over the organization."

An Orange County Superior Court judge will hold a hearing on Gilchrist's lawsuit
on March 21.

This is not the first time the group has fractured. The Minuteman Civil Defense
Corps has operated separately from the Minuteman Project since December 2005,
after a bitter internal dispute over funding.

Both groups organize volunteers to monitor the U.S.-Mexico border and report
suspected illegal immigrants to authorities. Both lobby legislators to close the
border and enforce existing laws.

In South Texas, Michael Vickers, the head of a former Minuteman group, said his
organization split from the national groups because Minuteman leaders did not
adapt to the needs of volunteers who patrol on private land in Texas. Financial
concerns also played a role, he said.

"People here in Texas were making big donations to the Minutemen, helping them
raise funds, but they weren't getting answers as to how that money was being
spent," Vickers said.

His group is now called Texas Border Volunteers, and it is gearing up for
spring, typically the busiest time for illegal border-crossers traveling to
agricultural jobs in the United States.

"Most of our volunteers are former Minutemen," Vickers said. "We're getting two
to five new volunteers every day."

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 17, 2007



CORRECTION: A March 13 article about the Minuteman Project incorrectly said that
HSP Direct, a direct-mail company in Herndon, was "defunct." Company officials
say it remains in business.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              66 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 18, 2007 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                                Suburban Edition

Immigration Raid Rips Families;
Illegal Workers in Massachusetts Separated From Children

BYLINE: Robin Shulman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 1078 words

DATELINE: NEW BEDFORD, Mass


During her two years working in a garment factory alongside hundreds of other
immigrants, there were few assurances in Marta Escoto's uncertain life. One of
them was the promise she made to her children -- I will always take care of you.

It was a promise she was unable to keep this month. Escoto and at least 360
other illegal immigrants were taken into custody here March 6 after a raid by
federal agents on the Michael Bianco Inc. factory -- a military contractor 60
miles south of Boston. Many of them, including Escoto, 38, were women whose
detention separated them from their children, some of whom were stranded at
day-care centers, schools, or friends' or relatives' homes.

Immigration officials said they made provisions for the children so none would
be left alone. But in the days right after the raid -- as a 7-year-old called a
hotline and asked for her mother, and a breastfeeding baby refused a bottle and
was hospitalized for dehydration -- Massachusetts Gov. Deval Patrick (D) began
to categorize the raid's aftermath as a "humanitarian crisis."

Escoto, like most of those detained, was flown to a holding center in Texas as
deportation proceedings began. A single mother, she was separated from her two
young children, who were born in the United States and are U.S. citizens.
Daniel, 2, asked for her constantly, while relatives worried about the care of
frail 4-year-old Jessie -- who cannot walk and suffers from an illness that
prevents her from absorbing enough nutrition.

Both children were in day care when their mother was arrested, leaving Escoto's
sister scrambling to care for them along with her own two children.

The case underscores one of the pitfalls confronting federal authorities as they
launch ever more aggressive raids in search of illegal immigrants: How should
officials factor in their children, some of whom were born in the United States
and are citizens?

It also points to a dilemma illegal immigrants face daily. They come to the
United States to provide a better life for their families, but that illegal act
can mean they risk the family being torn apart if they are caught.

Escoto's family is from Honduras. Escoto paid a "coyote" to guide her over the
border during a grueling 15-day trek through the desert in 2000, and she came to
New Bedford. This is an old mill town of 100,000 with a declining industrial
base and a surging population of immigrants. Escoto's first job was in a
fish-packing plant. She was always afraid of an immigration raid, a fear that
lessened after she landed a job at Bianco, which maintains a $92 million
contract to make backpacks and other accessories for the U.S. military. Because
of the government contract, the company  appeared to be safer from raids.

Escoto -- who has four older children by her first marriage -- worked alongside
her two eldest sons, David and Deibin Cubas, who are 21 and 19. She earned $7.50
an hour sewing in a high-ceilinged room with boarded-up windows. Stitchers at
the factory say they are fined $20 for talking or spending more than two minutes
in the bathroom. But the family was beginning to feel safe.

Then hundreds of armed federal authorities burst in on March 6. In an interview
with The Washington Post this week, Escoto said she heard their orders: "Don't
run! Turn off the machines!"

Her sister, Andrea Maldonado, 36, got word of the raid while at work in a nearby
garment factory. She said she went to Bianco and found hundreds of workers
sitting on the floor, their hands cuffed. Escoto, her two eldest sons and three
siblings were all arrested.

"I told them my sister has children, but they didn't do anything," Maldonado
said.

Escoto was quickly flown to Texas and held at Port Isabel, near the border. For
three days she was not allowed to make phone calls, she said. On the third day,
she was allowed a five-minute call to tell her family where she was. Jessie had
missed an appointment with a gastroenterologist to discuss inserting a feeding
tube.

Thinking about her children, Escoto could not sleep at night. "I would see them,
smell them," she said.

With dozens of children like Escoto's left without parents, the raid immediately
sparked a public outcry here. The Massachusetts Department of Social Services
dispatched two teams of 18 social workers to ask detainees in Texas how their
children were being cared for.

In a letter to the chief of the Department of Homeland Security, Sen John F.
Kerry (D-Mass.) called for an investigation. In an editorial in the Boston
Globe, Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) decried "our broken immigration system,"
saying the government had "no effective plan to identify and help the children
who would be left alone."

Under public pressure, immigration officials began to send single parents home,
or if they had arrested both parents, to release one. But as of late last week,
New Bedford school officials said the children of at least six arrested
immigrants remained in the care of someone other than their parents, and many
more were missing one parent.

One of Escoto's sisters was released to care for her infant daughter. Last
Wednesday, Escoto was brought to an airport. She didn't know whether she was
being deported or returned home until she landed in Boston, where she phoned her
family.

Dropped off at night in a deserted PriceRite parking lot, she glimpsed Daniel in
her brother-in-law's car. She rushed to hold her son, her tears dampening his
face. "Mami, mami, mami!" Daniel said.

At her sister's home, her nieces and nephew, sisters and brother-in-law crowded
around her, and she embraced each in turn. Spotting her ailing daughter, Jessie,
she swept her up, bathing her face in kisses.

"Your mami came home to take care of you," she said. "I'm here."

"I am so happy," she later said, looking exhausted and wearing the same
powder-blue sweatshirt and jeans she had on the day of the arrest. "I thought I
might not come back to see them."

Still, she talked about her two sons, and her sister and brother, all still in
custody in Texas.

And she promised her children, weeping, "I'll never leave you again, I'll never
leave you."

Unlike some detainees, Escoto has not been outfitted with an electronic tracking
device so immigration authorities can keep tabs on her. But in her pocket, she
keeps a folded paper with the date in October when she will appear before an
immigration judge. This judge's decision could test Escoto's promise to her
children.

Staff writer Sylvia Moreno contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

CORRECTION-DATE: March 21, 2007



CORRECTION:  A March 18 article on the impact of a raid by the Immigration and
Customs Enforcement agency at a factory in New Bedford,  Mass., incorrectly said
that Marta Escoto, one of those arrested, was not allowed to contact her family
for three days. She was, in fact, allowed a telephone call on the evening of her
arrest. The Post also erred in not contacting ICE in preparing the article. ICE
spokesman Marc Raimondi said the agency "took extraordinary steps to respect
humanitarian concerns during the New Bedford worksite enforcement operation that
included months of coordination with the Massachusetts Department of Safety and
the humanitarian release of more than 90 of the 361 illegal aliens apprehended."


GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Stephan Savoia -- Associated Press; About 360 employees of
Michael Bianco Inc., in New Bedford, Mass., were detained by federal officials
for possible deportation as illegal immigrants after a raid on the company this
month.
IMAGE; By Robin Shulman -- The Washington Post; Illegal immigrant Marta Escoto,
38, with her daughter Jessie, 4, after Escoto's release from custody in a
detention facility in Texas.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 7, 2007 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 442 words

After Raid, Court Halts Workers' Deportation

 BOSTON -- A Massachusetts judge on Friday temporarily barred federal officials
from deporting a large group of illegal immigrants snared in a factory raid last
month.

U.S. District Court Judge Richard Stearns granted the emergency request from
attorneys for the detained immigrants, who argued that about 110 of 360 workers
arrested may have agreed to waive an appeal of their deportation order under
duress or with improper translators.

The judge's order lasts for 10 days and does not apply to detainees who had been
ordered deported before they were arrested in the March 6 raid at the Michael
Bianco factory in New Bedford. The company makes equipment and apparel for the
U.S. military.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials have said they have not denied
legal counsel to any of the detainees.

* * *

? EL PASO -- Ninety-eight percent of the illegal immigrants caught along the
U.S.-Mexico border between Oct. 1, 2000, and Sept. 30, 2005, were never
prosecuted for illegally entering the country, according to an Associated Press
analysis of federal data. Those 5.2 million immigrants were simply escorted back
across the Rio Grande and released. Many presumably tried to slip into the
United States again. Federal prosecutors along the border have come under
pressure from politicians and from top officials in the Justice Department to
pursue more cases against illegal immigrants.

DENVER -- A federal prison inmate convicted of killing a cellmate and using his
entrails to taunt guards was spared execution after a jury could not unanimously
agree on the death penalty. William Sablan, 42, faces life in prison without
parole at his April 18 sentencing for first-degree murder, a U.S. attorney's
spokesman said.

SANTA ANA, Calif. -- Staffing was so inadequate at a California assisted-living
center that a rat crawled into an Alzheimer's patient's mouth and died there
before staff noticed, a lawsuit claims. A spokeswoman for Sunwest Management,
the Oregon-based company that operates the Paragon Gardens Assisted Living and
Memory Care Community in Mission Viejo, denied the allegation and denied that
administrators cut back on staff to increase profits.

NEW YORK -- Nearly a year after a stuntman tried to parachute from the 86th
floor of the Empire State Building, building officials have filed a $12 million
lawsuit against Jeb Corliss, claiming he cost the landmark skyscraper money,
damaged its reputation and injured security guards who prevented the jump.
Corliss, 30, was fired as host of the Discovery Channel show "Stunt Junkies"
after attempting the jump April 27.

-- From News Services

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 8, 2007 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 368 words

L.A. Marchers Denounce Bush's Immigration Plan

LOS ANGELES -- Thousands of people marched through downtown Los Angeles on
Saturday, demanding

a way for the country's estimated 12 million illegal immigrants to become
citizens and condemning President Bush's latest proposal.

Carrying signs saying "Amnesty Now!" and "Love Thy Neighbor, Don't Deport Him,"
about 15,000 people danced to Mexican ranchera music, chanted "S?, se puede!"
("Yes, it can be done!") and passed large American flags over the crowd.

Many were angry about a White House plan that would grant illegal immigrants
work visas but, before letting them apply for U.S. residency, require them to
return home and pay a $10,000 fine.

The plan, leaked last week, calls for a new visa that would allow
illegal-immigrant workers to apply for three-year work permits. They would be
renewable indefinitely but would cost $3,500 each time.

"For my wife and I," the work permits and the green-card application "would cost
about $30,000," said Francisco Gomez, 41, who, along with his wife, is in the
country illegally. "Multiply that by all the illegal immigrants here. . . . It's
obvious Bush just wants to fund his Iraq war with our money."

* * *

CHICAGO -- Cardinal Francis George fractured a hip after he slipped and fell on
the marble floor of a church while blessing Easter baskets, a spokeswoman for
the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Chicago said. George, 70, will remain
hospitalized for several days. The injury will not require surgery, but he will
need physical therapy. George underwent surgery last July to have his cancerous
bladder removed.

SAN FRANCISCO -- Northwest Airlines canceled a flight after the captain cursed
on a cellphone in a lavatory and then swore at one of the 180 passengers on the
plane, bound for Detroit from Las Vegas, officials said. Local police questioned
the captain, whose name was not released, and determined that there was no cause
to conduct a sobriety test, a Federal Aviation Administration spokesman said.
But Northwest canceled the flight and flew the pilot back to his base in
Detroit. The airline said it expects to get the last of the delayed passengers
to their destinations by Sunday.

-- From News Services

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Stefano Paltera -- Associated Press; Jennifer Moreno, 5, gets
a better view courtesy of her father, Adrian, at a rally in Los Angeles seeking
amnesty and citizenship for illegal immigrants.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 10, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Looking the Other Way on Immigrants;
Some Cities Buck Federal Policies

BYLINE: Anthony Faiola; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1368 words

DATELINE: HIGHTSTOWN, N.J.


After federal agents launched a massive raid on an apartment complex here two
years ago, other illegal immigrants in this quiet town near Princeton University
grew so wary of the law, authorities say, that many began hiding behind
headstones in a local cemetery when patrol cars approached.

But these days, the immigrants of Hightstown are more likely to be the ones
calling the cops.

In the aftermath of a series of raids in 2004, the town council in this historic
borough of 5,300 -- transformed in recent years by an influx of at least 1,300
Latin Americans -- unanimously approved a sort of immigrant bill of rights.
Joining a growing list of cities enacting a no-questions-asked policy on
immigration status, Hightstown now allows its undocumented residents to
officially interact with local police and access city services without fear of
being reported to federal authorities.

It has opened new lines of communication here, officials say. One illegal
immigrant at the complex where the raids were staged called on the police
recently to help place a family member in alcohol rehabilitation; others have
reported domestic abuse, extortion, theft and other crimes. Some are calling the
town's pro-immigrant mayor for advice on City Hall weddings and landlord
troubles. Hightstown has added services aimed at immigrants, including free
bilingual computer classes last month. Noting the shift, one Spanish-language
newspaper recently dubbed Hightstown the "Paradise Town" of New Jersey.

"People are talking about how the police here can be trusted, so I called them
right after I was mugged," said Julio, 33, a Guatemalan illegal immigrant who
was assaulted in Hightstown last year. He said he was robbed several times in
Texas before moving to New Jersey three years ago, but was too fearful to call
law enforcement there. Here, "they came out to meet me, made a report and gave
me a ride home. They haven't caught the guys who did it, but at least I didn't
feel like I was the one who committed a crime."

As Congress once again prepares to consider immigration bills, the debate is
already playing on the nation's Main Streets, with liberal enclaves extending
protections to illegal immigrants as conservative locales seek to push them out.

The country is deeply divided on immigration, with 29 percent of respondents in
a December Washington Post-ABC News Poll calling immigrants "good" for their
communities and an equal number describing them as "bad." About 39 percent said
they make no difference.

With federal authorities enlisting local law enforcement agencies to act as
their "eyes and ears" on the ground, a number of towns have responded with
highly publicized zero-tolerance policies on illegal immigrants. In Hazelton,
Pa., the Illegal Immigration Relief Act -- passed last year but being challenged
in federal court -- denies licenses to businesses that employ illegal
immigrants, fines landlords $1,000 for each illegal immigrant discovered renting
their properties and requires that city documents be in English only. Other
towns have deputized police officers to act as local immigration cops.

But equally fervent are a less well-known but fast-growing number of "sanctuary"
cities and towns -- from Seattle to Cambridge, Mass. -- where local authorities
are effectively rejecting the federal government's call for tougher enforcement
and instead bestowing a measure of local acceptance.

In New Haven, Conn., for example, officials have prohibited police from asking
about an immigrant's legal status, and in July the city will introduce municipal
identification cards, providing undocumented immigrants with a "locally legal"
form of ID that will make it easier for them to apply for bank accounts and sign
rental leases. Overall, at least 20 cities and towns have approved
pro-immigration measures over the past three years, according to the D.C.-based
Fair Immigration Reform Movement. Analysts and advocates say almost as many --
including at least five in New Jersey, where about one in 17 residents is an
illegal immigrant -- are considering similar resolutions.

"What we're seeing is a surge in immigration policy at the local level," said
Michael Wishnie, a Yale University law professor who has worked with New York
City on pro-immigration measures. "What they have in common is that mayors are
basically saying, 'Look, this is a major issue for us, and if Congress can't fix
it, we will.' "

Initially coined by immigrant groups in the 1980s, when a number of cities
approved local laws granting a haven to the victims of civil wars in Central and
South America, the term "sanctuary city" has been adopted in recent years by
opponents of pro-immigrant ordinances. They argue that the new crop of towns
approving such measures is effectively sanctioning illegal immigration.

"You have cities facilitating the violation of federal law and tying the hands
of their police forces in terms of when they can or can't ask about legal
status," said Steven A. Camarota, research director for the Center for
Immigration Studies. "You're also talking about a group of people who often work
off-the-books but are getting access to expensive city services. It's not fair
to everyone else paying the bill."

Hightstown Mayor Robert Patten, who hails from the core German-Irish stock in
this heavily Democratic town, sees things differently. The town square, once
peppered with empty storefronts, is brimming with new Latin American restaurants
and remittance centers. Last year, the town closed the streets for an Ecuadorian
festival that brought together hundreds of residents.

"Most of us know this town would have a heck of a time trying to run itself
these days without the immigrants," said Patten, a Republican. "They're working
at the grocery stores, the fast-food places, they're opening businesses and
keeping this town alive and young. We're just being practical by telling them,
'Look, we want you in our community, and we want you to feel like you belong.' "

Patten and his wife, Kathy, have taken Spanish classes and given their personal
phone numbers to immigrants. The mayor helped secure the release of one
Hightstown immigrant seized by immigration authorities in 2005 in a case of
mistaken identity.

At a city-sponsored health fair at Hightstown High School last month, dozens of
immigrants showed up for free medical checks by a local doctor, while a local
police officer roamed the halls to engage residents. "?Como esta?" Patten
repeated in American-accented Spanish as he went through the crowd, receiving
pats on the back, hugs and kisses.

"I feel I can get help in this town," said Sonia, a 34-year-old from Ecuador
who, like all illegal immigrants interviewed here, declined to give a last name.
After getting an HIV test, she was in line to take her infant son for a doctor's
visit. "These are things I could never afford. I don't have health insurance,
and I'm afraid to go to the county hospital. I don't know what kind of paperwork
they ask for. I feel more comfortable here. No forms. No questions. You just
have to come in."

As police have promised to refrain from asking about immigrants' legal status,
authorities say communication between undocumented residents and local law
enforcement officials has markedly improved. Although police here concede that
they must cooperate with federal agents possessing outstanding warrants for
illegal immigrants, they say they will arrest immigrants  or report their
undocumented status only if they are  caught committing a criminal offense.

Maria, 23, who arrived in Hightstown from Ecuador two years ago, was persuaded
by a bilingual volunteer police liaison to call police after $3,000 was stolen
from her family's apartment last November. Most of the undocumented families
here, whose status makes it difficult to open bank accounts, keep the money they
earn -- from jobs in a local packaging factory -- at home, living in constant
fear of robbery.

"We are so vulnerable because of our status that the idea of calling the police
is still a little frightening," Maria said. "But we realize now that if we
don't, there's no chance of justice. And if we do, they are going to at least
try to help us -- not arrest us for being victims."

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Reporte Hispano; Jason Castro-Loja gets a local ID card in
Hightstown, N.J., where immigrants have access to city services without
questions about their legal status.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 27, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

TODAY'S NEWS

SECTION: Style; C11

LENGTH: 200 words


*  President Bush signed into law yesterday a bill that calls for the creation
of a huge fence between parts of the United States and Mexico.

The fence, which would cover about 700 miles of the 2,100 miles where the
countries share a border, is designed to keep people from illegally entering the
United States from Mexico.

"Unfortunately, the United States has not been in complete control of its
borders for decades, and therefore illegal immigration has been on the rise,"
Bush said yesterday.

There's an expression you might have heard: "Good fences make good neighbors."
But the United States' neighbor to the south is not pleased about the fencing.
Mexico's President Vicente Fox called the fence "shameful."

There are already fences along parts of the border, which includes the states of
California, Arizona, New Mexico and Texas. Some officers who patrol the border
say that in parts of California where there's fencing, it's easier to catch
people who are entering the country illegally.

Others say that a fence won't keep out someone who wants to come to the United
States. "A fence will slow people down by a minute or two," said T.J. Bonner of
the National Border Patrol Council.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              71 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 5, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A15

LENGTH: 638 words


HOUSTON  --  A truck driver was convicted Monday in the deaths of 19 illegal
immigrants crammed into a sweltering tractor-trailer, the deadliest human
smuggling attempt in U.S. history.

The jury is to return Wednesday to begin hearing evidence on whether Tyrone
Williams, 35, should get the death penalty.

It was the second time that Williams was found guilty in the case; an appeals
court said the earlier verdict was flawed and ordered a new trial.

The federal jury deliberated a little more than four days before convicting
Williams on all 58 counts of conspiracy, harboring and transporting for agreeing
to drive the illegal immigrants from South Texas to Houston in 2003.

The more than 70 immigrants packed into the airtight trailer clawed desperately
at the insulation, broke out the taillights and screamed for help.

WILMINGTON, N.C.  --  A teenager accused of robbing a student of two new
PlayStation 3s on the day that the popular game consoles were introduced was
shot to death by police sent to arrest him.

Peyton Strickland, 18, was killed Friday at a house he shared with three
roommates, New Hanover County Sheriff Sid Causey said.

"If this boy would've come to the door, opened the door, we probably wouldn't be
talking," the sheriff said.

Roommate Mike Rhoton said Strickland was unarmed but may have been holding a
video game controller when the door was bashed in by officers.

Authorities promised to investigate the shooting.

*  CINCINNATI  --  The Bush administration asked the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the 6th Circuit to toss out a lawsuit challenging a warrantless surveillance
program, saying the government cannot defend itself without revealing national
secrets. The Justice Department is appealing an August ruling by U.S. District
Judge Anna Diggs Taylor in Detroit. Taylor wrote that the program violates the
rights to free speech and privacy and the separation of powers.

*  LOS ANGELES  --  Douglas Barry, a 31-year veteran of the Los Angeles Fire
Department, was appointed as interim chief by Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa (D),
becoming the first African American to lead the department. Mayoral officials
said that Barry does not want to permanently replace William Bamattre, who
resigned as chief amid complaints of discrimination and rampant hazing.

*  HOUMA, La.  --  A man arrested at a homeless shelter and charged with two
killings has confessed to those and 21 others, authorities said. Ronald J.
Dominique, 42, was charged with nine additional counts of murder. Terrebonne
Parish Sheriff Jerry Larpenter said that Dominique confessed to killing 23 men,
all  between the ages of 16 and 46, between 1997 and 2005.

*  FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla.  --  A stamp once thought to be a rare find worth
hundreds of thousands of dollars is a fake, experts said after reviewing the
postage used to mail an absentee ballot in last month's election. An incorrect
number of border perforations and its thickness, printing method and inexact
colors gave it away as a forged Inverted Jenny, said Mercer Bristow of the
American Philatelic Society.

*  LAS VEGAS  --  More than 600 nurses picketed at two hospitals after
management locked them out, according to a union official. Valley Hospital
Medical Center and Desert Springs Hospitals account for about one-third of the
city's hospital beds. The hospitals' owner, Universal Health Services Inc., and
the Service Employees International Union had reached an impasse in contract
talks. Universal Health officials did not comment on the lockout claim.

*  COLORADO SPRINGS  --  A 2-month-old girl was in good condition, police said,
after being hospitalized with a blood-alcohol level of 0.364 percent, more than
four times Colorado's legal limit for an adult driver. Authorities were still
investigating how the girl ingested the alcohol.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              72 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 4, 2007 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrant Processors Fall Behind;
System Overwhelmed Even Without 'Amnesty,' Guest Workers

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 627 words


As the White House and Congress prepare to overhaul the nation's immigration
laws, U.S. officials have concluded that they lack the technology and resources
to handle the millions of applications for legal residency that could result
from the changes and that several efforts to modernize computers have gone
astray.

Immigration officials have said for years that it is critical to update an
antiquated, paper-based application process before the government grants a new
path to citizenship for as many as 12 million illegal immigrants living in the
United States or creates a temporary-worker program, as senators and the Bush
administration propose.

But in recent months, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS)
officials have determined that the troubled, $2-billion-a-year agency is unable
to effectively manage its existing work, much less a flood of new applications.

A report released Dec. 20 by Homeland Security Inspector General Richard L.
Skinner cited a long list of setbacks and concurred with internal USCIS reviews
that the bureau "lacks the processing capacity, systems integration and project
management resources needed to manage a potential increase in workloads."

A project to replace the nationwide computer network has been halted because the
agency lacks $72 million to complete it. A staff reorganization was frozen
because of deficiencies "that hinder day-to-day IT operations," according to the
report.

USCIS is in the midst of its third major modernization effort in three years,
leaving some employees confused over whether such efforts were completed or were
ever begun,  the report said.

Many legal immigrants already face years-long waits when they apply for green
cards, often a first step toward obtaining citizenship. Another 100,000 names
submitted to the FBI for background checks have been on hold for a year or more.
Congressional auditors recently reported that 14 immigration offices had lost
track of 111,000 files as of July.

The inspector's report noted that the agency shelved pilot programs to
streamline one type of business-sponsored visa application in October and
electronic processing of immigration benefits in March because of cost, timing
and contracting challenges. "USCIS may be losing momentum and user confidence,"
the report said.

USCIS spokesman Chris Bentley said the agency had no comment beyond a written
response to the report by Deputy Director Jonathan Scharfen.

"We acknowledge that we still have a great deal to do," Scharfen wrote, adding
that re-engineering USCIS processes "remains a high priority." He noted that the
agency has drafted new strategic and acquisition plans and hired a contractor to
help.

The agency announced in September that it had cut its backlog of applications by
70 percent after a five-year, $560 million effort provided more personnel. In
August, USCIS awarded a five-year, $150 million contract to convert 55 million
files into electronic form.

Private analysts said that the report revealed a broken immigration system and
that by funding USCIS through user fees, Congress hobbles its ability to pay
upfront for expansions or upgrades.

"Congress needs to step up and provide the funding to ensure that USCIS is able
to build a functioning infrastructure, regardless of the fate of immigration
reform," said Crystal Williams, deputy director of programs for the American
Immigration Lawyers Association.

Congress withheld $47 million from USCIS this year pending approval of a final
technology overhaul plan by Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff and
Congress's audit arm, the Government Accountability Office. A USCIS contractor
reported the plan would cost $400 million to $1.4 billion, depending on what the
agency decides it needs.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              73 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 11, 2007 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

A Change of Heart on Guest Workers

BYLINE: Janet Murguia

SECTION: Editorial; B07

LENGTH: 725 words


After President Bush highlighted the need for a temporary-worker program as part
of a larger immigration reform in his State of the Union address, Rep. Charles
Rangel (D-N.Y.) compared the president's proposal to slavery. Rangel is right to
be concerned. Our nation's history with such programs has been dreadful.

Many Latinos still have searing memories of the infamous bracero program, which
more than 50 years ago became synonymous with worker abuse. The current
guest-worker programs for agriculture and other "non-skilled" labor are not much
better. Experience tells us that there is good reason to be concerned that a new
worker visa program could repeat these mistakes, creating a permanent, sizable
subclass of workers who endure harsh treatment while simultaneously undercutting
their American co-workers.

Despite these concerns, after decades of strongly opposing temporary-worker
programs for the very reasons that Rangel articulates, my organization and many
Latino leaders find ourselves in the interesting position of being principal
advocates for a significant new worker visa program as part of comprehensive
immigration reform.

Some think we got here as the result of some devil's bargain with our allies
among business leaders: They get a new worker program, and we get a path to
citizenship for undocumented workers. Not so. We have concluded that a new legal
pathway for the future flow of immigrant workers to the United States is the
safest, most reasonable path for immigrant workers, for their co-workers in this
country, and for a nation hungry for order and control at the border.

We share that hunger. Latinos know that even if we pass immigration reforms that
include a path to citizenship for millions of immigrants who work, pay taxes and
otherwise contribute to the United States, we will have failed to fix our
nation's broken immigration system unless we do what previous reforms did not:
Acknowledge that there will continue to be a flow across the border and that we
will do everything we can to control and regulate it.

If this year's immigration debate accomplishes what the debate in 1986 did  --
marry a legalization program with additional enforcement without addressing the
future flow of migrants  --  we will have addressed the symptoms of our broken
system without repairing it. The cost of this mistake will be enormous: a
continued death toll at the border; a sizable flow of undocumented workers who
come to this country under harsher conditions; increased harassment of and
discrimination against Hispanic Americans often mistaken for immigrants; and
exacerbated public frustration that the immigration issue is still not under
control.

But we do not have to repeat past mistakes. The immigration reform bill the
Senate passed last year contains a much different model of a worker visa program
than the unjust model we have lived with for decades. Workers would not be at
the mercy of abusive employers in that they could change jobs and alert the
authorities to mistreatment. Rather than becoming a permanent second-class
workforce, they would have the opportunity to earn a path to permanent status
--  and ultimately citizenship  --  as one of the only classes of migrants able
to petition for themselves rather than relying on an employer or relative to
petition for them. There are important labor protections for immigrant workers
as well as for their American co-workers, including a requirement that immigrant
workers be paid the prevailing wage in an industry to avoid undercutting the
wages of American workers employed there.  The 110th Congress has an opportunity
to build from this strong start and do even better.

We are deeply aware of the risks of going down this path in the immigration
reform debate, including accusations that we are selling out one group of
immigrant workers to help another. But  our critics offer no practical solutions
for the flow of migrants that will surely continue or for the abuses these
workers will face if they survive the trip across the border. We owe it to
migrants, as well as to the nation that their hard work will sustain, to shape a
new path for migration that is legal, safe and endowed with protections for
immigrant and American workers alike.

The writer is president and chief executive of the National Council

of La Raza.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              74 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 21, 2007 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Uneasy Alliance Over Legalizing Workers;
Business, Labor Groups Lobby for Immigration Law

BYLINE: Krissah Williams; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. D03

LENGTH: 737 words


Reflecting the importance of immigrant workers to the U.S. economy, business and
labor groups are fighting to shape a bill overhauling immigration law that could
be introduced as early as this week.

Although they all want Congress to legalize the nation's 12 million illegal
immigrants, they differ on how it should be done. The result is a tug of war
that is pulling negotiations in various directions as legislators prepare to
restart debate on comprehensive immigration legislation. Advocates ranging from
flower wholesalers to computer programmers from India are bombarding legislators
on the run-up to the bill's introduction, hoping their proposals will be
included.

Reps. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.) and Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.) are hashing out a bill
and plan to introduce it this week or next, a Gutierrez aide said. Sen. Edward
M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) has said he plans to put forward legislation passed last
year by the Senate Judiciary Committee. Both houses considered immigration
proposals last year but failed to reach a compromise and efforts for a
wide-ranging overhaul died.

Proponents of legalization have a hodge-podge of requests, resulting in a slew
of competing messages along from a growing number of immigration-related
business coalitions.

Five human resources organizations, including the Society for Human Resource
Management and the American Council on International Personnel, are asking
Congress to reject an expansion of the Department of Homeland Security's pilot
employee verification program which has had inconsistent results.

A coalition of business groups with members as varied as the National Restaurant
Association and the Golf Course Superintendents Association of America are
lobbying for an increase in both temporary visas and green cards for immigrants.

Microsoft, Intel and other tech companies want the right to bring as many highly
skilled immigrants to the United States as the market will support.

The requests have little in common and each contingent is striving to make its
voice loudest.

A human resources group has sent a few hundred people to Capitol Hill to lobby
their representatives, telling them that an improved process for verifying
workers' documentation "is the lynchpin on which any successful immigration
reform has to work," said Susan Meisinger, president of the Society for Human
Resource Management.

Aman Kapoor, who founded a grass-roots group of mostly computer programmers from
India and China who hold temporary H-1B visas for skilled workers, has traveled
to Washington from his home in Tallahassee every two weeks for the past several
months to push his message on Capitol Hill.

"It will take me almost 20 years to become a citizen," he said last week before
meeting with Patton Boggs, the lobbying firm that he and other H-1B holders
hired to advocate for provisions to help alleviate the green card backlog.

Despite the varying agendas, most advocates of immigration legislation are
basically aligned. If one group gets what it wants, the others won't be harmed.
A more serious rift has formed between two of the most powerful backers of an
overhaul, the AFL-CIO and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.

The groups are deeply divided over a guest-worker program. The AFL-CIO, the
nation's largest coalition of labor unions, opposes such programs but wants
undocumented workers to be legalized. That would give illegal immigrants the
right to organize and join unions. The union federation wants any immigrant
worker program to include provisions of the 1931 Davis-Bacon Act, a law
requiring federal contractors to pay a prevailing local wage.

The chamber badly wants the ability to legalize undocumented workers and free
employers of the liability and scrutiny that the growing illegal workforce has
brought to business. But the group will withdraw its support and lobby against
the bill if the prevailing wage requirement is included, saying that it would
drastically increase costs.

"Organized labor is risking flushing down the toilet the future of 10 million
undocumented workers on the altar of this Davis-Bacon expansion," said Randel
Johnson, a vice president at the Chamber of Commerce. "They are risking the
entire bill."

Compromise is the only solution, said Angela Kelley, deputy director of the
National Immigration Forum, which has united groups that support legalizing
undocumented immigrants.

"All of them ultimately have to ride the same big train," Kelley said.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Spencer Platt -- Getty Images; An aggressive policy against
undocumented workers in Hazelton, Pa., pushed out many illegal workers and left
staffing shortages. Business and labor groups are lobbying Congress for a new
immigration bill.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 19, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrants Sending $45 Billion Home

BYLINE: Krissah Williams, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A09

LENGTH: 716 words


Immigrant workers are sending more money than ever to their families in Latin
America, but two new studies show that only a small portion of the billions of
dollars directed there has gone to economic development.

A report released yesterday by the Inter-American Development Bank estimates
that immigrants living in the United States will send $45 billion to family
members this year, representing a steady increase from about $2 billion in 1980.

That money, known as remittances, is five times as large as official development
assistance to Latin America and the Caribbean. Remittances have grown as more
migrants, often unemployed in their homelands, have come north in search of
work. At the same time, governments and international development groups have
busily debated how to leverage remittance flows to create jobs and lasting
investments.

"We know that this is a very important poverty-alleviation program for 20
million families [in Latin America and the Caribbean]," said Donald Terry,
manager of the Multilateral Investment Fund of the Inter-American Development
Bank. "The big question is can we turn this into a local economic development
program."

About $3 billion in remittances will go to El Salvador this year, or about 15
percent of that country's gross domestic product and more money per capita than
flows to Mexico, which will receive $24 billion from immigrants living in the
United States.

According to the Inter-American Development Bank, nearly 90 percent of
immigrants living in the District, Maryland and Virginia regularly send money to
their home countries, totaling an estimated $2.2 billion this year. World Bank
researchers, who will release a report later this month, found that the overall
impact of remittances on Latin American economies is modest at best. For every
one percent increase in the share of remittances to a country's gross domestic
product, the fraction of the population living in poverty is reduced by about
0.4 percent.

Humberto Lopez, who co-authored the upcoming World Bank report "Close to Home:
The Development Impact of Remittances in Latin America," said the money sent
home by migrant workers cannot be seen as a substitute for good economic
policies.

"The countries that benefit the most are the countries with the better
investment environment and the countries with the better-educated population,"
Lopez said. Remittances "are probably more an opportunity than any other thing."

To spur greater development and poverty reduction, the Inter-American
Development Bank has advocated greater access to savings accounts for remittance
recipients and participation in micro-finance institutions, which offer small
loans to remittance recipients.

Most of the money immigrant workers send to their families is used for basic
needs, such as food, medicine and shelter, but more than half of the immigrants
surveyed by the Inter-American Development Bank said that they would like to
invest a portion of that money. But the majority of Latin America's financial
institutions don't have programs that help the families of migrant workers, who
are often poor and rural, open savings accounts or start small businesses.

"Poor people save," Terry said. "Poor people will invest if you give them the
opportunity to do that."

The development bank's survey put the percent of remittances available for
investment at 15 to 20 percent, or about $12 billion. Nearly 30 percent of
people who send money home have used it to buy property, about 1 percent have
helped start a business, and less than 5 percent have opened a savings account
back home.

Governments have had more success leveraging remittances sent home by community
groups formed by immigrants living in the United States. Several years ago,
Mexico started a matching grant program, which challenges immigrants to raise
money for development and infrastructure projects in their home towns. The
government matches the funds three-to-one. The Pan American Development
Foundation has a similar program with Banco Agrícola SA, a Salvadoran bank. Next
week it plans to begin school repairs in Intipuca, a home town to many
Salvadorans in the Washington area. Comunidad del Esteron, a District-based
group, raised $9,400 for the project and the bank put up the rest of the money.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              76 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 6, 2006 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Another Chance on Immigration

BYLINE: Fareed Zakaria

SECTION: Editorial; A21

LENGTH: 858 words


If Iraq was the dominant topic of the election season, immigration is the issue
that wasn't. Despite the efforts of populist and nativist politicians and
pundits to whip up hysteria about a looming catastrophe, Americans didn't bite.
In a Newsweek poll taken last week, voters listed immigration a distant fifth on
their list of concerns  --  after Iraq, terrorism, the economy and health care.

Polling on immigration has been remarkably consistent over the past few years.
The American public wants tighter enforcement of the laws but also realizes that
the system in place is unworkable. Consistent two-thirds majorities favor a
comprehensive overhaul that would include tighter enforcement, but also
guest-worker visas and a path to citizenship for illegal workers already in the
country. This compromise package has the potential to be realized after the
elections. After all, how many issues are there today on which George W. Bush,
Hillary Clinton, John McCain, Ted Kennedy and Rudy Giuliani all agree?

The great obstacle to immigration reform has been a noisy minority. Only about
20 percent of voters, mostly but not exclusively Republican, are dead set
against a guest-worker program as well as any path to citizenship for illegal
immigrants. But they are active primary voters, which means that their influence
has been vastly enhanced (and exaggerated) during the campaign season. Come
tomorrow, the party will be over. CNN's Lou Dobbs and his angry band of
xenophobes will continue to rail, but a new Congress, with fewer Republicans and
no impending primary elections, would make the climate much less vulnerable to
the tyranny of the minority.

On the contrary, it will make enormous political sense for all sides to come
together and cut a deal. To start with, President Bush needs to accomplish
something. He has given only two Oval Office addresses on domestic policy  --
one on Social Security reform, the other on immigration. The first is dead. If
he cannot enact his immigration plan, his second term will be void of any
achievements.

McCain, the Republican front-runner in 2008, needs to get the issue off the
table before the Republican presidential primaries heat up. The maverick senator
can fudge almost every other issue on which he disagrees with the Republican
base. He can signal greater warmth toward the religious right. Global warming is
an abstraction. The torture debate is over. But on immigration, McCain is the
author of a bill that has at its heart provisions for guest workers and
citizenship. He needs to get the issue resolved.

The same logic applies for Giuliani, who sometimes polls even higher than McCain
among Republicans. Giuliani supports Bush's position on immigration (which is
essentially the same as McCain's) even though he makes the requisite noises
about defending the border. For the Democrats this is an unusual opportunity.
They could get most of what they want, while a Republican president gives them
cover on the right.

But for any of this to happen, Bush has to decide that he wants immigration
reform enough to change his political style. He will have to craft a bill that
relies on Democrats to pass, not Republicans. It's been done before. Bill
Clinton supported the North American Free Trade Agreement knowing full well that
he would not have the support of his Democratic base. He did so because he
believed it was the right policy for the country. If Bush feels the same way,
for the first time in his presidency, he should govern from the center.

Bush faces a similar choice. Like trade, immigration is an issue on which the
instinctive, emotional position is simple, powerful and wrong. The evidence is
overwhelming that the United States benefits hugely from immigration  --  and
that it needs all the immigrants it's receiving, legal and illegal. Alone in the
industrialized world, America has a rising population, which means a
faster-growing economy and new supplies of young workers who can sustain the
needs of the economy and of retirees. Without immigration, America's growth rate
has not been much different than France's over the past 20 years.

The only point on which there has been serious academic debate is whether
immigrants lower the wages of native-born Americans. Recent research by
Professor Giovanni Perri at the University of California at Berkeley proves that
previous models have been wrong and that the net effect of immigration is
positive for all workers. Perri says he's been conservative in his estimates and
that, taking into account other side effects of immigration, the boost to wages
may be even higher.

Comprehensive reform is the only way forward. Enforcement only or first will not
work. Laws that pay no heed to the forces of supply and demand end up as costly
failures (think of Prohibition). The good news is that this is a rare case where
good policy and good politics could come together.

The writer is editor of Newsweek International. He co-hosts, with The Post's
David Ignatius, PostGlobal, an online discussion of international issues at
www.washingtonpost.com. His e-mail address is comments@fareedzakaria.com.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 8, 2006



CORRECTION: A Nov. 6 column by Fareed Zakaria misspelled the last name of
Giovanni Peri and listed an incorrect affiliation. He is a professor at the
University of California at Davis.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              77 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 4, 2007 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrants a Driving Force Behind Start-Ups, Study Says;
Tech Industry Clamors to Get More Visas for Foreign Workers

BYLINE: Krissah Williams, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Financial; D05

LENGTH: 795 words


About 25 percent of the technology and engineering companies launched in the
past decade had at least one foreign-born founder, according to a study released
yesterday that throws new information into the debate over foreign workers who
arrive in the United States on specialty visas.

The report, based on telephone surveys with 2,054 companies and projections by
researchers at the University of California at Berkeley and at Duke University,
found that immigrants  --  mostly from India and China  --  helped start
hundreds of companies with estimated sales of nearly $50 billion. It was written
by a former technology executive who was an immigrant himself.

Technology-industry lobbyists have already cited the study in a push to persuade
Congress to increase the annual allotment of H-1B visas, which allow U.S.
companies to sponsor temporary workers in specialty occupations, such as
computer programming and systems analysis. The companies say they cannot find
enough Americans to fill jobs; other proponents contend that globalization
requires U.S. companies to import talented workers.

"This research shows that immigrants have become a significant driving force in
the creation of new businesses and intellectual property in the U.S.  --  and
that their contributions have increased over the past decade," wrote Vivek
Wadhwa, the study's author, who immigrated from India with his family as a young
man.

Another study will be released next month by the Center for Immigration Studies,
which supports low levels of immigration. That report says most specialty visa
holders come to the United States to do low-level professional jobs for
relatively low pay.

Wadhwa's study looked at founders of engineering and technology companies
started from 1995 to 2005, and analyzed the World Intellectual Property
Organization Patent Cooperation Treaty database. About 25 percent of
international patents filed in the United States in 2006 were submitted by
immigrants.

Scott McNealy, chairman and co-founder of Sun Microsystems, is among the
advocates for an expanded visa program, writing editorials, calling members of
Congress and supporting political action committees.

McNealy noted that immigrants Vinod Kosla of India and Andy Bechtelsheim of
Germany co-founded Sun. The company "created tens of thousands of jobs that have
generated billions of dollars in exports and has created thousands of patents
and intellectual-property positions," McNealy said. "Why would you have any
arbitrary number on smart people?"

Last year, the industry raised the issue in the national debate over immigration
reform, but Congress ended its session without acting on the Securing Knowledge,
Innovation and Leadership Act. The bill would increase the annual quota on the
H-1B visas to 115,000 from 65,000, eliminate green-card caps for some
advanced-degree holders and streamline the processing of employment-based green
cards. Tech lobbyists want to revive it.

"We are working on that new piece of legislation that will hopefully be a great
fix for a lot of our companies," said Andrea Hoffman, vice president of
government and political affairs for TechNet, an industry lobby backed by
hundreds of technology companies, including Apple Computer, Microsoft and
Google.

Those who favor low levels of immigration and oppose expanding the
specialty-worker programs contend that foreigners accept lower pay and depress
wages.

Jessica M. Vaughan, an analyst at the Center for Immigration Studies, said an
increase in the cap would amount to "a subsidy for business because it allows
them to bring cheaper labor from overseas."

It is unknown how many of the immigrants who founded technology companies had
H-1B visas.

At least two Northern Virginia tech companies were founded by former H-1B
holders. Sudhakar V. Shenoy, founder and chief executive of Reston-based
Information Management Consultants, immigrated to the United States in 1970
after graduating from the Indian Institutes of Technology  --  known informally
as the "MIT of India"  --  and attending graduate school in Connecticut. In
1974, he was offered an H-1B visa, and a manufacturing company sponsored his
green card in 1977. Four years later, he founded IMC, which has 350 employees in
Reston and 125 in Pune, India.

Peter Harrison came from Britain on the specialty visa and later became chief
executive of GlobalLogic (formerly Induslogic), a Vienna-based software
development company founded in 2000 by two men from India, who were also H-1B
holders.

The company has grown rapidly and employs 1,600 people in the United States,
India and Ukraine. Only a few dozen of them have H-1B visas.

"They are very, very hard to come by," Harrison said. "We are always at a
challenge to recruit people."

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              78 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 27, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Laborers Sue For Overtime Pay;
Immigrants Accuse Firm of Fraud

BYLINE: Ruben Castaneda, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B02

LENGTH: 581 words


A federal lawsuit filed in Greenbelt alleges that a Maryland company that paints
luxury condominiums in the District defrauded Latino immigrant workers who
routinely worked 60 hours or more a week by failing to pay them overtime.

The company, SCCP Painting Contractors Inc., also allegedly did not pay the four
plaintiffs named in the suit for their final two weeks of work. One of the
workers, Ivan Aplicano, 34, of Gaithersburg said in an interview yesterday that
he worked 113 hours during his last two weeks with the company. Its refusal to
pay him after he was fired in April meant he was unable to send money to his
native Honduras to help pay for the burial of his mother, Aplicano said.

The company's owner, John Sulmonte, said yesterday that he was unaware of the
lawsuit or of the allegations that people who worked for him were not paid for
their labor.

"I don't know anything about it," Sulmonte said, adding that the workers and
their attorneys were welcome to call him. The company is headquartered in
Frederick County.

The lawsuit was filed last week in U.S. District Court by the Washington
Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights and Urban Affairs and lawyers with the
downtown firm of Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman.

They plan to ask a federal judge to certify the suit as a class-action lawsuit,
said Laura E. Varela, a lawyer with the lawyers' committee.

Class-action status would allow attorneys for the plaintiffs to seek payment
records from the company for every employee for the past three years, Varela
said. SCCP has employed more than 500 workers during that time, she said.

"They bring in groups of workers for large jobs and, when they're done, they
fire them," Varela said. Virtually all of the workers are Latino immigrants, she
said, and many are day laborers.

Varela and Anne E. Langford, a lawyer with the firm that collaborated in filing
the lawsuit, declined to say whether Aplicano or any of the other three named
plaintiffs are in the country without proper documentation.

Varela said the workers' immigration status is irrelevant to the lawsuit:
"They're entitled to their wages for their labor."

In the Washington area, Latino day laborers have looked to the courts several
times in recent years to recover wages they said they were cheated out of by
dishonest employers.

In April 2005, a subcontractor pleaded guilty in Prince George's County Circuit
Court to seven misdemeanor counts of failure to pay wages to day laborers who
helped build a luxury condominium building in Bowie. In August of that year, the
subcontractor, Francisco Sandoval, was ordered by a Prince George's judge to pay
$21,000 in restitution to the workers he had cheated.

In May 2005, a Prince William County court ordered a Virginia Beach
subcontractor to pay Leoncio Vite $1,138 for 110 hours of unpaid work involving
fiber optic cable installation.

One of the plaintiffs in the lawsuit filed last week, Manuel Carrera, a
49-year-old Mexican immigrant who lives in Northern Virginia, said in an
interview that he worked for SCCP for three months, until he quit last February.
Carrera said he and other Latino workers toiled from 7 a.m. until about 6 p.m.
painting luxury condominiums on Church Street near Dupont Circle, with only a
20-minute lunch break.

Aplicano said he and other workers at times were required to continue working
into the early morning, painting another luxury condominium in Georgetown.

"They treated us very badly," Carrera said.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              79 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 4, 2007 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

LABOR

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. D02

LENGTH: 816 words

LABOR

U.S. Gets H-1B Applications

 The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services said it had received more than
150,000 applications from companies, universities and nonprofit organizations
that want to hire foreign workers through a special visa program. The
immigration agency began accepting applications Monday for 65,000 professional
visas, known as H-1B, that are issued to foreign college graduates. An
additional 20,000 visas are available to holders of master's and doctorate
degrees.

Because the government has received more requests for visas than the quota
allows, the agency will dole the visas out using a computer-generated lottery,
said spokeswoman Chris Rhatigan.

 REGULATORS

FTC Subpoenas Bristol-Myers

U.S. antitrust regulators have started a civil investigation of an agreement
Bristol-Myers Squibb made last year in an unsuccessful attempt to delay generic
competition to its best-selling heart pill, Plavix.

The Federal Trade Commission served the drugmaker with a subpoena on March 21
seeking documents related to a settlement that it made with Apotex,
Bristol-Myers said in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Bristol-Myers said it would cooperate.

TELECOM

Rules on Cable Challenged

 Lawyers for organizations representing cities and counties asked appeals courts
to invalidate rules that the Federal Communications Commission approved in
December to help new competitors offer cable television service.

At issue is whether the agency overstepped its authority when it voted require
local governments to speed the approval process for new competitors, cap fees
paid by new entrants to local governments and ease requirements that competitors
build systems that reach every home.

MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS

Alliant to Buy Swales Aerospace

Alliant Techsystems, the sole producer of reusable solid-rocket motors for the
U.S. space shuttle fleet, agreed to buy Swales Aerospace of Beltsville for about
$100 million to expand sales of satellite components. The purchase of
employee-owned Swales will boost profit and add more than $100 million in sales
in fiscal 2008, said Daniel Murphy, chief executive of Alliant.

 LEGAL

Scrushy Defends Yacht Ride

 HealthSouth founder Richard Scrushy, convicted of bribery, said a yacht ride he
took with his family was approved by his probation officer, not an attempt to
see whether he could flee. Prosecutors asked a federal judge in Montgomery,
Ala., last week to revoke the former chief executive's bail until sentencing,
claiming his Palm Beach-to-Miami boat ride last month wasn't authorized.

U.S. Magistrate Judge Charles Coody set a hearing on the matter for April 9.

 STOCK

Big Response to KBR Swap Offer

Halliburton said the response to its offer to exchange its shares for those of
KBR was so overwhelming that it could accept only about 40 percent of the
tendered Halliburton stock.

Halliburton said nearly 211 million shares have been tendered since March 2 as
part of its offer to exchange one share of Halliburton stock for 1.5905 shares
of KBR stock.

 MEDIA

News Corp. Asset Swap Approved

News Corp. shareholders approved an $11 billion asset swap that would increase
Rupert Murdoch's control over the company and transfer DirecTV Group to John
Malone's Liberty Media. The transaction needs approval from the Federal
Communications Commission and may be completed this summer, the companies have
said.

ACCOUNTING

Board Proposes Restatement Rule

The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board proposed a standard that would
require auditors to more clearly distinguish between restatements caused by
changes in accounting principles and those that are caused by errors. The
proposal must be approved by the PCAOB and the Securities and Exchange
Commission.

 SOFTWARE

Microsoft Rushes Out Patch

Microsoft released a security patch to plug a hole in several versions of
Windows, including Vista. Microsoft pushed out the critical security fix a week
ahead of a regularly scheduled update.

The company told customers Thursday about a vulnerability in ".ani" files, which
are used to change the cursor into an hourglass while a program works or into a
dancing animal or other animation on specially designed Web sites.

 MORTGAGE FINANCE

Auditor Resigns From 2 Lenders

Grant Thornton resigned as auditor of mortgage lender Fremont General, saying it
failed to provide needed information. The company said it complied with Grant
Thornton's requests.

Separately, Accredited Home Lenders said Thornton resigned as its auditor. No
reason was given. Accredited also said it arranged $1.1 billion in financing
that might help it avoid filing for bankruptcy protection.

And SouthStar Funding, which offered subprime mortgage and other products,
closed out all accounts after its investment partners cut off financing because
of payment defaults.

Compiled from reports by Washington Post staff writers, the Associated Press and
Bloomberg News.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 15, 2007 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Va. Mother Becomes Symbol on Immigration

BYLINE: Pamela Constable and N.C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 963 words


Immigrant and Hispanic advocates in Washington yesterday asked for a moratorium
on deportations, saying that a nationwide crackdown on illegal immigrants has
led to unfairly swift deportations and the confinement of thousands of men,
women and children in federal detention centers far from their families and
lawyers.

The groups highlighted the case of Leticia Alonso-Silva, 27, a Mexican-born
resident of Culpeper, Va., and a mother of two, who was arrested last month by
immigration officials on the basis of a deportation order from 1999, when she
entered the United States illegally to work as a farmhand. Soon after her
arrest, she was sent to a federal detention camp in Texas to await deportation.

"We have two little girls, and they need their mother," Fernando Chavez, 29, her
husband, told a news conference in Washington, speaking in Spanish. "We live in
Virginia, and they have moved her far away to Texas. I am asking the authorities
to please stop the deportation of my wife and let her have a day in court so she
can prove she is innocent."

Within hours of his plea yesterday morning, authorities at the immigration
detention camp in Raymondville, Tex., notified Alonso-Silva's attorney that they
planned to deport her to Mexico immediately, even though several court appeals
had been filed since her arrest, according to the attorney, Douglas Wachholz of
Falls Church.

Immigration officials said yesterday that they could not discuss an individual
case, but they said they make every effort to ensure that detainees have access
to lawyers and courts. They said that their chief obligation is to enforce
immigration law, however, and that it would not be feasible to place a
moratorium on deportations.

"The immigration process is fair anywhere in the United States," said Gary Mead,
assistant director for detention and removal operations at the national
Immigration and Customs Enforcement office in Washington. No matter where
immigrants are detained, he said, they have access to legal representation,
consulates and health care. "Their rights are equally protected."

According to court documents, Alonso-Silva was issued a final deportation order
in 1999 although she never appeared in court. Immigration officials say a court
notice was sent to her at a post office box in North Carolina, but she denied
receiving it or even knowing she was in trouble. She applied to become a legal
resident last year and was scheduled for a hearing at a government office in
Fairfax on Jan. 17; when she arrived, she was instead arrested and taken to
jail.

Immigration lawyers and advocates, who had news conferences in several cities
yesterday, said many similar situations have resulted from a nationwide effort
by immigration officials to track down and deport as many illegal immigrants as
possible, including those who may have legal spouses and children, no known
criminal history or pending applications to become legal residents.

More than 26,000 immigrants are being held in detention facilities nationwide, a
record number that follows federal raids on workplaces over the past six months,
as well as several changes in federal policy. Last year, authorities ended the
longtime practice of releasing illegal immigrants caught at the border, and they
also began detaining and deporting people who had been in the United States
illegally for years.

Mead confirmed that law enforcement and detention of illegal immigrants have
been stepped up but described the process as more efficient rather than hasty.
He stressed that officials are still most concerned about violent or fugitive
immigrants, but added that "if we encounter someone who is here illegally, we're
not going to let them go just because they weren't the target of an
investigation."

Advocates complained that in many cases, detainees facing deportation are sent
to federal facilities such as Raymondville, thousands of miles from relatives,
lawyers and regional immigration courts that would normally handle their
petitions. Detainees often have limited access to telephones or money to make
calls, advocates said.

"Immigration detention is like a black hole," said Brittney Nystrom, a project
director at the Capital Area Immigrants' Rights Coalition. "You may not know
where you are, how long you'll be there, or why." As a result of the new
crackdown, she said, "people's pasts are catching up with them after years of
thinking no one cared. It feels like there is a new, harder approach, but it
might just be better technology."

When Alonso-Silva's past caught up with her, she had built a life in Culpeper
with Chavez and their two daughters, ages 7 and 2. Chavez, a legal U.S. resident
and supervisor at Battlefield Farms in Rapidan, Va., was such a valued employee
that its owner, Jerry van Hoven, wrote the court pleading that Alonso-Silva be
allowed to remain in the United States. His letter described the family's
"life-long connections" to the community and said her deportation would have a
"devastating impact" on the family.

Meanwhile, Wachholz said he had filed a flurry of petitions to immigration
courts in Michigan, Tennessee, Ohio and Virginia, seeking to suspend
Alonso-Silva's deportation and reopen her case. Two courts swiftly denied both
petitions without a hearing, he said, while Alonso-Silva was shifted among
Virginia jails. Then she vanished, and her family did not know she had been
flown to Texas until she called last weekend from Raymondville, depressed and
nearly hysterical.

"She was crying and crying. She said: 'My daughters need me. I have to get out
of here,' " Chavez said in an interview Monday. He said his wife had begged the
authorities to send her either home to Virginia or back to Mexico. Yesterday,
she apparently got one of those wishes.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              81 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 19, 2007 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Border Crackdown Spawns Violence;
More Deaths Occurring as Smugglers Fight Over Valuable Human Cargo

BYLINE: Sylvia Moreno, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 1057 words

DATELINE: SILVERBELL, Ariz.


Among the statuesque saguaro cactuses in the desert south of this old mining
town lies the remnant of a crime scene that federal authorities say signals a
troubling and escalated level of violence associated with the human smuggling
trade.

Sometime in the pitch-black early morning hours of Feb. 8, a pickup packed with
illegal immigrants from Central America, on their way to a presumed stash house
in Phoenix, was attacked by two men shooting high-powered assault weapons. The
four witnesses found tell conflicting stories about the time, place and other
details about the shooting. The abandoned vehicle and two bodies were found
near Silverbell, 70 miles north of the Arizona-Mexico border; another body and
two survivors were found on the side of a dirt road eight miles north of the
mining town.

Three immigrants  --  a woman and two men  --  were killed, and another woman
was seriously wounded by three rounds from an AK-47. An alleged smuggler, whose
hand was shattered by gunfire during the attack, is under arrest. The truck
driver and another two dozen immigrants remain missing. Inside the yellow police
tape strung across prickly pear and ocotillo  cactuses lay staples the
immigrants carried on their trek across the desert: a package of  bologna and a
plastic water jug. Personal effects taken from the dead, including blood-smeared
pictures of children left behind in Guatemala and El Salvador, are now sealed
away as evidence in the Pima County Sheriff's Department.

It is not clear whether this attack was the work of rival smugglers, extremist
vigilantes or what are known in Spanish slang here as bajadores  --  crews of
bandits who steal human cargo throughout southern Arizona and from Phoenix stash
houses to extort ransom from their families in Latin America or the United
States. What is unusual, said Alonzo Peña, the new U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement special agent in charge of Arizona, is the recent frequency of the
violence, the fact these incidents resulted in deaths and that they occurred in
the desert, where  the  crime scenes are hard to find within the thousands of
acres of sand and brush.

"There's more and more sophisticated, high-powered assault-type weapons being
used . . . and there are back-to-back incidents," Peña said.

Smuggling violence has increased in Arizona during the past six months, the
byproduct of a clampdown by federal immigration authorities, Peña said. The
U.S.-Mexico border in Arizona remains the busiest illegal entry point in the
country, but the increased concentration of Border Patrol agents and National
Guard troops stationed there during the past year has made it harder to cross.

In the past  18 months, enforcement operations have been stepped up in Arizona,
with strong backing from  Gov. Janet Napolitano (D), who declared a state of
emergency in  Arizona's border counties in 2005 because of illegal immigration.

Those efforts appear to be working. Border Patrol statistics show that arrests
of illegal immigrants in the Tucson sector, which includes 135 miles of border,
dropped 11 percent overall last year and are down 9 percent since October,
compared  with the same period the year before. Deaths from heatstroke and
dehydration in the Arizona desert just north of the border, which averaged 160
annually between 2000 and 2005, also dropped slightly last year, said Pima
County Medical Examiner Bruce Parks.

The result, Peña said, is that a cargo of illegal immigrants that makes it
across the border  is worth more now. "This is raising the cost to do business
for the smugglers," Peña said about the stricter border enforcement. "The
commodity is more valuable, so [rival] smugglers are trying to get hold of it."

A few days after the assault near Silverbell, two men were found dead in the
desert west of Phoenix, which local authorities believe was connected to illegal
smuggling.  In late January, a truckload of illegal immigrants was ambushed in
the desert near Eloy by several armed men wearing camouflage clothing and
berets,  surviving immigrants said. The driver was killed and one immigrant was
wounded.

Just last week  Pima County authorities found another body in the desert.
Officials estimated  it had been dead for two weeks and said they believed it
was also connected to human smuggling.

"Unfortunately, this is a common occurrence," said Pima County Sheriff Clarence
Dupnik, whose detectives are charged with solving the homicide near Silverbell.
"This is not an aberration. And to be honest, the chances of solving this is not
good."

With  illegal immigrants facing increased risk of capture at or near the border,
smuggling organizations  are waiting for  them to get well north of the border
before hijacking them, usually at gunpoint. For some years, such incidents have
been seen in and around Phoenix, where the  bajadores break into immigrant stash
houses to take over what is known as the "collections process." While immigrants
wait for relatives and friends to send the agreed-upon smuggling fees so they
can move on to their final destinations farther north or west, the bajadores
take  the group hostage and begin extorting exorbitant ransom fees.

One such violent crew, known as the Franco organization, with roots in Sinaloa,
Mexico, made its mark four years ago in Phoenix by taking hostage more than 50
illegal immigrants in a stash house  and viciously beating them, burning them
with cigarettes and  putting plastic bags over their heads while holding them at
gunpoint.

A month ago, one  Franco  bandit was sentenced in U.S. District Court in Phoenix
to life in prison plus seven years on a conviction of conspiracy,
hostage-taking, harboring illegal aliens, and possessing and using a firearm to
commit violence. Another participant in the hostage-taking had been sentenced
previously, and three other defendants are set for sentencing next month.

Between April 2005 and July 2006, 65 similar cases involving Phoenix stash
houses  were discovered by federal agents, Peña said. Still, the recent desert
shootings, resulting in fatalities, stand out.

"Sadly, violence has become the norm," said Angel Rascón, a special  agent in
the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement's Phoenix office. But when
they "end up happening in such frequency and in death, that's alarming."

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              82 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 22, 2007 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Detention Facility for Immigrants Criticized;
Organizations Laud DHS Effort to Keep Families Together but Call Center a
'Prison-Like Institution'

BYLINE: Sylvia Moreno, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 1075 words

DATELINE: TAYLOR, Tex.


The day Mustafa Elmi turned 3 years old he had to report to his cell three times
for headcount. To be able to get one hour of recreation inside a concrete
compound sealed off by metal gates and razor wire he had to pin his picture ID
to his uniform.

Such routines characterized Mustafa's life, as well as that of his mother, Bahjo
Hosen, 26, during their first seven months in the United States, the country to
which they fled to escape political persecution in their native Somalia. They
ended up in the T. Don Hutto Family Residential Facility, one of the nation's
newest detention centers for illegal immigrants that the Department of Homeland
Security touts as an "effective and humane alternative" to keep immigrant
families together while they await the outcome of immigration court hearings or
deportation.

Before the facility opened, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE)
routinely separated parents from their children upon apprehension by the Border
Patrol. Infants and toddlers were placed in federally funded foster homes;
adolescents and teenagers were placed in facilities for minors run by the
Department of Health and Human Services; and parents were placed in adult
detention centers.

Despite the change in policy, two national organizations decry the conditions at
Hutto and have termed the facility "a penal detention model that is
fundamentally anti-family and anti-American."

The center, which the DHS opened last May, is an unacceptable method "for
addressing the reality of the presence of families in our immigration system,"
says a report written by the Women's Commission for Refugee Women and Children,
in New York, and Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service, in Baltimore, and
scheduled for release Thursday.

"As a country that supports family values, we should not be treating immigrant
families who have not committed a crime like criminals, particularly children,"
said Ralston H. Deffenbaugh Jr., president of Lutheran Immigration and Refugee
Service.

During a tour of Hutto this month, Gary Mead, the assistant director of ICE
detention and removal operations, said the facility, which is operated under
contract by the Corrections Corporation of America, averaged 380 to 420
detainees daily. That day, Hutto housed 180 children and 150 adults  --
four-fifths of them mothers  --  from 29 countries. Seventy-five families were
being detained while they awaited the outcome of their political-asylum
petitions.

The 512-bed facility is part of the Department of Homeland Security's year-long
push to build detention centers or contract them out to private companies to
accommodate illegal immigrants apprehended along the Mexican border. A record
26,500 such immigrants are in detention daily  --  up from 19,718 a day in 2005.

Hutto, located in central Texas, is used for immigrants from countries other
than Mexico who are awaiting "expedited removal from the United States." That
process ended the policy known as "catch and release," in which such people were
given a notice to appear later before an immigration judge. Mexican nationals
caught in the United States illegally are routinely sent back almost
immediately.

For some years, ICE has contracted with Berks County, Pa., to run an 80-bed
detention facility for families, and the report by the women's commission and
Lutheran service touched on that center but focused on the much larger Hutto.

The report lauded the goal of keeping families together but urged DHS to close
the Hutto facility, saying that "prison-like institutions" are not appropriate
for families. "Family detention is not one that has any precedent in the United
States, therefore no appropriate licensing requirements exist," the report said.

In response, ICE spokesman Marc Raimondi said that the Hutto and Berks
facilities "maintain safe, secure and humane conditions and invest heavily in
the welfare" of the detainees. He said that ICE detention standards exceed those
set by the American Correctional Association, and that the agency's practice of
conducting annual reviews and weekly visits to detention facilities
"significantly exceeds industry standards."

The report recommended that ICE parole asylum-seekers while they await the
outcome of their hearings. It also said that immigrant families not eligible for
parole should be released to special shelters or other homelike settings run by
nonprofit groups and be required to participate in electronic monitoring or an
intensive supervision program that would use a combination of electronic ankle
bracelets, home visits and telephone reporting.

The 72-page report also criticized the educational services for children; the
food service and rushed feeding times for children; the health care, especially
for vulnerable children and pregnant women; the therapeutic mental health care
as insufficient or culturally inappropriate; and the recreation time as
inadequate for children. The review said that families were being held for
months in Hutto and for years in the case of the longer-established Berks
facility.

The report also cited inappropriate disciplinary practices used against adults
and children, including threats of separation, verbal abuse and withholding
recreation or using temperature control, particularly extremely cold conditions,
as punishment.

Hosen, who traveled with Mustafa on an inner tube across the Rio Grande from
Mexico and insisted that a stranger in Texas call the Border Patrol so she could
surrender to authorities, lived in Hutto from June 30 to Jan. 30.

Granted political asylum and now living temporarily in a home for immigrant
women and children in Austin, Hosen said that she and other parents in Hutto
were threatened regularly with separation from their children for minor
infractions such as youngsters running inside the prison. She lost 30 pounds
while detained, and her son lost weight and suffered from diarrhea. Concerned
about her son's health, Hosen asked for a multivitamin for him but was denied
the request, she said.

She recalled that the day she and Mustafa arrived at Hutto and she saw the word
"residential" written on the facility's sign, she was relieved after having
spent almost two weeks in a detention center for adults in south Texas while her
son was held in foster care. Hosen said that although she was reunited with him,
little else changed. "It was just like the place I was  --  detention  --
nothing different," she said.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              83 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                    November 11, 2006 Saturday 12:00 AM EST

Now Wage a Campaign for Economic Growth

BYLINE: Diana Furchtgott-Roth, Special to washingtonpost.com's Think Tank Town,
washingtonpost.com

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1017 words



HIGHLIGHT: The friendly photo ops between President Bush and the Democratic
congressional leadership are heart-warming. But reality is often different from
photos. A Republican Congress didn't allow President Bush to pass major parts of
his economic agenda, from Social Security to permanent tax cuts to immigration
reform. We'll likely have even more gridlock now that Democrats control
Congress.


The friendly photo ops between President Bush and the Democratic congressional
leadership are heart-warming. But reality is often different from photos. A
Republican Congress didn't allow President Bush to pass major parts of his
economic agenda, from Social Security to permanent tax cuts to immigration
reform. We'll likely have even more gridlock now that Democrats control
Congress.

For the good of the economy, the President and the new Congress need to work
together to extend expiring tax provisions, pass immigration reform, and avoid
raising the minimum wage.

In 2010, President Bush's tax cuts -- which make permanent certain forms of
business expensing, personal income tax rates, capital gains tax rates, and the
estate tax -- will expire unless the House moves to extend them, a scenario
regarded by most as unlikely.

The tax cuts are in great part responsible for the phenomenal performance of the
economy over the past 3 years. Since the beginning of 2003, the annualized real
GDP growth rate has averaged 3.5 percent. Aside from the tech bubble of the late
1990s, that's one of the best rates in over 30 years. After a weak 3rd quarter,
analysts are forecasting the GDP to rise in the 4th quarter and next year.  And
what helps Americans most is GDP growth. GDP growth gives us the spending power
not only for all the private goods we want to buy, such as cars and iPods, but
also for the war in Iraq, national parks, and all the social benefits we provide
as a safety net to low-income individuals

Beyond giving Americans more spending power and stimulating the economy, GDP
growth has revved up the job market over the past two years, with gains reaching
everyone, including African Americans, Hispanics, and the low-skilled.
Unemployment is at 4.4% and the economy has created almost 2 million jobs over
the past year, not including the extra 472,500 that the Bureau of Labor
Statistics announced that it undercounted during that period. For adults without
a high school diploma the unemployment rate is 5.8%, down from 7.1% this time
last year.

Allowing personal and businesses taxes to rise in 2010 would lower incentives
for Americans to work and for businesses to invest and create jobs, harming
economic growth and job creation. Unfortunately, President Bush doesn't have to
sign anything for this to happen?taxes will automatically rise on their own when
the tax cuts expire.

Another area where the economy will suffer without new legislation is
immigration reform. President Bush campaigned actively for immigration reform,
backing the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2006, which passed the
Senate but was blocked by the House leadership. This is an area where the
Democrats might achieve some results.

The American economy needs immigrants to do jobs that Americans prefer not to
do, both on the low-skill and high-skill end. According to the Census Bureau,
immigrants have lower unemployment rates than native-born Americans. They make
up 10.5 percent of the labor force, yet represent 23 percent of those without a
high school diploma and 30 percent of doctorates working in science, math, and
engineering.

The number of visas issued for high-skill workers needs to be expanded to a more
realistic level. The allocation of 65,000 visas was exhausted in the first weeks
of the fiscal year, and more visas won't be available until October 2007. Our
international competitiveness is at risk because we train foreign scientists
whom we then force to return home to compete against us.

And the 12 million mostly low-skill undocumented workers are still in limbo. As
with the scientists, they do work that native-born Americans prefer not to do.
Legalizing such workers would enable us to collect additional income taxes that
could be used, among other purposes, for Social Security payments and for state
and local education expenses. Immigrants would have Social Security numbers and
legal bank accounts, so it would be easier to observe illicit terrorist
transactions.

Conversely, America's economy would suffer from one of the Democrats' major
campaign promises: increasing the minimum wage from its current $5.15 level to
$7.25. This is a cost of $8.00 to employers when Social Security payments,
unemployment insurance, and workers' compensation are included. Such an increase
will cost workers job opportunities, because employers can't afford to, or
aren't willing to hire them at a higher rate.

Raising the minimum wage will penalize younger, unskilled workers, many of whom
have part-time jobs, because their skills are worth less than $8.00 an hour.
Employers will respond by hiring fewer, more highly skilled, workers, and
reducing the employment of minimum wage earners. Industries that would be
affected include the leisure and hospitality industry and the retail trade,
traditional points of entry into the job market for teens.

According to studies by Professor David Macpherson of Florida State University
and Bruce Fallick of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve, the majority
of minimum wage workers are in higher-wage jobs after a year. This dynamic
entr?e into the workforce stands in stark contrast to Europe, where less-skilled
workers are inclined to stay unemployed with government benefits for years
rather than being encouraged to take low-wage jobs. About half the unemployed in
France have been out of work for more than a year.

President Bush has said that he will sign a bill increasing the minimum wage if
it does not hurt small business or price people out of jobs, however this is
exactly what does happen with all minimum wage increases.

To keep the economy on an upward path, Congress and the President need to extend
the expiring tax provisions, reform our immigration mess, and avoid the
temptation to price workers out of jobs by raising the minimum wage. Let's hope
there's some reality in the photo ops and that they can come together to do it.

Diana Furchtgott-Roth is a senior fellow at the Hudson Institute and director of
Hudson's Center for Employment Policy. From 2003 to 2005, she was chief
economist at the US Department of Labor.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2006 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 24, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

John Paul Guttenberg Jr. Fed ...

SECTION: Metro; B06

LENGTH: 890 words


John Paul Guttenberg Jr., 69, a federal immigration official who was previously
president of a Washington public relations firm, died Nov. 11 of cancer at
Sibley Memorial Hospital. He lived in Alexandria.

At his death, Mr. Guttenberg was chief learning officer in a branch of the U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services, an arm of the Department of Homeland
Security. He was leading efforts to restructure the office's training program.

Mr. Guttenberg first worked with the old Immigration and Naturalization Service
--  renamed U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services in 2003  --  as a
management consultant in 1996. He helped restructure the agency's information
technology program and developed programs for INS training and career
development.

From 1976 to 1996, he was president of Guttenberg & Co., a public relations
consulting firm specializing in high technology, telecommunications,
international trade, financial services and education.

Before forming the public relations company, Mr. Guttenberg was Washington vice
president of Datran (Data Transmission Co.), a Vienna company that built early
digital transmission systems.

Mr. Guttenberg came to the Washington area in 1971 as vice president for public
affairs of the Council of Better Business Bureaus. He had been a public
relations executive with Xerox Corp. and an assistant to the president of Clark
University in Worcester, Mass.

Mr. Guttenberg was born in Rochester, N.Y., and graduated from Lafayette College
in Easton, Pa. He served in the Navy for four years.

He was a member of the Public Relations Society of America and the International
Association of Business Communicators.

He wrote widely on such diverse subjects as the information age and art and
antiques and was a columnist with Washington Business Journal for several years.
He was a member of the board of directors of the Pinchot Institute for
Conservation, an environmental preservation group, and was immediate past
president of the George Town Club in Washington.

Survivors include his wife of 47 years, Diana Guttenberg of Alexandria; two
daughters, Karen Jaslow of Arlington and Jennifer Brough of Columbia, S.C.; and
five grandchildren.

Olga Guercio Daly, 80, a volunteer with several Northern Virginia organizations,
died Nov. 19 at Inova Fairfax Hospital of complications from injuries suffered
in an automobile accident Nov. 6 in Loudoun County. She lived at Leisure World
in Leesburg.

Mrs. Daly lived in Fairfax County from 1972 to 1979 and retired to Herndon with
her husband in 1989. She moved to Leisure World four years ago.

She was a charter member of the Assistance League of Northern Virginia, a social
service organization benefiting primarily young people and the elderly. She
volunteered with Hunters Woods Fellowship House in Reston, assisting people with
disabilities, and with the Greater Reston Newcomers and Neighbors Club.

She was also a member of the League of Women Voters and St. John Neumann
Catholic Church in Reston.

Mrs. Daly was born in Syracuse, N.Y., and graduated cum laude from Syracuse
University in 1948. She worked in radio, television and public relations in
Syracuse for several years and was director of membership and publicity for the
Syracuse YWCA from 1951 to 1953. She was director of public affairs at Le Moyne
College in Syracuse from 1970 to 1972.

Her husband of 41 years, Mark Towse Daly, died in 1995.

Survivors include five children, Mark T. Daly Jr. of Tucson, John J. Daly of
Irvine, Calif., Ann Daly McNerney of Oakton, Mary Elizabeth Daly of Alexandria
and Patricia Daly Olsen of Grand Forks, N.D.; two sisters; and nine
grandchildren.

Helen M. Daniels, 48, a college professor who studied for the ministry, died
after a heart attack Nov. 17 at her home in Catonsville, Md.

Ms. Daniels taught English at the Community College of Baltimore County in
Catonsville from 1998 to 2005 while she was studying at Wesley Theological
Seminary in Washington. She recently completed her clergy candidacy at
Metropolitan Community Church in Baltimore, where she was also a board member.

Born in Laredo, Tex., she graduated from the State University of New York at
Plattsburgh and received a master's degree in creative writing in 1980 from
Brooklyn College of the City University of New York, where she also did doctoral
work. She taught at Hunter College in New York before moving to Maryland in
1998.

Survivors include her father, Daniel H. Daniels of Beaufort, S.C.; three
sisters, Ann Zinsser of Silver Spring, Cindi Freilinger of Canton, Conn., and
Frances Culley of Pittsburgh.

Doris Berry Krezell, 89, an executive secretary, died of pneumonia Nov. 17 at
Washington Adventist Hospital. She lived at her daughter's home in College Park.

Mrs. Krezell was a sixth-generation Washingtonian. She grew up in Southwest
Washington and graduated from Theodore Roosevelt High School.

She worked as an executive secretary for the Justice Department, Houses by
Hughes Realty, Notre Dame Academy and Trinity University, from which she retired
in 1994.

She volunteered at Holy Redeemer Catholic School and Church in College Park and
enjoyed playing bridge and gardening.

Her husband, Stanley W. Krezell, died in 1951.

Survivors include two children, Charles Krezell of New York and Janet Cavanagh
of College Park, and a grandson.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              85 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 1, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Official Pleads Guilty to Falsifying Documents

BYLINE: Jerry Markon, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A16

LENGTH: 576 words


A Department of Homeland Security supervisor pleaded guilty yesterday to
pocketing more than $600,000 in bribes in exchange for falsifying immigration
documents to help Asian immigrants obtain U.S. citizenship.

Prosecutors said Robert T. Schofield issued fake documentation for hundreds of
immigrants during an eight-year scheme he ran out of his Fairfax County office.
Schofield, 57, was a supervisor for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services,
which processes immigration applications, until he resigned in the past two
weeks .

Court documents said Schofield employed a network of brokers who brought him
immigrants needing citizenship, a green card or entry into the United States.
Earning up to $10,000 per immigrant, he used some of the money to buy his
$387,000 Fairfax home and to pay down the mortgage, the documents said. When
Schofield was arrested in June, federal agents found $3,900 cash in his jacket
pocket in his office.

When he was arrested, Schofield supervised a staff of nine at the agency's
Washington District Office. He had been the acting assistant director for
examinations from 1998 to 2004, supervising 50 employees.

Schofield was not asked by the judge to explain his actions yesterday in U.S.
District Court in Alexandria when he pleaded guilty to bribery and unlawful
procurement of citizenship or naturalization. His lawyers declined to comment.
He faces up to 25 years in prison when he is sentenced Feb. 23.

"The breadth and scope of Mr. Schofield's fraud and corruption are truly
stunning," said U.S. Attorney Chuck Rosenberg. He said Schofield had "undermined
our efforts to secure our borders."

Court documents indicate that accusations against the 30-year federal employee
were not new. Over the past decade, federal officials investigated numerous
bribery allegations involving Schofield and Asian immigration applicants when he
worked at the former Immigration and Naturalization Service, according to court
documents unsealed when Schofield was charged in June.

Schofield was demoted at one point for "conduct unbecoming a government
employee," the documents say, and had an "inappropriate relationship" with a
woman connected to an INS criminal probe. When confronted about that
relationship by INS officials, Schofield fled to East Asia, where he made
$36,000 worth of unauthorized purchases on his government-issued credit card,
according to court documents.

It remains unclear when Schofield returned to the United States, how the
previous investigations ended and how Schofield became a supervisor when the
Department of Homeland Security took over INS's functions in 2003.

Assistant U.S. Attorney Ronald L. Walutes said that the evidence against
Schofield in the current case was overwhelming and that the government "very
strongly opposes" an effort by defense lawyers to get him released on bond
before his sentencing. Court documents said the government has identified 184
illegal immigrants who falsely received U.S. citizenship from Schofield, but
Walutes said the government believes the actual number is in the hundreds. "We
have to go out and arrest these people," Walutes said. "It's a huge endeavor."

Defense lawyer Alan Yamamoto said that Schofield plans to help his old office
examine files he handled to show how many false documents were issued and that
it would be easier if he  was free.

U.S. District Judge James C. Cacheris disagreed and ordered Schofield back to
jail after the hearing.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              86 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 10, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Children Facing Deportation Have Few Advocates;
Court System Designed for Adults Just Starting to Adapt for Youths

BYLINE: Cara Anna, Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 1355 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


He paces outside New York's immigration court, looking lost, scanning faces.
Then he finds them, two nervous-looking older teens.

"Habla English?" he asks them. No, they say. He pauses.

"You have a passa-port? ID? ¿Nada?" No. The lawyer widens his eyes.

"Mother, father? Family? ¿Tio, tia? Nobody? Just you?" Yes, his new clients say.

In minutes, these boys will tell a judge whether they want to fight deportation.
But even with the language problem, they are lucky compared with others. A list
outside the courtroom says 37 children are here today. Just three have lawyers.

A look at U.S. immigration courts shows a system where many children lack legal
representation, where frustrated judges find themselves explaining the law to
12-year-olds, often through a translator, and where the government itself has no
real measure of the problem.

Though some new efforts are beginning to address the issue, advocates worry
about child trafficking, smuggling or abuse that may go unnoticed because
children do not know how to ask for help.

In immigration court, the government treats detained children like immigrant
adults, giving them a phone list of volunteer lawyers. Often, no call is made.

Nonprofits and volunteer lawyers sometimes appear, trying to offer assistance
before youths accept deportation. Some judges simply ask if anyone in the
courtroom can step in to help.

"Immigration judges know how to be fair even when only one side is represented,"
then-Chief Immigration Judge Michael Creppy said at a Senate committee hearing
in 2001.

Of approximately 7,800 unaccompanied children who passed through government
custody in the fiscal year that ended Oct. 1, more than half went to court
alone, some observers say.

There is no way to be sure. The government does not track legal aid in these
cases. It cannot say how many children show up for immigration court at all.

"I don't know what asylum means. I don't know that word. . . . I am afraid to go
back to Haiti," a 10-year-old Haitian girl told interviewers for a Harvard
report released this summer. The report, "Seeking Asylum Alone," criticized the
government for not providing lawyers and for not tracking the problem.

"The judge doesn't talk to me," the girl continued. "I don't know his name."

Caught at the U.S. border or deeper inside the country, the immigrant children
are most often from Mexico, Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador.

Until 2003, unaccompanied children with no guardian to claim them were placed in
detention centers, where they sometimes mixed with violent offenders.

Now the children are sent to special shelters run by the federal Office of
Refugee Resettlement in eight states: Arizona, California, Florida, Illinois,
Indiana, New York, Texas and Washington.

About 60 percent are released once a family member or guardian can be found,
sometimes within days. That leaves little time for nonprofit groups and
volunteer lawyers to meet with the children and try to know their cases. After
release, finding a lawyer is up to the family and is often not done.

"The challenge is ensuring they get help when they leave," said Martha E.
Newton, the ORR's director.

Even in shelters, many children are far from pools of available lawyers.

One shelter, in Nixon, Tex., is in a city of 2,246, an hour's drive from San
Antonio. Not many lawyers want to go, said Teresa Coles-Davila, a lawyer in
private practice who coordinates free legal aid for children in San Antonio's
immigration court.

But the need is growing, she says. When the shelter first called her for help
three years ago, it had half a dozen kids. Now it has close to 100, and a
maximum capacity of 136.

"No one pays me to do this," Coles-Davila said. "My position is, eventually the
goodwill is going to run out."

In Houston, Anne Chandler of the University of Houston Law Center's immigration
clinic was, until a few months ago, the only lawyer who handles only children's
cases. Five shelters for detained children are located nearby, with a combined
172 beds. Another shelter is a three-hour drive away.

Lss than one-third of immigrant children in the Houston area get a lawyer,
Chandler said.

"I would miss kids," Chandler said. "I would go to court and see a couple of
kids and say 'I never spoke to you' and they would say 'No.' Sometimes I could
take them into a private consultation room for 20 or 30 minutes and give them
advice."

That is hardly enough time to get to know someone, lawyers say. Coaxing out a
child's life story, especially a traumatic one, can take hours.

"I feel I'm part of a system that's malfunctioning," Chandler said.

Recognizing the need for more than goodwill for unrepresented children, the
Executive Office for Immigration Review, which oversees immigration courts, has
announced a new legal assistance initiative at four sites.

The Vera Institute of Justice will give children one-on-one legal information
and help find volunteer lawyers in Corpus Christi, Tex.; Vincennes, Ind.; Wayne,
Ill.; and Seattle. The institute also has started giving grants to nonprofits in
places such as New York and Houston for similar work.

In a separate effort to reach children after they leave detention, the National
Center for Refugee and Immigrant Children was launched last year with largely
private funding. So far, it has matched lawyers with more than 400 kids.

The center, with a full-time staff of four, hardly covers everyone, said Adriana
Ysern, the senior immigration program officer. "We can only respond to so many,"
she said.

A different approach is underway in Chicago. With seed money from ORR, the
Immigrant Children's Advocacy Project assigns each child a bilingual advocate
who meets with the child every week, finds legal representation and goes with
the child to court. So far, advocates have been matched with about 120 children.

A similar national pilot program is envisioned in a bill that has passed the
Senate but has been in a House subcommittee since February.

The blank looks in the children's eyes finally did it. After facing hundreds of
kids in his courtroom, many without a lawyer, Joseph Vail quit his job as an
immigration judge.

He was tired of trying to explain the legal process to 12-year-olds who would
just watch him, confused. He was tired of ordering them deported without knowing
why they had come to America, or what they had tried to leave behind.

"Say a kid wants asylum," Vail said. "Kids never really qualify unless they're
before a really sensitive judge, because kids have no political opinions they
can express."

The law requires a connection to a political or social belief, or membership in
a certain group that has been persecuted in some way.

Vail left the bench in 1999. Now he works at the University of Houston's
immigration clinic, trying to give children legal aid.

Though immigration judges have no authority to order legal assistance, some try
to help unrepresented children anyway. Some quietly call lawyers for aid. Others
ask the courtroom audience for volunteers.

"There are so many kids," John W. Richardson, an immigration judge in Arizona,
told the Harvard study. "You look at their faces, and they try to be cheerful,
and you know that most of them are going to go back to deplorable situations."

In late 2004, the Office of the Chief Immigration Judge gave the country's
judges some suggestions for being more child-friendly. For instance: Wear street
clothes instead of the robe, let kids explore the courtroom, bring a toy.

"Before asking how many times something happened," the memo added, "the
immigration judge should determine the child's ability to count."

Both judges and advocates said children without lawyers slow down court
proceedings, waste taxpayer money and keep children in government custody longer
than they should be there.

These kids have enough stress already, said Denise Slavin, the Miami-based
president of the National Association of Immigration Judges. She likes the idea
of appointing them a lawyer if they can't find one themselves.

"If we changed the system," she said, "maybe children would be a great place to
start."

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              87 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 15, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

The System Is the Problem;
Immigration Laws Trap Those Who Comply and Those Who Don't

BYLINE: Tamar Jacoby

SECTION: Editorial; A35

LENGTH: 881 words


At dawn on Tuesday more than a thousand Immigration and Customs Enforcement
agents descended on six plants owned by Swift & Co., one of the country's
largest meat processors. Some 1,300 workers were arrested, and operations at all
six slaughterhouses were suspended.

Seen in one light, the raids were perfectly justified. Both employer and
employees were breaking the law. It's a law that's being violated on a massive
scale from coast to coast, and the public is increasingly upset about it.

The only catch: Swift has been trying for years to comply with our poorly
conceived immigration laws, coping as best it could with an impossible
situation. Like a driver who finally goes through a broken traffic light, the
company and its workers aren't the problem  --  the system is.

Both Swift and its employees  --  who bore the brunt of the punishment  --  are
caught in an economic bind far bigger than themselves. Meat processing is dirty
and dangerous. Fewer and fewer members of the increasingly educated American
workforce are interested in the jobs.

As a result, although it now pays an average of $13 an hour, or $25,000 a year,
the industry  increasingly relies on foreign workers, not because they're cheap
--  $25,000 a year is what trained paramedics and college-educated kindergarten
teachers make in meatpacking states such as Iowa and Kansas  --  but simply
because they'll do the work. If immigrants weren't available, companies such as
Swift would have to close, and both meatpacking and the agriculture that depends
on it  --  cattle and hog producers  --  would eventually move to other
countries.

Not only that, but U.S. law makes the bind much worse for both employers and
employees. Despite the meatpacking industry's well-known need for foreign labor,
the United States offers virtually no way for these workers to enter the country
legally. Every year the economy as a whole creates some 500,000 more unskilled
jobs than Americans want to do, yet we issue only 5,000 year-round visas for the
immigrants who might fill them. For companies such as Swift and its workers,
there's no good answer, and it's not surprising that many break the law.

But even that isn't the end of the cruel twists of Swift's story. Far from
ignoring or shrugging off the law, the firm has been trying to comply with it.
When job applicants started showing up with what the company suspected were
false papers, it tried inquiring into their backgrounds  --  only to be sued for
discrimination by the Justice Department.

When the government created a program meant to help employers verify that their
workers were in the country legally by checking Social Security numbers against
a central database, Swift was among the first to sign up. And when that program
didn't seem to be catching the worst offenders  --  people using not false
Social Security cards but stolen ones  --  Swift came to Washington to testify
in Congress about the problem. The reward: That was precisely the offense that
ICE raided the company for on Tuesday.

Don't misunderstand: Swift is no band of saints. Everyone involved  --  the
company, its workers, the U.S. government  --  knows that the kind of compliance
required to pass muster today is a charade. But it is a charade our
dysfunctional immigration system has all but forced the firm and its workers to
play.

Does this mean it's all right to break the law? Of course not.

Our nudge-nudge, wink-wink immigration system  --  unrealistic laws, all but
ignored on the ground  --  must be replaced by a law enforcement regime that
works: more honest quotas, enforced to the letter, including in the workplace.
Raids such as those that took place this week would be justified in the context
of an immigration overhaul of the kind proposed by the president and passed by
the Senate last spring. Workers need a legal way to enter the country.
Businesses need a legitimate way to get  workers, plus a reliable verification
system  --  not unlike credit card verification  --  to tell them which workers
are legal and which aren't. And once these things are in place, there will be no
excuse for breaking the rules.

But until then, raids of the kind that occurred this week can only be
counterproductive: Companies trying to do the right thing will be driven out of
business, even as those happy to flout the law will find themselves with more of
a competitive advantage. And meanwhile illegal workers will be driven further
underground.

I happened to be with a group of employers when the Swift raids were announced
--  not food-processing companies but contractors, landscapers, growers and
others who also count on unskilled workers  --  brought together by their
growing anger at the broken immigration system and the lies it makes them tell.

"What am I supposed to do?" one employer asked bitterly. "I'm paying $22.50 an
hour. I still can't find enough workers. I'm making less and less money as a
result  --  I've stopped bidding for lots of jobs. And I could go to jail just
for trying to get the work done."

And the sad truth is, he can't do much. Only Congress can fix the system he and
his workers are trapped in. As the Swift raids remind us, it's a job that cannot
wait.

Tamar Jacoby is a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              88 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 22, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

A Bigot in Congress;
One Muslim congressman is one too many for Virgil Goode.

SECTION: Editorial; A32

LENGTH: 379 words


BIGOTRY COMES in various guises  --  some coded, some closeted, some colossally
stupid. The bigotry displayed recently by Rep. Virgil H. Goode Jr., a Republican
who represents a patch of south-central Virginia, falls squarely in the third
category. Mr. Goode, evidently in a state of xenophobic delirium, went on a
semi-public tirade against the looming peril and corrupting threat posed by
Muslim immigration to the United States. "I fear that in the next century we
will have many more Muslims in the United States if we do not adopt the strict
immigration policies that I believe are necessary to preserve the values and
beliefs traditional to the United States of America," he wrote in a letter to
constituents.

The inspiration for Mr. Goode's rant is Keith Ellison, a Minnesota Democrat who
last month became the first Muslim elected to Congress. Mr. Ellison, who was
born in Detroit and converted to Islam in college, has decided to use the Koran
during a ceremonial swearing-in, as is his constitutional right. This does not
sit well with Mr. Goode, who, obnoxiously referring to his congressional
colleague-to-be as "the Muslim Representative from Minnesota," warned ominously
that current immigration policy would lead to an outbreak of elected Muslims in
this country and unfettered use of the Koran.

Forget that Muslims represent a small fraction of immigrants to America. And
leave aside the obvious point that Mr. Goode was evidently napping in class the
day they taught the traditional American values of tolerance, diversity and
religious freedom. This country's history is rife with instances of uncivil,
hateful and violent behavior toward newcomers, be they Jewish, Irish, Italian or
plenty of others whose ethnicities did not jibe with some pinched view of what
it means to be American. Mr. Goode's dimwitted outburst of nativism is nothing
new.

No, the real worry for the nation is that the rest of the world might take Mr.
Goode seriously, interpreting his biased remarks about Muslims as proof that
America really has embarked on a civilizational war against Islam. With 535
members, you'd think that Congress would welcome the presence of a single Muslim
representative. Whether it can afford a lawmaker of Mr. Goode's caliber is
another question.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              89 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 24, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

UPDATE: No Deportation for Man Who Hit Vietnamese Official

SECTION: Metro; C02

LENGTH: 395 words


AVietnamese immigrant who punched a visiting Vietnamese dignitary during a
demonstration in the District last year will be allowed to stay in the United
States after a judge agreed that the man could face persecution if deported to
his homeland, his attorney said Friday.

Tuan Phuoc Le, 35, of Atlanta had slugged Nguyen Quoc Huy, vice chairman of the
Vietnamese prime minister's office, in the head during a protest against a
visiting Vietnamese delegation June 21, 2005, outside the Willard Hotel.

Le, a permanent resident, pleaded guilty in U.S. District Court in Washington to
assaulting a foreign official. He was sentenced in October to nine months in
prison, according to court records.

Once aware of Le's arrest, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement  started
deportation proceedings. Agency officials said the move was initially related to
a domestic-violence conviction several years ago in California. The immigration
judge, however, also considered his recent conviction. Permanent residents are
subject to deportation if they have committed an aggravated felony.

Le's attorney, Parastoo Zahedi, said the immigration judge ruled this month
against deportation, issuing a "withdrawal of removal." The judge agreed with a
petition Zahedi filed that claimed Le "is more likely than not to be tortured"
in Vietnam for his anti-government views, she said.

She added that government attorneys agreed not to appeal the decision. Ernestine
Fobbs, a spokeswoman for the immigration agency, did not return a call  Friday
seeking comment.

Le immigrated in January 1993 through a permanent-resident visa he received as
the son of a U.S. citizen.

He said that he punched the dignitary because "he was a communist and he killed
my U.S. Marine father in Vietnam," according to an affidavit filed by an agent
of the U.S. Diplomatic Security Service after the arrest.

Vietnamese Americans in the Washington area and elsewhere raised tens of
thousands of dollars to pay the legal bills of Le and Jerry Kiley, a Vietnam War
veteran who was arrested during  a separate protest during the visit of
Vietnamese Prime Minister Phan Van Khai in June 2005.

Zahedi said Le will start serving a six-month jail sentence on the assault
conviction next month. He has already spent three months in a psychiatric
facility being evaluated, she added.

--   Mary Beth Sheridan

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              90 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          December 27, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A02

LENGTH: 213 words


DALLAS  --  Two civil rights groups filed a lawsuit Tuesday challenging a new
ordinance in a Dallas suburb that outlaws renting apartments to illegal
immigrants.

The American Civil Liberties Union and the Mexican American Legal Defense and
Educational Fund contended that the ordinance violates federal law and forces
landlords to act as immigration officers. The groups filed the suit on behalf of
residents and landlords in Farmers Branch, just north of Dallas.

The lawsuit says the measure, scheduled to take effect  Jan. 12, is so poorly
drafted that it excludes even legal immigrants and citizens from renting.

*   JACKSON, Miss.  --  A Mississippi lawyer asked President Bush to withdraw
his nomination to an appellate court, saying that he does not believe that
incoming Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick J. Leahy considers him a
consensus nominee.  Michael B. Wallace, 54, of Jackson, said Tuesday that he
made the request in a letter sent to the White House last week.

*  CHICAGO  --  An intern in the office of Sen. Barack Obama (D-Ill.) was
recommended for the job last year by fundraiser Antoin "Tony" Rezko, who was
later indicted for seeking kickbacks on government deals. The intern's father
once  headed a Rezko company.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              91 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 4, 2007 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Wanted: Local Agencies to Enforce Immigration Law

BYLINE: Theresa Vargas, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Loudoun Extra; T06

LENGTH: 730 words


Manassas City police don't want to do it. Neither do Prince William police. And
so if there is to be any local enforcement of federal immigration law,
authorities agreed, it will fall to the regional jail.

But should the jail do it? And if so, how will it work?

Jail officials will spend the next several weeks exploring whether and how to
proceed with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) training, which
would give staff members the power to initiate deportation proceedings for
immigrants with criminal records.

Jail Superintendent Charles "Skip" Land will make a recommendation Jan. 17 to
the Prince William-Manassas Regional Jail Board, a 10-member body that oversees
the detention center.

"There's just a lot more that we need to learn about, from both the process side
and the administration side. What's step one, step two, step three?" said jail
board Chairman Patrick Hurd.

While law enforcement agencies in Prince William County and several other
Northern Virginia jurisdictions have been hesitant to sign up for the ICE
training, Loudoun County Sheriff Stephen O. Simpson (R) has expressed an
interest, especially for the officers in his gang unit. Loudoun sheriff's
officials are still determining whether they should pursue the training,
sheriff's spokesman Kraig Troxell said.

"We already have a really good working relationship with ICE," he said, adding
that the department has been discussing with immigration officials whether any
additional training is needed to continue their collaboration.

In Prince William, Hurd and other jail board members discussed the issue at
their last meeting, on Dec. 20, a day after Prince William's police chief,
Charlie T. Deane, told the Board of County Supervisors he thinks the issue
should be handled at the jail level, not by police. That sentiment had been
expressed months earlier by Manassas City Police Chief John J. Skinner.

Both chiefs cited concerns that enforcement by their departments might strain
relations between the police and immigrants.

Ricardo Juarez, coordinator of the immigrant advocacy group Mexicans Without
Borders, said he thinks that will happen even if the jail takes on the
enforcement. He said that in recent years, the police have made great strides in
the community, with many Latino immigrants saying they feel protected. But many
do not understand the difference between police and jail officers, he said.

"People are afraid again," he told the jail board. "The fear is coming back."

Juarez was the only member of the public to attend the meeting.

Land said that he was aware of the danger of carrying out the program wrongly
and that he agreed with Deane that "you can send a ripple of mistrust through
the community."

He told the board that if the jail proceeds with training, he does not envision
immigration checks being made on the person who is arrested for a traffic
violation and posts bond within a few hours.

"We're not going to yank that guy up and keep him," he said.

Instead, he said, he sees the new authority being used against serious or repeat
offenders.

In a look at the jail population on Dec. 18, Land estimated that of 719 inmates,
144 possibly qualified for ICE deportation action. Of those, he said, 88
appeared not to have any legal status. Of those 88, 54 were charged with
felonies and 34 with misdemeanors. Forty percent of the 144 inmates in question
were from El Salvador and 29 percent from Mexico.

Land said that in the next few weeks, jail officials plan to visit the jail in
Charlotte to see how its enforcement program works. He said they also have many
questions for ICE officials  --  some of which arose at the jail board meeting.

The jail board's members ended up asking more questions than they answered.

Prince William County Sheriff Glendell Hill (R) wanted to know whether the
county could earn any revenue from the program, such as by billing the federal
government.

Jail board member Hugh Brien asked about immigrants who may have clean records
in the United States but criminal records in other countries: How would law
enforcement know?

Hurd asked the board's attorney: If someone is wrongly deported, would the
federal government or the jail be financially liable in a lawsuit?

"What if we're wrong?" he asked. "Where does the liability fall?"

Staff writer Sandhya Somashekhar contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              92 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 7, 2007 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Red Flags

SECTION: Metro; C05

LENGTH: 174 words


The American Immigration Law Foundation, a nonprofit group, promotes high
standards for immigration lawyers. But not everyone measures up. The foundation
says that clients should beware of:

*  Unlicensed operators. It is illegal to practice law in the United States
without a license.

*  Lawyers from other countries who do not know U.S. laws.

*  Notaries, consultants, service bureaus, travel agents or others who promise
quick and easy solutions.

*  Anyone who guarantees a visa for a certain fee, says he or she "knows
someone" or has an "inside track," or seeks money to influence or bribe
authorities.

RESOURCES:

The American Immigration Lawyers Association has a directory of its members at
www.ailalawyer.com. The U.S. Justice Department also has information about
immigration lawyers at www.usdoj.gov/eoir.

WATCHDOGS:

*  D.C. Office of Bar Counsel: 202-638-1501, www.dcbar.org

*  Virginia State Bar: 804-775-0500, www.vsb.org

*  Attorney Grievance Commission of Maryland: 410-514-7051,
www.courts.state.md.us/

attygrievance/index.html

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              93 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 7, 2007 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Red Flags

SECTION: Metro; C04

LENGTH: 174 words


The American Immigration Law Foundation, a nonprofit group, promotes high
standards for immigration lawyers. But not everyone measures up. The foundation
says that clients should beware of:

*  Unlicensed operators. It is illegal to practice law in the United States
without a license.

*  Lawyers from other countries who do not know U.S. laws.

*  Notaries, consultants, service bureaus, travel agents or others who promise
quick and easy solutions.

*  Anyone who guarantees a visa for a certain fee, says he or she "knows
someone" or has an "inside track," or seeks money to influence or bribe
authorities.

RESOURCES:

The American Immigration Lawyers Association has a directory of its members at
www.ailalawyer.com. The U.S. Justice Department also has information about
immigration lawyers at www.usdoj.gov/eoir.

WATCHDOGS:

*  D.C. Office of Bar Counsel: 202-638-1501, www.dcbar.org

*  Virginia State Bar: 804-775-0500, www.vsb.org

*  Attorney Grievance Commission of Maryland: 410-514-7051,
www.courts.state.md.us/

attygrievance/index.html

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              94 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 7, 2007 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Complaints Rise Against Immigration Lawyers;
Complex Statutes, Criminal Schemes Heighten Concerns

BYLINE: Henri E. Cauvin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; C01

LENGTH: 1493 words


Complaints against immigration lawyers working in and around the nation's
capital are rising, say officials who investigate allegations of attorney
misconduct.

Last year, the D.C. Office of Bar Counsel received 59 complaints about
immigration lawyers, up from 49 in 2005  --  when, for the first time,
immigration law drew more complaints than any other specialized practice area.

The bar counsel office is finalizing 2006 totals for other categories, but
complaints about immigration law appear likely to rank near the top again.

Such a distinction is no small feat in a city flush with lawyers and no small
worry in a region long established as a destination for immigrants, particularly
those from Africa and Latin America.

"There are a lot of unhappy immigrant clients out there, and some of them have
very good reason to be unhappy," said D.C. Deputy Bar Counsel Elizabeth A.
Herman, who has handled immigration complaints for more than a decade.

From the simply confused to the unquestionably criminal, bad lawyers have become
a concern for the immigration bar and for the nation's immigration tribunals.

Federal sanctions have been rising in recent years. Established in 2000, the bar
counsel at the Executive Office for Immigration Review, the Justice Department
branch that oversees U.S. immigration courts and the Board of Immigration
Appeals, disciplined 47 immigration lawyers last year and 54 the previous year
--  up from 22 in 2000.

"You have a very vulnerable population," said Jennifer Barnes, who has been the
bar counsel for the immigration review office since the position was created.
Many immigrants, she said, don't speak English, and few understand the statutes
and regulations that are second perhaps only to the tax code in complexity. "And
you have attorneys out there looking to take advantage of that vulnerability,"
she said.

Perhaps the most notorious Washington area immigration hustler in recent history
is Arlington lawyer Samuel G. Kooritzky, who was imprisoned in 2003 after he was
convicted of engaging in a massive fraud. Kooritzky's firm, Capital Law Centers,
specialized in applying for state labor certifications, which businesses use
when they cannot find a U.S. citizen for a particular job. An immigrant can then
use a certification to apply to the federal government for a green card.

Kooritzky's firm submitted thousands of fake applications for labor
certifications without telling the businesses they were being used. He charged
immigrants $8,000 to $20,000 for the service and raked in millions before the
fraud was discovered. Kooritzky received a 10-year sentence.

The breadth of Kooritzky's criminal enterprise is hard to match, but there are
some contenders. In November, a few were in court in the District.

A federal judge sent a Northwest Washington lawyer, Mohamed Alamgir, to prison
for more than three years. From 1996 to 2003, Alamgir filed hundreds of false
labor and immigration forms as part of a scheme to obtain permanent residency
for immigrants by claiming they had jobs awaiting them in the United States,
prosecutors said.

But there were no jobs. In some cases, Alamgir paid employers who agreed to
participate in the scheme. In others, he put up friends or relatives as
employers. And in still others, he mingled fake applications with legitimate
ones. In all, the fraud took in more than $2 million.

A D.C. Superior Court judge jailed another lawyer, Richard A. James, who,
despite having been disbarred, continued to practice immigration law. Given a
suspended sentence in 2002 for flouting his disbarment in 2000, James was
ordered not to practice. But he did, working out of an office on I Street NW
where one of his specialties was helping foreign physicians immigrate to the
United States. He's serving an eight-month sentence for contempt.

But most of the wrongdoing that keeps bar counsels busy does not rise to the
criminal level.

It is the missed deadline, the unreturned phone call, the obviously overlooked
opportunity that frustrate many eager immigrants and prompt a large share of the
complaints. Such lapses might be less grievous in other legal arenas, but
immigration law is stringent, and immigration tribunals are exacting in their
application of it, say lawyers who practice before them.

That is why bar counsel offices such as the District's have made immigration law
a priority. "The consequences for missing a deadline are draconian," Herman
said. "In civil court, if you miss a deadline, you just file a motion for more
time. In immigration court, you can't do that and expect a good result."

Some aggrieved immigrants file complaints. Some have no choice but to file in
order to ask an immigration judge to reopen a case. But many never do, being
unaware of their rights or reluctant to exercise them for fear of further
complicating their situation, advocates for immigrants say.

Complaints can take months or years to investigate and resolve. Documents must
be gathered, transcripts of proceedings might have to be ordered and lawyers
must be given a chance to respond.

When D.C. bar counsel Wallace E. "Gene" Shipp Jr. elects to seek a sanction, his
lawyers have to try the case before a Board of Professional Responsibility
hearing committee, then argue it before the board, which ultimately makes a
recommendation to the District's highest court, the Court of Appeals.

In 2005, for example, the court upheld a reprimand for a lawyer who had failed
to file an appeal that his client had requested after the client was denied
asylum and then neglected to tell his client that the appeal had not been filed;
the lawyer was in a dispute with the client over how much of a $625 fee had to
be paid up front.

Bad lawyering carried consequences for Fanny Saavedra and her family, they said.
Born in Bolivia, Saavedra has been in the United States illegally for more than
a decade, since she overstayed a tourist visa, was arrested in a workplace raid
and ordered deported.

After her husband, Rene, also of Bolivia, won permanent residency in 2000, Fanny
should have been right behind him in line for a green card, said her current
attorney, the Rev. David Brooks. But their attorney at the time said that Fanny
could not piggyback on Rene's residency and would need to wait until he became a
citizen.

The lawyer was wrong, Brooks said. But not until last year, as Rene was
preparing to become a citizen, did they learn that they didn't have to wait.

The couple's three children  --  ages 3, 7 and 9  --  were born in the United
States and are citizens, and Fanny Saavedra's teenage daughter, born in Bolivia,
was able to gain permanent residency in 2002 as Rene Saavedra's stepchild.

In her own Gaithersburg home, only Fanny Saavedra is in the country illegally,
haunted by the memory of the raid that led to her deportation order. Even the
news that her case has been reopened and will be heard by an immigration judge
this month has done little to quell her anxiety.

"It's like trauma for me," the 40-year-old housekeeper said. "I'm afraid, really
afraid. I don't want to leave my kids."

But the idea of filing a grievance seemed like asking for more trouble when the
family was focused on legalizing Fanny Saavedra's status. "We didn't make a
complaint, because we didn't want any more legal problems with our situation,"
Rene Saavedra said.

In a field dominated by solo practitioners and firms of two to three lawyers,
even conscientious ones can find it hard to keep up with changes in the law and
the strict demands of immigration courts.

"A lot of people get into this practice and they mean well, and they get
overwhelmed  --  they get totally overwhelmed," said Michael Maggio, whose
Dupont Circle firm, Maggio & Kattar, has one of the area's biggest immigration
practices.

Last year, the American Immigration Lawyers Association created a practice and
professionalism center to provide guidance for lawyers navigating immigration
law, as more are entering the immigration field. The association has grown from
fewer than 4,000 members in 1994 to more than 10,000. Only New York and Miami
have more members than the Washington region, which has about 800.

When a lawyer's lapse costs an immigrant whatever opportunity he or she had, the
aftermath can be heartbreaking.

"No matter what we do to show the lawyer did wrong, [the immigrant] may still be
deported," Herman said, drawing on her experience with the D.C. bar counsel
office. "It's more than frustrating. It's tragic in some cases. They may be
separated from their children. They may be deported to a country they haven't
lived in since they were an infant. Their whole lives are turned upside down."

Fanny Saavedra wakes up with such fears every day, despite her attorney's
confidence that she'll be allowed to stay. "My husband, he always supports me,"
she said. "Whatever happens, we'll be together. If we go back, we're going to go
back, all of us."

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              95 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 7, 2007 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Complaints Rise Against Immigration Lawyers;
Complex Statutes, Criminal Schemes Heighten Concerns

BYLINE: Henri E. Cauvin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; C01

LENGTH: 1493 words


Complaints against immigration lawyers working in and around the nation's
capital are rising, say officials who investigate allegations of attorney
misconduct.

Last year, the D.C. Office of Bar Counsel received 59 complaints about
immigration lawyers, up from 49 in 2005  --  when, for the first time,
immigration law drew more complaints than any other specialized practice area.

The bar counsel office is finalizing 2006 totals for other categories, but
complaints about immigration law appear likely to rank near the top again.

Such a distinction is no small feat in a city flush with lawyers and no small
worry in a region long established as a destination for immigrants, particularly
those from Africa and Latin America.

"There are a lot of unhappy immigrant clients out there, and some of them have
very good reason to be unhappy," said D.C. Deputy Bar Counsel Elizabeth A.
Herman, who has handled immigration complaints for more than a decade.

From the simply confused to the unquestionably criminal, bad lawyers have become
a concern for the immigration bar and for the nation's immigration tribunals.

Federal sanctions have been rising in recent years. Established in 2000, the bar
counsel at the Executive Office for Immigration Review, the Justice Department
branch that oversees U.S. immigration courts and the Board of Immigration
Appeals, disciplined 47 immigration lawyers last year and 54 the previous year
--  up from 22 in 2000.

"You have a very vulnerable population," said Jennifer Barnes, who has been the
bar counsel for the immigration review office since the position was created.
Many immigrants, she said, don't speak English, and few understand the statutes
and regulations that are second perhaps only to the tax code in complexity. "And
you have attorneys out there looking to take advantage of that vulnerability,"
she said.

Perhaps the most notorious Washington area immigration hustler in recent history
is Arlington lawyer Samuel G. Kooritzky, who was imprisoned in 2003 after he was
convicted of engaging in a massive fraud. Kooritzky's firm, Capital Law Centers,
specialized in applying for state labor certifications, which businesses use
when they cannot find a U.S. citizen for a particular job. An immigrant can then
use a certification to apply to the federal government for a green card.

Kooritzky's firm submitted thousands of fake applications for labor
certifications without telling the businesses they were being used. He charged
immigrants $8,000 to $20,000 for the service and raked in millions before the
fraud was discovered. Kooritzky received a 10-year sentence.

The breadth of Kooritzky's criminal enterprise is hard to match, but there are
some contenders. In November, a few were in court in the District.

A federal judge sent a Northwest Washington lawyer, Mohamed Alamgir, to prison
for more than three years. From 1996 to 2003, Alamgir filed hundreds of false
labor and immigration forms as part of a scheme to obtain permanent residency
for immigrants by claiming they had jobs awaiting them in the United States,
prosecutors said.

But there were no jobs. In some cases, Alamgir paid employers who agreed to
participate in the scheme. In others, he put up friends or relatives as
employers. And in still others, he mingled fake applications with legitimate
ones. In all, the fraud took in more than $2 million.

A D.C. Superior Court judge jailed another lawyer, Richard A. James, who,
despite having been disbarred, continued to practice immigration law. Given a
suspended sentence in 2002 for flouting his disbarment in 2000, James was
ordered not to practice. But he did, working out of an office on I Street NW
where one of his specialties was helping foreign physicians immigrate to the
United States. He's serving an eight-month sentence for contempt.

But most of the wrongdoing that keeps bar counsels busy does not rise to the
criminal level.

It is the missed deadline, the unreturned phone call, the obviously overlooked
opportunity that frustrate many eager immigrants and prompt a large share of the
complaints. Such lapses might be less grievous in other legal arenas, but
immigration law is stringent, and immigration tribunals are exacting in their
application of it, say lawyers who practice before them.

That is why bar counsel offices such as the District's have made immigration law
a priority. "The consequences for missing a deadline are draconian," Herman
said. "In civil court, if you miss a deadline, you just file a motion for more
time. In immigration court, you can't do that and expect a good result."

Some aggrieved immigrants file complaints. Some have no choice but to file in
order to ask an immigration judge to reopen a case. But many never do, being
unaware of their rights or reluctant to exercise them for fear of further
complicating their situation, advocates for immigrants say.

Complaints can take months or years to investigate and resolve. Documents must
be gathered, transcripts of proceedings might have to be ordered and lawyers
must be given a chance to respond.

When D.C. bar counsel Wallace E. "Gene" Shipp Jr. elects to seek a sanction, his
lawyers have to try the case before a Board of Professional Responsibility
hearing committee, then argue it before the board, which ultimately makes a
recommendation to the District's highest court, the Court of Appeals.

In 2005, for example, the court upheld a reprimand for a lawyer who had failed
to file an appeal that his client had requested after the client was denied
asylum and then neglected to tell his client that the appeal had not been filed;
the lawyer was in a dispute with the client over how much of a $625 fee had to
be paid up front.

Bad lawyering carried consequences for Fanny Saavedra and her family, they said.
Born in Bolivia, Saavedra has been in the United States illegally for more than
a decade, since she overstayed a tourist visa, was arrested in a workplace raid
and ordered deported.

After her husband, Rene, also of Bolivia, won permanent residency in 2000, Fanny
should have been right behind him in line for a green card, said her current
attorney, the Rev. David Brooks. But their attorney at the time said that Fanny
could not piggyback on Rene's residency and would need to wait until he became a
citizen.

The lawyer was wrong, Brooks said. But not until last year, as Rene was
preparing to become a citizen, did they learn that they didn't have to wait.

The couple's three children  --  ages 3, 7 and 9  --  were born in the United
States and are citizens, and Fanny Saavedra's teenage daughter, born in Bolivia,
was able to gain permanent residency in 2002 as Rene Saavedra's stepchild.

In her own Gaithersburg home, only Fanny Saavedra is in the country illegally,
haunted by the memory of the raid that led to her deportation order. Even the
news that her case has been reopened and will be heard by an immigration judge
this month has done little to quell her anxiety.

"It's like trauma for me," the 40-year-old housekeeper said. "I'm afraid, really
afraid. I don't want to leave my kids."

But the idea of filing a grievance seemed like asking for more trouble when the
family was focused on legalizing Fanny Saavedra's status. "We didn't make a
complaint, because we didn't want any more legal problems with our situation,"
Rene Saavedra said.

In a field dominated by solo practitioners and firms of two to three lawyers,
even conscientious ones can find it hard to keep up with changes in the law and
the strict demands of immigration courts.

"A lot of people get into this practice and they mean well, and they get
overwhelmed  --  they get totally overwhelmed," said Michael Maggio, whose
Dupont Circle firm, Maggio & Kattar, has one of the area's biggest immigration
practices.

Last year, the American Immigration Lawyers Association created a practice and
professionalism center to provide guidance for lawyers navigating immigration
law, as more are entering the immigration field. The association has grown from
fewer than 4,000 members in 1994 to more than 10,000. Only New York and Miami
have more members than the Washington region, which has about 800.

When a lawyer's lapse costs an immigrant whatever opportunity he or she had, the
aftermath can be heartbreaking.

"No matter what we do to show the lawyer did wrong, [the immigrant] may still be
deported," Herman said, drawing on her experience with the D.C. bar counsel
office. "It's more than frustrating. It's tragic in some cases. They may be
separated from their children. They may be deported to a country they haven't
lived in since they were an infant. Their whole lives are turned upside down."

Fanny Saavedra wakes up with such fears every day, despite her attorney's
confidence that she'll be allowed to stay. "My husband, he always supports me,"
she said. "Whatever happens, we'll be together. If we go back, we're going to go
back, all of us."

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              96 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 8, 2007 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Battling Deportation Often a Solitary Journey;
Without Legal Assistance, Thousands Are Expelled Unfairly, Critics of System Say

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1530 words


Shortly after 9 a.m., all rose.

The black-robed judge took his seat under the Justice Department seal and in
front of the federal prosecutor. People whispering in various languages spilled
out of the cramped courtroom into the hallway of the federal immigration court
in Arlington County, waiting for their chance to fight to stay in the United
States, agree to leave or be deported.

Salvadoran Roxana Velasco sat alone in the waiting room. Like several other
people listed on that morning's 37-case docket, she had no attorney.

"The judge said I have to have a lawyer or I have to represent myself," said
Velasco, 30, recalling her first hearing in October. "How am I going to do
that?"

In immigration courts, there are judges and prosecutors, evidence and witnesses.
The consequences can be great:  banishment, separation from family, perhaps
persecution at home. But unlike in criminal courts, the government does not
provide free lawyers for the poor. And in what court officials  deem a great
concern, a growing number of people in immigration court have no legal counsel:
Of more than 314,000 people whose cases ran their course in fiscal 2005,
two-thirds went through on their own, or pro se.

That leaves respondents to navigate byzantine immigration law, the judges to
walk them through it and, critics say, the courts to operate sluggishly and
deport thousands unfairly.

"How do they possibly pick out of everything that's happened to them in their
lives the legally significant points?" asked Donald Kerwin, executive director
of the Catholic Legal Immigration Network Inc. "You have to know the legal
standards to do that."

The issue is more crucial than ever, Kerwin said, as  stepped-up enforcement
increasingly sends immigrants  --  including children  --  to court and to rural
detention centers, where lawyers are hard to find.

Velasco, who was caught by federal border police after slipping across the Rio
Grande a year ago, said she immigrated illegally to be with her husband, who
lives in the District. She said she called three lawyers, but two wanted $10,000
and one said she could not help. So on a recent morning, Velasco took Metro to a
Ballston building, pressed the elevator button marked "PH" for penthouse and
ascended to the immigration court, a suite of six small courtrooms.

Just before 10 a.m., she squeezed into Courtroom 4, her red purse carrying a
hearing notice outlining her right to an attorney "at no expense to the
government."

Judge Garry D. Malphrus was making his way through the master calendar docket, a
list of quick preliminary hearings. Case 962 was before him: a 6-year-old girl
in a sparkly skirt. To her left sat her attorney. To her right sat her father,
who raised his right hand and agreed on his daughter's behalf to "voluntary
departure"  --  to leave the United States.

The girl's hearing lasted just minutes, and it was unclear why her father
conceded that his daughter must go. Immigration lawyers say many of those who
appear in the court have no right to stay in the United States  --  no employer
or legal relative to sponsor their visa, no claim to asylum. But Kerwin and
other advocates say confused immigrants often need a lawyer to tell them this,
or to determine that they have a case and then make it by, say, arranging expert
testimony on a country's human rights record for an asylum case or obtaining
documents that prove an immigrant is the child of a U.S. citizen.

Legal representation at the Arlington and Baltimore immigration courts  --
which decide all cases from Virginia, the District and Maryland  --  is higher
than average, largely because of their locations near metropolitan areas. In
fiscal 2005, 42 percent of cases in Arlington were completed with an immigration
lawyer; that figure was 58 percent in Baltimore.

In court, judges hand immigrants a list of charities that offer free or low-cost
legal services. They can help. According to the Catholic Legal Immigration
Network, government data show that 34 percent of all non-detained immigrants
with attorneys won their cases in fiscal 2003, compared with 23 percent without.
Of non-detained asylum seekers, 39 percent with attorneys won their cases; that
figure was 14 percent of those without attorneys.

To help, the Executive Office for Immigration Review, the Justice Department
agency that runs the nation's 54 immigration courts, has been facilitating and
expanding pro bono  efforts. But volunteer legal aid services are often
overwhelmed and have to turn people away. Many of the nine groups on the
Arlington court's list will not take the cases of detainees or criminals.

Alberto M. Benitez, a law professor who directs the George Washington University
Immigration Law Clinic, one provider on the list, said he and the students he
supervises must sometimes temporarily shut down their service, which operates
only during the school year, to catch up.

"Once it's open, it's a deluge of calls and walk-ins and referrals," Benitez
said.

Some organizations, including the American Bar Association, have called for a
congressionally ordered, court-appointed system for the indigent and mentally
ill. But backers concede that the idea has little viability as tension simmers
over illegal immigration. Lawyers have made little headway in courts by arguing
that the absence of counsel violates immigrants' due process rights.

So now advocates focus on efficiency, saying lawyers save the system money by
speeding up the process, often by telling the many immigrants without a good
case to  accept deportation. But no study has included a cost comparison.

The claim is unconvincing to some.

"I'm not aware of any evidence that says the system would work better if people
just had access to more lawyers," said Dan Stein, president of the Federation
for American Immigration Reform, which seeks a reduction in immigration. He
added: "Any good immigration lawyer at this point says that every illegal alien
is just basically a potential legal one if . . . you find some loophole or make
the process long enough."

After 11 a.m., the courtroom was drained of lawyers. A Mexican man approached,
attorneyless.

Minutes later, the clerk called 677.

"Six-seven-seven," Velasco echoed in English, standing to cross the chilly room.

"Did you find an attorney to represent you?" Malphrus asked.

"Not yet," she said through an interpreter.

"I'm not aware of any basis that you have for remaining in the United States,"
Malphrus told her. "The only thing I can do is grant you voluntary departure
from the United States in four months."

"Okay," Velasco said, with a nod.

After a lunch break, Juan Carlos Lopez, a 17-year-old Honduran,  awaited his
hearing. His brother, Johnny Sandoval, 23, said two mortgages and two jobs leave
him little time or money to get a lawyer for Juan Carlos, who crossed the border
illegally in April.

Soon the brothers sat before the judge, who said he would postpone the case
until February. But bring a lawyer, he told them.

"His aunt is a resident," Sandoval said. "Is there any way she can sponsor him?"

"I don't think an aunt is sufficient, right?" Malphrus said to the prosecutor.

"The other option is to try to get him a visa to attend school here, but you
need to do that back in Honduras," Malphrus said. "Anyway, talk to lawyers about
that some more."

Justice can be done without lawyers, but it is tedious, said Denise N. Slavin,
president of the National Association of Immigration Judges. Paperwork-heavy
cases, she said, might take two hearings with a good attorney but eight without.

"You're acting like someone at the DMV on those cases," said Slavin, a Miami
judge. "Like, 'Okay, you've got your registration; you don't have your pollution
certificate.' "

Pro se detainees sometimes file motions modeled on boilerplates that are passed
around detention centers. Lawyers say other people have good cases but founder
in court, not knowing when to object or what evidence to prepare.

"The pro se folks can be good at packing the court with family members or other
supporters, but they don't call them as witnesses because they don't know how to
call them as witnesses," said Christopher Nugent, a lawyer who coordinates pro
bono programs for Holland & Knight in the District.

About 2 p.m., Richmond resident Yasmin Bahamon sat in the courtroom, looking
lawyerly in a pantsuit. She was in court for the fifth time, pushing her asylum
case. She said she arrived in the United States five years ago from Colombia
after being kidnapped and released by leftist guerrillas.

Her attorney, she said, dropped her case when she could not pay. She said none
of the lawyers on the court's pro bono list returned her calls.

As with the others, Malphrus said her file showed no basis for her to stay.
Would she take voluntary departure?

"No. I can't," Bahamon, 33, said quietly.

"Why can't you?" the judge asked.

She froze.

"Keep trying to get a lawyer to help you," Malphrus said.

Later, Bahamon stood in the empty hallway, weeping as a court clerk comforted
her.

Blinking back tears, she said, "I am going to keep trying on the same list."

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              97 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 11, 2007 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Terrorism Convict's Family Held for Deportation

BYLINE: Robin Shulman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 370 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK Jan. 10


A day after a man was sentenced to 30 years in prison for conspiring to bomb
Manhattan's Herald Square, his parents and sister were detained by federal
immigration officials seeking to deport them.

Shahwar Matin Siraj, 24, was sentenced Monday afternoon for plotting to blow up
a subway station in the Midtown shopping district known for its Macy's store.
Early Tuesday morning, his family was arrested at its home in Jackson Heights,
Queens.

Police officials hailed the sentencing of Siraj, a Pakistani immigrant, as a
victory against homegrown terrorism.

But Siraj contended that he was entrapped by a police informant, who he said
inflamed his anger at the United States by showing him photographs of American
acts of abuse against Muslims, including incidents at the Abu Ghraib prison, and
prodded him to consider violence. The informant, Osama Eldawoody, was recruited
by the New York City Police Department after Sept. 11, 2001, to monitor radical
Muslims in the city.

Siraj never obtained explosives, nor made a timetable for an attack. He has no
known connection to any terrorist organization.

His family has lived in the United States since 1999 and has been seeking asylum
since 2003, said their attorney, Mona Shah.

A spokesman for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the agency that
detained the family, said that a final order of removal has been issued against
the father, Siraj Abdul Rehman, 54. But Shah said that case is pending in the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the 2nd Circuit.

The immigration cases of Siraj's mother, Shahina Parveen, 50, and his sister,
Sanya Siraj, 19, are dependent on the father's case, Shah said.

Mark Thorn, the Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokesman, could not say why
the family was detained the day after the sentencing.

"The administrative arrests were timed so they would not conflict with the
criminal prosecution or sentencing," he said.

But Shah charged that the arrests effectively muted the family's protest after
the sentencing of the son.

"It's not American, to punish one person and the next day arrest the entire
family," Shah said. "This is basically silencing them."

The family is being held at a detention facility in Elizabeth, N.J.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              98 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 20, 2007 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Labor Groups, Business Seek Immigration Law Overhaul

BYLINE: Krissah Williams, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Financial; D01

LENGTH: 673 words


Worried that surprise raids are driving away workers who are their lifeblood,
businesses are pooling their money and joining unusually broad alliances that
include labor unions and civil rights groups to push Congress to overhaul the
nation's immigration laws.

The coalition Alliance for Immigration Reform 2007 announced its formation this
week, placing the force of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Service Employees
International Union and the nation's largest Hispanic civil rights group behind
a unified lobbying effort to get a law passed before the politics of the 2008
presidential campaign make a compromise on the contentious issue unworkable.

Pressure has been building on employers and labor as the Immigration and Customs
Enforcement agency becomes more active. Last month, its agents raided Swift &
Co., a participant in a government pilot program that runs Social Security
numbers through a federal database. The raids sent hundreds of undocumented
immigrants to detention centers and jolted business groups.

"It proved that the current system doesn't work . . . and is failing everybody,"
R. Bruce Josten, executive vice president of the chamber, said during a
conference call Thursday.

Business groups paint a dire picture of a U.S. economy without the country's
estimated 12 million illegal immigrants. The National Restaurant Association
says jobs in food service are growing one and a half times as fast as the U.S.
labor force. And the construction industry needs 250,000 new workers per year to
replace its aging workforce, according to Associated Builders and Contractors.

Proponents of a plan to legalize undocumented workers say this year offers an
important window. President Bush and the Democratic-controlled Congress have
called immigration reform a priority, and the coalition considers a Senate bill
last year that provided a path to citizenship for undocumented workers a
blueprint for the policy. That legislation stalled in November when the House
and Senate could not hash out a compromise.

The table is now set, said Cecilia Muñoz, vice president of the National Council
of La Raza, a Latino civil rights group. "Over the course of the last year the
policy ideas have really come into focus."

To hold the marriage of business and labor and right- and left-leaning politics
together, the coalition's ideal bill would include both a path to citizenship
for illegal immigrants already here and more visas for temporary workers, said
Douglas G. Rivlin, spokesman for the National Immigration Forum, which is a
member of the alliance.

The coalition splinters on the details. Labor unions advocate a new kind of visa
that would not make the immigration status of temporary workers dependent upon
their employers. Business groups want the visa program to be as simple as
possible.

In opposition are groups such as the Minutemen, which raised nearly $1 million
for its political action committee last year, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics. The money was used primarily to back candidates who support
building physical barriers to illegal immigration and deporting those who are
here illegally.

Several of the candidates that the group supported, including Arizona Republican
Randy Graf, lost in November, and the Republican Party in general ceded a large
share of the Hispanic vote, a signal to some that tough enforcement policies are
not politically popular. The Alliance for Immigration Reform said it has a
significant budget and will marshal the coalition's resources to push its
message.

"We can keep the heat on the back of the neck of the leadership to get this
thing done," the chamber's Josten said.

Congress has not yet begun formally negotiating immigration legislation.
Alliance members estimate they will need 70 to 80 percent of the Democrats and
30 to 50 percent of the Republicans in both chambers to get a law passed.

"This is not a Democratic slam dunk, and it's not a Bush slam dunk," Rivlin
said. "It's going to take a lot of working together to get things done."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              99 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 20, 2007 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Stagnation;
Going by the book? Not so fast.

SECTION: Editorial; A22

LENGTH: 455 words


FOR MOST people living in the United States, the amount of time and money wasted
in bureaucratic Washington is a distressing but distant annoyance. For some,
however, the inefficiencies cause daily hardship  --  and harm U.S. interests in
the process.

Just ask Shmul Kaplan, an 80-year-old amputee and Ukrainian immigrant whom The
Post's Darryl Fears wrote about last month. Granted asylum in 1997, Mr. Kaplan
has waited  --  and waited  --  for his naturalization papers to come through.
After seven years of patience, he lost his Supplemental Security Income because
he did not gain citizenship in time to retain federal benefits. He currently
lives on $215 a month for rent and $140 in food stamps. Now lawyers are pursuing
a class action lawsuit on behalf of the Shmul Kaplans in this country against a
range of federal agencies complicit in delaying their citizenship applications
and denying them benefits.

The Post's Spencer S. Hsu reported that U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services, a successor  to the much-maligned Immigration and Naturalization
Service, is overwhelmed and has failed to pursue basic administrative and
technical reforms. A recent congressional investigation revealed that
immigration officers had lost track of 111,000 files.  A report released this
month by the Department of Homeland Security's inspector general faults
Citizenship and Immigration Services as remaining "entrenched in a cycle of
continual planning, with limited progress toward achieving its long-term
transformation goals."

Despite these difficulties, Homeland Security lists its progress on immigration
services as an accomplishment of the past year, pointing out that it has
eliminated its backlog of applications, which stood at 3.8 million in 2004. Not
so the FBI, which checks the names of those applying for citizenship. If an
applicant's name is too similar to that of someone on a federal watch list, the
FBI runs a background investigation, a procedure that can take months.

The FBI admits that 100,000 background checks have sat uncompleted for a year or
longer. The bureau insists that it is speeding its work and that the immigration
agency can tag names for expedited service. There is, it seems, plenty of blame
to go around.

America hardly encourages foreigners to enter and live in the country legally
when simply processing their naturalization forms can take years. Citizenship
and Immigration Services needs to cut its wait times by making a rapid
transition to  electronic forms and better organizing reform efforts. And the
FBI must conduct background checks more efficiently. The roughly 6,000 disabled
asylum seekers who, the lawsuit alleges, lost their benefits will be suffering
in the meantime.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              100 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 21, 2007 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Stagnation;
Going by the book? Not so fast.

SECTION: Editorial; B06

LENGTH: 455 words


FOR MOST people living in the United States, the amount of time and money wasted
in bureaucratic Washington is a distressing but distant annoyance. For some,
however, the inefficiencies cause daily hardship  --  and harm U.S. interests in
the process.

Just ask Shmul Kaplan, an 80-year-old amputee and Ukrainian immigrant whom The
Post's Darryl Fears wrote about last month. Granted asylum in 1997, Mr. Kaplan
has waited  --  and waited  --  for his naturalization papers to come through.
After seven years of patience, he lost his Supplemental Security Income because
he did not gain citizenship in time to retain federal benefits. He currently
lives on $215 a month for rent and $140 in food stamps. Now lawyers are pursuing
a class action lawsuit on behalf of the Shmul Kaplans in this country against a
range of federal agencies complicit in delaying their citizenship applications
and denying them benefits.

The Post's Spencer S. Hsu reported that U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services, a successor  to the much-maligned Immigration and Naturalization
Service, is overwhelmed and has failed to pursue basic administrative and
technical reforms. A recent congressional investigation revealed that
immigration officers had lost track of 111,000 files.  A report released this
month by the Department of Homeland Security's inspector general faults
Citizenship and Immigration Services as remaining "entrenched in a cycle of
continual planning, with limited progress toward achieving its long-term
transformation goals."

Despite these difficulties, Homeland Security lists its progress on immigration
services as an accomplishment of the past year, pointing out that it has
eliminated its backlog of applications, which stood at 3.8 million in 2004. Not
so the FBI, which checks the names of those applying for citizenship. If an
applicant's name is too similar to that of someone on a federal watch list, the
FBI runs a background investigation, a procedure that can take months.

The FBI admits that 100,000 background checks have sat uncompleted for a year or
longer. The bureau insists that it is speeding its work and that the immigration
agency can tag names for expedited service. There is, it seems, plenty of blame
to go around.

America hardly encourages foreigners to enter and live in the country legally
when simply processing their naturalization forms can take years. Citizenship
and Immigration Services needs to cut its wait times by making a rapid
transition to  electronic forms and better organizing reform efforts. And the
FBI must conduct background checks more efficiently. The roughly 6,000 disabled
asylum seekers who, the lawsuit alleges, lost their benefits will be suffering
in the meantime.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              101 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 31, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

After 20 Years, Deportation Case Against Palestinians Dismissed

BYLINE: R. Jeffrey Smith, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A08

LENGTH: 461 words


A federal immigration judge in Los Angeles yesterday dismissed a 20-year-old
effort by the U.S. government to deport two Palestinian activists who once
supported a group later determined to be a terrorist organization, calling
Washington's lengthy case against the men "an embarrassment to the rule of law."

Judge Bruce J. Einhorn acted in response to what he described as repeated
failures by the FBI and the Department of Homeland Security to comply with his
order to turn over any potentially exculpatory information about Michael
Shehadeh and Khader Hamide.

Arrested on Jan. 26, 1987, because they distributed magazines and raised money,
while students, for the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, the men
have maintained ever since that their activities were not unlawful and did not
constitute terrorism.

"We did nothing wrong, but have a political view maybe contrary to that of the
government," Shehadeh said yesterday. "I am flying high, and thinking this is
the moment I've been waiting for for 20 years." He added, however, that his long
legal battle has "engraved inside me" a sense of caution until the government
decides whether to appeal.

Virginia Kice, a spokeswoman for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said
that the agency "finds the judge's decision troubling as a matter of fact and
law" and that "the agency is considering its legal options."

Einhorn  --  who opened his ruling with a William Knox poem affirming that life
must eventually come to an end  --  wrote that the government had failed to
respond appropriately to a June 2005 order to produce information sought by the
activists and their lawyers, David Cole of the Center for Constitutional Rights,
Marc Van Der Hout of the National Lawyers Guild and Ahilan Arulanantham of the
American Civil Liberties Union.

That order followed similar demands by the court in 1986, 1993 and 1994.

One DHS official, who insisted on anonymity in discussing ongoing litigation,
said the judge had issued exceedingly broad demands for documents in the case
and that the government had done its best to comply.

A letter of response by FBI Assistant General Counsel John M. Clarkson III in
March 2006  --  after a delay during which "one could conceive, carry, and
deliver a child," according to the judge  --  contained "errors and
extrajudicial rewriting" of the 2005 order and disregarded its scope, Einhorn
wrote.

If a judge cannot respond by penalizing the government, Einhorn said, he would
be "reduced to the status of a Blanche DuBois, who must rely on the kindness of
strangers." Homeland security, he said, "begins and ends with fidelity to the
safety of the law as a shield against unregulated government power."

Staff writer Dan Eggen contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              102 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 31, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Application Fees to Rise By 80 Percent

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu and Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 321 words


The Bush administration will announce an increase today in immigration
application fees of more than 80 percent, federal officials said yesterday.

The cost of applying for naturalization, for example, would rise from $330 to
$595, and a required fingerprint check would go from $70 to $80.

The increases, which have been under consideration for months, would raise
nearly $1 billion for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. The troubled $2
billion-a-year agency has antiquated paper systems that have fed years-long
delays for applicants and fears that terrorists  might slip through the cracks.

Union, civil rights and immigrant advocacy groups called the changes
discriminatory, warning that they will keep lower-income and less-educated
people from becoming citizens.

"What they're saying is, people trying to become Americans are not a priority,"
said Cecilia Muñoz, vice president of the National Council of La Raza, the
Hispanic civil rights group.

Critics also said the  changes would create an incentive for the agency to drag
out processing, thereby extracting more fees, or to expedite cases for people
who can afford premium services.

USCIS faces budget problems because of  an increase in applications and because
Congress funds it not with tax money but with user fees, which trail operational
demands.

The  money will allow USCIS to recoup its business costs, "provide future
services, enhance national security and to modernize . . . a totally outdated
business infrastructure," said an agency official who  spoke on the condition of
anonymity so as not to upstage the announcement.

Officials said the increases  will not address costs that would result from an
overhaul of the nation's immigration laws, which the White House has proposed.

Fee increases will take effect no sooner than 120 days after they are published
in the Federal Register  tomorrow, including a 60-day public comment period.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              103 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 1, 2007 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Increased Immigration Fees Denounced

BYLINE: Darryl Fears and Spencer S. Hsu, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A07

LENGTH: 463 words


Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) joined a chorus of immigrant advocacy groups in
condemning the Bush administration's plan to charge legal immigrants
significantly more money to obtain green cards, adjust their residency status
and bring relatives to the United States.

Under the plan, announced yesterday by Emilio Gonzalez, director of U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services, the government would charge $905  --  up
from $325  --  to apply for a green card or to adjust residency status.
Immigrants with green cards would have to pay $595 to become naturalized
citizens, a $265 increase. The cost of bringing a foreign fiance to the United
States would more than double, to $455.

"This drastic increase will price the American dream out of reach for qualified
immigrants wanting to be citizens of our country," Kennedy said. He called on
Congress to appropriate more money to USCIS, which depends on fees for 99
percent of its budget. "We are a nation of immigrants, and Congress should
recognize its responsibility to support the vital work of immigration services
by appropriating the necessary funds," he said.

Kennedy's comments were echoed by Kevin Appleby, director of migration and
refugee policy for the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops:  "This increase
reflects a disturbing trend which places the benefits of citizenship on the open
market, with only those of a certain economic level able to access it."

Gonzalez said the fee increases are necessary to operate his agency more
efficiently. "Anytime you have to raise a fee, you understand it's going to
affect people,"  he said. "We also have a necessity to create a system that will
process . . . people in a streamlined way."

USCIS has long been plagued by an application backlog, slow processing by poorly
trained personnel and an inability to track applications for people. The agency
receives  no money from Congress and passes on most costs to applicants. A
highly critical 2004 Government Accountability Office report said that the
agency's fees did not cover its costs.

Gonzalez said the increase would pay for better facilities, more workers and
more training so that applications can be processed faster and by a more
courteous and professional staff. He said the improvements would help USCIS cope
with a guest-worker program should Congress approve some type of comprehensive
immigration reform.

The  fee increases will be published today in the Federal Register, beginning a
two-month comment period. USCIS expects to process nearly 5 million applications
in the 2008-2009 fiscal year.

"We've never seen regular fees that were this high," said Fred Tsao, policy
director for the Illinois Coalition of Immigrant and Refugee Rights. "I think a
lot of people are going to get discouraged."

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              104 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 5, 2007 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Lawn-Care Entrepreneur Faces A Changing Racial Landscape

BYLINE: Krissah Williams, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1493 words


In the months that landscaper Nikita Floyd's employees tended the 50-acre
grounds at a large African American church, he received no complaint about their
work.

So it surprised and stung him when a minister at the Prince George's County
congregation told him she was appalled that Floyd, who is black, sent a crew of
a half-dozen Latin American immigrants to do the job. It was the mid-1990s, and
Congress was considering immigration reform, but Floyd never imagined that his
small company would be caught in the national debate.

"Why don't you have any black workers?" Floyd recalls the minister asking as she
threatened to snatch the contract. With many blacks living in the neighborhood
and sitting in the church's pews, shouldn't Floyd be hiring them, she wanted to
know.

Floyd, 38, owner of Green Forever Landscaping in Upper Marlboro, managed to keep
that contract, but 10 years later, he said he feels similar tensions growing as
Congress reexamines immigration law.

When immigrants compete for jobs, black workers are more vulnerable, say
economists who point out that blacks are still disproportionately employed in
low-skilled jobs. That vulnerability has been felt recently in the District's
working-class Brentwood community, where the presence of a large day-labor site
in the Home Depot parking lot has alarmed some black residents, who say they
worry that illegal immigrants are taking jobs from others.

Green Forever offers a window on the issue. In the early 1990s, Floyd had fewer
than a dozen employees, all of them black. Today, 73 percent of the Washington
area's landscaping workers are immigrants, along with 51 percent of office
cleaners and 43 percent of construction workers, according to a Pew Hispanic
Center study last year.

Floyd's 20 wintertime workers are all men from El Salvador, except for two black
women who manage the office. In the summer, he employs twice as many men, all
immigrants.

Floyd's experience illustrates immigrants' impact. Once just a guy with a
lawnmower, he runs a business with annual sales of more than $2.5 million. He
credits immigrant employees for his business's growth and pays about $10 an
hour, with no work and no pay in inclement weather. It's grueling labor in the
winter; a man can spend the day stabbing a spade into frozen dirt or be asked to
shimmy up a tree with a chainsaw in one hand and no netting below.

"I'm only as good as my workers," Floyd said. "If they aren't good, I have
nothing to brag about."

He hires from a network developed by early immigrants referring relatives and
friends. As black workers cycled out, immigrants cycled in. The cycle churned
until black workers were effectively locked out. Now, Floyd says, they rarely
apply for jobs at Green Forever. A study by the Rand Corp., a think tank, shows
that workforce replacement such as Floyd's full shift from black to Latino is
rare. But when the change occurs, it is not often reversed.

Vernon Briggs, a professor of industrial and labor relations at Cornell
University who favors low immigration rates, said no group has "been harmed more
by immigration than black Americans," as immigrants often accept lower wages.

In the 1980s, the loss of thousands of jobs among the predominantly black,
unionized janitorial workforce in Los Angeles to nonunion immigrants during a
contract dispute marked a seminal point in the argument, said Earl Ofari
Hutchinson, a Los Angeles-based social issues commentator who favors cooperation
between blacks and Latinos.

"There was a lot of resentment on the part of many African Americans because
they lost their jobs," Hutchinson said. "African Americans don't even look at
that [sector] anymore because it is not open to them, or they believe it is
closed to them."

It distresses Floyd to be placed in that camp.

When he started Green Forever in 1989, he recruited and hired black workers but
was frustrated when they often left after a few months. That kind of turnover is
typical of the low-skilled labor pool, and in those first few years Floyd paid
his workers slightly more than minimum wage and did not yet offer health
benefits.

Some of the guys would come in late, and Floyd hates to waste even a minute of
daylight. He fired a man who nearly chopped off his arm on a log splitter after
coming to work drunk. Others left for better-paying jobs. High school and
college students hired in summer saw no future in landscaping.

"I got tired of the way things were going," Floyd said.

Green Forever's start coincided with a wave of migration. Between 1990 and 2000,
the region's foreign-born population increased by 71 percent. Many recent
immigrants can earn more than 10 times as much for low-skilled labor in the
United States than in their home countries, and Floyd saw in them a thirst for
survival.

He wanted workers who were hungry for the jobs he offered, as he was after
dropping out of college and starting the business with a loan from his mother to
buy a walk-behind lawnmower, a tiller and a weed whacker.

As owner, Floyd had a vision for Green Forever that his U.S.-born employees  --
with no stake in the company  --  did not share. "When I was mowing lawns, I saw
myself in a truck checking on the men. When I was in the truck, I saw myself in
the office," Floyd said. "Now that I'm in the office, I see the company running
itself."

Floyd's first jobs were  to clean property strewn with used needles and dirty
diapers. "It was nasty, nasty work," he recalled, the kind President Bush has
said U.S.-born workers won't do as he pushes Congress to allow more immigrants
in as temporary workers.

Immigrants present Floyd with Social Security numbers, but even corporations
that use a government-hiring program employ illegal immigrants. Floyd
acknowledges that he may have unknowingly done the same.

Not all of the immigrants were stellar. One stole Floyd's truck radio, he said.
Others were always looking for a job that paid even 25 cents more per hour.

But Floyd instituted raises and bonuses for the best workers and asked the guys
to teach him a few words of Spanish.

"Good job cutting the grama," he would say, mispronouncing a Spanish word for
grass.

In 1995, he hired Santos Medrano, who fled San Miguel, El Salvador, for the
United States after being forced into the national army during a brutal civil
war. Medrano entered the United States illegally in 1989 but applied for asylum
and later received a green card. He had only two years of formal education, but
on a maintenance job at a car dealership, a Cuban taught him English.

After Medrano's cousin referred him to Floyd, Medrano was immediately made head
foreman because he was the only fluent English speaker in the crew. He now has a
company pickup truck, a work cellphone and pay of about $20 an hour.

An easygoing 36-year-old with wavy hair, Medrano spends his days driving to the
sites where Green Forever employees are working or picking up plants and
foliage, encountering other immigrants as he makes his rounds.

"That's what we're here for, to work and pay for everything," he said with a
laugh.

In 1998, he left Floyd for a year to launch a landscaping business, which
flopped because he did not have the capital to compete with well-heeled
companies.

Medrano has since become an essential part of Green Forever, Floyd says. On a
recent Friday, he was stricken with flu, and Floyd worked a 14-hour day to pick
up his duties, phoning Medrano at home to ask him to call another foreman and
translate instructions.

"Walter didn't know he was supposed to meet me on Hill Road. Make sure he's
clear to do that," Floyd told Medrano, who ended up leaving his sick bed for a
few hours to get all the work crews in place.

"Sometimes when he's not there," Floyd said later, "guys just start having a
little bit of confusion."

While Medrano managed the workers, Floyd taught himself more about the craft of
landscaping and expanded the company. In Prince George's, Floyd began to win
bids in the tens of thousands of dollars for upscale landscaping in Woodmore, a
gated community of half-million-dollar and up homes.

Floyd bought a 12-acre farm in Upper Marlboro and grew wealthy. He has time to
focus on other interests, including a pilot script he is writing for a
home-and-garden sitcom he hopes to pitch to television networks.

This year, he plans to step back even further from the day-to-day operations of
Green Forever and hire a salaried operations manager.

The job won't go to Santos Medrano, Floyd's right-hand man.

"Santos can't do it," Floyd said recently, citing his head foreman's lack of
education. "Maybe his son could."

Medrano has accepted that. His hope is in his 6-year-old son, who wants to be a
pilot, or Superman.

"He speaks English better than Spanish," Medrano said with pride.

Floyd said he'll pick "the best person" for the job. "I would love to hire an
African American. Someone who would stick by me and just want to work."

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              105 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 9, 2007 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Woven Into Our Midst

SECTION: Editorial; A18

LENGTH: 154 words


A Feb. 6 Metro article, "Latino Groups Lobby for More Rights,"  about activists
urging the Virginia legislature to tone down anti-immigrant legislation,
reported that a member of the Virginia Council for Immigration Reform  said that
Virginia bills under consideration are not "anti-immigrant" but only
anti-illegal immigrant.

The distinction he attempts to make is misleading. People working in this
country without permission from the federal government do not exist in
isolation.

They are the husbands, wives, sons and daughters of legal immigrants and U.S.
citizens. They are our friends, neighbors and co-workers.

They attend our churches. They shop in our stores and sit next to us at Little
League games.

The idea that illegal immigrants can be excised from our midst without hurting
the remaining immigrant community or the community at large is simply false.

"They" are us.

CHARLOTTE STICHTER

Takoma Park

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              106 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 10, 2007 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Policy on Asylum-Seekers Faulted;
Report Criticizes Detentions by U.S. Immigration Officials

BYLINE: Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A06

LENGTH: 602 words


The U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom has issued a report that
sharply criticizes federal immigration authorities for rounding up
asylum-seekers at the border, detaining them for months in prisonlike facilities
and quickly dispatching them back to the countries they fled.

Thursday's report by the bipartisan panel was a follow-up to one two years ago
that reported similar findings about detention and expedited removal. It said
the Department of Homeland Security and two of its agencies  --  the U.S. Border
Patrol and Immigration and Customs Enforcement  --  did not act on its
recommendations and made little effort to help asylum-seekers.

In more than half of arrests, immigration officials did not advise
asylum-seekers to ask for protection if they were afraid of returning home, even
though they are required to do so, the report said. Sworn statements were often
not verbatim but were used against asylum-seekers when they appeared before
immigration judges. Asylum-seekers have a right to review their sworn statements
to correct errors but were rarely given the chance, the report said.

"We're distressed that we gave the Department of Homeland Security some very
good information two years ago and they've done virtually nothing to address the
problem," said Mark Hetfield, a former researcher at the federal commission who
recently joined the Hebrew Immigration Aid Society. "Homeland Security is not
even following its own procedures. As a result, asylum-seekers are being
mistreated."

Sen. Joseph I. Lieberman (I-Conn.), chairman of the homeland security committee,
pledged to introduce legislation that would force officials to follow
procedures. In a statement Thursday, he and Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.)
praised the report as detailed and thorough.

"The commission's timely report exposes the flaws and inconsistencies in the
expedited removal process," the senators said. "We urge members of Congress to
act on the commission's findings and the shameful abuses of the current system,
and reject any proposals that would make it even more difficult for persons
fleeing human rights abuses to seek safe haven in the United States."

The commission's report includes recommendations from two years ago and a report
card that gives failing grades to the Border Patrol for not implementing them.
The recommendations called on immigration officials to have testers verify that
procedures are followed, to make sure that sworn statements are verbatim before
immigration hearings and to not jail law-abiding asylum-seekers.

Last year, a three-member panel of immigration judges in San Diego ordered the
release of a Sri Lankan asylum-seeker who had been detained since 2001 because
the government said it had secret information that linked him to the Tamil
Tigers guerrilla group. The decision was among the first to challenge the Bush
administration's assertion that it may hold suspects indefinitely on terrorism
charges.

In recent weeks, Homeland Security officials have come under fire for
interpreting anti-terrorism laws in a way that hurts people seeking asylum and
refugee status in the United States. People who were forced to aid terrorist
groups, and were even abused in some cases, have been labeled as sympathizers
and deported. The agency has since started reviewing individual cases and
issuing waivers.

Homeland Security officials say they are following strict anti-terrorism laws
created under the USA Patriot Act and the Real ID Act, which place the burden on
immigrants to prove that they were jailed or otherwise persecuted in their
country of origin.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              107 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              March 4, 2007 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Hope for Amends to Filipino Immigrants;
Bills to Speed Children's Moves to U.S., Give Military Pensions Show Political
Assertion

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A06

LENGTH: 1331 words


Amid the wrangling over immigration reform, virtually everyone in Congress
appears to agree on one point: Filipino-born veterans who fought alongside U.S.
troops during World War II deserve a break.

Denied the right to immigrate to the United States until 1990, they came hoping
that their children could follow them here later, just as other  groups have
done. But the adult children have been required to wait twice as long  --  up to
16 years  --  as anyone else. With the veterans often too old and sick to travel
home, many have died while waiting to be reunited with their families.

Now, after several longtime backers have risen to key positions in Congress,
Filipino American advocates are hopeful that legislation will be pushed through
to exempt the veterans' children from the immigration delay. They also are
optimistic about a potentially more controversial bill that would grant Filipino
veterans military pensions.

About 5,000 veterans in the United States would stand to benefit from a change
in immigration provisions, and an additional 10,000 in the Philippines could be
eligible for pensions.

To many in the 2-million-strong Filipino American community, the issue
represents a chance to cement their political identity in a nation where they
have long felt invisible, even though Filipinos rank second, behind Mexicans, in
the number of immigrants living in the United States.

"Historically, we Filipinos have always been looked down on as your little brown
brothers  --  as these acquiescent people who would just accept anything Uncle
Sam would do to them," said Jon Melegrito, communications director of the
National Federation of Filipino American Associations. "This is about asserting
who we are as a people and how we served this country. . . . It's a call to
action to stop acting like colonial slaves and to start acting like first-class
citizens."

The effort builds on an association with the United States that dates to 1898,
when the United States acquired the Philippines from Spain after winning the
Spanish-American War.

Laws and discriminatory practices against all Asian immigrants kept Filipino
numbers in the United States low through the first half of the 1900s. But in the
Philippines, many residents were taught English and raised to think of
themselves as something akin to Americans.

Celestino Almeda, 90, a veteran who lives in Alexandria, remembered that the
director of his elementary school in Manila led students in a pledge of
allegiance to the American flag every morning.

"We also celebrated all the holidays: Washington's birthday, Armistice Day,"
Almeda said. "In our mind, it was like America was our mother country."

When Japan invaded the Philippines in 1941, more than 200,000 Filipinos joined
Americans in waging a fierce resistance, enduring such horrors as the Bataan
death march and the grueling guerrilla campaign that followed. Technically, the
Filipino fighters were under overall U.S. command. But within months of the
Allied victory, Congress stripped most of them of their rights as foreign
veterans of U.S. forces  --  including the opportunity to become U.S. citizens
--  on the grounds that the Philippines was about to be granted independence.

Even so, the Philippines continued its close affiliation with the United States.
Thousands of Filipinos joined the U.S. Navy, which until recently had major
bases there. By 1970, there were more Filipinos in the U.S. Navy than in the
Philippine Navy.

And, after 1965, when Congress repealed the nationality quota system that had
practically prohibited Asians from immigrating, hundreds of thousands of
Filipinos streamed in.

Ranging from unskilled workers and nannies to nurses and professionals who came
in on occupational preference visas, the new arrivals immediately formed social,
cultural and professional organizations. Before long, they were rising to
prominent positions in government, unions and the military. Several won elected
office, including in Prince George's County, where a sizable community settled.

Yet when it came to turning their clout into political activism on behalf of
Filipino American causes, many of the immigrants hesitated, said Bing Cardenas
Branigin, 50, a former regional chairman of the Filipino American federation.

"There was this sense that you shouldn't make trouble, that you shouldn't
contradict the government," she said. "You should just pay your taxes and send
your kids to school and keep quiet."

That began to change in the mid-1970s when anger spread over the repressive
policies of the Filipino president, Ferdinand Marcos. As much as their
opposition to Marcos galvanized the Filipino American community, it also caused
rifts with those who supported Marcos.

After Marcos was ousted, community leaders looked to refocus their newfound
energy on a more unifying issue. The fight for veterans' equity was a natural
choice.

Since then, the veterans have won some of the benefits they lost after the war.
Most notably, in 1990, Congress granted Filipino World War II veterans the same
opportunity to naturalize offered to all other foreign nationals who served in
the U.S. armed forces.

But the Filipino veterans remain ineligible for a military pension, forcing many
of the more than 24,000 elderly veterans who became U.S. citizens after 1990 to
live off food stamps and Supplemental Security Income payments.

Joaquin Tejada, 84, a former guerrilla fighter who survived two years resisting
the Japanese from jungle hideouts, said he now struggles to get by with his $545
monthly SSI check. The rent for the two-bedroom apartment he shares with another
Filipino World War II veteran in Columbia Heights takes $275.

"By the end of the month, it's hard to buy even basic food," said Tejada, who
proudly sported an American flag tie during an interview.

Then there is the 16-year wait veterans face if they wish to bring over their
adult children, an unintended consequence of the 1965 law lifting the quotas
that had prevented most Asians from immigrating.

In their place, Congress introduced a complicated system meant to offer every
country the same number of family reunification visas. But because Filipino
applicants far outnumber the yearly slots allotted to them, they face the
longest delays  --  22 years to sponsor an adult brother or sister, for
instance, compared with 11 years for applicants of most other nationalities.

Candida Romulo, 72, said she and her husband, Bayani, a veteran who became a
lawyer in Manila, would not have naturalized and moved to Oxon Hill had they
known that the wait to sponsor their grown children would be so long.

"We did it because we wanted to give them the opportunities of living in this
country. It was going to be our gift to them," Romulo said during an interview
in a living room crammed with photographs of her four children.

Soon after the couple's arrival, Bayani developed a medical condition requiring
frequent dialysis, making visits to the Philippines impossible. Because of their
pending residency applications, his children were unable to get visas to visit
him.

When Bayani suffered a severe stroke in September, his eldest son wasn't able to
relay his final words to his father over the phone before he died.

"The receiver couldn't reach his bed in the ICU," Candida Romulo said. "So I
told my husband, 'Your son says that he loves you very much and that he's so
proud that you are his father.' My husband couldn't speak, but I could tell that
he understood, because there were tears in his eyes."

Now Romulo worries that her son may never gain entry to the United States,
because if a sponsor dies while the visa application is pending, there is a
chance that the application will be annulled.

But she said she is still praying that Congress will pass the legislation for
the sake of those veterans who remain alive.

"If that happens, I know my husband will be very happy about it, even if he is
already in heaven," she said.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              108 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 11, 2007 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

At Revival, Catholic Hispanics Pray for Those Caught in Raids

BYLINE: Jacqueline L. Salmon, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; C05

LENGTH: 345 words


There was music, preaching and jokes about bumbling Protestant proselytizers,
but the festive atmosphere at yesterday's Roman Catholic revival quieted briefly
as thousands of worshipers joined hands and raised them high.

Let us pray, the Rev. Jose Eugenio Hoyos told the hushed crowd at the D.C.
Armory, for Hispanic immigrants caught in the vast fishing nets of government
raids on workplaces.

"Pray for the people who have been detained and for their children who have been
left behind," Hoyos, director of the Spanish Apostolate for the Diocese of
Arlington, asked the faithful in Spanish. And let us pray that we can touch the
hearts of those in the government responsible for decisions involving
immigrants, he told them.

An estimated 5,000 people attended the first of two days of a celebration of
faith for the area's Hispanic Catholics at the armory, with thousands more
expected today for the third annual encuentro, or encounter.

For many, these are frightening times, Hoyos said in an interview. Even legal
immigrants fear getting caught in the government's workplace raids.

At the same time, he said, they are discouraged by the lack of progress in
Congress on legislation to ease federal immigration restrictions.

At events such as the revival, Hoyos said, "people feel comforted and they can
trust. . . . They need to hear that God is with them and that God never abandons
them."

Outside in the warm sunshine, green-clad young people streamed past the Armory,
headed to hear 40 rock bands at the Shamrock Fest at nearby Robert F. Kennedy
Stadium.

Inside the dim armory, Victoria Grandanos and two friends, all of Silver Spring,
prayed for themselves and their community.

Grandanos, 72, who emigrated from San Salvador 12 years ago, said some people
have a mistaken view of most immigrants. "They come here to work," she said.
"They're honest people."

Her friend, Christina Lobos, 50, said she drew comfort from the thousands around
her who were also seeking divine assistance. In groups of more than one, she
said, prayer is more powerful.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              109 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 11, 2007 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

At Revival, Catholic Hispanics Pray for Those Caught in Raids

BYLINE: Jacqueline L. Salmon, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; C04

LENGTH: 345 words


There was music, preaching and jokes about bumbling Protestant proselytizers,
but the festive atmosphere at yesterday's Roman Catholic revival quieted briefly
as thousands of worshipers joined hands and raised them high.

Let us pray, the Rev. Jose Eugenio Hoyos told the hushed crowd at the D.C.
Armory, for Hispanic immigrants caught in the vast fishing nets of government
raids on workplaces.

"Pray for the people who have been detained and for their children who have been
left behind," Hoyos, director of the Spanish Apostolate for the Diocese of
Arlington, asked the faithful in Spanish. And let us pray that we can touch the
hearts of those in the government responsible for decisions involving
immigrants, he told them.

An estimated 5,000 people attended the first of two days of a celebration of
faith for the area's Hispanic Catholics at the armory, with thousands more
expected today for the third annual encuentro, or encounter.

For many, these are frightening times, Hoyos said in an interview. Even legal
immigrants fear getting caught in the government's workplace raids. At the same
time, he said, they are discouraged by the lack of progress in Congress on
legislation to ease federal immigration restrictions.

At events such as the revival, Hoyos said, "people feel comforted and they can
trust. . . . They need to hear that God is with them and that God never abandons
them."

Outside in the warm sunshine, green-clad young people streamed past the Armory,
headed to hear 40 rock bands at the Shamrock Fest at nearby Robert F. Kennedy
Stadium.

Inside the dim armory, Victoria Grandanos and two friends, all of Silver Spring,
prayed for themselves and their community.

Grandanos, 72, who emigrated from San Salvador 12 years ago, said some people
have a mistaken view of most immigrants. "They come here to work," she said.
"They're honest people."

Her friend, Christina Lobos, 50, said she drew comfort from the thousands around
her who were also seeking divine assistance. In groups of more than one, she
said, prayer is more powerful.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              110 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 12, 2007 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Mexico Tries a Slower Path To Changes on Immigration;
Strategy Includes Strengthening Domestic Job Market

BYLINE: Manuel Roig-Franzia, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A Section; A09

LENGTH: 952 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


When President Bush lands in the Yucatan colonial city of Merida on Monday
night, he will encounter a new Mexican government that wants the same thing the
old one wanted: comprehensive immigration reform in the United States.

What's different is that Mexican President Felipe Calderón, in office since
December, is trying a slower and subtler approach. Calderón and his lieutenants
have even invented a buzzword to define their strategy, saying they will
"desmigratizar" the bilateral agenda,  or remove immigration from the forefront
of U.S.-Mexico relations.

"He's having to find a new vocabulary," said Juan Hernández, who headed a
cabinet-level office for Mexicans living abroad during the administration of
Calderón's predecessor, Vicente Fox.

Calderón has spoken out against U.S. border policy, calling border fences
"deplorable" and predicting that security measures will lead to an increase in
migrant deaths. Still, the president's top aides say he is convinced that, to
achieve immigration reform, he must demonstrate to the U.S. Congress that Mexico
is willing to address the factors propelling illegal migration, especially the
country's weak job market and low standard of living.

The president is also pressing for human rights reforms on his nation's troubled
border with Guatemala, in an attempt to avert accusations that Mexico has
mistreated migrants.

Given the dimensions of Calderón's challenge  --  the minimum wage is $4.60 a
day and the World Bank estimates that more than 40 percent of Mexicans live in
poverty  --  his allies say they do not expect to produce enough tangible
results to spur immigration reform in the United States during the final two
years of the Bush administration.

"Maybe we won't succeed in the near term, but we could succeed in the medium
term," Alejandro Landero Gutiérrez, a member of Calderón's National Action Party
who serves on the foreign relations committee of the Mexican Congress, said in
an interview. "We're building this brick by brick. Our expectations are much
more reserved."

Calderón visited Bush at the White House in November, during a pre-inauguration
international tour. "I didn't come to the United States looking for Americans or
this country's government to solve problems we have in Mexico, which we will
have to solve on our own," he said after the meeting.

Since he took office, Calderón's biggest initiative has been a far-flung effort
to crush drug cartels, whose barbaric turf wars have discouraged tourism and
foreign investment. He has sent Mexican troops and federal police to resorts,
such as Acapulco, and to hot spots along the border, such as Tijuana and
Monterrey.

While the military offensive has produced mixed results  --  there have been
some arrests, but violence persists  --  Calderón has also been encouraging
foreign investment. He recently proposed inviting international companies to bid
on contracts to build private toll roads, which could create thousands of jobs.

He is also pursuing a domestic agenda aimed at curbing emigration by improving
social services and generating jobs. In January, Calderón launched a program
that will give cash incentives to companies that hire first-time job holders.
His administration also projects spending 6.7 percent more on education this
year than Fox's did last year, 26.8 percent more on public health and 27.6
percent more on social development programs, according to statistics provided by
Landero Gutiérrez.

"In marginalized communities, after paying for the basic costs of education,
health care and food, people are left with nothing, and they're forced to
migrate," Landero Gutiérrez said.

But shifting the focus away from immigration is not a simple endeavor. U.S.
immigration policies have made Bush profoundly unpopular in Mexico and other
Latin American countries. A Zogby International poll published in January by
Newsweek magazine indicated that two-thirds of prominent Mexicans  --  including
politicians and business people  --  view relations with the United States as
"poor." In the meantime, there are strong pressures in Mexico to find ways to
improve living conditions  --  and perhaps attain legal status  --  for the
estimated 6 million Mexicans living illegally in the United States.

Dan Lund, a Mexico City pollster, said Calderón, whose party falls well short of
a majority in Congress, is hampered by "a divided house" on the question of how
much emphasis to place on immigration. Jorge Castañeda, who was foreign minister
under Fox and famously said Mexico wanted "the whole enchilada" of immigration
reforms, has disagreed, calling Calderón's strategy "foolishness."

While de-emphasizing immigration reform, Calderón has also given signals that he
won't stop trying to cajole American lawmakers. Before leaving for the United
States, Calderón's new ambassador to Washington, Arturo Sarukhan, told reporters
that Mexico would use its U.S. diplomatic corps to lobby for reforms.

"We are going to put into place the same kind of diplomatic and lobbying effort
that we did in the early 1990s when NAFTA was being decided," Sarukhan said last
month, referring to the North American Free Trade Agreement.

Calderón has sometimes departed from his strategy of shifting immigration out of
the spotlight in U.S.-Mexico relations. In July, during his first news briefing,
he attacked proposals to build more fences along the border.

As months passed, his rhetoric became even stronger. During a visit to Canada in
October, Calderón said, "Humanity committed a grave error by constructing the
Berlin Wall, and I am sure that today the United States is committing a grave
error in constructing a wall along our northern border."

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              111 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 12, 2007 Monday
                                 Final Edition

A Self-Inflicted Wound;
The U.S. is blocking the best and brightest immigrants.

SECTION: Editorial; A12

LENGTH: 530 words


ONE OF the more self-defeating aspects of this nation's immigration policy is
its insistence on denying work visas to thousands of the world's most
sought-after doctors, scientists, engineers and technical specialists, including
those finishing their degrees at American universities. Understandably, U.S.
technological corporations, which, unlike Congress, live in the real world of
innovation and cutthroat competition for skilled workers, are furious that their
own government's visa policies give foreign firms a leg up. As Bill Gates,
chairman of Microsoft Corp., told a Senate committee last week, "America will
find it infinitely more difficult to maintain its technological leadership if it
shuts out the very people who are most able to help us compete."

That, unfortunately, is precisely the effect of current policy, which for the
past few years has limited the number of visas reserved for skilled workers to
65,000 annually  --  many fewer than American firms would like to hire. The
immigration legislation passed by the Senate last year would have increased that
number to 115,000, but the bill died in the House. As a result, it is a
certainty that thousands of highly trained workers, their hopes of staying and
working in America dashed, are now giving firms in Europe or Japan a competitive
advantage in some of the world's most cutting-edge industries.

The lunacy of the current state of affairs is exposed by the fact that from 2001
to 2003, Congress raised the number of visas for skilled workers to 195,000
annually, in recognition of marketplace realities, then allowed it to revert
back to 65,000 through what amounted to inattention. At this point, with the
demand for skilled workers soaring, the 65,000 cap is so inadequate that every
single such visa is snapped up by skilled workers who apply each spring, before
the federal government's fiscal year even begins in October. The system's
dysfunction has been recognized by Congress, which felt compelled to make some
exemptions to its own cap. That eased but did not solve the problem.

Entangled in the broader debate about immigration, the skilled-worker visa
problem has been neglected for too long. Tighter immigration curbs imposed after
the terrorist attacks of 2001 may have been an understandable reaction at the
time.

But there's no excuse for the current logjams, particularly since a legislative
fix is relatively simple: increase the number of visas. And while Congress is at
it, it should also raise the woefully inadequate annual cap on green cards,
which are needed for permanent residency status. Just 140,000 are granted
annually, and the backlog in applications now requires a waiting period of about
five years.

America's knowledge-based economy is increasingly dependent on the best and
brightest immigrants, who account for a quarter of the nation's doctorates and a
third of its engineering professors. Foreign-born entrepreneurs were among the
founders of Sun Microsystems Inc., Intel Corp., Google Inc. and other leading
firms. To educate the next generation of them in America, only to export them to
foreign universities and corporations, is foolish in the extreme.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              112 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 13, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

In Guatemala, Bush Vows to Push Immigration Changes

BYLINE: Peter Baker, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A10

LENGTH: 1032 words

DATELINE: GUATEMALA CITY March 12


President Bush defended a recent surge of deportations that have inflamed
passions here in Latin America, but vowed Monday to redouble efforts to overhaul
immigration laws and called on the Senate to pass comprehensive legislation by
summer.

"The system needs to be fixed," he said during his first visit to this
impoverished nation, which many have fled seeking opportunities in the United
States, legally and illegally. "It seems like to me, we've got to get this done
by August."

Although he called that a goal rather than a deadline, it was the first time
Bush has prodded lawmakers with a time frame since Democrats took over Congress.
It also was a tacit acknowledgment that the next few months represent his last
chance to push through the most significant domestic initiative remaining in his
presidency. After that, aides contend, the approach of the 2008 presidential
primaries would make consensus implausible.

The president's visit put him in the awkward position of defending tough new
enforcement actions and expanded barriers along the southern U.S. border  while
assuring Latin Americans that he remains committed to not expelling from the
United States most illegal immigrants. President Oscar Berger pressed him about
recent deportations of Guatemalans that upset a country where  10 percent of its
population has moved north of the Rio Grande.

"I'm sure they don't want to be sent home," Bush said during an appearance with
Berger at the National Palace. "But nevertheless we enforce laws."

Berger was openly disappointed. "The Guatemalan people would have preferred a
more clear and positive response  --  no more deportations," he said. But he
expressed confidence that Bush could push through legislation addressing the
situation. "We have never been so close to finding a solution to this problem as
now," Berger said.

The immigration issue dominated the fourth day of the president's six-day Latin
America tour and was likely to continue for the remainder of the trip as he
headed Monday night for two days in Merida, Mexico. Tension over the matter
complicated Bush's efforts to use his trip to convince Latin America that "we
care" about poverty, destitution and "social justice," as he has put it.

The president took a helicopter tour of the highlands Monday to reinforce his
message that the United States is working hard to uplift its neighbors, even
though they have felt ignored by his administration. He visited a U.S. military
program that provides medical care to rural poor and an agriculture cooperative
for indigenous farmers whose irrigation system was built with U.S. aid. Wearing
an embroidered Mayan jacket, he hefted lettuce into a truck and handed out bags
of  hygiene items.

Bush also played tourist for a change, stopping by Iximche, a 537-year-old Mayan
ruin that was the inspiration for the name of the country, where he watched
children perform the traditional Dance of the Deer before a marimba band
launched into John Philip Sousa march music. The day-long swing through the
country was, Bush said later, "one of the great experiences of my presidency."

As with  stops in Brazil, Uruguay and Colombia, Bush's visit was cause for
protest among  people angry about his policies. Hundreds of demonstrators massed
a block from the National Palace as a wall of riot police prevented them from
moving farther. Clouds of dark smoke arose from something burning near the
protesters. And even at Iximche, Mayan priests said they planned to "purify" the
ruin after Bush left, to get rid of any "bad spirits" he might have left behind.

Guatemala is a case study in the sort of economic desperation Bush says he wants
to address. Many in this Tennessee-size country of 12 million struggle to make
ends meet. The per capita gross domestic product of $4,900 a year is little more
than a 10th of the $43,500 in the United States.

Bush arrived at a time of scandal for the government. Four police officers
killed three Salvadoran members of the Central American Parliament and their
driver last month in what officials suspect was a planned killing carried out by
professional assassins. The police officers were taken into custody, then were
mysteriously killed in prison. Several top security officials of Berger's
government have since submitted their resignations.

Berger used their meeting to complain about a raid at a New Bedford, Mass.,
factory last week that netted 361 suspected illegal immigrants, many of them
Guatemalans, and in some cases left children abandoned at schools. Despite
suspicion here, Bush assured him they were not singled out because they were
Guatemalans.

It appeared that Berger inadvertently prompted Bush to publicly set the August
goal for immigration legislation when he told reporters that the president had
used the date in their private conversation. Bush acknowledged that, while
tempering it by saying it was not a firm deadline. But he said it had to be done
by then because the fall would be consumed by appropriations bills.

Bush said that there needs to first be "a coherent Republican position" before
his party can go to the Democrats to negotiate, and he called the Senate
critical to passage. "You know full well that if we don't have enough consensus,
nothing is going to move out of the Senate," he said. "And if nothing moves out
of the Senate, nothing is going to happen in the House."

As he has at home, Bush stressed that he favors a "rational middle ground,"
balancing strict enforcement with compassion for 12 million illegal immigrants
in the United States. "The biggest problem in this debate is going to be what to
do with the people who are already in our country illegally," he said he told
Berger. "And I explained to him there will not be amnesty, automatic
citizenship. It's just not going to happen. Nor is it feasible to try to kick
everybody out of our country. That's not possible."

Bush's August time frame pleased Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (Mass.), the main
Democratic author of a bipartisan plan that the president generally favors.
"There is no excuse for inaction," Kennedy said Monday night. "We must get
comprehensive immigration reform done this year and done right."

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              113 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 25, 2007 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Senseless Deportations

BYLINE: Rachel E. Rosenbloom

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. B07

LENGTH: 721 words


Every year, thousands of longtime, legal permanent residents are deported from
the United States on the basis of criminal convictions without any opportunity
to present evidence of their family ties, employment history or rehabilitation.
Many are barred for life from returning to America.

Next Sunday will mark 10 years since the Illegal Immigration Reform and
Immigrant Responsibility Act went into effect. This broad legislation, together
with the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act, took away the power of
immigration judges to exercise discretion in most types of deportation
proceedings. Congress dramatically expanded the list of offenses resulting in
mandatory deportation so that it now includes many crimes that are considered
misdemeanors under state law and that result in no jail time. Individuals can be
deported for shoplifting, jumping subway turnstiles, drunken driving and petty
drug crimes. Some of those who have been subject to mandatory deportation came
to the United States as infants and have never known life elsewhere.

Some arrived as refugees fleeing persecution or as children adopted by American
couples. One man, a former child refugee from the genocidal regime of the Khmer
Rouge, was deported back to Cambodia for urinating in public; while working as a
construction manager, he had relieved himself at a job site.

Studies by professors at Harvard and the University of California have shown
that immigrants commit crimes at lower rates than do native-born Americans. And
in many cases, those who do run into trouble with the law -- often in their
teens or early 20s -- go on to become productive members of their communities.
Many Uch, convicted at 18 for being an accomplice in an armed robbery, became a
small-business owner, Little League coach and volunteer with a youth outreach
program. Yet he's been ordered out of the country, and he can't appeal.

Wayne Smith, who was convicted of possession of cocaine and attempted
distribution, overcame his addiction to drugs and became a model prisoner. While
in prison, he attended classes through the University of the District of
Columbia and coordinated Christian services at the prison chapel. After being
released he continued to volunteer with the prison ministry, obtained a
scholarship to complete his studies, worked as a drug treatment counselor and
started a business that employed more than a dozen people. He also cared for his
wife, who was ill with breast cancer, and was a loving father to his children.
Nevertheless, Smith was deported to Trinidad.

The deportation of longtime residents has had devastating effects on American
families. Gerardo Antonio Mosquera, a forklift operator deported after three
decades in the United States for selling $10 worth of marijuana to a paid police
informant, left behind in Los Angeles a wife and four children, all of them U.S.
citizens. His 17-year-old son, despondent over the loss of his father, committed
suicide three months later. Mosquera was not allowed into the country to attend
the funeral.

It is time to restore immigration judges' power to look at all of the relevant
information when deciding whether deportation is warranted. The Child Citizen
Protection Act, sponsored by Rep. Jose Serrano (D-N.Y.), would allow immigration
judges, when deciding whether to deport parents, to consider the interests of
children who are U.S. citizens.  No immigration reform package will be complete
if it ignores  the grave injustices wrought by mandatory deportation.

It is hard to see the rationale behind our inflexible deportation laws given
that last year, according to news reports,  12 percent of new Army recruits  had
criminal records including felonies or serious misdemeanors such as aggravated
assault and vehicular homicide. Just as the military considers evidence of
rehabilitation in deciding whether to grant moral waivers for enlistment to
ex-offenders, immigration judges should be able to consider a longtime
resident's complete record in deportation proceedings.

After all, shouldn't anyone who can be trusted with a government-issued weapon
also be trusted to live a law-abiding life in the United States?

The writer is a supervising attorney focusing on post-deportation human rights
issues at the Center for Human Rights  and International Justice at Boston
College.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 31, 2007 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 612 words

An Unbalanced Look

"Stricter Immigration Law Dominates Smith R?sum?" [news story, March 23] is an
example of why so many people feel that the media are biased -- one-sided and
not factual. The reporter quoted three sources: a liberal Democratic
publication, a liberal immigration organization and nameless past Democratic
opponents of mine. So much for objectivity.

And, in describing the 1996 immigration law that I authored, the article was
inaccurate in asserting that illegal immigrants could be deported for "minor
infractions . . . such as shoplifting." Actually, illegal immigrants are
understandably deported for committing aggravated felonies for which the penalty
is at least one year's imprisonment -- hardly a description of shoplifting.

Your readers deserve balanced reporting and the facts, not sloppy journalism.

-- Lamar S. Smith

Washington

The writer is a Republican U.S. representative from Texas.

Describing Killers

I've been an avid Post reader for 45 years. Each time I see mention of a suicide
bomb or suicide bomber, I think: "This is a homicide. Why can't anyone get it
right?"

Think about it. For the organization and the bomber committing the act, it is
about killing as many innocent people as possible. In terms of intent, suicide
is clearly secondary.

The proper term, I think, is homicide bomber. The Post and other news
organizations should present these attacks for what they are: homicides.

-- Mark Shapiro

Rockville

Headline Headache

Your March 21 front-page headline "Bush Offers Aides for Hill Interviews" missed
the mark.

I recognize that writing headlines is a real art, requiring a punchy
encapsulation of the heart of a story in a very small space. But this one was
biased. The real story was that President Bush was refusing to allow his aides
to speak under oath to members of Congress.

How about  "Bush Won't Let Aides Speak Under Oath"? It might have meant a
smaller type size, but it would have given a bigger picture of the story.

-- Linda Bennett

Washington

Guidance, Not Glorification

What in the world was The Post thinking when it put "For Beasley, It's a Jumping
Point; Gaithersburg Native 'Just Killing Time' as He Prepares for Eventual Leap
to NBA" on the front of the March 12 Sports section?

It was a story about what appears to be an out-of-control basketball player
attending his sixth high school.

Is this the type of young person we should be encouraging to act as a role model
for NBA hopefuls?  No mention was made of his family or his parents. Who is
guiding Michael Beasley on the path for his future?

I hope that someone read this article and decided to reach out to give him some
assistance and supervision.

-- Debbie Davis Nichols

Arlington

Beyond the Middle?

I was dumbfounded to read in the March 23 Ask Amy column that someone in his or
her 50s is "past middle age." Perhaps because I am 50, this struck a sour note.

What are people in their 50s if they are "past middle age"? Perhaps a
51-year-old is aged, elderly, old or "senior"? Seems unlikely. I prefer the
adjective "seasoned."

My perspective was restored by my 15-year-old daughter, who read this and
reasoned out loud, "I thought middle age was around 50, because it's half of
living to 100."

-- Mary R. Bates

Bristow

The Hometown Toll

"Red Sox Slugger Keeps Soldier's Memory Alive" [Metro, March 20] was a moving
story about a New Hampshire resident killed in Iraq.

However, not one of the several pieces The Post ran on the Iraq war on that day
or on the fourth anniversary of the war's start mentioned the 60 Marylanders, 91
Virginians and three District residents who have died in the war. I am
disappointed in my hometown paper.

-- Ronit A. Dancis

Chevy Chase

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 3, 2007 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

U.S. Companies Race to Fill Quota of Coveted Technology Worker Visas

BYLINE: Krissah Williams; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. D08

LENGTH: 556 words


The race opened yesterday for U.S. companies scrambling to get visas for foreign
professionals, many from India and China, to fill engineering, computer
programming and other technology jobs.

Immigration lawyers predicted that the quota of 65,000 professional visas, known
as H-1B, would be claimed in just one day, reflecting increased demand. That
would be the fastest the visas have ever been depleted. Last year, the supply
lasted two months. The requests are filled on a first-come, first-served basis
until the quota is nearly reached. The final applications are then chosen
randomly.

"There is really nothing you can do to give yourself a leg up in the selection
process other than get them in on time -- that means" yesterday, said Bo Cooper,
an immigration lawyer with Paul, Hastings, Janofsky and Walker's D.C. office.

H-1B visas are a relatively swift path to immigration for foreigners with
bachelor's degrees and U.S. companies to sponsor them, making them popular.
Immigrants, along with the U.S. technology industry lobby, have been advocating
for an increase in the H-1B quota to reform the visa program and simplify the
green-card application process. A bill, sponsored by Reps. Luis V. Gutierrez
(D-Ill.) and Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.), includes a provision to lift the cap to
115,000 as part of a congressional overhaul of immigration law. The H-1B program
was introduced in the 1990s, and after the technology boom the cap soared to
nearly 200,000 workers in 2004. The cap went back down two years ago.

Most H-1B visas, which allow U.S. companies to recruit workers anywhere in the
world, are used to fill technology jobs, but doctors, teachers and accountants
also qualify. The visa is good for three years but can be renewed as long as the
visa holder remains with a sponsoring company.

Among the largest users of H-1Bs are Infosys Technologies, Microsoft and
Deloitte & Touche, according to the Department of Labor's office of foreign
labor certification.

Thick envelopes deluged U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services yesterday, and
the agency brought in extra workers and expanded its mailroom at two service
centers to handle the applications. Applications delivered before opening day
are returned to the sender.

"We anticipate that this year the filing is going to close quicker, but we have
no way of knowing," said Citizenship and Immigration Services spokesman Chris
Bentley, who encouraged employers to continue sending in applications. "The
worst that can happen is that we will send the application back."

Companies that don't land an H-1B have to wait 18 months before they can try
again. The process of preparing applications can be lengthy and expensive,
Cooper said.

Each application is 15 to 50 pages long and requires a description of the
position, proof of the foreign applicant's credentials, petitions explaining why
a foreign worker is needed to fill the job and a promise to pay a fair wage.
Employers also pay upward of $6,000 in processing and legal fees to apply.

The program is not without criticism. Advocates for U.S. computer programmers
worry that H-1B holders bring down wages and displace American workers.

"What may be good for our country as a whole may not be good for individuals,"
said Joseph E. Stiglitz, a economist and author. "We haven't thought well about
how we compensate the losers."

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 9, 2007 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

President Renewing Efforts on Immigration;
Plan for Overhaul Faces Battle in Divided Congress

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1510 words


President Bush will relaunch his push for an  overhaul of the nation's
immigration laws today  in Arizona, with a fresh speech on the border and a new
congressional leadership that is friendlier to his views, but with the same
dynamics that scuttled his last attempt: a cooperative Senate but bipartisan
opposition in the House.

In contrast to her approach to other controversial issues, House Speaker Nancy
Pelosi (D-Calif.) has told the White House that she cannot pass a bill with
Democratic votes alone, nor will she seek to enforce party discipline on the
issue. Bush will have to produce at least 70 Republican votes before she
considers a vote on comprehensive immigration legislation, a task that may be
very difficult for a president saddled with low approval ratings.

Democratic conservatives, particularly freshmen who seized their seats from
Republicans, weathered a barrage of attacks on the issue before their victories
in November and are not anxious to relive the experience, aides and lawmakers
say. Some of those lawmakers, such as Reps. Nancy Boyda (Kan.), Brad Ellsworth
(Ind.), Nick Lampson (Tex.) and Heath Shuler (N.C.), are implacably opposed to a
bill that would grant  any of the nation's estimated 12 million illegal
immigrants legal residence or citizenship, at least until new border controls
are implemented and working.

"I've been respectful with my leadership, but I have been very firm on where I
stand," said Boyda, who endured attack ads last fall from her opponent,
then-Rep. Jim Ryun (R), accusing her of favoring "amnesty" for undocumented
workers. "I think they know I will be voting to represent my district, and they
want me to do that."

In his speech in Yuma, Bush will stress four elements that he has to see in an
immigration bill: more border security; better enforcement of immigration laws
in the interior, especially laws against the hiring of undocumented workers; a
temporary-worker program to address labor shortages; and "resolving without
amnesty and without animosity the status of the millions of illegal immigrants
that are here right now," White House spokesman Scott Stanzel said.

A recently leaked White House presentation, devised after weeks of closed-door
meetings with Republican senators, suggests some hardening of Bush's positions,
however.

As spelled out in the presentation, which White House aides describe as ideas
for debate, undocumented workers could apply for three-year work visas,
renewable indefinitely at a cost of $3,500 each time. To get a green card that
would make them legal permanent residents, they would have to return to their
home countries, apply for reentry at a U.S. embassy or consulate, and pay a
$10,000 fine.

In a new twist, more green cards would be made available to skilled workers by
limiting visas for parents, children and siblings of U.S. citizens. Temporary
workers could not  bring their families into the country.

Key Democrats have said the plan would unacceptably split families while
creating a permanent underclass of temporary workers with no prospects of fully
participating in U.S. society. Their competing vision is the Security Through
Regularized Immigration and a Vibrant Economy Act -- or Strive Act, newly
introduced in the House by Reps. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.) and Jeff Flake
(R-Ariz.).

The bill would make illegal immigrants who were in the country before June 1,
2006, eligible for legalization after a $500 fine, a security clearance and
proof that they had been actively employed before that date. After six years,
immigrants who learn English, stay crime-free and pay an additional $1,500 would
be eligible for permanent residency and eventually citizenship. Under the bill,
hundreds of thousands of guest workers could enter the United States each year
to fill jobs that Americans do not want.

Illegal immigrants hoping to become legal would have to return briefly to their
countries, but they would have six years to do so. That  "touch back" provision
would include exemptions for children, non-working spouses taking care of those
children and workers who could lose their jobs over an extended absence.

There is  evidence that recent border crackdowns and workplace raids have slowed
the flow of illegal immigrants, said Steven A. Camarota, director of research at
the Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates reduced immigration. After
increasing from 30 million in 2000 to 35.2 million in 2005, the official census
count of foreign-born U.S. residents grew by 500,000 last year. And wage growth
at the bottom rung of the economy suggests that the glut of low-skilled workers
is beginning to dry up.

Demonstrations that brought immigrants into the streets by the hundreds of
thousands last year have largely disappeared, in part because immigrants no
longer fear a Republican Congress's plans, advocates for immigrants said.

But Rep. Gabrielle Giffords (D-Ariz.), a freshman who beat a hard-line
immigration foe in November while backing the president's approach, says the
nation still faces an "immigration crisis." In the Tucson sector of the border,
in her district, law enforcement officers are apprehending more than 2,000
border crossers a day.

The problem for Democrats who need legislative action, such as Giffords, is that
in districts where the issue has quieted down, lawmakers would like to let
sleeping dogs lie. Rep. John Yarmuth (D-Ky.), who unseated a longtime Republican
congresswoman in the fall, said the issue is dormant in Louisville, and he
worries that the 700-page Strive Act is so complicated, lawmakers will never be
able to explain it to their voters. Instead, he said, it will be demagogued by
political opponents.

In Midwestern and Southern districts with high unemployment and job fears,
especially those experiencing their first influx of foreign workers, opposition
to immigrant labor remains high. Because Democrats control Congress, labor union
leaders are pressing their own concerns harder, opposing expansive guest-worker
programs and demanding union wage rates for legalized workers -- issues that
could jeopardize crossover GOP support.

"It's going to be very, very difficult" to pass an immigration bill, Yarmuth
said.

House Democratic leaders have tasked Rep. Zoe Lofgren (Calif.), who chairs the
Judiciary subcommittee on immigration, citizenship, refugees and border
security, with heading the chamber's  effort. Lofgren insisted that support is
broad for the principles of tightening border security, cracking down on
employers of illegal immigrants and bringing those immigrants "out of the
shadows" by offering them new avenues to live and work in the country legally.
But she conceded that support in principle does not necessarily result in the
passage of legislation.

"There's really a lot more consensus than people think," she said. "Now whether
that consensus translates to votes on the floor, we'll have to see. It's still a
politically charged subject."

Last fall in Indiana, Ellsworth faced Republican ads  asking: "Will Brad
Ellsworth vote for liberal Democrat Nancy Pelosi for speaker of the House? . . .
Pelosi and other Democrats want to raise your taxes, cut and run in Iraq, and
give amnesty to illegal immigrants."

In Asheville, N.C., conservatives opposed to Shuler put up billboards of a
Mexican flag flying atop an upside-down U.S. flag. Lampson, in his race for the
seat vacated by former House majority leader Tom DeLay (R-Tex.), contended with
campaign signs reading: "Want more illegals? Vote Democrat."

Challenging Rep. Brad Miller (D-N.C.), now in his third term, Republican Vernon
Robinson charged, "If  Miller had his way, America would be nothing but one big
fiesta for illegal aliens and homosexuals."

"Something like 90 percent of Republican ads ran on immigration. These new Dems
don't want to see that again," Flake said.

House leaders have made clear that they want the Senate to go first on the
issue. In the Senate, Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), key Republicans,
Commerce Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez and Homeland Security Secretary Michael
Chertoff have been making closed-door efforts to reach a consensus since
November.  Majority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.) has scheduled the last two
weeks of May for Senate action on immigration.

But there is no Senate bill. Kennedy and his partner on immigration last year,
Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), had been expected to join Flake and Gutierrez last
month in the unveiling of the Strive Act, but McCain dropped off. Opponents of
such immigration plans say he is running from the issue as he tries to gain
traction with conservatives in his bid  for the White House.  McCain aides and
his Democratic allies on immigration say he is simply too busy to take the lead
and has handed it off to a  close ally, Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.).

Add to all that tumult the growing animosity between Bush and congressional
leaders over other issues, from Iraq to the firing of U.S. attorneys, and the
prospects for the president's immigration proposals appear faint.

"I think he's going to have an uphill battle," Boyda said.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 20, 2007 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Militant, 79, Is Released By U.S. to House Arrest;
Anti-Castro Activist Wanted in 2 Nations

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 405 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, April 19


Anti-Castro militant Luis Posada Carriles, an  ex-CIA operative suspected in a
decades-old Cuban airliner bombing, was released from U.S. custody Thursday and
flew to Miami as he awaits trial on immigration fraud charges.

Posada, 79, was released from a New Mexico jail after posting bond and went to
his wife's house in Miami. He was required to post a $250,000 bond and his wife,
daughter and son were required to post a $100,000 bond to secure his release.

A frail Posada was accompanied on the flight by U.S. marshals and Immigration
and Customs Enforcement officials. His daughter and lawyer helped him walk up to
the second-floor apartment.

Posada's lawyer, Arturo Hernandez, said his client would be sent Friday to
pretrial services,  where he would receive an electronic monitoring device under
the terms of his release.

"He talked a lot about Cuba, about his gratitude to the Cuban-American community
at large. He was very nostalgic," Hernandez said of Posada's demeanor during the
flight.

Posada, a  former CIA operative, is awaiting a May 11 trial on allegations that
he lied to immigration authorities while trying to become a naturalized U.S.
citizen.

Earlier this week, an appeals court in New Orleans rejected the federal
government's bid to keep Posada jailed until his trial. The release order puts
him under 24-hour house arrest and an electronic monitoring device.

Posada is wanted in his native Cuba and in Venezuela, where he is accused of
plotting the 1976 bombing of a Cuban jetliner that killed 73 people.

A judge ruled that Posada could not  be deported to those countries because he
might be tortured, and no other country has agreed to take him.

Attorneys for Venezuela have argued that under international law, if the United
States decides not to return Posada to Venezuela, it should try him on the
bombing charges. Posada has denied taking part in the airline bombing.

Under the conditions of his release, Posada must try to find a country willing
to take him, ICE officials said.

Posada has been jailed since March 2005, when he was caught in Miami and sent to
El Paso to face immigration charges. In Miami, his return was hailed by some who
view him as a freedom fighter.

"He's quite old and in bad health. We believe he should be with his family and
will not be a risk," said Angel De Fana, who heads a Miami-based group that
supports political prisoners in Cuba and wrote a letter in favor of Posada's
release.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 20, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Coverage Of Some Immigrants To Resume

BYLINE: Mary Otto, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B06

LENGTH: 288 words


Maryland will reinstate health care benefits to poor legal immigrant children
and pregnant womenin response to a court ruling that found it improper to cut
them from Medicaid rolls, state officials said yesterday.

After about 4,000 immigrants lost their coverage because of a $7 million budget
cut last year, a group of 13 sick children sued to get the benefits reinstated.
Last week, Maryland's highest court ruled in the group's favor and returned the
case to a lower court judge.

Late yesterday, S. Anthony McCann, secretary of the Maryland Department of
Health and Mental Hygiene, said he restored the benefits after consulting with
his counsel and Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr.'s office.

New medical assistance cards will be mailed to the children named in the lawsuit
"in the next day or two," McCann said. In addition, state officials will inform
other former recipients who remain eligible that their coverage has been
restored, he said.

State social service offices are being told to reach out to families who might
have become eligible for the program. Among the criteria is that immigrants have
been permanent legal residents for less than five years.

How the program would be funded is being resolved, McCann said.

Douglas M. Bregman, one of the children's attorneys, rejoiced over the ruling.
"This is a wonderful victory," he said. "We only had 13 plaintiffs. Now we have
everybody back in the program."

With the federal Welfare Reform Act of 1996, Congress made most legal immigrants
ineligible for federal programs such as Medicaid in their first five years. But
many jurisdictions, including Maryland, Virginia and the District, continued to
use their money to provide some coverage to recent immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              119 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 20, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

State to Restore Its Coverage of Some Immigrants

BYLINE: Mary Otto, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B06

LENGTH: 288 words


Maryland will reinstate health care benefits to poor legal immigrant children
and pregnant womenin response to a court ruling that found it improper to cut
them from Medicaid rolls, state officials said yesterday.

After about 4,000 immigrants lost their coverage because of a $7 million budget
cut last year, a group of 13 sick children sued to get the benefits reinstated.
Last week, Maryland's highest court ruled in the group's favor and returned the
case to a lower court judge.

Late yesterday, S. Anthony McCann, secretary of the Maryland Department of
Health and Mental Hygiene, said he restored the benefits after consulting with
his counsel and Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr.'s office.

New medical assistance cards will be mailed to the children named in the lawsuit
"in the next day or two," McCann said. In addition, state officials will inform
other former recipients who remain eligible that their coverage has been
restored, he said.

State social service offices are being told to reach out to families who might
have become eligible for the program. Among the criteria is that immigrants have
been permanent legal residents for less than five years.

How the program would be funded is being resolved, McCann said.

Douglas M. Bregman, one of the children's attorneys, rejoiced over the ruling.
"This is a wonderful victory," he said. "We only had 13 plaintiffs. Now we have
everybody back in the program."

With the federal Welfare Reform Act of 1996, Congress made most legal immigrants
ineligible for federal programs such as Medicaid in their first five years. But
many jurisdictions, including Maryland, Virginia and the District, continued to
use their money to provide some coverage to recent immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              120 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 22, 2007 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Drop This Case;
The endless pursuit of the 'Los Angeles Eight' is an unnecessary affront to Arab
Americans.

SECTION: Editorial; A18

LENGTH: 460 words


"FOR THE rule of law to prevail, litigation must have a beginning and an end."
So wrote Judge Bruce Einhorn in a federal case that has become the Jarndyce and
Jarndyce of immigration law --  it passed the 20-year mark last month. The saga
of the Los Angeles Eight, though  their number is now down to two, involves
Palestinians whom the government has been seeking to deport for their activities
on behalf of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP)  --
activities such as raising money, holding meetings and distributing magazines in
the mid-1980s. Six of the group have since been granted residency status, and
the government hasn't moved against them. But two, Khader Hamide and Michel
Shehadeh, remain the subject of deportation proceedings, though they were legal
permanent residents at the time of their activities. They have never been
accused of any terrorist action or criminal violation, and the government
concedes that their actions would be constitutionally protected if they were
U.S. citizens.

The PFLP is a loathsome group that has carried out terrorist activities. It was
an important and legitimate policy change,  after the Sept. 11 attacks, to
tighten the law to make raising money here for terrorist groups a crime. But
that law was not in place when Mr. Hamide and Mr. Shehadeh were allegedly
involved with the PFLP; they say they were never members but only distributed
its magazine. At this point, if not from the outset, the  pursuit of two
law-abiding, middle-aged men with roots and families in this country is
misplaced and even self-defeating on the part of the government. The case of the
Los Angeles Eight has become an unnecessary flash point for Arab Americans
convinced that the government is discriminating against them.

In addition, the government's behavior undercuts its argument for deportation.
"A reasonable argument could be made that if Hamide and Shehadeh have engaged in
terrorist activity, particularly in the context of today's world, then the
government would be prepared to move heaven and Earth  --  not to mention some
mounds of paper  --  to complete the trial and deportation" of them, Judge
Einhorn wrote. Instead, the government has delayed presenting its case and
ignored court orders to turn over potentially exculpatory evidence. "The
repeated actions of the government in not complying with the court's orders have
prevented" the two men "from obtaining fair hearings and closure in their case,"
Judge Einhorn concluded, calling the government's behavior "an embarrassment to
the rule of law."

It's well past time for this to end. The government has until the end of the
month to appeal the judge's ruling.  It should, instead, drop this case, as it
should have done years ago.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              121 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 14, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

ICE Sweep Was Largest Ever Against One Firm

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A09

LENGTH: 448 words


The immigration raids on meatpacking plants in six states were the largest sweep
of their kind against a single company and resulted in the arrests of 1,282
suspected illegal immigrants, Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said
yesterday.

The raids early Tuesday of facilities owned by meatpacking giant Swift & Co.,
based in Greeley, Colo., were followed by immigration charges against 18 percent
of the 7,250 workers scheduled to work the morning shift, Immigration and
Customs Enforcement officials said. More than 100 people were charged with
crimes that included identity theft, Chertoff said, and that number is expected
to grow. Federal and company officials estimated that  30  to 40 percent of
Swift's workers had questionable documents.

U.S. officials had identified 331 Swift workers who used false identities, 170
of whom were still employed by the company, before the raid. But without
authorities' knowledge, Swift in recent weeks had questioned suspect employees,
causing 400 to quit or be fired, according to a federal judge in Amarillo, Tex.,
who denied a motion by Swift last Thursday to block the raids.

Swift reported yesterday that all its facilities have resumed operations but
that output will remain below normal "over the short-term." The company said it
anticipates "no adverse long-term impacts." Plants were raided in Greeley; Grand
Island, Neb.; Cactus, Tex.; Hyrum, Utah; Marshalltown, Iowa; and Worthington,
Minn.

The United Food and Commercial Workers International Union filed an injunction
in Colorado seeking the release of workers. It contends that they were
interrogated and detained illegally, and planned to file more in other states,
spokeswoman Jill Cashen said.

Bishop Gerald R. Barnes of San Bernardino, Calif., chairman of the U.S.
Conference of Catholic Bishops' committee on migration, said that raids are not
"the most humane and effective approach" to the problem of illegal immigration,
noting their traumatic impact on families and children. He called for an
overhaul of immigration laws.

Chertoff acknowledged Swift's voluntary participation in a federal program that
allows companies to electronically verify Social Security numbers, noting that
the company was not charged Tuesday. But he said that the system does not detect
identity theft, and that companies cannot rely on the "Basic Pilot" program as a
"magic bullet" to satisfy the law if they see other signs of fraud.

Chertoff called for Congress to allow the Social Security Administration to
identify and share information with enforcement agencies when numbers are used
multiple times. Some Social Security numbers have been used at 200 workplaces,
authorities said.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              122 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                    December 13, 2006 Wednesday 5:27 PM EST

Coming to America: Bring Your Culture With You

BYLINE: Lily Garcia, Special to washingtonpost.com, washingtonpost.com

LENGTH: 274 words



HIGHLIGHT: I am a professional in a narrow field and a new immigrant from a
country with very different customs. How can I secure a professional job in the
United States?


I am a professional in a narrow field and a new immigrant from a country with
very different customs. How can I secure a professional job in the United
States?

Much has been written about making a smooth transition from one country's
professional business culture to another.

I recommend the "Put Your Best Foot Forward" series, by Mary Murray Bosrock --
specifically, her book "Put Your Best Foot Forward, USA: A Fearless Guide to
Understanding the United States of America," (International Education Systems,
1999).

You should also seek a cross-cultural mentor who has the insight to educate you
on the ways in which U.S. business culture differs from that to which you are
accustomed.

Finally, at the risk of sounding maudlin, I want to remind you that while you
should certainly strive to understand business customers in the United States,
you should not altogether eschew your background.

One of the pleasures of working in the United States is the degree to which
cultural differences in the workplace are respected and valued.  You may find
that your difference of perspective is actually an asset, not a hindrance, in
the job search process.

Lily Garcia is director of human resources for Washingtonpost.Newsweek
Interactive. She has been offering employment law and human resources advice to
companies of all sizes for 10 years. To submit a question for consideration,
e-mail howtodeal@washingtonpost.com.

Disclaimer: How to Deal is not meant to be a replacement for actual legal
advice. Please contact your HR representative for issues that pertain to your
organization. We reserve the right to edit submitted questions for length and
clarity.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2006 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       March 6, 2007 Tuesday 3:00 PM EST

Immigrants Top U.S. Blacks for College Spots;
At Elite Schools, Proportion From Africa, Caribbean Nearly Doubles That of U.S.
Population

BYLINE: Camille Charles, Associate Professor of Sociology, University of
Pennsylvania, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 3116 words



HIGHLIGHT: While immigrants make up 13 percent of college-aged blacks in the
U.S., a recent study has found that they are nearly a quarter of blacks at the
nation's most prestigious colleges -- and economic disadvantages and negative
perceptions about African-Americans are suggested as possible causes.


While immigrants make up 13 percent of college-aged blacks in the U.S., a recent
study has found that they are nearly a quarter of blacks at the nation's most
prestigious colleges -- and economic disadvantages and negative perceptions
about African-Americans are suggested as possible causes.

One of the study's authors, Associate Professor Camille Charles of the
University of Pennsylvania, will be online Tuesday, March 6 at 3 p.m. ET to take
questions and comments from readers.

In Diversity Push, Top Universities Enrolling More Black Immigrants (Post, March
6)

Submit your questions and comments before or during the discussion.

Charles is the Faculty Associate Director for the Center for Africana Studies at
the University of Pennsylvania, and is the author of " Won't You Be My
Neighbor?: Race, Class, and Residence in Los Angeles."

____________________

Camille Charles: Hello and thank you for questions.

_______________________

Normal, Ill.: It seems that no one is addressing the cost of tuition for
immigrant students vs. the cost for American students. For the same education,
the university collects three times the tuition cost. Could this be another
major motivating factor to recruit students from outside of the U.S.?

Camille Charles: It could in some instances, but our participants had to be at
least resident aliens, so our population didn't include true international
students.

_______________________

Washington: Hello. I wonder if you did a further breakdown between Africans and
Caribbeans? You're right, some of the elites are upper-class with money.

Camille Charles: I'm working on a project now that compares African and
Caribbean students, both first and second generation to native multigenerational
American black students, and there are differences between each of those groups.
African students actually have the best college preparation in terms of
academics, test scores, AP courses and those sorts of things. Quite often the
Caribbean students, across generations tend to look more like African-American
students in terms of their social background characteristics and academically,
but they're a little bit better out of high school.

In general African immigrants are in general the most educated immigrants in the
U.S. They're coming from further away, too, so there is that self-selection
process. They're better equipped in terms of human capital characteristics
(parents, education, occupational prestige, etc.) than Caribbeans are.

_______________________

Hyattsville, Md.: Does the study make distinction between the different
backgrounds of the "Black Immigrant Students"? Does it include those students
from humble backgrounds -- let's say refugee immigrants -- or does it just refer
to wealthy black immigrant students? There are two kinds of immigrants --
wealthy immigrants who made rational choices to immigrate and those who are
forced to immigrate ... thanks.

Camille Charles: We didn't self-consciously ask about the circumstances of
immigration, but there is a variety in terms of material resources. Again, more
so with the Caribbean students than with the African students. In terms of the
countries that most of them came from, I suppose some of the Haitian kids could
be refugees, but that's not something we asked about consciously. So it's
possible, but we're also taking account of social class characteristics with the
understanding that they're not all going to be wealthy elites. Because at the
same time we did study selective colleges and universities, we're not going to
have a representative group in terms of social status -- you are going to get
more affluent blacks and immigrants just because of the nature of the schools
that we sampled.

In terms of human capital characteristics, really the only major difference was
that immigrant fathers were more likely to have an advanced degree, so in terms
of what the average native vs. immigrant student looked like, they're not that
different in terms of social class.

_______________________

Greenbelt, Md.: What was the need to differentiate within the black culture? I'm
afraid with the lack of common sense lately, many will associate the word
immigrant with "illegal."

Camille Charles: I think that there's a tendency for us to assume that all
blacks are the same and have a similar experience and increasingly just as the
American population as a whole is becoming increasingly diverse, so is the black
population. So in purposes of just knowing who we are, you want to pay attention
to those things.

It's also that there are these preconceived ideas about immigrant blacks being
preferred so that for example immigrant blacks are much less segregated than
African-Americans are. There is some research that suggests immigrant Africans
sometime make conscious decisions to maintain accents to avoid the sort of
discrimination that African-Americans face, and so there's some conflict because
of that.

And if, just for purposes of studying racial inequality, it's important to check
if improvements are occurring in the same population we had 30 years ago, or
whether those improvements are only from immigration. If you're really into
affirmative action and the improvement of the descendants of slaves in the U.S.,
then this might be important to you because those meant to benefit from
affirmative action might not be. If you're really into diversity, then maybe
this is a good thing, because you learn that there are all kinds of black people
with different world views and ideas.

So there are all kinds of reasons to disaggregate black students. In discussing
black immigrants, we're getting people to really think about a group that is
sort of invisible to the American public.

_______________________

Virginia: The silence from the NAACP and Urban League is deafening -- they knew
and did nothing.

Camille Charles: How did they know? I don't know what they knew and didn't know
and I don't know what one would expect them to do. At the end of the day we're
talking about a group of people who are black and by virtue of their phenotypic
characteristics are likely to experience racism and discrimination. In some ways
I advocate for those students just as much as I do for the traditional
African-American and I would guess that those groups do to. But I don't really
know what they know or don't know in part because admissions offices aren't
really releasing the information that way -- it's not easy to get a breakdown of
immigrant versus black students.

_______________________

Gainesville, Fla.: Is it possible that the obsession with hip-hop and the
misplaced "stop actin' white" attitude have slowed the flow of historically
ambitious young people of color?

Camille Charles: No. This notion of blacks devaluation as "acting white" is a
myth. There is no good empirical data to support it.

_______________________

Woodbridge, Va.: How many colleges were in this study, and can you break it down
between public and private institutions? How about socioeconomic factors?

Camille Charles: Twenty-eight institutions. They include liberal arts colleges,
Ivy League institutions, large public selective institutions and Ivy League peer
institutions (Northwestern, Stanford, etc.). We did look at the representation
of immigrant vs. native numbers at the 10 most selective schools in the sample
and the Ivy League schools in the sample, and the disproportion gets more severe
the more selective the set of schools was. In terms of socioeconomic factors,
there's nothing in our data to suggest that immigrant students are better-able
to afford selective institutions than natives are. Certainly nearly all of the
institutions we included offer pretty generous financial aid packages. But in
terms of the costs of the schools themselves, I would say that obviously the
large public universities like UNC, Cal or Michigan obviously are more
affordable than places like Princeton or the University of Pennsylvania (which
is private).

_______________________

Oakland, Calif.: What kinds of policy implications should this study have upon
college admissions at selective schools?

Camille Charles: Why does everybody what to talk about policy? Again, I think it
depends on your goal. If your goal is, in very simple terms, diversity on
campus, in some sense there's nothing that needs to be changed. If however
you're still committed to the goals of affirmative action, it would seem to
suggest you need to pay a little more attention to the origins of the students
that one is admitting.

_______________________

Fremont, Calif.: What you say is true; my daughter was one of a very few
traditional African-American students in her undergrad class at the University
of Pennsylvania, (BS, Biology, 1999). What can I do to help?

Camille Charles: I think, again, probably one of the big things to focus on is
improving the overall profile of African-American students, which researchers
haven't been able to figure out a way to do yet. I think another piece of it is
awareness -- a lot of us don't ever think about the composition of the black
population in college in terms of where they come from.

_______________________

Bethesda, Md.: I was very pleased by this article as an African woman who came
to the US to pursue a master's degree. The one thing that African parents from
all class level stress is the importance of education -- as African's our
parents have repeatedly told us, the one thing that they can give us of utmost
importance that no one can take away is a good education and this is why we will
take any and every opportunity to further our education. This emphasis on
education does not exists in African-American homes and if it did maybe the
numbers would be different.

Camille Charles: It's wonderful that her family stressed that for you, but I
disagree with your suggestion that African-American families don't. The ability
to read and write was at one time punishable by death for African-Americans, so
this is not something that they take lightly, nor is it something that they
value any less than any other group for society. Again, there is not good
empirical data to suggest what you may have seen anecdotally. To go back to that
other person's suggestion, loving hip-hop and loving learning are not mutually
exclusive.

_______________________

Local TJ alum: I think the class difference is marginal at best. When I was in
school my Nigerian, Ugandan and Haitian classmates lived on the same blocks,
went to the same elementary and middle schools and had gone through a lot more
than the average kid to get where they were. It's the work ethic, not the money.

Camille Charles: I would agree that there aren't big class differences. I also
would agree that they have gone through a lot more than the average kid.
Immigrants in general, no matter what race they are or country they come from,
made a decision to leave everything they know and are comfortable with to make
hopefully a better life for them. And the farther you've come, the harder it is
to come back if things don't work out immediately. You're also getting a
non-representative subset of the Ghanaians, Haitians, Jamaicans etc. -- the ones
most likely to succeed no matter where they are. It's unfair to compare them to
the full range of American blacks because there are the ambitious, the average
people, the people who won't succeed no matter what. Whereas the immigrant
population clearly is driven to change their lives -- so in many ways it's an
unfair comparison.

The other piece of it is that you have to take into consideration how the host
society perceive them and respond to them. What we know to this point is that
mainstream America respond more favorably to immigrant blacks than they do to
American blacks, which in subtle ways enhances opportunities for immigrants
while constraining opportunities for natives. There are no simple answers.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: In your research on the matter did you consider for a moment the
possibility, for argument's sake, that there is some truth to the "negative
perceptions" of African-American students? Are you saying that Africans would
not be subject to the same treatment?

Camille Charles: In terms of the first question: no. I did not consider for
argument's sake that the stereotype about African-Americans are true. I do not
believe that they as a group tend to be lazy, unintelligent, don't try hard or
don't value education. And as for the second part of the question, I think there
is evidence that mainstream Americans give a break for being immigrants -- we
assume that they've overcome tremendous obstacles are hardworking people. And I
think that's true of all immigrants, but again, we're looking at an unfair
subset of immigrants -- these are the people who get up and leave instead of
just talking about it.

_______________________

Atlanta: My two cents. The need to differentiate Black culture comes from the
fact that blacks are not monolithic -- the experience of a black person from
Africa black are not the same as a black person from the Caribbean or the United
States. All black experiences are unique and valid.

Camille Charles: Exactly.

_______________________

Burtonsville, Md.: Has your study looked at the qualifications of the students
admitted to the selected institutions? Were African-American students excluded
because they were from the United States or because they were not as qualified
as students from foreign countries?

Camille Charles: They were not less-qualified. There were no big differences.
This is really the point -- we didn't find anything to distinguish native vs.
immigrant blacks in terms of qualifications. That's why we sort of suggest
there's sort of a subjective process, whatever that may be. We're not suggesting
that these are conscious decisions made by admissions officers, we're saying
that there's a trend. Maybe we should pay more attention to that trend. If we
want to understand the underachievement of minorities in universities in broad
terms, you've got to understand the population you're studying. The idea that
the black experience is monolithic is a myth, and one of the important
contributions of our study is statistics that prove that. We were prepared to
discover that immigrant students are better-prepared academically, but as an
aggregate group they are not. If you look at Africans vs. Caribbeans, Africans
are better prepared than native black students, but Caribbean students are
indistinguishable from African-Americans.

_______________________

Richmond, Va.: Why should a student's race matter? I thought we were beyond the
days of quotas and admission of less qualified students for the sake of
diversity? Do universities still admit students based on race? If so, how can
that be constitutional?

Camille Charles: Why do we assume that when we're talking about black students
going to college that they are unqualified? Universities can in fact consider
race as one of many factors in making an admissions decision. To my knowledge
though they have never been in the business of admitting any student who could
not successfully achieve -- that doesn't benefit the student, or the institution
which has to report graduation rates and the like. We assume that SAT scores and
even to some extent high school grades are the best indicators of student
ability. Particularly with SAT scores, there's no real evidence that they
predict anything other than first-semester's grades. Often the best predictor of
success is the student's own self-confidence that they can succeed, and often
having overcome adversity of some sort or another better prepares a student for
achieving in the market or beyond.

In terms of moving beyond race, we like to delude ourselves that we've gotten to
that point in our country, but by and large we're too scared to have that
conversation. As long as we have persisting inequality that is so closely tied
to race, I don't think we're anywhere near to a situation of colorblindness, or
at least true equality or pluralism. There is too much evidence of persisting
racial discrimination in all aspects of American life, but particularly in
housing and in the labor market, and those two areas of American life are too
intricately tied to our life chances, whether that be education or physical or
mental health or the ability to provide for our families to say that we've
gotten anywhere close to a level playing field.

_______________________

Decatur, Ga.: I read your story and viewed the questions here. I am unsure of
what the reader is supposed to gleam from your work. What should the reader take
away from your article?

Camille Charles: I think for me, for that particular piece, it's about not only
recognizing the diverse origins of the students and again the more broad
heterogeneity of the black community than we often tend to think about, but also
the stereotypes blacks themselves tend to adhere to about differences between
African blacks and native blacks. They aren't true -- they aren't all that
different and they share much more in common in their experience than is
different. That's important to understand more broadly.

If you're interested in American racial politics and access to higher education
and those kinds of issues, you might want to think about what that
overrepresentation means in terms of eradicating inequality among American
blacks.

On the other hand I think you could look at it as just another opportunity for
students in these institutions to experience a different kind of diversity in
their educational experience.

_______________________

Burtonsville, Md.: Did your study examine the number of applications from
foreign countries? Have the number of applications from foreign students
increased during the period studied? Have the number of applications from
domestic students decreased during the period studied?

Camille Charles: We didn't look at the number of applications from any kind of
student -- we only got access to student statistics from after they were
admitted. Also again, international students weren't included in our study, so
all of the students in our project were citizens or resident aliens. Even the
latter category included both first- and second-generation students -- both the
immigrants themselves and the American-born students of immigrants to the U.S.

_______________________

Camille Charles: Thank you for all of your questions and your interest in my
research. It's been a pleasure.

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over Live
Online discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts;
guests and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not
responsible for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2007 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        April 9, 2007 Monday 1:02 PM EST

Bush's Immigration Problem

BYLINE: Dan Froomkin, Special to washingtonpost.com, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 4199 words



HIGHLIGHT: You might be forgiven today for thinking, as you listen to President
Bush's speech about immigration, that you (or he) had entered a time warp.


You might be forgiven today for thinking, as you listen to President Bush's
speech about immigration, that you (or he) had entered a time warp.

Bush's big goal today is wooing Republicans in Congress by talking tough on
border security and adding more punitive elements to his proposals for
undocumented workers.

But wait -- don't the Democrats control Congress now?

They do, of course, but when it comes to the potential overhaul of the nation's
immigration laws, Bush is engaged in a delicate dance.

Immigration is possibly the only significant political issue where the general
outlines of Bush's policy proposals engender more support from Democrats than
from Republicans. So his immediate goal is trying to get a critical mass of the
members of his own party to go along with him.

If he can accomplish that, the president will presumably swing back to gather up
the Democrats -- assuming he hasn't gone too far in appeasing Republicans for
the Democrats to stomach.

The chances of all this happening are slim. Delicate dances have never been
Bush's strong suit. Futhermore, this one may require more political clout than
Bush has left.

Massimo Calabresi writes in Time: "President Bush returns to the Mexico border
at Yuma, Arizona, Monday to reprise last year's role as buggy-riding border
sheriff. And as with every piece of White House theater, this one has a very
specific audience in mind: the anti-immigration right wing of the Republican
party. It is this deeply skeptical crowd Bush must win over if he is to get the
last potential domestic policy achievement of his presidency: 'comprehensive
immigration reform.' And, with Congress' summer recess and the 2008 presidential
primaries approaching, time is running out."

While Bush's latest plan "does offer a path to citizenship for the millions of
illegal immigrants already in the country, it sets high hurdles: They would be
sent to the end of the line of those applying for citizenship, would have to pay
heavy fines for the years they have been in the country, would have to show that
they have held a job while here, pay full back-taxes on their earnings and pass
an English exam. And in a major departure from U.S. immigration policy as it has
existed since 1965, the plan would do away with citizenship for their family
members."

John D. McKinnon and Sarah Lueck write in the Wall Street Journal (subscription
required) that the White House "wants at least 25 Republicans to back Mr. Bush's
immigration proposals in the Senate, so as to generate bipartisan momentum for
the bill in the House, where divisions are even wider. But many Republicans have
demanded proof of improved border security before they consider Mr. Bush's
priorities. . . .

"During his one-day visit to Yuma, Mr. Bush is expected to argue that he has
lived up to his side of the bargain by beefing up security forces at the
border."

McKinnon and Leuck write that several factors "appear to be working in Mr.
Bush's favor." For one: "Immigration is emerging as a key indicator of whether
the White House and Republicans can work with newly empowered Democrats in
Congress."

But McKinnon and Lueck note that Democrats "remain wary of Mr. Bush's recent
turn to the right. They worry that as they demand concessions, Republicans would
abandon support for the legislation and try to shift blame for its failure to
Democrats."

Ben Feller writes for the Associated Press: "Administration officials . . . have
been meeting privately for weeks with Republican senators. That expanded to a
meeting in late March with key senators from both parties.

"Out of that session, a work-in-progress plan emerged -- one described as a
draft White House plan by officials in both parties and advocacy groups who got
copies of the detailed blueprint.

"The White House disputes that characterization. Spokesman Scott Stanzel said it
was only a starting point, an emerging consensus of Republican senators and the
White House.

"Regardless, the floated proposal has already met opposition. Thousands of
people marched through Los Angeles on Saturday, fueled in part by what they
called a betrayal by Bush.

"The plan would grant work visas to undocumented immigrants but require them to
return home and pay hefty fines to become legal U.S. residents. They could apply
for three-year work visas, dubbed 'Z' visas, which would be renewable
indefinitely but cost $3,500 each time.

"The undocumented workers would have legal status with the visas, but to become
legal permanent residents with a green card, they'd have to return to their home
country, apply at a U.S. embassy or consulate to re-enter legally and pay a
$10,000 fine.

"That's far more restrictive than the bipartisan bill the Senate approved last
year."

Jonathan Weisman writes in The Washington Post that despite the Democratic
takeover, "Bush faces same dynamics that scuttled his last attempt: a
cooperative Senate but bipartisan opposition in the House.

"In contrast to her approach to other controversial issues, House Speaker Nancy
Pelosi (D-Calif.) has told the White House that she cannot pass a bill with
Democratic votes alone, nor will she seek to enforce party discipline on the
issue. Bush will have to produce at least 70 Republican votes before she
considers a vote on comprehensive immigration legislation, a task that may be
very difficult for a president saddled with low approval ratings."

As for Bush's plan: "Key Democrats have said the plan would unacceptably split
families while creating a permanent underclass of temporary workers with no
prospects of fully participating in U.S. society. Their competing vision is the
Security Through Regularized Immigration and a Vibrant Economy Act -- or Strive
Act, newly introduced in the House by Reps. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.) and Jeff
Flake (R-Ariz.)."

Susan Page writes in USA Today: "President Bush is reaching levels of
consistency that no White House would want.

"Bush's job-approval rating in a USA Today/Gallup Poll taken Monday through
Thursday is 38%. His standing has stayed below 40% for seven consecutive months.

"Since the advent of modern polling, only two presidents have suffered longer
strings of such low ratings. One was Harry Truman, whose popularity sank during
the final 26 months of his tenure as the Korean War stalemated. The other was
Richard Nixon during the 13 months leading up to his resignation amid the
Watergate scandal."

Ken Herman writes for the Cox News Service: "The calendar and the Constitution
give him 21 more months in office.

"But confronted by a hostile Congress, a host of controversies and a confounding
war, time is running out on President Bush's chance to shape the issues on which
he barnstormed the country in 2000. . . .

"'Six hundred sixty-three days, 52 minutes, 40 seconds,' said Dan Bartlett,
counselor to the president, glancing at the countdown clock in his West Wing
office. 'That's a long time in some respects. It enables you to get a lot done.
I don't think people feel like time is running out.'

"But it is, said Brookings Institution governance scholar Stephen Hess. . . .
'He has probably done the things that he could have accomplished by this time
and must realize that,' Hess said. 'That's the life cycle of a presidency.'"

Kenneth T. Walsh blogs for U.S. News about the White House's big hope: "White
House advisers say they see signs that majority Democrats in Congress are
shifting too far to the left or moving to extreme positions on Iraq and other
issues, giving Republicans the potential opening they are looking for.

"'The Democrats will overplay their hand,' says a GOP strategist. 'And this will
allow us to go back on offense.' . . . Those insiders say the country will
eventually see the Democrats as defeatists and liberals who want to impose their
views on Middle America."

Tom Hamburger writes in the Los Angeles Times: "When Karl Rove and his top
deputies arrived at the White House in 2001, the Republican National Committee
provided them with laptop computers and other communication devices to be used
alongside their government-issued equipment.

"The back-channel e-mail and paging system, paid for and maintained by the RNC,
was designed to avoid charges that had vexed the Clinton White House -- that
federal resources were being used inappropriately for political campaign
purposes.

"Now, that dual computer system is creating new embarrassment and legal
headaches for the White House, the Republican Party and Rove's once-vaunted
White House operation.

"Democrats say evidence suggests the RNC e-mail system was used for political
and government policy matters in violation of federal record preservation and
disclosure rules.

"In addition, Democrats point to a handful of e-mails obtained through ongoing
inquiries suggesting the system may have been used to conceal such activities as
contacts with lobbyist Jack Abramoff, who was convicted on bribery charges and
is now in prison for fraud.

"Democratic congressional investigators are beginning to demand access to this
RNC-White House communications system, which was used not only by Rove's office
but by several top officials elsewhere in the White House.

"The prospect that such communication might become public has further jangled
the nerves of an already rattled Bush White House.

"Some Republicans believe that the huge number of e-mails -- many written
hastily, with no thought that they might become public -- may contain more
detailed and unguarded inside information about the administration's far-flung
political activities than has previously been available."

But on the other hand, Hamburger writes: "Some Republican activists say the
e-mail request will not create great difficulty for the White House because
nothing nefarious happened and because the RNC automatically purges some e-mails
after 30 days."

Has the White House become leakier of late?

Washington Post White House correspondent Peter Baker says so, in a piece in the
Post's Outlook section: "For most of the past six years, journalists covering
the White House have indeed been forced to master the art of Kremlinology. The
famously disciplined and leak-averse Bush team succeeded at hermetically sealing
the building, keeping behind-the-scenes machinations, well, behind the scenes.
Deprived of any genuine information about how the institution operated,
reporters were left to extrapolate what was really going on based on who was
standing where at a Rose Garden photo op.

"But something surprising has been happening in the past few months. The
hermetic seal is showing cracks, and now the most disciplined administration in
modern times has begun to see its internal workings seep into public view."

Some of Baker's examples: "Bush's shake-up of his Iraq team appeared in the
newspapers before he was ready to announce it. His fight with the Joint Chiefs
of Staff over plans to send more troops to Iraq played out on the front page for
weeks. Secret memos by his national security adviser and his old defense
secretary showed up in print. And unnamed officials put out word that Bush's new
defense secretary tried unsuccessfully to close the prison at Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba."

But Baker also acknowledges the limits of this new openness: "During Clinton's
tenure -- and, I'm told, during those of his predecessors -- it was possible
within limits to gain insight into how the White House worked. Reporters who had
a question about economic policy could call the president's economic adviser,
those writing on health care could call his domestic policy adviser, those with
legal queries could call the counsel's office. None of those officials in the
Bush White House returns reporters' calls."

And yet, it's not just that we don't know the details of how things work in the
White House. Even with the new (relative) leakiness, the White House remains
fundamentally non-transparent.

Baker also doesn't address the fact that leaks are not the only way to find out
what's going on inside a White House. The White House press corps has a built-in
overdependence on reporting what people inside that building tell them -- while
too little effort goes into ferreting out the effects that White House decisions
have in the wider bureaucracy and elsewhere.

Here's a blast from the past.

John Solomon and Peter Baker write in The Washington Post, revisiting the White
House's selection of Bernard B. Kerik to be secretary of homeland security in
2004 -- in spite of revelations about Kerik's questionable financial deals, an
ethics violation, allegations of mismanagement and his friendship with a
businessman who was linked to organized crime.

"Alarmed about the raft of allegations, several White House aides tried to raise
red flags. But the normal investigation process was short-circuited, the sources
said. Bush's top lawyer, Alberto R. Gonzales, took charge of the vetting,
repeatedly grilling Kerik about the issues that had been raised. In the end,
despite the concerns, the White House moved forward with his nomination -- only
to have it collapse a week later."

Solomon and Baker describe "how Bush rushed the usual process in his eagerness
to install a political ally and how Gonzales, as White House counsel, failed to
stop the nomination despite the many warning signs. 'The vetting process clearly
broke down,' said a senior White House official. 'This should not happen.' . . .

"Aides said they now believe they were lulled by Kerik's swaggering Sept. 11
reputation, and were too passive in accommodating the president's desire for
secrecy and speed and too willing to trust Giuliani's judgment."

Margaret Talev and Marisa Taylor write for McClatchy Newspapers: "A top deputy
to embattled Attorney General Alberto Gonzales resigned abruptly Friday, two
weeks after she said she'd invoke the Fifth Amendment rather than testify to
congressional investigators who are probing the Bush administration's firing and
hiring of eight federal prosecutors.

"Monica Goodling was the senior counsel to Gonzales and the liaison between the
Justice Department and the White House, which puts her in a position to answer
questions about whether top administration officials hired and fired some
federal prosecutors for partisan political reasons."

Dan Eggen writes in The Washington Post: "Goodling's resignation also comes amid
signs of sinking morale in some U.S. attorney's offices. In Minneapolis, three
top managers staged a revolt Thursday, choosing to demote themselves rather than
work for the newly confirmed U.S. attorney there, who is a former Gonzales aide,
officials said."

Ryan J. Foley writes for the Associated Press from Wisconsin: "Some Democrats
said Friday the acquittal of a former state worker on fraud charges raises
questions about whether a U.S. attorney's investigation was a political attempt
to tarnish Gov. Jim Doyle.

"From the beginning, many Democrats wondered whether U.S. Attorney Steven
Biskupic, a Bush appointee, pursued the case against Georgia Thompson to go
after Doyle, a Democrat who was in a race for re-election."

The New York Times editorial board writes: "As Congress investigates the
politicization of the United States attorney offices by the Bush administration,
it should review the extraordinary events the other day in a federal courtroom
in Wisconsin. . . . It just might shed some light on a question that lurks
behind the firing of eight top federal prosecutors: what did the surviving
attorneys do to escape the axe?"

Michael Isikoff writes for Newsweek: "At a recent 'prep' for a prospective
Sunday talk-show interview, Gonzales's performance was so poor that top aides
scrapped any live appearances. . . . Gonzales kept contradicting himself and
'getting his timeline confused,' said one participant who asked not to be
identified talking about a private meeting."

In my March 26 column, I asked who's scripting Gonzales now?

Isikoff may have the answer: "Courtney Elwood, a former deputy to Dick Cheney's
chief counsel David Addington, who is now working for Gonzales, has taken on a
bigger role, shutting down responses to most inquiries from Congress and the
news media because she views the firings flap as a purely 'legal' issue."

David Stout and David Johnston write in the New York Times: "How long Mr.
Gonzales's service will continue has been a topic of constant speculation of
late, given the turmoil over the dismissals and skepticism over his accounts."

David Stout writes in the New York Times: "Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich on
Sunday became the latest Republican to criticize Attorney General Alberto R.
Gonzales for the dismissals of eight United States attorneys, and he said Mr.
Gonzales should consider stepping down."

Gail Russell Chaddock writes in the Christian Science Monitor: "Not since the
Depression-era Congress of 1932 has Capitol Hill ramped up so quickly for
oversight hearings and related legislation -- most targeting the Bush
administration. . . .

"'There's a whole culture of effective oversight, which the Congress carried out
in the 1970s up through the early 1990s, that has been very much lost, and
there's a lot of effort now going on to rebuild oversight skills,' says Charles
Tiefer, a professor at the University of Baltimore School of Law and a former
deputy House counsel."

Remember those controversial recess appointments Bush made last week?

Jim Rutenberg writes in the New York Times: "Bush seemed to be poking a sharp
stick at Congressional Democrats from weak ground -- in the middle of a major
clash over war financing, no less.

"But the calculation behind the moves, White House officials said, was as plain
as the logo on the coffee mugs for sale down the country road from Mr. Bush's
ranch here that read, 'W: Still Our President.'

"The recess appointments helped put the White House where it likes to be: in a
robust fight with the Democrats that even the president's most dispirited
backers can get excited about. As one administration official put it, 'It allows
us to get our footing back, at least, on issues that resonate with the public.'

"It is a high-stakes strategy that will culminate in the fight over war
financing on Capitol Hill. The fight will start anew next week, when Congress
returns from its break. But as the president has vacationed here, his
administration has been pressing against the Democrats on all fronts."

William Douglas writes for McClatchy Newspapers: "It's become President Bush's
mantra, his main explanation for why he won't withdraw U.S. forces from Iraq
anytime soon.

"In speech after speech, in statement after statement, Bush insists that 'this
is a war in which, if we were to leave before the job is done, the enemy would
follow us here.'

"The line, which Bush repeated Wednesday in a speech to troops at California's
Fort Irwin, suggests a chilling picture of warfare on American streets.

"But is it true?

"Military and diplomatic analysts say it isn't. They accuse Bush of exaggerating
the threat that enemy forces in Iraq pose to the U.S. mainland. . . .

"U.S. military, intelligence and diplomatic experts in Bush's own government say
the violence in Iraq is primarily a struggle for power between Shiite and Sunni
Muslim Iraqis seeking to dominate their society, not a crusade by radical Sunni
jihadists bent on carrying the battle to the United States."

Also see my March 19 column, They Won't Follow Us Home.

Helene Cooper and Carl Hulse write in the New York Times about the complaints
from senior Bush officials over House Majority Leader Nancy Pelosi's stop in
Damascus to visit with the Syrian president.

"The tone of the complaints -- particularly Vice President Dick Cheney's public
characterization of her visit as 'bad behavior' -- contrasts sharply with the
administration's silence about a similar trip to Damascus a week ago by
Republican lawmakers, Representatives Frank R. Wolf of Virginia, Joe Pitts of
Pennsylvania and Robert B. Aderholt of Alabama.

"Nor was there much heard from the White House about a meeting that
Representative Darrell Issa, a California Republican, had with Mr. Assad on
Thursday, a day after Ms. Pelosi met with the Syrian president.

"Ms. Pelosi, in a telephone interview from Lisbon on Friday, said she could not
account for the Bush administration's assault, which she at one point equated to
a tantrum."

Think Progress has video of Rep. Nick Rahall (D-W.Va), who was part of Pelosi's
delegation, telling C-SPAN that Pelosi told Bush of the trip to Syria a day
before they left, and Bush did not object.

The New York Times editorial board writes: "There is at least one point on which
we and the critics of Nancy Pelosi's visit to Damascus can agree: It is the
White House, not the speaker of the House, that should be taking the diplomatic
lead. . . .

"In the administration's perverse view, the only legitimate time for
negotiations would be after the most contentious and difficult issues -- Syria's
support for Hamas and Hezbollah, its meddling in Lebanon and open border with
Iraq -- have already been resolved. Thus, what ought to be the main agenda
points for diplomatic discussions have been turned into a set of preconditions
designed to ensure that no discussions ever take place."

Liberal blogger Josh Marshall calls on the press to look into whether the White
House pressured Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert to issue a statement aimed at
embarrassing Pelosi.

He links to a story by Ron Kampeas for the Jewish Telegraphic Agency in which
Rep. Tom Lantos, a Democrat who accompanied Pelosi, suggests that White House
pressure was involved.

"Such backdoor statecraft between the White House and Olmert would not be
unprecedented," Kampeas writes.

"Last year, U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice talked Olmert into a
48-hour cease-fire during the war with Hezbollah to allow humanitarian relief,
but within hours Israeli planes were bombing again, to Rice's surprise and
anger. Olmert had received a call, apparently from Cheney's office, telling him
to ignore Rice."

Really? That would be worth looking into, as well.

Mark Silva writes in the Chicago Tribune that "the possible advent of the Bush
library -- and especially an ideological think tank planned as part of it -- has
split the [Southern Methodist University] faculty, feeding a debate that simmers
beneath the serenity of the leafy campus. At an institution dedicated to
scholarly achievement and academic freedom, many fear the work of the Bush
Institute would forever associate SMU with a right-wing political agenda.

"The vision of a Bush-backed think tank at a campus owned by the United
Methodist Church has exposed emotional rifts within a church already divided
over the war in Iraq. Bishops and other clergy critical of the pre-emptive war
and the administration's treatment of enemy combatants are protesting what they
view as a memorial to Bush, a Methodist whose policies they say are
'antithetical' to their teachings."

The Detroit News reports: "Credit Ford Motor Co. CEO Alan Mulally with saving
the leader of the free world from self-immolation.

"Mulally told journalists at the New York auto show that he intervened to
prevent President Bush from plugging an electrical cord into the hydrogen tank
of Ford's hydrogen-electric plug-in hybrid at the White House last week. Ford
wanted to give the Commander-in-Chief an actual demonstration of the innovative
vehicle, so the automaker arranged for an electrical outlet to be installed on
the South Lawn and ran a charging cord to the hybrid. However, as Mulally
followed Bush out to the car, he noticed someone had left the cord lying at the
rear of the vehicle, near the fuel tank.

"'I just thought, 'Oh my goodness!' So, I started walking faster, and the
President walked faster and he got to the cord before I did. I violated all the
protocols. I touched the President. I grabbed his arm and I moved him up to the
front,' Mulally said. 'I wanted the president to make sure he plugged into the
electricity, not into the hydrogen This is all off the record, right?'"

In Thursday's column, I called attention to Bush's antics while touring a desert
training facility at Fort Irwin in California. At one point, Bush sent a robot
designed to disarm improvised explosive devices toward the pool of reporters and
photographers whose job it is to follow him around.

I also quoted from an article by Tatiana Prophet in the local Victorville Daily
Press, in which she described New York Times reporter Jim Rutenberg, who was
recruited as a foil by the president, "kneeling in the desert dust" and being a
"good sport."

I spoke to Prophet yesterday, and she told me that she should have described
Rutenberg as "squatting" rather than kneeling -- much as the photographers
depicted in this picture were doing. "I didn't mean to imply he was kneeling
before the president," she said.

And Rutenberg today told me he wasn't even squatting -- only the photographers
were.

Had I known that Rutenberg wasn't kneeling, I wouldn't have stated as I did that
his behavior constituted physical abasement.

Jay Leno, via U.S. News: "The annual Easter egg hunt at the White House is going
to be a little different this year. Instead of eggs, they're going to be hiding
Alberto Gonzales' e-mails."

Jeff Danziger and Ann Telnaes on Cheney's latest broadside; and Garry Trudeau's
latest batch of Bush-at-warisms.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2007 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       April 20, 2007 Friday 12:00 AM EST

E.U. Ministers Agree on Rules Against Hate Crimes, Racism

BYLINE: Molly Moore, Washington Post Foreign Service, Post

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 607 words



HIGHLIGHT: PARIS, April 19 -- European Union officials agreed Thursday to new
regulations for combating hate crimes and racism at a time when xenophobia and
concern over immigration have been increasing across the 27-country bloc.


PARIS, April 19 -- European Union officials agreed Thursday to new regulations
for combating hate crimes and racism at a time when xenophobia and concern over
immigration have been increasing across the 27-country bloc.

"It is an important political signal for the E.U.," said German Justice Minister
Brigitte Zypries, who with justice and interior ministers from throughout the
European Union reached agreement in Luxembourg after a six-year effort.

The proposed regulations are subject to the approval of national parliaments,
and they allow individual countries latitude in defining some crimes and
penalizing offenders. Even so, E.U. officials said Thursday's agreement
represented a major milestone in persuading all member countries to fight
incitement to hatred or violence based on skin color, race or national or ethnic
origin.

"There are no safe havens in Europe for racist violence, for anti-Semitism, for
people concretely inciting xenophobic hatred," said the E.U. justice
commissioner, Franco Frattini.

The documents urge E.U. nations to impose prison sentences of up to three years
for individuals convicted of denying genocide, such as the mass killing of Jews
during World War II or the massacres in Rwanda in 1994.The rules would require
countries to prosecute offenders in connection with killings that have been
recognized as genocides by the International Criminal Court in The Hague.

But some political figures said the regulations could undermine freedom of
speech, expression and the press. "Attempts to harmonize E.U. laws on hate
crimes are both illiberal and nonsensical," Graham Watson, a British member of
the European Parliament, said in a statement.

"The proposed list risks opening the floodgates on a plethora of historical
controversies -- like the crimes of the Stalinist regime or the alleged Armenian
genocide -- whose inclusion could pose a grave threat to freedom of speech,"
Watson said. "The E.U. has no business legislating on history."

E.U. officials said the new regulations include protections for films, theater,
art and historical research.

In the United States, laws protect individuals from slander and libel, but the
Constitution generally protects most types of speech no matter how offensive the
ideology, including racist and anti-Semitic comments by leaders of the Ku Klux
Klan and neo-Nazi groups.

Many European countries already have stringent laws banning hate crimes,
anti-Semitism and Holocaust denial. In France, which has some of the continent's
toughest laws, anti-immigration presidential candidate Jean-Marie Le Pen has
been convicted of "apology for war crimes" for calling the Holocaust "a detail
of history of the Second World War." He faces trial in June on charges of
"complicity in justifying war crimes" and "complicity in contesting crimes
against humanity."

The proposed regulations would require E.U. governments to impose criminal
sanctions against people or groups "publicly inciting violence or hatred . . .
directed against a group of persons or a member of such a group defined by
reference to race, color, religion, descent or national or ethnic origin." Under
the recommendations, conviction on those charges would carry jail terms of up to
one year.

E.U. officials rejected pleas from Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia, former Soviet
republics, that denying or trivializing crimes committed under the rule of
Soviet dictator Joseph Stalin be included in the regulations as requiring
penalties.

Human rights organizations criticized the new guidelines as too weak, citing
loopholes such as one that would allow states to limit prosecutions in cases
likely to disturb public order.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2007 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       April 20, 2007 Friday 3:30 PM EST

Immigration Investigations and Deporting Human Rights Violators

BYLINE: Marcy Forman, Director, ICE Office of Investigations, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 1439 words



HIGHLIGHT: Marcy Forman, director of the Office of Investigations at the U.S.
Department of Immigration and Customs Enforcement,Â was online Friday, April 20
at 3:30 p.m. ET to discuss her office's work, including several arrests made
recently under new human rights laws that deported former Latin American
generals to face judgment in their home countries.


Marcy Forman, director of the Office of Investigations at the U.S. Department of
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, was online Friday, April 20 at 3:30 p.m. ET
to discuss her office's work, including several arrests made recently under new
human rights laws that deported former Latin American generals to face judgment
in their home countries.

Denying Refuge to Human Rights Abusers (Post, April 20)

The transcript follows.

Forman runs the Department of Immigration and Customs Enforcement's Office of
Investigations -- the largest investigative arm within the Department of
Homeland Security. In this capacity, Ms. Forman is responsible for more than
5,700 Special Agents and 156 U.S. field offices, as well as the Office of
International Affairs, which includes 56 foreign attache offices. She is
responsible for administering a budget of more than $1.2 billion.

____________________

Marcy Forman: Good afternoon. Thank you for joining me. I appreciate the chance
to talk about the work that U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement is doing.
We're responsible for enforcing more than 400 separate immigration and customs
statutes -- so there is much to talk about. With that, I'll take your questions.

_______________________

Bethesda, Md.: What's your take on the whole issue of whether ICE agents should
be allowed to have the authority to do drug investigations? Wasn't that a big
deal during the old Customs days?

Marcy Forman: You are right -- enforcing the nation's laws against drug
smuggling was a big deal in the old Customs days, and it continues to be now as
part of the Department of Homeland Security.

One of the unique ways in which ICE approaches the drug smuggling crime is to
focus on the "smuggling" piece, the transnational nature of the crime. We also
use our expertise to address the money laundering and other related criminal
violations that go along with drug smuggling enterprises. Last year, ICE
dismantled some major drug trafficking organizations, including the Rodriguez
brothers, who were extradited from Colombia and responsible for approximately 80
percent of the cocaine that came into the United States.

ICE is still very much engaged in the war on drugs, along with our other
international, federal, state and local law enforcement partners.

_______________________

Baltimore: Marcy, why was the news release about the ICE raid in Baltimore
removed from the ICE Web site about 30 hours after it was posted? No other
article ever has been removed after being posted. Was it removed because some
local political figure complained? The ICE news release has been captured and is
still available on some non-ICE sites. Why don't you restore it to the ICE site?

Marcy Forman: I wasn't aware that it was, but I'll check on it. Thank you for
bringing it to my attention. Check back at the Web site.

_______________________

Long Beach, Calif.: How does DHS/ICE find out that a person who might be
requesting documentation to stay in the U.S. does indeed have a history as an
abuser of human rights before they came to the U.S.?

Marcy Forman: These international investigations can be very complex and
time-consuming.

Sometimes, we receive tips through our tip line -- 1-866-DHS-2ICE. You may be
surprised to know that these human rights abusers often attempt to hide out --
frequently going so far as to disguise themselves among the very populations
they abused. When members of these communities suspect or learn of their true
identities, they demonstrate great courage by contacting us with the information
we need to begin investigations.

Other times, through our more than 50 ICE international attache offices, the
Department of State, Department of Justice, foreign law enforcement agencies,
and international tribunals, ICE is able to exchange information, investigate
cases and help bring human rights abusers to justice. They may face trial here
or overseas for their crimes.

_______________________

Rosslyn, Va.: As a citizens who abides by the laws of this country, I am
disheartened that others do not. I reported a known illegal alien to the
department of homeland security and they have done nothing about it. I reported
this two years ago. Why do we even refer to immigrants as illegal when the
government does nothing to them for breaking the law?

Marcy Forman: There's no question that those who violate our nation's laws
should be held accountable for their actions. As I mentioned, ICE is responsible
for enforcing more than 400 separate immigration and customs statutes. With such
a large charge, one of the things we've done is to prioritize our operations;
we've put national security at the top of the list, along with those who pose a
threat to public safety.

At the same time, we've implemented an aggressive interior enforcement strategy
that focuses on work site enforcement violations (including critical
infrastructure), criminal and fugitive aliens, and other immigration status
violators such as visa overstays.

We've made great strides - last year, we deported a record number of illegal
aliens, and ended the so-called practice of "catch and release" at the border.
In addition, in work site enforcement cases, we prosecuted a record number of
individuals for criminal violations -- 716 in 2006 compared with just 25 in
2002, the last full year of the INS.

_______________________

Annandale, Va.: It would seem to me that you are handling an immigration crisis
that took 20 years to get to where it is today. What do you believe turned the
tide?

Marcy Forman: I can't speak for what was done in the past, but I can tell you
that ICE is focused on aggressively enforcing our immigration and customs laws.

ICE was created in 2003 by bringing together elements of the former INS and
Customs Service, as well as the Federal Protective Service. By combining the
historical strengths and authorities of both agencies, we are attacking criminal
organizations in ways the agencies didn't before -- for example, using ICE's
money laundering authorities to attack human smuggling rings. Or, as we did just
a few days ago, utilizing immigration statutes as part of an operation targeting
a XXX ring.

ICE and DHS leadership have been very supportive of the agents' efforts to use
our authorities in new and aggressive ways to accomplish our mission.

_______________________

Herndon, Va.: Will implementation of 278(g) by Herndon and other municipalities
help ICE to get its job done?

Marcy Forman: I can't speak directly to Herndon, but I can tell you that
numerous municipalities that participate in 287g have found great success.

In North Carolina, for example, the Mecklenburg County Sheriff's Office received
its 287 (g) authority in February 2006. Sheriff's deputies in county jail
facilities check the immigration status of all non-U.S. born arrestees.
According to county documents, in the first nine months of the program, deputies
examined over 1,600 arrestees, placing 853 of them in deportation proceedings.
The county reports that the success of their program has resulted in other law
enforcement agencies contacting them for information about the 287(g) program.

There are many more success stories and information about 287g posted on our Web
site.

_______________________

Providence, R.I.: With so many undocumented workers in the U.S., how do you
decide which employers to target? Should employers and managers serve prison
time for violating immigration laws? How long should prison sentences be?

Marcy Forman: ICE's investigations are based on investigative leads. We start
with information -- tips from the public, confidential sources of information,
other government agencies, other law enforcement agencies, and our own
information such as the results of 1-9 audits.

We prioritize based on threat level, looking at national security and public
safety threats, as well as egregious criminal violations such as identity theft.

In work site cases, one of the things we investigate is whether company owners
or managers can be charged with criminal violations. If so, we bring those cases
forward for prosecution. For some examples, check our Web site.

_______________________

Marcy Forman: My time is up, but I would like to thank you all for your interest
in ICE. I am sorry that I didn't get to all the questions, but feel free visit
our Web site if you would like additional information.

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over Live
Online discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts;
guests and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not
responsible for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2007 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 18, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrants and the Whiter-Shade-of-Pale Bonus

BYLINE: Richard Morin

SECTION: A Section; A02 , UNCONVENTIONAL WISDOM Richard Morin

LENGTH: 865 words


When it comes to immigrants, apparently you can't be too tall or too white.

Vanderbilt University economist Joni Hersch found that legal immigrants to the
United States who had  darker complexions or were shorter earned less money than
their fair-skinned or taller counterparts with similar jobs, training and
backgrounds. Even swarthy whites from abroad earned less than those with lighter
skin.

Immigrants with the lightest complexions earned, on average, about 8 to 15
percent more than those with the darkest skin tone after controlling for race
and country of origin as well as for other factors related to earnings,
including occupation, education, language skills, work history, type of visa and
whether they were married to a U.S. citizen.

In fact, Hersch estimated that the negative impact of skin tone on earnings was
equal to the benefit of education, with a particularly dark complexion virtually
wiping out the advantage of education on earnings.

Taller immigrants also earned more, she found, with every extra inch worth about
1 percent in earnings.

Hersch based her results on 2,084 men and women who participated in face-to-face
interviews for the federally funded 2003 New Immigrant Survey. All of the
respondents had been admitted to lawful permanent resident status during the
seven-month period, May to November 2003. As part of the survey, interviewers
also rated the skin tone of each individual on an 11-point scale ranging from
zero to 10, with 10 representing the darkest possible skin color and zero the
absence of color, or albinism.

Why should pale people earn more? "I don't think that any explanation other than
discrimination is possible  --  and I am not one to draw such inferences
lightly," Hersch said in an e-mail. "I am stunned by the strength and
consistency of the findings, even controlling for race, even controlling for
nationality, and . . . everything that could possibly matter."

Does your car have a good personality? Is it a "he" or a "she"?

The answers to those questions may indicate your propensity for road rage. In
fact, how people view the "personality" of their cars may be a better indication
of how aggressive they'll be behind the wheel than their own personalities, says
researcher Jacob Benfield of Colorado State University.

Benfield and his colleagues surveyed 204 car-owning college students to measure
the degree to which they gave human characteristics to their rides  --  call it
auto-anthropomorphism. They found that about half of all students thought of
their car as being masculine or feminine, and more than one in four had named
their cars  --  results consistent with earlier studies of car owners.

The psychologists also gave students standard personality tests and measured
their propensity for road rage or aggressive driving. Then they went a step
further and asked the students to repeat the personality tests and ''imagine
that your vehicle had a personality. Now rate the following items based on the
vehicle's personality.''

They found that drivers who thought of their cars as being male or female
"scored significantly higher than non-gender-vehicle drivers on verbal
aggression, physical aggression, use of vehicle, driving anger, and pejorative
labeling/verbally aggressive thinking," Benfield and his colleagues report in a
forthcoming issue of Personality and Individual Differences.

When the researchers examined the results of the personality tests, they found
that the personality of the car and driver were far from a perfect match.
Moreover, they found that the perceived personality of the car sometimes was a
better predictor of aggressive driving tendencies than the owner's personality.

For example, people who thought of their car as friendly were more likely to
behave better on the road, even if they were not particularly friendly people.
"If people perceive their Corolla to be a jerk, they might drive more
aggressively than if they thought their Mustang had a nice personality,"
Benfield said.

The car name game proved to yield little of scientific interest. People who
named their cars were no more or less aggressive on the road than those who
didn't. That's a surprise, given some of the names the students told researchers
they gave their cars.

Among Benfield's favorites: Lolita, the Mini-Pimp and the Sweat-Box of Death.

*  "Mood State Effects of Chocolate" by Gordon Parker, et al., Journal of
Affective Disorders, Vol. 92, Issues 2-3. Australian psychiatrists find that
chocolate may satisfy a sweet tooth, but it also prolongs feelings of depression
and anxiety.

*  "Honestly, Why Are You Driving a BMW?" by Olof Johansson-Stenman and Peter
Martinsson, Goteborg University in Goteborg, Sweden, Journal of Economic
Behavior & Organization, Vol. 60, Issue 2. Swedish economists conduct a survey
and find that most Swedes considered their concern for status when purchasing a
car to be minor in comparison with the status concerns of others. Most also
believed that they were more environmentally concerned than other people.

Richard Morin is a senior editor at the Pew Research Center. This column is
going on hiatus and will return later in the year.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              128 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 19, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

A Military Path to Citizenship

BYLINE: Max Boot and Michael O'Hanlon

SECTION: Editorial; A29

LENGTH: 941 words


America is a land of immigrants. Their spirit of resolve, adventure, hard work
and devotion to an idea bigger than themselves has made this country great.
Whatever one thinks of the immigration debate today, particularly the problem of
illegal immigrants, foreigners have played a central role in the building of
America. Many have done so as soldiers, among them Baron von Steuben and the
Marquis de Lafayette in the War of Independence.

Now is the time to consider a new chapter in the annals of American immigration.
By inviting foreigners to join the U.S. armed forces in exchange for a promise
of citizenship after a four-year tour of duty, we could continue to attract some
of the world's most enterprising, selfless and talented individuals. We could
provide a new path toward assimilation for undocumented immigrants who are
already here but lack the prerequisite for enlistment  --  a green card. And we
could solve the  No. 1 problem facing the Army and Marine Corps: the fact that
these services need to grow to meet current commitments yet cannot easily do so
(absent a draft) given the current recruiting environment.

Not only would immigrants provide a valuable influx of highly motivated
soldiers, they would also address one of America's key deficiencies in the
battle against Islamist extremists: our lack of knowledge of the languages and
mores in the lands where terrorists reside. Newly arrived Americans can help us
avoid trampling on local sensitivities and thereby creating more enemies than we
eliminate.

Skeptics might point out that in the just-concluded fiscal year, the military
met most of its recruiting and retention goals. But this was done only by
relaxing age and aptitude restrictions, allowing in more individuals with
criminal records, and greatly increasing the number of recruiters and
advertising dollars. Although we generally support what has been done to date,
the logic of these measures cannot be pushed much further.

The Army chief of staff, Gen. Peter Schoomaker, has just forecast that U.S.
commitments in Iraq may remain at their current level until 2010. With most
soldiers and Marines already on a third or even fourth deployment since Sept.
11, 2001, it's doubtful that the all-volunteer force can withstand such a
commitment at its current size. Even if it could, it's unfair to ask so much of
so few for so long.

Some might object to our proposal on moral grounds, arguing that it is wrong to
rely on "mercenaries" and  to use such incentives to get prospective immigrants
to fight. We disagree.  For one thing, we already rely on tens of thousands of
real mercenaries: the security contractors the U.S. government employs from
Colombia to Iraq to make up for lack of troops. Immigrants who enrolled in our
armed forces would be more valuable because they would be under military
discipline and motivated by more than just a paycheck.

As for the risks they would run in Iraq or Afghanistan, these would be no
greater than the risks run by previous generations of newcomers who built
railroads and skyscrapers and toiled in factories and mines. No one would be
forced to serve. No existing immigration quotas would be reduced. The military
avenue to citizenship would be a new option, not an obligation.

Nativists need not fear that this would lead to a flood of foreigners. Say we
decide to recruit 50,000 foreigners a year for the next three years. That sounds
like a lot, but it represent less than 10 percent of the total number coming  to
the United States anyway  --  and less than 10 percent of our active-duty armed
forces. This would not radically change the demographics of our society or our
military, but it would make a big difference in the size of the rotation base
for our ongoing missions.

Despite growing anti-Americanism, U.S. citizenship is still one of the world's
most precious commodities, so there should be no shortage of volunteers. Since
proficiency in English would presumably be important for those joining the armed
forces, we might focus on South Asia, anglophone Africa, and parts of Latin
America, Europe and East Asia (the Philippines would be a natural recruiting
ground) where English is common as a second language. These regions have more
than  2 billion people, tens of millions of whom reach military age each year.

The problem would not be the size of the likely applicant pool so much as our
ability to vet individuals for their abilities, their dependability and their
commitment. Screening would have to be done to ensure that would-be terrorists
did not gain access to the armed forces through this program. That might
complicate the process of recruiting from certain countries, especially in the
Middle East, but it would hardly put a huge dent in the likely applicant pool.

Unlike most issues in the immigration debate, the idea of offering citizenship
to foreigners who first join the armed forces should be a winner for everyone.
It is good for immigrants who wish to pursue  U.S. citizenship, which they could
not otherwise attain. It is good for a beleaguered American military that is
simply too small for the tasks it has been handed. And it is good for the
country, bringing more hardworking patriots to our shores. Before the
all-volunteer force breaks, it is high time to consider the idea of such a
latter-day foreign legion.

Max Boot is a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and author of
"War Made New: Technology, Warfare, and the Course of History, 1500 to Today."
Michael O'Hanlon is a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and co-author
of "Hard Power: The New Politics of National Security."

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              129 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 20, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Calif. Campaign in Turmoil Over Letters;
Aide to GOP Candidate Sent Mailing Saying Immigrants Are Barred From Voting

BYLINE: Sonya Geis, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A04

LENGTH: 657 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES Oct. 19


A California Republican's congressional campaign went into meltdown Thursday
after he said a staff member was responsible for sending thousands of letters to
new voters with Hispanic surnames telling them  --  wrongly  --  that it is
illegal for them to vote if they are immigrants.

Tan Nguyen, the GOP candidate for California's 47th District, said in a
statement that a staff member had sent the letters without his knowledge and has
since been fired. Nguyen, himself an immigrant from Vietnam, has focused his
campaign on keeping illegal immigrants out of the country, a deeply felt issue
in suburban Orange County.

"The mailer was flawed and ill-conceived," Nguyen's statement said. "I will do
whatever I can in the weeks before the election to encourage all citizens in
this district to exercise the most important of their democratic privileges."

The Orange County Republican Party immediately called for Nguyen to withdraw
from the race. He will hold a news conference today.

Written in Spanish, the letters advise recently registered voters that it is a
crime for those in the country illegally to vote in a federal election, which is
true. They also say, falsely, that immigrants may not vote and could be jailed
or deported for doing so, that the federal government has a new computer system
to verify voter names, and that anti-immigration organizations can access the
records.

As many as 14,000 letters were sent in the district, now represented by Rep.
Loretta Sanchez (D). The letterhead identified them as coming from the
California Coalition for Immigration Reform.

The group denied responsibility, and California Attorney General Bill Lockyer
launched an investigation into possible violations of two state laws that
prohibit intimidation to suppress voting. On a radio program, Lockyer confirmed
that his office was focused on a Republican congressional candidate.

Sanchez said she has called for a federal probe into possible violations of the
Voting Rights Act. "We would like to find who did this and have them
prosecuted," she said.

Local Republicans have largely ignored the race, though Sanchez's seat is not
normally considered safely Democratic. The district narrowly went for President
Bush in 2004.

Nguyen, 32, was largely unknown to local Republicans until he beat out a favored
candidate to face Sanchez. Two years ago, Nguyen ran as a Democrat in an effort
to take the 46th District seat of Rep. Dana Rohrabacher (R-Calif.).

Orange County Republican Party Chairman Scott Baugh said: "When I interviewed
him to determine why he was becoming a Republican, I was less than convinced
that he switched parties because he doesn't believe in the values of Democrats.
Then, after getting the nomination, he wanted the Republican Party to carry him
across the finish line. And I told him that's not how it works."

Nguyen had spent $427,000 of his own money on the race as of September,
according to campaign filings.

His campaign materials describe immigration as the focus of his campaign. He
praises the Minuteman Project and opposes Bush's proposed guest-worker program.

Nguyen himself immigrated to the United States at age 8, one of thousands of
Vietnamese to flee in boats. He worked as a stockbroker before entering
politics.

Orange County is known for heated immigration politics. One-third of its
residents are Hispanic, according to 2004 census data, and the area is home to
large populations of Vietnamese and Middle Eastern immigrants. It is also the
birthplace of several anti-illegal-immigration movements. Jim Gilchrist, founder
of the Minutemen, is a resident, as is Barbara Coe, founder of the California
Coalition for Immigration Reform.

"Certainly this is a very polarized area," Sanchez said. "When you have people
like the creator of the Minutemen living there, and Gloria Tuchman, who worked
on the anti-bilingual law, and Barbara Coe, one would say that it's a pretty
volatile area."

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              130 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 25, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

DNA Testing A Mixed Bag For Immigrants;
In Visa Cases, Certainty Has a Cost, Lawyers Say

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1239 words


DNA testing has emerged as a powerful and sometimes controversial tool for U.S.
residents seeking to help overseas relatives enter the country legally.

The tests have been invaluable for thousands of citizens or permanent residents
who want to sponsor relatives but lack birth certificates or other documents to
prove the family relationship. But some immigration lawyers worry that U.S.
authorities are increasingly requiring DNA tests even when the paperwork is in
order  --  adding substantial costs and delays to an arduous process.

"What's troubling is that it seems like the availability of DNA testing is
leading to a greater level of mistrust of identity documents that otherwise
would have been readily accepted," said Alison Brown, a lawyer based in Silver
Spring.

Last year, about 718,000 people were granted permanent residency or a temporary
visa on the basis of being a parent, child or sibling of someone who was a U.S.
citizen, permanent resident or temporary visa holder.

Officials at the State and Homeland Security departments said they do not track
the number of DNA tests submitted by people seeking to sponsor a relative for a
visa. But the AABB (formerly the American Association of Blood Banks), the
accrediting organization for laboratories that do DNA testing for immigration
applications, receives about 12 e-mails or phone calls a day from people seeking
referrals for immigration purposes, a spokeswoman said. At Fairfax Identity
Laboratories, one of two DNA laboratories in the Washington region accredited to
handle immigration cases, the number of requests for tests has increased about
20 percent, to about 2,000, in the past year, said Joe Chimera, senior vice
president.

Immigration lawyers interviewed in the Washington area said officials who
process visa applications at U.S. consulates overseas appear to be driving the
increase in DNA testing.

"In many consulates, DNA testing has really become the norm," said Daniel Park,
whose Alexandria-based practice serves mostly clients from Latin America.

Parastoo Zahedi, a lawyer practicing in Tysons Corner, said she became concerned
about that possibility seven months ago when an official at the U.S. consulate
in Abu Dhabi, the United Arab Emirates, told one of her clients that he had to
submit a DNA test to prove he was related to his 65-year-old mother in Virginia,
who was sponsoring him for permanent residency.

Zahedi said she was surprised because the client, a 42-year-old Iranian, had all
the documentation normally required to prove his relationship to his mother,
including a valid Iranian birth certificate. The Department of Homeland Security
had already approved the client's petition  --  the first step in any visa
application. The interview at the consulate was the final step, in which he was
supposed to demonstrate that there was no reason to bar his admission to the
United States.

"At first, I thought it was something he said in his interview  --  maybe some
hesitation in one of his answers that raised suspicions," Zahedi said.

But in the ensuing months, she said, two more Iranian clients with solid
documentation were told the same thing at the U.S. consulates in Abu Dhabi and
Istanbul.

One of Zahedi's clients, Mehdie Halatai, 72, of Oakton, said his 17-year-old
son, Mehran, got the word in Abu Dhabi. "My son said the official told him very
simply, 'No DNA test, no visa.' . . . There was no explanation," Halatai said.

Testing ultimately proved the relationship  --  as it did for Zahedi's two other
clients.

But the test cost about $800, and because there is no U.S. consulate in Iran,
the family had to pay hundreds of dollars more in travel expenses to send Mehran
Halatai back to Abu Dhabi for the test and a second consular interview. The
back-and-forth also has added several months to Mehran Halatai's wait.

Priscilla Labovitz, a lawyer practicing in the District, said a similar
situation has delayed a Cameroonian-born client's reunion with his two teenage
children in Mali for nearly two years.

"There's no alarm bell that goes off when you look at their documents," she
said. "Yet this man has had to put up with hassle after hassle to arrange the
DNA tests."

Zahedi wonders why her clients had to submit to them in the first place.

"I think they are being picked on because of where they're from. . . . After all
these years of practice, why am I only seeing this coming into use now? It makes
no sense unless someone from above is saying that they need to have more
scrutiny of people from these places."

Tony Edson, deputy assistant secretary for visa services at the State
Department, said consular officials are warned about credibility problems with
particular types of documents from particular places. But he said that there is
no blanket DNA test requirement for applicants based on nationality and that it
is against agency rules for consular officials to require DNA testing in
individual cases.

"Our policy is explicitly that it is not required. It is always voluntary,"
Edson said.

Edson added that a DNA test is one of a variety of types of supporting evidence
that consular officers will accept from applicants whose primary documents are
deemed insufficient.

"The confusion may arise," Edson said, from the fact that "we do require
applicants to prove they are who they say they are. If everything else they
present doesn't prove that, then we may suggest genetic testing."

Some lawyers counter that growing awareness of the accuracy of DNA testing  --
which has been available since the late 1980s  --  has caused consular officials
to become unduly mistrustful of other legitimate forms of evidence.

"It seems like in the past they were more accepting of the fact that a lot of
Third World countries may not be as sophisticated in their production of
documents as the United States," said David Goren, a lawyer based in Silver
Spring. "Now, if there's so much as a typo or some whiteout, it's just assumed
that it's a fraudulent document."

Others contend that consular officials have good reason to be wary.

"Look, the consulates are just trying to prevent fraud," said Luis Gonzalez, a
lawyer based in Falls Church. "A lot of people think that they can just come to
the consulate and say this is my son, when really he's the nephew."

Several lawyers said they have had cases in which a client learned from DNA
testing that the child being sponsored was not biologically related.

DNA tests can save considerable time and difficulty for someone like Pedro
Antonio Monjaras, 47, a naturalized U.S. citizen living in Annandale who
recently brought his 20-year-old daughter over from El Salvador. Monjaras said
that he has always supported her financially but that he did not sign her birth
certificate until five years ago. As a result, that document was not considered
sufficient evidence of their relationship.

Monjaras might have been able to prove his case by submitting receipts for the
money transfers he has sent his daughter and by obtaining affidavits from
previous neighbors. But Monjaras, a delivery truck driver, said it would have
taken months.

"You're here, they're over there, and each step takes forever to organize," he
said. "I would literally have had to send people money for the pen and paper for
each affidavit."

So when his attorney proposed a DNA test, Monjaras leapt at the idea.

"It was like, 'Great! Problem solved,' " he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              131 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 29, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

in brief

SECTION: Loudoun Extra; T07

LENGTH: 501 words


An investigation into an assault in Sterling has led to the arrest of seven
people on immigration charges, the Loudoun County Sheriff's Office announced
last week.

Inocente Dionicio-Gama, 27, was charged with malicious wounding in connection
with an assault Oct. 12 outside Zaaza Restaurant in Sterling. He was arrested
Oct. 20 in a vehicle outside the Red Lobster near Dulles Town Center. A
passenger, Gilberto Henriquez Hernandez, 23, ran away, leaving his child in the
vehicle, said sheriff's spokesman Kraig Troxell.

That evening, sheriff's investigators and U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement agents executed a search warrant at Dionicio-Gama's home, having
reason to believe that illegal immigrants were living there, Troxell said.
Hernandez and Rosa Dionicio-Augustino, 19  --  and two men, a teenage boy and a
woman, whose names were not released  --  were arrested on immigration charges.
Dionicio-Gama also faces immigration charges.

The seven were being held without bail at the Loudoun County Adult Detention
Center awaiting deportation hearings. Hernandez also was charged with child
endangerment, and Dionicio-Augustino was charged with obstruction of justice for
allegedly misleading sheriff's officials during their investigation, Troxell
said.

The Loudoun County Sheriff's Office is responding to an increase in copper
thefts with  a campaign to educate local businesses about the commerce and trade
regulations pertaining to the purchase of copper items.

By educating business owners about the documentation required for transactions
involving metals, the sheriff's office hopes to  investigate metal-related
crimes more effectively, said sheriff's spokesman Kraig Troxell.

Since 2005, the number of copper-related larcenies in Loudoun, most occurring at
construction sites, has quadrupled, Troxell said. Troxell attributed the
increase to the doubling of the price of copper in the past year. The sheriff's
office has investigated 35 copper larcenies this year.

Business owners interested in learning more about the commerce and trade
regulations associated with metals should call 703-737-8758.

The Loudoun County Department of Fire and Rescue is reminding residents to check
their smoke- alarm batteries today when they reset their clocks for the end of
daylight saving time.

Three children die every day in the United States because of domestic fires, the
fire department said. Spokeswoman Mary Maguire said the easiest way to prevent
fire deaths is to change smoke-alarm batteries once a year and to replace fire
alarms that are more than 10 years old.

Chief Fire Marshal W. Keith Brower Jr.  is also encouraging residents to test
their smoke alarms and develop escape plans. "This is an excellent opportunity
to get everyone in the household involved. In an emergency, seconds count.
Knowing what to do can help save your life or the life of someone you love,"
Brower said.

For more information on fire safety, call 703-777-0333.

--  Compiled by

ARIANNE ARYANPUR

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              132 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 2, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Jimmy Mathis (R) Age: 28 Res ...

SECTION: Anne Arundel Extra; T10

LENGTH: 403 words


Age:  28

Residence: Cockeysville.

Education: Towson Catholic High School.

Occupation: President, Mathis Productions Inc.

Elected offices/civic activities: None given.

What is the most urgent problem facing your jurisdiction?

"Some issues are Social Security, immigration, border security and our
dependence on foreign countries for energy. Our citizens need to feel safe in
their homeland. Americans deserve a guarantee they will receive every penny they
contribute into Social Security. I believe in private accounts so Americans know
they will have a nest egg when they retire. We need to put the issue of amnesty
behind us and develop a real solution regarding illegal immigrants."

Why should voters elect you?

"I will represent the hardworking, middle-class American, offering a change from
career politicians that do not have the common American's interest at heart."

Web site:

jimmymathis.org

E-mail address:

jimmymathis@verizon.net

Age:  60

Residence: Cockeysville.

Education: Some college, University of Maryland; JD, University of Baltimore
School of Law.

Occupation: Member of Congress.

Elected offices/civic activities: U.S. House of Representatives, 2003-present;
county executive, Baltimore County, 1994-2002; member, 1985-94, past chair,
Baltimore County Council; vice chairman, University of Maryland's Shock Trauma
Board of Visitors;   charter member, Greater Baltimore Alliance; past president,
Maryland Association of Counties; past chairman, Baltimore Metropolitan Council.

What is the most urgent problem facing your jurisdiction?

"The most urgent issue facing Maryland's 2nd District is 'the middle-class
squeeze.' The cost of everything is going up. Families are facing huge spikes in
electricity and home heating bills, rising gas prices, less assistance to pay
for rising college tuition and skyrocketing health-care costs. At the same time,
incomes are stagnant or falling, and people have to work harder just to make
ends meet. In Congress, I am working to increase the development of alternative
fuels, decrease dependence on foreign oil, expand financial aid opportunities
for college, and increase access to affordable health care."

Why should voters elect you?

"I work across the aisle to protect America and strengthen the economy. I
believe we can make real progress in the next Congress."

Web site:

www.dutchforcongress.com

E-mail address:

godutch@dutchforcongress.com

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              133 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 5, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

WEEK IN REVIEW;
Oct. 29-Nov. 4

SECTION: Metro; C04

LENGTH: 667 words


A housing developer who had offered to give a Virginia town an unprecedented
amount of money to build a luxury subdivision has abandoned plans for the
community, saying a cooling housing market was a factor in the project's
failure.

Dallas-based Centex Homes, which had offered 8,000-resident Warrenton a cash
donation of $22 million to approve the project, informed the town of its
decision in a letter last month.

The community would have been an upscale, gated subdivision for older adults,
with homes starting at $850,000.

A controversial proposal to train Manassas police officers to enforce some
federal immigration laws was amended, with the City Council recommending that
regional jail staffers undertake that duty instead.

The Immigration and Customs Enforcement program, "Section 287(g)," allows local
police to set the terms of their cooperation with the federal agency, then
receive training in immigration enforcement. Officers then are able to detain
and process illegal immigrant offenders before delivering them to federal
authorities, streamlining the deportation process.

But because suspects caught in Manassas, Manassas Park and Prince William County
are processed through the county Adult Detention Center, top police officials
from the three jurisdictions resisted the proposal to train the officers and
urged training for jail staff instead.

An Alexandria jury returned a $205,000 verdict against the son of a former City
Council member and two of his friends for their part in beating a man more than
two years ago.

The Circuit Court jury decided in favor of Armstrong Wiggins Jr., 25, who,
according to testimony, was beaten so badly in May 2004 that he suffers from
serious permanent injuries, including double vision and severe headaches.

Wiggins, of Alexandria, was kicked repeatedly in his head, face and body by
Zachary Fenner and Zachary Brown, both now 22, and Samuel Howard Woodson IV, now
20, son of former council member Joyce Woodson.

Each was convicted of misdemeanor charges in Alexandria General District Court
in July 2005.

An armored-car guard making a delivery inside the Fashion Centre at Pentagon
City was robbed and shot at Tuesday afternoon in one of the mall's service
corridors by a gunman who fled on foot with a sack of money, police said.

No one was injured, and an undisclosed amount of cash was taken.

Fairfax County police believe a man who robbed a bank in the Huntington area two
weeks ago  --  without ever showing a weapon  --  walked back into the same bank
branch Tuesday morning and robbed it again.

Both holdups occurred at the Wachovia Bank branch at 6300 Richmond Hwy., near
Kings Highway.

The robber did not appear to wear a disguise or make any attempt to cover his
face as surveillance cameras captured his brief transactions. He did, however,
hold up the bank at times when the light wasn't particularly good for snapping a
picture at the teller windows.

No one was hurt in either robbery. Police would not say how much money was taken
in either incident.

Herndon officials, continuing an aggressive effort to curtail illegal
immigration, are seeking to replace the nonprofit group that operates the town's
center for day laborers with a firm that will require workers to prove they are
in the country legally.

Reston Interfaith, a group of religious organizations that manages the Herndon
Official Workers Center under an agreement with the town and a grant from
Fairfax County, asks that those seeking work provide only a name, address and
telephone number.

Town Manager Stephen F. Owen informed Reston Interfaith's chief executive,
Kerrie Wilson, that his staff has begun looking for a new operator to run the
workers center like a private employment agency.

Laborers would be required to fill out a federal form that asks for a U.S.
passport or a combination of other documents (a driver's license and Social
Security card, for example) to prove that they reside in the United States
legally and are eligible to work.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              134 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 9, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Bill Ritter (D)

SECTION: A Section; A42

LENGTH: 155 words


Bill Ritter (D), who was raised on a Colorado farm with 11 brothers and sisters,
is the new governor of Colorado. Ritter gained a reputation as a tough district
attorney in Denver, where he backed gun control and, true to his Roman Catholic
roots, spoke out against abortion.

Ritter, 50, beat Rep. Bob Beauprez (R), in a $6 million campaign. Beauprez,
having garnered a perfect 100 from the American Conservative Union in 2005, was
a favorite of the conservative right. Ritter appears poised to fit into the mold
of other centrist Democrats in the West, such as Janet Napolitano of Arizona and
Bill Richardson of New Mexico. He is a strong proponent of wind energy
development and biofuels  --  industries that would benefit Colorado. In
addition, his immigration policies mirror those of other Western governors; he
backs an expanded guest-worker program and opposes the wholesale deportation of
millions of illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              135 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 9, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Mexico's Calderón Heartened By Outcome of U.S. Elections

BYLINE: Nora Boustany, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A Section; A18

LENGTH: 511 words


Mexican President-elect Felipe Calderón said yesterday that Democratic gains in
Congress could lead to "room for improvement" in U.S.-Mexican relations, a
suggestion that headway may be made on immigration and other bilateral issues.

At a White House meeting with President Bush today, Calderón, who takes office
on Dec. 1, is expected to express Mexico's disappointment with the decision by
the outgoing Republican-controlled House and Senate to approve a 700-mile fence
along the Mexican-American border, an effort to stem the flow of millions of
migrant workers.

During a meeting yesterday with Washington Post reporters and editors, Calderón
said the outcome of Tuesday's midterm elections allowed for "some room for
improvement in terms of bilateral relations."

"I know President Bush is facing a difficult moment," he said. "But I think
there is an opportunity. After the elections, I hope Americans and Congress will
have a chance for rational debate."

Calderón, a Harvard-educated economist and a member of the conservative National
Action Party, made job creation a central platform of his campaign. He returned
to that theme yesterday, saying that new jobs and foreign investment in Mexico
would be more effective than a fence as a tool against migration.

His predecessor, current President Vicente Fox, made the same arguments against
the fence, to no avail.

"Now maybe you have people crossing the border looking for capital," Calderón
said. "We need capital crossing the border looking for people."

Calderón also said that the North American Free Trade Agreement had been a boon
for Mexico but that more needed to be done to make the economy more competitive.
He said that only by reducing tariffs, eliminating other regulations and
enforcing the rule of law could Mexico be seen as a destination for foreign
investment.

Mexico also has recently been suffering from increased violence. Calderón
acknowledged the months-long protests that have shut down the city of Oaxaca and
expressed hopes that order would be restored. His home state of Michoacan, as
well as the neighboring state of Guerrero, have seen a wave of violence,
including decapitations, shootings and bombings. Much of that violence has
appeared to be drug-related.

Yesterday, the president-elect acknowledged that there had been "a deterioration
in the environment in Mexico."

"Probably, the main challenge I will have to face is how to strengthen
institutions and the rule of law and to stop the loss of respect in authority."

Calderón, 44, waged an intense campaign against Andrés Manuel López Obrador, the
populist former mayor of Mexico City. The results of the July 2 vote were
contested, leading to weeks of appeals to electoral courts and protests in the
capital's streets by López Obrador supporters. Calderón was declared
president-elect Sept. 5.

Yesterday, Calderón suggested that divisions created by the controversy were
fading. He also expressed hope that, as a former member of the National
Congress, he would be well-positioned to reach out to the opposition.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              136 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 12, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Many Republicans thought fo ...

SECTION: A Section; A06

LENGTH: 124 words


Many Republicans thought for much of the year that they knew the key to winning
close elections: anti-illegal-immigration appeals aimed at consolidating the
conservative base and attracting independents upset about border security. But
in virtually every competitive race, that strategy failed.

An immigration firebrand, Randy Graf, defeated a more moderate candidate in the
Republican primary for Arizona's 8th District and then was swiftly toppled by
the Democratic candidate, Gabrielle Giffords. Arizona's 5th District voters
unseated immigration hard-liner J.D. Hayworth (R) in favor of challenger Harry
Mitchell (D).

Farther from the border, Ed Perlmutter (D) soundly defeated conservative Rick
O'Donnell (R) in Colorado's 7th District.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              137 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 12, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

National Guard Assists Border Patrol;
Help Frees Agents To 'Hit the Bush'

BYLINE: Anthony Spangler, Fort Worth Star-Telegram

SECTION: A Section; A06

LENGTH: 1504 words


Avoiding patches of thorny brush, Texas National Guard Spec. Chris Tucker
advances along the banks of the Rio Grande and spots his quarry  --  a pair of
illegal immigrants who just stepped on U.S. soil.

He keeps his binoculars trained on the intruders while directing Border Patrol
agents by radio.

"It's not as high-speed as it was in Iraq, but I think we're really helping
out," said Tucker, 23.

Tucker is among 300 soldiers who volunteered for the active-duty assignment in
the Rio Grande Valley sector of the Texas-Mexico border, where 1,398 U.S.
Customs and Border Protection agents monitor 320 miles of the Rio Grande, patrol
250 miles of coastal water and make more than 100,000 apprehensions a year in 19
counties.

In addition to those in that sector, there are about 1,200 Texas National
Guardsmen spread out in four other geographic areas of the Texas-Mexico border,
Guard spokesman Col. William Meehan said. The deployments are typically one-year
assignments.

In May, President Bush ordered National Guard troops to bolster the Border
Patrol's numbers as it waits for 6,000 newly authorized agents to be trained.

The soldiers, some armed for defensive purposes, are not allowed to make
arrests, and for legal reasons they cannot process detainees.

Instead, the troops answer phones, work as observers, monitor video surveillance
and motion-sensor equipment, and help with other tasks. Their presence has
enabled hundreds of border agents to "hit the bush," said Lynne Underdown, chief
patrol agent for the Rio Grande Valley sector.

"They are definitely helping us close the gaps," Underdown said. "With the
National Guard here, our agents can focus on one mission  --  securing the
border."

Because the Border Patrol relies heavily on technology such as surveillance
cameras and movement sensors, National Guard troops are mostly operating that
equipment and directing agents to make arrests.

Cpl. Joe Rodriguez sits behind a computer screen waiting for a flashing alert
--  a signal that one of the hundreds of buried electronic sensors has been
triggered somewhere along the border. His job is to direct Border Patrol agents
in the field to the location of the breach. The agents once sat inside the
air-conditioned room in the Harlingen Station headquarters, to the location of
the breach.

For Rodriguez, 43, a chaplain's assistant, the drudgery is outweighed by the
chance to serve his country at home. He recently returned to South Texas after a
year-long deployment in Afghanistan.

"I won't miss out on a lot of stuff with my daughter's school or other
activities she has going," he said. "It seems real cushy here. But I learned
that a lot of border agents get bounties put on their heads."

Growing up and living in the Rio Grande Valley, Staff Sgt. Mike Vasquez
understands the plight of illegal immigrants, some of whom work in the area's
agricultural fields and return to Mexico.

"Locally, you know what the situation is on the ground," said Vasquez, 43, a
tank repairman who spends his days watching a row of 20 television screens
linked to surveillance cameras along the border.

A sensor alert provides Vasquez a geographic location that corresponds to a
numbered camera. Using a joystick, he can remotely zoom the camera to search for
illegal immigrants. When one is spotted, he radios a border agent in the field.

Avoiding deployment to the Middle East, preventing terrorists from entering the
country and getting active-duty pay are among reasons the guardsmen say they
volunteered for the border assignment.

A military police officer whose civilian job is security for Lockheed Martin
Corp., Spec. Robert Boykin said he just "wanted to do something for my country."

"We're defending the nation's border and helping to stop suspected terrorists,"
said Boykin, 28. "If our presence helps slow down illegal immigration, then I
think that's pretty good, too."

But living in a motel room has its challenges for some of the troops.

Sgt. Angela Kruse, who shares a Best Western room with another female soldier,
has two changes of civilian clothes and keeps most of her belongings in a San
Antonio storage unit.

"We don't have a fridge or a microwave in the room," said Kruse, 30, a
California native who recently joined the Texas National Guard. "It's not the
greatest of arrangements, but I really enjoy the work."

Kruse, a former MP in the Marines, operates a scope truck  --  a pickup
outfitted with a hydraulically lifted infrared camera  --  just south of
Harlingen on dirt roads flanked by sugar cane and sorghum fields.

Using a joystick, she directs the camera to heat sources  --  sometimes illegal
immigrants moving inland from the Rio Grande, sometimes cattle, rabbits or a
dog. A quick turn of a knob magnifies the image and reveals the heat source.

"There's never a dull moment," said Kruse, who wears a flak jacket and has a 9mm
handgun strapped to her thigh. "I spotted someone the other day hiding in a
field. He had covered himself in dirt, but I kept seeing a little black dot. I
zoomed in and saw him come out of the ground like a zombie. He had no idea there
were two agents standing next to him."

Not all of the duty is interesting or directly involved in the apprehension of
illegal immigrants, however.

Spec. Mika Harp, 31, an ammunition expert, spends his days in a Border Patrol
vehicle, parked on a levee road facing the Mexican city of Reynosa.

The Benbrook resident's presence is a deception intended to divert illegal
immigrants toward border agents on foot, on horses and in other vehicles.

"I'm just an extra pair of eyes," Harp said. "They seem to be quite happy having
us here."

Guardsmen often occupy "skyboxes," similar to hydraulically lifted observation
boxes employed by police to monitor mall parking lots.

Pfc. J. Hinojosa, an infantryman who is hoping to go to Iraq, spends eight-hour
shifts in a skybox in Hidalgo, a few hundred yards from the border. Using
binoculars, he monitors levee roads and open fields between the Rio Grande and
23rd Street.

"It's not too bad," said Hinojosa, 20. "It's air-conditioned. And you can see a
long way from up here."

Smugglers sometimes pick up illegal immigrants or drugs in the area because of
the proximity to the border.

"We have to catch them quickly because once they get past this area, they can
blend right in," said Roy Cervantes, Border Patrol spokesman for the Rio Grande
Valley sector. "Operationally, the National Guard is helping us do more in the
bush."

About 80 miles north of the border, on U.S. 281, the Falfurrias checkpoint
funnels all northbound traffic into a converted truck weighing station where
border agents operate a second line of defense.

Dogs, considered official border agents, sniff vehicles for drugs or hidden
people. An alert from a dog results in a more thorough inspection.

Agents in the Rio Grande Valley sector have seized more than $376 million in
drugs this year and apprehended almost 100,000 people trying to enter the United
States illegally.

Texas National Guard Sgt. Jamie Dick, a military and civilian X-ray technician,
recently helped flush out one group of illegal immigrants hiding in a
tractor-trailer rig at the Falfurrias station.

"Hey, get out of there!" yelled Dick, 25, of Nevada.

Agents found three illegal immigrants hiding in the cab, while Dick coaxed three
people into unwedging themselves from an angular, fiberglass top above the cab.

Agents walked the four men and two women single-file to the station's processing
center to give statements, fill out forms and be fingerprinted and entered into
federal databases. It is an arduous process, especially for those illegal
immigrants who are from countries other than Mexico.

Detainees are held in lockup cells and later transported for deportation, or
sent to holding facilities where they stay until they can see a federal
magistrate, depending on their country of origin.

Dick, serving her first active-duty deployment with the Texas National Guard,
said the experience has "enlightened" her about the Border Patrol's mission.

"I didn't know this checkpoint was here," she said. "I always assumed the Border
Patrol would just be near the border."

Most of the time, Dick and other troops help the agents unload trucks after a
canine search indicates that drugs are in the vehicle.

"We're here strictly for support," said Cpl. Brian VanBrocklin, 31, of Austin.
"I wanted to find out what it was all about down here. Hopefully, we've been
able to relieve some of the agents so they can do thorough searches."

Many soldiers said they have a new perspective on how the government is coping
with the task of guarding the border. Some said they were surprised at the
vastness of the area covered by a limited number of agents and at the
desperation of the illegal immigrants.

"The way I see it, the Border Patrol and National Guard are brothers in arms
here," VanBrocklin said. "We have a mission to protect our country."

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              138 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 12, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Common Ground;
A writer warns that the U.S. Muslim community is torn between separatism and
openness.

BYLINE: Reviewed by Steven Simon

SECTION: Book World; T13

LENGTH: 677 words


MECCA AND MAIN STREET

Muslim Life in America After 9/11

By Geneive Abdo

Oxford Univ. 214 pp. $26

Homegrown, radicalized Islamists have set off bombs in Madrid and London; could
it happen here? Given rising anxiety about the possible alienation of American
Muslims, a readable book offering a responsible yet sympathetic profile of that
community should be welcomed. Five years after 9/11, Geneive Abdo, who has
reported skillfully on Islamism in Egypt and Iran, has produced just such a
book.

Her reporting shows that Muslim immigrants have much in common with Americans
from other lands and cultures. Traditional Muslims arriving from the Middle East
and South Asia fear that their children will succumb to the allure of big-city
life and abandon the faith. Such newcomers are embracing the same strategies
adopted by Jewish immigrants a century ago: setting up religious schools,
charities and houses of worship that double as community centers.

Yet Muslim settlement in America has had its own patterns, of which Abdo offers
a brief but lucid history. The first to arrive were slaves from West Africa who
were converted to Christianity. The subsequent "prairie" generation, which
arrived in the mid-19th century, homesteaded in the Midwest but proved too
isolated to flourish. A new wave of Muslim immigrants followed the
liberalization of U.S. immigration laws in 1965  --  and set out not merely to
survive but to thrive. Muslim Americans, Abdo writes, are now amply represented
in white-collar professions and enjoy a median income slightly above that of the
overall population.

Abdo's description of the neo-traditionalism of this community is fascinating.
She depicts a typical "enclave culture," a religious community that sees itself
as beleaguered and is therefore preoccupied by boundaries  --  between us and
them, male and female, real Muslim and impostor. Defections as well as
intrusions fuel the community's sense of danger, as do the glittering vulgarity
and the "anything goes" gusto of American society. Jarringly, Abdo at times
seems less a reporter than an advocate of a cloistered worldview, as when she
puts down Irshad Manji, a Muslim dissenter, as a self-promoting phony.
Nonetheless, Abdo's account of the struggles within Muslim organizations on
college campuses suggests how the community as a whole may resolve its
intramural conflict: by finding a middle way between traditionalist hardliners
and those who want to preserve their Muslim identity without isolating
themselves, much as modern Orthodox Jews and evangelical Protestants have done
in secular universities.

Abdo shows how 9/11 shook the world of American Muslims. Suddenly, they were
seen by their neighbors  --  and their government  --  in the global context of
Islamist terror. A combination of aggressive law enforcement, indiscriminate use
of immigration laws and hyped-up prosecutions left Muslims in doubt about their
place in society. Those who reacted by keeping their heads down (or veiled) to
avoid attracting attention only exposed themselves to accusations of
indifference to the tragedy  --  or worse.

The net result, Abdo concludes, is a community increasingly inclined to
separatism. Elsewhere, this has provided fertile ground for radicals such as
Osama bin Laden. The United States is scarcely on a slippery slope to Europe's
fate, but the security of our society, Abdo shows, now depends on a spirit of
inclusiveness and generosity. In Washington, that means appointing more Muslims
to government jobs, preserving civil liberties, being more attentive to their
foreign policy concerns and making adjustments consistent with U.S. strategic
interests. In our neighborhoods, that means an awareness that when we talk about
Muslims, we are talking not about the enemy but about the person next door  --
someone whose family, like those of other immigrants, came here to escape harsh
and uncertain lives. *

Steven Simon, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, is co-author
of "The Age of Sacred Terror" and "The Next Attack."

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              139 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 13, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Visa Places Abuse Victim In State of Uncertainty

BYLINE: Ernesto Londono, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 1289 words


After Lilian Ibeh's husband left his job at the Nigerian Embassy in Washington
under the threat of criminal charges, the mother of three faced two bleak
options.

She could stay in the United States illegally with the children or return to
Nigeria, where she feared her husband would hurt her for accusing him of battery
--  a charge that cost him a coveted diplomatic post.

In 2002, however, Ibeh found what initially seemed like a miraculous lifeline.
She applied for a type of visa for victims of crime established by law in 2000
in an effort to foster trust between law enforcement agencies and immigrants.
The initiative was warmly received by immigrant advocates concerned about the
reluctance of some immigrants to report crime and cooperate with prosecutors.

Although Ibeh's application for what is called a U visa was approved
temporarily, the actual visa remains unavailable because Department of Homeland
Security officials have not drafted final regulations spelling out eligibility
requirements and future options for visa holders. That has left Ibeh, her
children and thousands of other foreign-born crime victims in limbo and has
frustrated immigrant activists, who say the visa category has failed to live up
to the lawmakers' vision.

"Other women are afraid to speak out because they are being called illegal
immigrants, and they are afraid of being sent back to their abusers," Ibeh, 40,
said during a recent interview at her  Rockville apartment, as her children
watched her fight back tears. "That's my fear. I'm just dancing in the air. They
make you feel like you're neither to the right or to the left. You're in the
middle  --  stuck."

The U visa was a key provision of the Victims of Trafficking and Violence
Protection Act. The new visa elated immigration advocates, even though its main
impetus was to give law enforcement officials a tool to keep undocumented
victims and witnesses of serious crimes in the United States to testify or
otherwise cooperate with authorities.

Legislators designed the visa for foreigners who could prove that they had been
victims of a crime in the United States, had information about the crime and had
helped or were willing to help authorities investigate or prosecute the case.
Applicants have to submit a personal statement that is backed by a form signed
by a local or federal law enforcement official.

Congress set a yearly cap of 10,000 U visas for principal applicants  --
spouses and children are eligible for derivative visas  --  but left key
decisions about eligibility and the application process to immigration
officials.

"All we act on right now are memos from headquarters," said Jeff Joseph, a
member of the American Immigration Lawyers Association, referring to U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services, the division of the Department of Homeland
Security that handles immigration benefits. "There are so many unanswered
questions."

For example, it is unclear whether people who are in deportation proceedings or
have an unexecuted deportation order qualify and whether applications from
people who entered the country illegally would be treated differently than those
submitted by people who entered legally but stayed beyond their authorized time.
It is also unclear for how long the visas would be issued and whether they would
be renewable. U visa holders would not be eligible for permanent residency
unless they qualified for a green card through other means.

Lawmakers initially set no deadline for final regulations. But last year, they
attached a provision to an unrelated bill mandating immigration officials to
establish guidelines no later than this past June.

Chris Bentley, a spokesman for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, said
final regulations are pending because the process is complex and involves
numerous agencies.

"Our commitment is to make sure that the final regulations are all-encompassing
and are well thought out," he said.

Immigration officials had granted temporary approval  --  which essentially
means they held off on initiating deportation proceedings  --  to 7,163 U visa
applicants as of last month. They denied 1,644 applications.

An immigration lawyer in the District took Ibeh's case for free when she knocked
on his door in 2002. He was moved by Ibeh's story, which she tells in
painstaking detail, nonchalantly rolling up her pant legs to show her scars.

Ibeh, born into a comfortable Nigerian family, fell in love with a young,
dashing government official. She said she later discovered he had a dark and
terrifying side. Efforts to reach her ex-husband, Bede Uchenna Ibeh, through the
Nigerian Embassy, were unsuccessful.

Ibeh said the abuse began shortly after her daughter, who is now 15, was born.
She said her husband became violent when the couple fought, including two
instances, in London and Nigeria, in which she ended up at a hospital. She
forgave him each time, she said, because he was the breadwinner, she has
completed only high school and the thought of raising three children by herself
was daunting.

In May 2000, her husband was transferred to the Nigerian Embassy in Washington,
and the couple moved into a large house in Silver Spring. But soon after that,
Ibeh said, her husband told her he intended to live with another woman and gave
her a deadline to find another place to live. She resisted and, she said, he
became violent again, prompting her to get a restraining order and drawing the
interest of Montgomery County police.

Officials with the Montgomery state's attorney's office notified the State
Department that they intended to charge Bede Uchenna Ibeh with assault. The
federal agency asked the Nigerian Embassy to waive his diplomatic immunity. He
left the country before the charge was filed, but an arrest warrant charging the
45-year-old man with second-degree assault awaits if he returns.

After his departure, Ibeh moved into a domestic violence shelter in Montgomery.
She, like others whose U visa applications have been provisionally approved, is
eligible for a work permit that must be renewed yearly and costs $180. Because
she also must apply for permits for her children, the family has spent nearly
$3,000 in immigration application fees.

She has held numerous odd jobs, mostly through temp agencies, but said that most
prospective employers lose interest when they learn that her work permit is
valid for only a few more months. She has struggled to explain to employers the
complexity of the U visa situation and can make no earnest assurances that she
will become a permanent resident. Having faced eviction numerous times, Ibeh,
who retains the poise and wardrobe of a diplomat's wife, has found herself
begging for menial jobs, including a job mowing lawns.

She said the prospective employer was stunned when she expressed interest in the
job. "Are you crazy?" she recalled him asking.

The Montgomery state's attorney's office this year certified about 15 U visa
applicants, a tool it said has been useful in domestic violence cases such as
Ibeh's. But immigration advocates said many law enforcement agencies have been
far less enthusiastic.

Vanna Slaughter, director of the immigration benefits division at Catholic
Charities in Dallas, said she routinely scours the crime blurbs in her hometown
newspaper, looking for prospective applicants. But she said many law enforcement
officers have been reluctant to sign off on applications.

"They think they're helping an illegal alien," she said, describing the response
she has received from some investigators. "Some of them don't get it. This was a
tool designed for them. It was created with law enforcement in mind. It was not
intended to be this benevolent program."

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              140 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 13, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Hunch Unravels Immigrant Wedding Scam;
Odd Behavior at Arlington Courthouse Leads to Arrests in Probe of Green-Card
Marriages

BYLINE: Jerry Markon, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1602 words


They didn't hug. They didn't kiss. They didn't even sit together.

Many couples going to the Arlington County Courthouse seemed more like strangers
than people applying for marriage licenses. A man named Sam often escorted them
to the sixth-floor clerk's office. Sometimes, there would be a furtive exchange
of money in the elevator.

Before long, some of the same people would be back, filing for divorce, their
court papers littered with mistakes  --  always the same mistakes.

"They misspelled 'circuit,' " said David A. Bell, the longtime Circuit Court
clerk. "It was obvious something was going on."

Bell tipped off police, triggering a nearly four-year investigation that
recently broke up one of the Washington region's biggest and most brazen
immigration scams: an estimated 1,000 fake marriages. The scheme was centered in
the area's little-noticed but rapidly growing community of immigrants from
Ghana.

For immigrants, marrying a U.S. citizen is a quick ticket to citizenship. Along
the East Coast and all the way to West Africa, at car dealerships, malls,
parties and even a Home Depot, the word had spread: If you are in the United
States illegally, go to Arlington. It's easy to get married in Virginia, because
marriage laws are relatively lax. Arlington, with its proximity to the Metro
system and the District, is especially convenient.

In recent weeks, 19 of 22 people charged so far in the undercover investigation
have pleaded guilty in federal court in Alexandria, including bank tellers, car
salesmen and health-care workers. Court testimony and interviews document how
Ghanaian immigrants married U.S. citizens they had met the same day, then were
coached on how to fool immigration inspectors, usually months later, into
believing that the marriage was real. All they wanted, they said, was to stay in
the United States.

Now, they will have to leave.

Caroline Chepkwony, who entered the United States in 1996 as an employee of the
Kenyan Embassy, sobbed on the witness stand recently as she told the judge that
she found a sham husband for the sake of her 3-year-old son.

"This is why I entered into this marriage, just hoping to give my son the best
life he can get," said Chepkwony, 36, as she pleaded guilty to marriage fraud.
"And I figured out the only place he can get a better life is here in America."

As Latinos have migrated in record numbers to the Washington region, there has
been a quieter exodus: from Africa, especially the Republic of Ghana. The
Northern Virginia and Maryland suburbs are home to the second-highest
concentration of Ghanaians in the nation, about 20,000.

One of the first to arrive was Samuel "Sam" Acquah. Born in Ghana in 1949,
Acquah came to the United States on a student visa. He got a master's degree, a
law degree from George Mason University and a $112,000-a-year job in the
chemical engineering section of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office in
Alexandria.

As more Ghanaians arrived, Acquah wanted to help them stay. Better yet, he
thought, he could make money doing it by finding strangers to marry them quickly
after their visas expired.

Informally, he named his business "the program." When a fellow Ghanaian called,
Acquah would charge the immigrant $3,000 to $3,500. Two employees were Acquah's
"contacts" and helped find U.S. citizens willing to get married for money.
Acquah split the profit with his contact, who paid the U.S. citizen $500.

Acquah set up shop in his government office, using his government-owned fax
machine to communicate about illicit marriages.

Word of the scheme spread to immigrants even before they left Ghana. "Those who
were coming over here knew where to find an apartment, where to find a job and
where to find a spouse," said one law enforcement official, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the investigation is ongoing.

The business became so lucrative  --  Acquah has admitted pocketing $200,000  --
that it spawned competitors. One key rival was Eric Amoah, a Ghanaian immigrant
whose own fraudulent marriage to a U.S. citizen had been arranged by Acquah.

A short, balding man with a calm demeanor and five children, Amoah, 43, came to
the United States in 1999. Marriage fraud helped put him through pharmacy
school, and he worked as a pharmacy technician at Prince William Hospital in
Manassas, even as his marriage business continued to mushroom.

Amoah put out word among the U.S. Ghanaian community, which grew from 20,889 in
1990 to 101,169 in 2004, according to U.S. Census Bureau estimates. At his
five-bedroom house in Woodbridge, Amoah threw elaborate parties. At one such
gathering, he met Markey Simpkins, a supervisor at a Home Depot in the District.

Simpkins became a contact and asked co-workers if they wanted to marry an
immigrant for money. Those interested would get to meet Amoah or another
Ghanaian marriage arranger. Simpkins pocketed $50 per introduction.

Abena Nkrumah heard about Amoah when she needed an operation for abdominal
problems. One way to get health insurance, her doctor's office suggested, was to
marry a U.S. citizen.

At an Alexandria shopping center, Amoah and Nkrumah bonded through their shared
Ghanaian heritage. "He told me he can help me get married," said Nkrumah, a
health-care worker, as she entered her guilty plea last month. She told U.S.
District Judge T.S. Ellis III that she could not have stayed with her sham
husband, saying he smokes. Ellis smiled.

Occasionally, the men and women would decide they liked each other and would
stay married. Far more often, they lived separate lives before reuniting,
however briefly, at immigration offices in Fairfax County and Baltimore. There,
they would recite their made-up stories about how they met or invent details
such as which side of the bed their spouse slept on. Immigrants who marry U.S.
citizens can get a visa to stay in the country immediately, instead of having to
wait years, and can speed their citizenship by several years.

Ghanaians drawn to this prospect flocked to Arlington from as far as New York
and South Carolina. "People would come here for two days to get married and then
go back," said Robin Crumblin, one of Amoah's key lieutenants.

Northern Virginia was the obvious choice to center the scheme. Couples can get a
license within minutes  --  there are waiting periods in the District and
Maryland  --  and get married the same day.

Occasionally, the phony couples would go to courthouses in Alexandria, Fairfax
County, Manassas, the District or Maryland. But the vast majority went to
Arlington. The courthouse is on a Metro line, and plenty of civil magistrates
nearby can perform a quick ceremony. "Everything was right there in the same
spot," Crumblin said in an interview before pleading guilty last month to
conspiracy to commit immigration fraud.

Crumblin, 44, can't read or write. She has eight children and lives in a public
housing apartment in the District. But she achieved a position of prominence in
Amoah's organization.

She met him through a friend, the first time in the parking lot of the Arlington
courthouse. Her husband had been injured. She needed the work.

Crumblin's main job was to track down the U.S. citizens, up to a year after the
actual marriage, so they could go with their Ghanaian spouse to the immigration
office. Often, the search led her to a homeless shelter in the District or to a
mother on welfare.

They often were not happy to see her. The U.S. citizens had been told that all
they had to do for their $300 or so was get married. Now, they were demanding
more money.

The Ghanaians, increasingly desperate, would have to pay. Crumblin felt caught
in the middle. "They'd call my house at 4 a.m. and say, 'Where's my wife?' "
said Crumblin, who says she regrets her role because of the example it set for
her children.

Pressure was also building on Amoah, whose business had slowed in recent months.
He suspected he was under scrutiny and became more secretive, working out of a
Red Roof Inn in Springfield instead of his home.

In early 2003, an Arlington courthouse clerk noticed the oddly distant behavior
of some marriage license applicants. She compared notes with fellow clerks, who
were noticing the same thing, then relayed her suspicions to her boss, Bell, who
called Arlington authorities. Soon, a federal-state task force was infiltrating
the various marriage fraud organizations through cooperators and undercover
agents. The Arlington courthouse was put under surveillance. It took time to
build the cases.

By this fall, prosecutors in the U.S. Attorney's Office in Alexandria thought
they had enough evidence. Most of those convicted probably will serve less than
a year in prison. Acquah and Amoah, who recently pleaded guilty to conspiracies
to commit immigration fraud and money laundering, are expected to spend more
time there.

But the biggest price is yet to come. Virtually all of the Ghanaians and other
West African immigrants convicted  --  most of those charged were immigrants,
although several U.S. citizens were charged as well  --  will be deported. Some
now face the agonizing choice of whether to leave their children born in the
United States, who are U.S. citizens, or take them to Africa.

U.S. District Judge Gerald Bruce Lee offered a few words of comfort to Chepkwony
at her recent plea hearing. But his sympathy only went so far.

"America is composed of  --  is a nation of immigrants," he said. "Everyone here
came from somewhere else. However . . . there are rules on how one can immigrate
to live here permanently.

"You did not follow the rules."

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              141 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          November 15, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Justice Department's Brief On Detention Policy Draws Ire;
Critics Say Law Could Allow Indefinite Jail Terms

BYLINE: Dan Eggen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 787 words


Critics of U.S. detention policies warned yesterday that a brief legal document
filed by the Justice Department this week raises the possibility that any of the
millions of immigrants living in  the United States could be subject to
indefinite detention if they are accused of ties to terrorist groups.

In a six-page motion filed in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 4th Circuit in
Richmond, Justice Department lawyers argue that an anti-terrorism law approved
by Congress last month allows the  government to detain any foreign national
declared to be an enemy combatant, even if he is arrested and imprisoned inside
the United States.

The government argues that a legal challenge by alleged al-Qaeda sleeper agent
Ali Saleh Kahlah al-Marri should be  dismissed because the former Bradley
University graduate student has no standing in regular civilian courts. Under
the new law, the Military Commissions Act, the Pentagon plans to place Marri
into its new military trial system as soon as his criminal case is dismissed,
according to the filing.

In the past, foreign nationals arrested in the United States have generally had
the right to challenge their imprisonment for immigration violations or other
alleged crimes in U.S. civilian courts. In the Marri case, the Justice
Department essentially argues for an exception for those arrested as enemy
combatants, legal experts said.

"It's been the case since the nation's founding that immigrants have a
constitutional right to test their detention in a court," said one of Marri's
attorneys, Jonathan Hafetz, of the Brennan Center for Justice at the New York
University School of Law. "What it means is that any of the millions of
immigrants in the United States could be arrested, taken from their homes and
thrown in a military jail and denied their right to go to court."

Justice spokesman Brian Roehrkasse said in a statement that Marri attended an
al-Qaeda training camp, met with the alleged mastermind of the Sept. 11, 2001,
attacks, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, and entered the country "to serve as an al
Qaeda sleeper agent and to explore methods of disrupting the U.S. financial
system.

"Enemy combatants are not entitled to preferential treatment merely because they
have succeeded in entering our borders with the intent to harm American citizens
or interests," Roehrkasse said.

Marri, a Qatari national, has been  in a military brig in South Carolina since
he was accused in June 2003 of being an al-Qaeda "sleeper" agent sent to the
United States to stage attacks after the Sept. 11  attacks.  Marri has filed a
petition in federal court alleging that he is being jailed unlawfully and
deprived of rights of due process. That claim was rejected by a district court
and is  on appeal.

Justice lawyers argue in their court filing that Marri "has been properly
detained as an enemy combatant" and has not  produced any evidence rebutting the
government's allegations against him. The government makes no mention in the
filing that Marri was arrested and imprisoned inside the territorial United
States.

The distinction could prove important, because legal experts on both sides of
the issue agree that the location of Marri's arrest and detention gives him an
important legal advantage over detainees arrested overseas. About 435 such
detainees are confined at the military prison at  Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

"It was pretty clear that they'd try to get his complaint dismissed," said
Robert Chesney, a specialist in national security law at Wake Forest University.
"What's different about al-Marri is that he's not just an enemy combatant at
Gitmo; he's an enemy combatant captured and held in the U.S. . . . He may have a
much stronger constitutional argument."

The provision of the military commissions act that stripped detainees of  access
to U.S. courts was approved by Congress last month and aimed primarily at
Guantanamo Bay detainees, many of whom had filed legal challenges to their
prolonged confinement. The new law provides for trials of enemy combatants
before military panels instead of civilian judges or juries.

Douglas Kmiec, a Pepperdine University law professor who was a Justice
Department official during the Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush
administrations, said the Justice brief signals that this  administration
believes Congress has given it clear authority to declare foreign nationals as
enemy combatants, wherever they are captured.

"It not only opens up the universe of people who may be subjected to these
specialized procedures, but it does it emphatically with Congress's approval,"
Kmiec said. "It remains to be seen whether that changes the judicial dynamic."

Staff researcher Julie Tate contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              142 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          November 15, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

More Immigrants Seeking Asylum Cite Gang Violence;
Applications From Salvadorans, Hondurans and Guatemalans Have Nearly Doubled

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A08

LENGTH: 1118 words


Increasing numbers of Salvadorans, Hondurans and Guatemalans are entering the
United States illegally and applying for asylum on the grounds that their lives
are imperiled by gang violence in their home countries, according to immigration
lawyers and advocacy groups.

Although the number granted asylum barely surpassed 700 last year, asylum
applications by people from those three countries have almost doubled, which
lawyers attribute primarily to fear of gang violence.

The lawyers hope to persuade judges to more readily grant asylum to those who
have risked reprisal by resisting extortion demands by gangs, testifying against
gang members, renouncing their own membership in gangs or trying to avoid being
forced to join gangs.

Gang violence has grown to epidemic proportions in the three countries since the
mid-1990s, when the United States began sending Central American-born members of
the rival Los Angeles-based Mara Salvatrucha and Mara 18 gangs back to their
home countries. The deportees helped fuel the rise of ferocious sister gangs in
Central America, whose estimated 60,000 members are now battling each other, the
police and residents in hundreds of communities.

Many of those who say they fled gangs end up in the Washington area, which has
one of the nation's largest Central American immigrant populations.

Jose Hernandez, a soft-spoken 19-year-old currently living in a shelter in the
District, said he left El Salvador in 2004 after a close friend was gunned down
in his home town of Yayantique. Both Hernandez and his friend had been resisting
entreaties to join MS-13.

A few days later, Hernandez said, several tattooed gang members grabbed him on
the street, held a knife against his stomach and warned him to join "or you'll
end up like your friend."

Such accounts are common, said Eric Sigmon, who runs a project for the National
Center for Refugee and Immigrant Children that finds pro bono lawyers for
unaccompanied minors stopped at the U.S. border. Of the roughly 1,500 Central
American children interviewed since the project began 16 months ago, about half
cited fear of gang violence as a reason for embarking on the dangerous trek
north.

"These are not kids who are leaving just because they feel like it one day,"
Sigmon said.

Brittney Nystrom of the Capital Area Immigrants' Rights Coalition, which
provides a similar service to adult illegal immigrants held in five detention
centers in Virginia, said that "literally every week" she comes across an
illegal immigrant who left his or her country because of gang violence or fears
returning because of it.

Immigration lawyers have responded with a budding effort to win asylum for their
clients. And the growing awareness of gang violence may well explain why the
number of Salvadorans, Hondurans and Guatemalans filing asylum claims in U.S.
immigration courts jumped from about 7,000 in fiscal 2004 to more than 13,000 in
fiscal 2006.

Geoff Thale, an expert on Central American gangs at the Washington Office on
Latin America, a nonprofit advocacy group, dates the trend to spring 2005, when
asylum lawyers first began contacting him for background information on gangs in
Central America. Since then, Thale has received about 100 such calls, two or
three a week.

But asylum claims are hardly an easy route to legalization: Only 721
Salvadorans, Hondurans and Guatemalans were granted asylum for any reason in
fiscal 2005.

U.S. law requires that an applicant prove his fear of violence is credible and
that the threat is based on his race, religion, nationality, membership in a
particular social group or political opinion. Immigration judges have frequently
ruled against applicants who were victims of gangs because of bad luck or who
have faced conscription by a gang simply because they were young and male.

But some judges have been amenable to more nuanced arguments.

Last year, an immigration judge based in Arlington County granted asylum to a
14-year-old Salvadoran boy whose father had a dispute with gang members. After
the father died, gang members began harassing the boy  --  at one point beating
him so badly they broke his arm, according to the boy's attorney, Christina
Wilkes of the D.C.-based immigrant assistance center Ayuda.

"The judge found that my client was persecuted based on belonging to his family
and that this constituted membership in a 'particular social group' protected
under asylum law," Wilkes said. The boy now lives with an uncle in Northern
Virginia.

Several lawyers also have argued that someone who faces retaliation for refusing
to join a gang for religious reasons or because he opposes the gang's values is
being persecuted based on a political view and is therefore eligible for asylum.
Wilkes, who also represents Hernandez, said she is hoping to argue that in his
case.

Former gang members who worry that they will be killed as punishment for
defecting sometimes have been recognized as a protected group by immigration
judges. But those judges are often reluctant to grant asylum to former members,
opting instead for a less-generous form of relief known as "withdrawal of
removal."

Those granted withdrawal of removal cannot receive federal assistance or apply
for permanent residency. The decision permits U.S. authorities to deport
immigrants to someplace other than their home country. In practice, however,
they are allowed to remain in the United States indefinitely.

That was relief enough for attorney Jason Dzubow's client, a 29-year-old
construction worker who faced deportation back to El Salvador after he was
picked up for driving while intoxicated in Virginia.

During an interview in Dzubow's presence, the construction worker, who said he
was fearful of being identified by name, said he grew up in a neighborhood of
the city of San Miguel that was so dominated by gangs that the corpses of their
victims would remain on the street because no one dared move them. He said he
was forced to join MS-13 when he was a teenager but fled to the District when
gang members handed him a gun and ordered him to kill a cousin belonging to the
rival Mara 18 gang.

The construction worker, who is married to a U.S. citizen and has two U.S.-born
children, had since tried to cover a large "1" and "3" tattooed on his right and
left shoulders with new tattoos of snarling panthers. But he was terrified that
other MS-13 members on his deportation flight would see through the ruse and
realize he had tried to renounce the gang  --  a virtual death sentence.

When the judge ruled that he could stay in the United States, his wife recalled,
"it was almost like he couldn't breathe."

"It was incredible," he agreed. "I felt like I was reborn."

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              143 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 17, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

33 Arrested in Visa Investigation;
Pakistanis Suspected of Posing as Religious Workers

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B03

LENGTH: 601 words


Federal immigration agents arrested 33 Pakistanis this week who entered the
United States by posing as religious workers, part of a crackdown on a visa
program considered to be rife with fraud.

The immigrants were arrested Wednesday in the District, Virginia and seven other
states. They had visas that permitted them to work as religious scholars or
leaders. But federal authorities said that most had no theological training and
that many were driving trucks, pumping gas or not working at all.

The arrests, which resulted from an ongoing investigation, came more than a year
after a Department of Homeland Security review of the religious worker visa
program found widespread fraud. According to an August 2005 report, nearly a
third of the 220 religious worker visa petitions surveyed were deemed to be
falsified.

"This is a valid program that is absolutely intended for true religious scholars
and workers," said Dean Boyd, a spokesman for U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement. "When it's exploited by people who just want to come here illegally
and work or potentially come here and commit some kind of nefarious act, that's
a concern of ours."

The immigrants were arrested on administrative immigration violations that could
result in deportation. Some could face additional criminal immigration charges,
Boyd said. None of those arrested appears to have ties to terrorism, Boyd said.

Two of the Pakistanis were arrested in the District and one in Danville, Va.
Authorities did not release their names because they have not been charged
criminally, Boyd said. The person arrested in Danville worked in a Goodyear Tire
store, Boyd said; he said he did not know the employment of those arrested in
the District.

The religious worker program permits foreign nationals with religious training
and experience to get a work visa  --  and eventually permanent residency  --
if a U.S.-based church, mosque, synagogue or other religious institution
sponsors them for employment. They are not permitted to obtain a secular job.

Of those arrested Wednesday, two Boston imams were the only true religious
workers, but they had used sham identity documents to get their visas,
authorities said. The rest were employed in other fields. All had paid
"substantial cash fees" to their sponsors, who filed the bogus applications,
authorities said. The sponsors, who were not identified, will probably face
charges, Boyd said.

Last year's report cited cases in which visas were issued to immigrants who said
they intended to work at facilities that officials discovered existed only on
paper or not at all. In other cases, the petitioner, or sponsor, was unaware of
an application. The petitioner in one case had filed at least 82 such
applications, nearly all of which were identical, officials said.

Chris Bentley, a spokesman for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, said
that all visa petitions are facing increased scrutiny. The agency's Office of
Fraud Detection and National Security, which wrote the report on religious
worker fraud, is taking a similar look at other visa categories and checking
applications more closely, he said.

The federal immigration agency issued 1,854 visas to religious workers or their
immediate family members in fiscal 2004, the most recent year for which data are
available, he said.

Wednesday's arrests marked the second major enforcement effort this year to
target religious worker visa fraud. In June, a minister from South Korea was
convicted of fraudulently sponsoring foreign nationals he said would be employed
at Hope Korean Church in Tacoma, Wash.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              144 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 18, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Republicans Lost Ground With Latinos In Midterms;
After Gains in 2004, GOP Stumbled on Immigration

BYLINE: Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 871 words


Two years ago, Latino voters gravitated in larger-than-ever numbers toward
President Bush, the former governor of Texas, a Mexican border state, and his
brother Jeb, the loquacious Florida governor who speaks fluent Spanish.

How times have changed.

Pollsters generally agree that the same voters abandoned the president's party
in droves during last week's elections, with Latinos giving the GOP only 30
percent of their vote as strident House immigration legislation inspired by
Republicans and tough-talking campaign ads by conservative candidates roiled the
community. It was a 10-point drop from the lowest estimated Latino vote
percentage two years ago, and a 14-point drop from the highest.

Depending on who did the counting, pollsters said in 2004 that Latinos handed
GOP candidates between 40 percent and 44 percent of their vote  --  a historic
Republican windfall  --  as the Bush brothers appealed to their socially
conservative views on abortion and same-sex marriage.

"I think you have to look at the Republican effort on immigration as a
catastrophic mistake in a year when they made many mistakes," said Simon
Rosenberg, president of NDN, formerly the New Democrat Network. "They now know
that the Republican Party is hostile to Hispanics, which is something they
didn't know two years ago. That's a big burden for them to overcome."

Latinos by and large supported the millions of marchers who protested House
immigration proposals in the spring, and there are recent signs that Republicans
are working to bring them back to the party.

Republicans worked hard this week to get the word out that they had appointed
Cuban American Sen. Mel Martinez (R-Fla.) to lead the Republican National
Committee. On Wednesday, the RNC dispatched an e-mail message in which about 20
conservatives praised the appointment.

"Martinez would give the party tremendous legitimacy among the growing Hispanic
voter base," said Rep. Tom Feeney (R-Fla.). "He's an absolute rock star in the
Hispanic community."

But one comment, from the  Rev. Luis Cortés Jr., founder of Esperanza USA, a
network of Latino Christian groups, reads like a velvet slap, mixing praise with
criticism.

"A lot of the Republican candidates chose immigration as the wedge issue, and
polls seem to bear out that it was an error for them to do that," Cortés said.
"And I think Mel Martinez, because of his life story, is a perfect person to
help them find their way back from that era."

Latinos are the nation's largest ethnic minority at more than 14 million. Their
voting pool is smaller than the African American community's, but it is growing
and is eagerly courted by both major parties for its potential to turn future
elections.

In 2004, it was the Democrats who were frustrated. Sen. John F. Kerry (D-Mass.)
performed so poorly among Latinos, relative to historical voting, that a
frustrated Rosenberg praised the Republican strategy of appealing to the group,
particularly in Texas, New Mexico and Florida, and lambasted Kerry for failing
to reach an important segment of the Democratic base.

Conservatives trotted out the eloquent George P. Bush, the president's nephew,
whose mother was born in Mexico, on the campaign trail and trumpeted high-level
appointments such as then-White House Counsel Alberto R. Gonzales, now the
attorney general.

"Democrats have a legacy with Hispanics. But Republicans have a modern strategy.
Their strategy is changing the rules, and Democrats have to adapt," Rosenberg
said testily at a news conference back then. "It is a sea change."

But a political wind in the House would change things again, starting in 2005.
Republicans, led by Judiciary Committee Chairman F. James Sensenbrenner Jr.
(Wis.), proposed one of the toughest immigration laws in history. The bill would
make it a felony to assist any illegal immigrant, frightening the Roman Catholic
Church. It worried rights groups because it would step up enforcement that could
cost illegal immigrants their jobs, homes and lives.

Local and state governments passed measures that targeted illegal immigrants.
And several local officials called on the federal government to train their
police in techniques that would allow them to detain and deport illegal
immigrants for offenses such as traffic violations.

Latino voters noticed that Senate Democrats largely supported legislation that
would allow illegal immigrants to stay, if they were willing to pay a fine for
sneaking into the country, learn English and go to the back of an employment
line where newly authorized foreign workers would get first dibs on jobs.

Republican candidates said the Senate proposal was an amnesty.

The GOP stance "was wildly, wildly unpopular and in fact backfired on a number
of candidates," said Celinda Lake of Lake Research Partners. "It helped mobilize
Latino voters for the Democratic side."

But Rosemary Jenks, director of government relations for NumbersUSA, which
opposes increased immigration, said the Latino vote was not that great a factor.

"The election had absolutely nothing to do with immigration," she said. "It was
about George W. Bush and the war in Iraq. I think the public has made it very
clear where they stand on immigration."

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              145 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 20, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

The Implications of Letting Everyone In

SECTION: Editorial; A16

LENGTH: 132 words


Jack McKay [letters, Nov. 13] attempts to make the Statue of Liberty a symbol
for unrestricted immigration, at least along our southern border. I agree that
the statue has been used as a symbol for many U.S. citizens who immigrated
legally and were processed through Ellis Island.

If the letter writer supports a policy of unlimited immigration, why doesn't he
say that we should change our immigration laws to allow anyone from anywhere
(not just our southern border) to enter the United States unfettered? After all,
the real "barrier" is our laws, not a wall being built to enforce these laws.

I hope that Mr. McKay still believes that we are a nation ruled by law  --  not
simple symbolism. In a democracy, we should either follow the law or change it.

THOMAS S. GUISTO

Gaithersburg

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              146 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 20, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Travelers Say We're Bordering on Hostile

SECTION: A Section; A15

LENGTH: 271 words


Looking for reasons why America's popularity in the world has declined? The U.S.
travel industry blames security.

A plurality of international travelers rated the U.S. visa and immigration entry
system the "world's worst," according to data released today that was
commissioned by a tourism business lobby.

Interviews with 2,011 non-U.S. residents who had traveled beyond their home
continents in the past 18 months found that 39 percent rated the United States
the least traveler-friendly, more than twice the percentage that gave bottom
grades to the Middle East (16 percent), Asia (12 percent) or Africa (12
percent). The rating was based on the ease of obtaining travel documents and the
respectfulness of immigration officials.

The questions were somewhat self-serving, and researchers drew more than a fifth
of the participants from countries with mixed relations with the United States,
such as China and Venezuela.

The findings come as the United States has stepped up requirements for foreign
visitors, such as fingerprinting and tightened screening procedures at ports of
entry. One-third of the travelers said they would not  visit here again because
of rude treatment at airports by security officials toward non-U.S. passport
holders. Also cited was a fear of detention for simple mistakes or
misstatements.

Discover America Partnership paid for the data. The group includes the Travel
Industry Association and major lodging, theme park, restaurant and rental car
companies, which want the government to promote travel and alter security
programs in the name of "public diplomacy."

--  Spencer S. Hsu

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              147 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 23, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Chinese Immigrants Get a Taste Of Home;
County Program Caters to Seniors

BYLINE: Christian Davenport, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Montgomery Extra; T01

LENGTH: 759 words


The menu is in Chinese. And the food  --  tofu with bok choy, beef with black
bean sauce, stir-fried chicken with garlic  --  is authentic. It has to be.
These diners would know the difference.

That's because they lived in China for most of their lives before immigrating to
the United States, many to be with their children and grandchildren. But this
country can seem an odd place to elderly people who have spent most of their
lives elsewhere. And many have felt isolated.

But three times a week, thanks to a Montgomery County program, a community
center becomes for them a passport home.

The senior meal program, known as "Something for Everyone," is one of several
sponsored by the county and nonprofit organizations that caters to elderly
immigrants. In addition to the program at the Plum Gar Community Center in
Germantown, which is run in part by the nonprofit Chinese American Senior
Service Association, there is a program for Vietnamese and Korean seniors, said
Marilyn Mower, the director of the county's senior nutrition program. There is
also a senior lunch program that serves kosher meals.

They are ways to reach out to the county's growing elderly immigrant population,
she said, and help them get not just a nutritious meal but also all sorts of
other social services, such as health care, housing and transportation. The
programs, which rely heavily on federal funds, are having a hard time keeping up
with the rapid growth of foreign-born residents.

According to the U.S. Census Bureau, there are an estimated 42,000 immigrants
over the age of 60 living in the county.

The Chinese program started in the 1990s, when Ling Cheung used to volunteer at
the Rockville senior center. She noticed that none of the Chinese seniors she
urged to come would show up. When she asked why, they told her that they didn't
like the food.

It was too American, they said. Too much meat and potatoes that didn't sit well
on their palate. Couldn't the center serve Chinese food, they wondered? Couldn't
they use chopsticks instead of a fork and knife?

Cheung, who volunteers now at the Plum Gar center, helped persuade  the county
to offer ethnic food for the seniors. Now, there are more than 10 lunch programs
that serve more than 2,400 meals prepared by ethnic restaurants and community
groups. In addition to the immigrant senior program, the county sponsors 15
lunch sites for seniors that serve "traditional American meals" and food with a
"Latino flavor," Mower said.

While the food may be the initial attraction for the seniors, it's the
socialization and activities that keeps them. At Plum Gar last week, the
gymnasium was full of seniors practicing tai chi and playing table tennis.
Across the room, there were three tables full of people playing mah-jongg, a
Chinese game played with tiles about the size of dominos.

There are also classes in English, computers and photography. There is
information about affordable housing, transportation and health care. There's
line-dancing and games. In the mornings, volunteers fan out and get copies of
Chinese-language newspapers to bring back to the center.

But perhaps the most important aspect of the program is simply getting seniors
out of their homes to mingle with peers who share their culture.

"Socialization is the most important part of the program  --  especially for
those living alone," Mower said.

When Ailing Chen came to Montgomery County four years ago, she knew very few
people. She and her husband moved to the United States to be closer to her
daughter, who was educated here. But they felt isolated and were thinking of
moving back to China, she said through an interpreter.

But then a neighbor told them about the program, and she fell in with a new
community with friends that she said now feel "like family."

Chen even met a woman from her home town who went to her high school. Soon they
were referring to each other as "cousins," she said, and calling each other on
the phone.

She comes a few times a week, she said, for the exercise, especially the tai
chi. But she also got information about a health clinic in Silver Spring that
she uses.

On the wall are translations for some key phrases for places like the post
office, such as: "What's the cost for a letter to Shanghai, China?"

The center is open from 9:30 in the morning until about 3 p.m., but perhaps the
highlight of the day is noon, when lunch is served. During lunch one day last
week, the seniors feasted on white fish, rice, vegetables and bean curd.

No one used a fork and knife.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              148 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 24, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

For Many Asians, an Atlantic City Pilgrimage

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 918 words

DATELINE: ATLANTIC CITY Nov. 23


There was much to be grateful for, Thanh Huynh noted Thursday: a rare day free
from serving pho at the Vietnamese restaurant where he works, a new wife beside
him, a seat on a warm bus that rumbled north toward a glitzy palace where he
would sit at a green velvet baccarat table and see what his $200 might become.

About noon, the Dream Tours bus that Huynh, 49, had boarded that morning in
Springfield cruised into Atlantic City and pulled up to the Trump Taj Mahal,
where he and thousands of other Asian immigrants prepared to give thanks, in
their own way.

"I'm thankful for Thanksgiving," said the Falls Church resident. He knew that
the holiday falls on a Thursday and involves a special dinner, but for him it
means something better: "I get off work."

With its pilgrim-and-Indian narrative and turkey dinner ritual, Thanksgiving is
perhaps the most tradition-bound of major American holidays, making it among
those that resonate least with immigrants. But in the land of the free, customs
are malleable  --  and for many Asian immigrants along the Eastern Seaboard,
Thanksgiving has become a day to hit one small land of opportunity: Atlantic
City.

Officials at the Taj expected as much as 70 percent of Thursday's revenue to
come from Asian clients. One of Hong Kong's biggest "Cantopop" singers was on
deck to give two shows in a 5,000-seat arena, and an ensemble of more than 20
Vietnamese crooners was to give two more.

The Taj's embrace of its Asian clients, and their embrace back, isn't novel;
Atlantic City casinos have been wooing Asians for decades. Most casinos have
Asian marketing departments that sign up Asia's hottest pop stars, lure clients
with bus routes from Chinatowns and hire bilingual dealers and hosts to work the
casino floors. They also pay attention to details: The Taj has no 14th floor,
because the Chinese associate that number with death, said Gary Ng, senior vice
president for Asian marketing at the Trump company's three Atlantic City
casinos.

The Taj makes about 25 percent of its average monthly revenue from Asian
patrons, Ng said. On holidays such as Thanksgiving, the one day that many Asian
restaurants and shops are closed, that figure can nearly triple.

Inside the purple-and-pink carpeted casino Thursday, women with blond bouffants
and men in cowboy hats hit slot-machine buttons under tiered chandeliers that
cascaded from the mirrored ceiling. But players at the table games  --
baccarat, poker, blackjack  --  were nearly all Asian. Upstairs near store
windows displaying fur-collared sweaters, hundreds of people lined up to buy
tickets for the 2 p.m. show of Hong Kong singer Joey Yung, whom Ng described as
"the Christina Aguilera of Asia."

Hoa Lieu of Falls Church planned to try to win at the blackjack tables for
approximately the 28th time. He has gone every Thanksgiving for nearly three
decades and has never won, he said as the bus cruised through Delaware before
arriving. Lieu, 55, had set aside $500 to wager and was feeling lucky.

His Thanksgiving ritual was cemented soon after he arrived in the Washington
area from Saigon by way of refugee camps in Malaysia and the Philippines. He was
working 10-hour days, six days a week, in Chinese restaurants. It left little
time to rest, learn English or relax. And so on that blessed 365th day, Lieu
would escape to Atlantic City.

Now he has an "American job"  --  with "vacation, benefits," he said  --
packing coffee tables and TV stands at a Chantilly furniture store. Yet the
Thanksgiving journey has stuck.

"To make fun, you know," said Lieu, Huynh's brother-in-law, sinking into his
puffy black jacket. A few seats away, one gray-haired man read a
Chinese-language newspaper; another clutched a laminated drawing of Buddha.
"It's still too fun."

Ng said that Asian immigrants flock to casinos largely because it requires
little English. Scholars have penned theses on Asians' affinity for gambling,
describing how Asian culture is steeped in themes of luck and chance. Peter Yi,
owner of Dream Tours, puts it more simply.

"The gambling is in the Asian blood," said Yi, who is Korean American. Whatever
the case, it has been good for Yi's Vienna bus company, which runs $45 weekend
and holiday round trips to Atlantic City, with pickups in two Northern Virginia
spots, the District's Chinatown and Wheaton. Most riders are Chinese or
Vietnamese, he said. Upon arrival, the casino gives them $25, the better to
gamble with, and a $5 meal voucher.

Shirley Chen, 26, of Temple Hills, waited for the bus in Chinatown on Thursday
morning. It was the first trip for her and her brother, who work in Chinese
restaurants, where they had gleaned from customers that Thanksgiving involves a
large meal. Atlantic City, they had heard, was pretty, with places to swim. And
the games sounded fun.

"Everybody is so happy today because no work," said Chen, who said she spends
most of her free time studying English.

As the bus drove behind the Taj, Huynh stepped out into the cool air, holding
the hand of his bride of one year, Huynh Tran, 30. He had been dreaming of
hitting the jackpot, he said with a laugh, which he might use to buy a plane
ticket to Vietnam or donate to an orphanage. With them was Lieu, who also had
hopes.

But as they slipped into the 24-hour lights of the casino, they said that at the
heart of their Thanksgiving agenda lay a plan that everyone, even those gathered
around a turkey, could relate to.

"Eat some good food," Huynh said. "Relax."

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              149 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 26, 2006 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

On Immigration, A Theorist Who's No Fence-Sitter

BYLINE: Anita Huslin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Style; D01

LENGTH: 1686 words

DATELINE: PETOSKEY, Mich.


Let's  just get this out of the way. John Tanton, mastermind of the modern-day
movement to curb immigration, is a tree-hugger. Literally. He has a favorite
pair of ash trees "this big around," he says, spreading his arms wide. He likes
to visit them every so often in the forest just north of here, see how they're
doing.

He worries about them, too, whether  --  or when  --  the invaders, the metallic
green emerald ash borers, will overwhelm them, wipe one of the dominant native
tree species off the North American continent. To think that this little bug
could do such a thing, he says, "it's just hard to take."

It's snowing as he sits in his office on the main street of Petoskey (population
6,080, 94 percent white, 3 percent Native American, less than 1 percent Asian or
black, according to the 2000 Census). The white blanketing the town lends it a
Norman Rockwell feel, with Little Traverse Bay serving as a backdrop to the
quaint storefronts and Victorian clapboard architecture. Rampaging hordes seem
far, far away.

Yet as he considers the future, Tanton's brow wrinkles and beneath his desk he
clasps his hands, which sometimes shake from the effects of Parkinson's disease.
He is 72, a retired country doctor, and it's been nearly 30 years since he first
went to Washington to raise the alarm about unfettered population growth. Since
then, he has formed, led or contributed to more than a dozen groups that promote
strict immigration limits. And for this, he's earned the label "The Puppeteer"
from the Southern Poverty Law Center. "John Tanton," the center declared in its
journal, Intelligence Report, "can claim without exaggeration that he is the
founding father of America's modern anti-immigration movement."

His tireless efforts have created the impression of a powerful grass-roots
movement against immigration, his opponents say, but it all points back to one
man. At the same time his early roots in such environmental groups as the Sierra
Club and the National Audubon Society have lent him a mainstream credibility.

Three decades after he began agitating about it, immigration has become a
hot-button issue  --  the House passed a $6 billion bill to build a fence along
the Mexican border, and several local governments have passed measures to crack
down on illegal immigrants already here. But the courts have struck down several
of these.

Tanton worries  --  how will the United States survive the "invasion" of people
from Central and Latin America, not to mention China and Korea? More than ever,
he is convinced that as they continue to come  --  waves of legal and illegal
"interlopers"  --  the environment, the culture and the economy of the country
will irreparably erode.

"We have 19 cities now on the globe with more than 10 million people in them,"
he says. "Only one of them [Tokyo] is in the First World. So all the rest of
them have got poor water supplies, poor sewage, poor public services."

The effects, to him, are easy to imagine.

"So what happens is the next round of SARS doesn't get contained," he says.
Beyond that, it's not too much of a stretch for him to envision war and famine
over dwindling resources.

Hyperbole?  To his mind, the unchecked exaggeration is coming from his
opponents, who have branded him a xenophobe and a racist.

"So many conversations on immigration don't go anywhere," he says, "it's just
people venting feelings. . . . Okay, I agree your grandmother is a great person.
Does that mean you're for open borders? That's not a prescription for social
peace."

It's difficult to square the label of xenophobic misanthrope with the image of
the retired ophthalmologist who weeps at the memory of removing a bandage from
the eyes of a patient, and having him see again.

Tanton chose his profession and the town of Petoskey because they afforded him
the time to raise a family, maintain a vegetable garden, raise honeybees and
work on issues he cared about. Population control became the overriding theme
early on.

In 1964, while he was interning in a Denver hospital, his young wife, Mary Lou,
provided family planning information to low-income women who had wanted two
children but were leaving the maternity ward with their fifth or sixth. In this,
Tanton saw a looming apocalypse, living evidence of the theory postulated in
Paul Ehrlich's 1968 book, "The Population Bomb"  --  left unchecked, the world's
population would double every 35 years, occupying the remaining habitable open
space and overrunning cities and towns.

This did not come to pass. But, Tanton says, the threat is still out there. "I'm
anti-immigrant like a person on a diet is anti-food," he insists. But the intake
must be controlled. "You don't wait till you're at 390 million [people] and
think you can deal with the problem." His ideas became even more focused after
he read the French novel "The Camp of the Saints," a darkly prophetic allegory
of a million destitute people fleeing Kolkata and landing in Europe, where they
loot, rape and pillage.

"Camp," which Tanton had translated and reprinted in English by Social Contract
Press, his small publishing house, has been criticized as a racist parable with
one message: Keep the savages out. Once, Tanton says, he was surprised by this
kind of reaction. Now he simply dismisses it as an emotional response to a
tangible problem.

He calls this the "Statue of Liberty phase" of the immigration debate, when
proponents cite the Emma Lazarus poem inscribed in bronze on the base of the
statue: "Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe
free." This, to his mind, misses the point:

"You have on the one hand an economic system that as best as I can see is based
on perpetual growth," and a finite space  --  the United States  --  to
accommodate it. "Sooner or later there's going to be a great clash between those
two and the question is who's going to come out on top," he says. "My
perspective is that Mother Nature bats last." He envisions rivers running dry,
crop shortages, polluted water and air.

Frank Sharry is executive director of the National Immigration Forum, an
advocacy group that has frequently butted heads with the Federation for American
Immigration Reform (FAIR), which Tanton created.  Sharry says that Tanton and
his ilk might think they're going to save the republic. But "I can't help but
fear that at the root of their views is a disturbing combination of the idea
there are some people who are good, some who are bad and overall there are way
too many people to begin with. And that's an ideological strain that seems to me
a bit off the chart."

That's how the Sierra Club read it as well in the '70s when Tanton, a member of
its population committee, tried to get the board to adopt immigration as a
cause. When this was voted down, he and his allies encouraged other like-minded
candidates to run for the board.

Carl Pope, who was executive director at the time, considered it a hostile
takeover attempt that reverberated for years. "The whole idea of people trying
to hijack an organization to advance their cause was outrageous," says Pope.
"And I found many of the things he had said since I had known him deplorable and
unconscionable." (Tanton later wrote that "the Sierra Club may not want to touch
the immigration issue, but the immigration issue is going to touch the Sierra
Club!") Rebuffed, Tanton created first FAIR and then U.S. English, a group to
promote English as the official language of the United States.

"Immanuel Kant once said language and religion are the ultimate dividers of
society," Tanton explains. "With my physician's background, I thought prevention
would let us get ahead of this problem."

He was persuasive enough to attract some prominent voices to U.S. English, but a
1986 memo backfired big-time. Asserting that immigrants' higher birth rates
would lead to a nation dominated by their descendants, he wrote: "Perhaps this
is the first instance in which those with their pants up are going to get caught
by those with their pants down!" Walter Cronkite and the group's executive
director, Linda Chavez, quit in protest. Eventually Tanton stepped down.

But he went on to found nearly a dozen other groups.

Tanton has tempered his rhetoric in recent years. But Clarissa Martinez, policy
director for the National Council of La Raza, a Latino advocacy organization,
finds it a source of endless frustration that his organizations, which she
regards as hate groups, have been treated as credible actors in Washington
policy debates, testifying at congressional hearings, offering research and even
winning a contract with the Census Bureau.

"On the surface there's legitimate policy they are debating, but they're having
the debate in code. . . . It's not just how many people are coming, it's who are
coming," Martinez says.

On a recent morning Tanton drives along Little Traverse Bay, heading through
town. In the winter, it's mostly empty. In the summer, the roads fill up with
people coming to their vacation homes. The restaurants, hotel staffs and
cleaning services fill with migrant workers  --  many from as far as Jamaica.
Otherwise, of the town's few immigrants, most are educated professionals  --
doctors, teachers, scientists.

He passes the spot where he and Mary Lou camped when he first came to town to
interview for a job at the hospital. Down the street, they once marched beside a
Planned Parenthood float that declared: Whatever your cause, it's lost without
population control. He drives past the 20 acres of wetlands and meadows he and
his wife donated earlier this year for open space. He takes satisfaction in what
he doesn't see: a waterfront community of 400 homes that he sued to stop 40
years ago, because the developer wanted to dam a creek to create a lake.

But he also knows that the numbers are against him. Here in Petoskey, the
results of his work are evident. It's a small place, where one man can make a
difference. But beyond the bay is Lake Michigan, and beyond that the great
expanse of the continental United States, and he knows it's filling up with
people.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 29, 2006; December 1, 2006



CORRECTION: A Nov. 26 Style article misattributed the comments of a
representative of the National Council of La Raza who was speaking about
anti-immigration groups. They were made by Cecilia Muñoz, vice president for
policy, not Clarissa Martinez, policy director.


 A Nov. 26 Style article included an incorrect former job title for Carl Pope.
He was the political director, not the executive director, of the Sierra Club in
the 1970s. The article also should also have noted that the book "Camp of the
Saints" was translated by Charles Scribner's Sons.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              150 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 27, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

New Congress Unlikely to Rush Toughest Issues;
Iraq, Immigration Demand More Time

BYLINE: Charles Babington, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 969 words


Democratic lawmakers vow to come roaring out of the blocks when they assume
control of the next Congress, passing several top-priority bills in the first
100 hours. Absent from that list, however, are the knottiest problems that
bedeviled the outgoing Congress, including immigration, domestic surveillance
and the war in Iraq.

Voters handed Democrats a mandate for change on Nov. 7, politicians and analysts
agree. But party leaders are drawing a sharp distinction between popular,
comparatively simple issues, such as raising the minimum wage, and more complex
matters for which they have yet to propose solutions or even outline a plan for
hearings.

The go-slow strategy carries some risks, the analysts say, because restless
voters may see the new Congress as having no more boldness or problem-solving
skills than the "do-nothing Congress" denounced in many political ads this fall.
But Democratic leaders probably are correct in sensing that Americans will give
them several months to tackle the stickiest issues, such as Iraq and
immigration, provided something is done before the next election, these
observers said.

Moving deliberately and cautiously on difficult issues "is a reasonable game
plan," said Norman J. Ornstein of the American Enterprise Institute, co-author
of the book "The Broken Branch," a critical assessment of Congress. "You've got
to come in and signal that you're about change," he said, but "you also want to
show that you have your own agenda."

Congressional Democrats seem to be following that strategy with their plan for
the 110th Congress's first 100 hours. The items include raising the minimum
wage, enacting the Sept. 11 commission's recommendations, cutting interest rates
on college loans and ending what the speaker-elect called "tax giveaways for Big
Oil."

All those goals appear simpler than unraveling the nation's most contentious
issues, chief among them Iraq.

"I think the Democrats are right to proceed cautiously on issues they cannot
possibly resolve on their own," said Thomas E. Mann of the Brookings
Institution. "The public wants a change of course in Iraq but is far from
settling on a clear alternative."

Congressional hearings, debates and reports are needed as a means of "leveraging
public unhappiness and expert opinion to put enormous pressure on the president
for a change of course in Iraq," said Mann, co-author of "The Broken Branch."

The Democrats' "Six for '06" campaign agenda included proposals for Iraq, but
only in general terms. "Require the Iraqis to take responsibility for their
country," it stated, "and begin the phased redeployment of U.S. forces from Iraq
in 2006." Party insiders said top Democrats are unlikely to make more specific
proposals until next month's scheduled release of findings by the Iraq Study
Group, led by former secretary of state James A. Baker III.

Immigration is another area in which Democrats are proceeding cautiously even
though the Nov. 7 elections appeared to remove a major roadblock. The current
Congress reached an impasse on illegal immigration, with the House Republican
majority insisting on an approach that strongly emphasizes enforcement, while a
bipartisan Senate group  --  backed by President Bush  --  sought broader
changes, including guest-worker programs and pathways to legal status for
illegal workers.

With Democrats poised to take over both houses  --  and Bush in office for two
more years  --  the Senate approach would seem to have momentum. But party
leaders have made no promises about when or how they might move an immigration
package, which would involve at least five House committees. Moreover, it is
clear that the election did not eliminate the nation's deep divisions over what
to do about illegal immigrants.

"The elections definitely have raised expectations in immigrant communities that
real reform is possible," said Josh Bernstein of the National Immigration Law
Center, which supports broad-based changes to help illegal workers. "But it's
still too early to say whether that will translate into actual legislation."

A major rewrite of immigration laws "is enormously complicated," Bernstein said,
"and has deep effects on our economy, our identity, the kind of country we're
going to be. There are a lot of interests that are very legitimate, whether it's
business, worker unions or immigrants from different countries. . . . It's
highly emotionally charged on all sides."

Congressional Democrats also are moving carefully on Bush's policy of allowing
the National Security Agency to eavesdrop without obtaining warrants on
communications between the United States and abroad in the name of combating
terrorism. Sen. John D. Rockefeller IV (D-W.Va.), who will chair the Senate
intelligence committee, recently said he will have the panel sift through
information and arguments before taking any legislative steps.

"We must insist on full access to the NSA warrantless surveillance program and
the CIA detention and interrogation program," Rockefeller said. "Only then can
we conduct thorough oversight of these programs and determine whether they are
legal, appropriate and effective and what, if any, legislative action must be
taken."

But Rockefeller is not ready to schedule hearings, draw up witness lists or
indicate who might be subpoenaed, said his spokeswoman, Wendy Morigi. "We're not
there yet," she said.

"There is a frustration level" about the lack of information provided by the
administration to the Republican-led 109th Congress, Morigi said, adding that in
the next Congress, "you'll see a much greater push for information."

But she indicated it will be consistent with the  step-by-step, deliberative
approach that congressional Democrats  --  though flush with victory  --  are
adopting for the nation's most difficult issues.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              151 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 30, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Crash Suspect Had Feb. Charge;
Police Faulted After Earlier Drunken Driving Case Dropped

BYLINE: Amit R. Paley, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B03

LENGTH: 514 words


The man accused of killing a Marine in a drunken driving accident on
Thanksgiving was charged with drunken driving earlier this year, but the case
was dropped because Howard County police did not collect enough evidence,
prosecutors said yesterday.

Prosecutors also said a police blunder allowed the man, Eduardo Raul
Morales-Soriano, 25, of Laurel, to keep his driver's license after the Feb. 5
incident, although it should have been suspended immediately after he refused to
take a breath test.

Police have opened an internal investigation to review the performance of the
officers involved and determine whether they could have built a stronger case,
said police spokeswoman Sherry Llewellyn. She declined to comment further.

Federal authorities determined yesterday that Morales-Soriano was an illegal
immigrant from Mexico and filed papers to begin deportation proceedings, said
James Dinkins, acting special agent in charge of U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement's Baltimore office.

Morales-Soriano was charged last week in the deaths of Marine Cpl. Brian
Mathews, a 21-year-old Columbia native who spent eight months in Iraq, and
Mathews's date, Jennifer Bower, 24, of Montgomery Village. Police said
Morales-Soriano's blood alcohol level was four times the legal limit when he
slammed into the back of the car carrying the couple.

Morales-Soriano's February charge was first reported yesterday in the Baltimore
Sun.

Authorities have alleged that Morales-Soriano was intoxicated the night of Feb.
5. Police smelled alcohol on his breath and saw three beer cans in his vehicle,
said Howard County State's Attorney Timothy J. McCrone. He said Morales-Soriano
lost his balance as officers asked him to begin a field sobriety test.

But for undetermined reasons, the officers stopped him from completing the test,
McCrone said. "I don't know what was on the mind of the officers at the time,"
he said. "It certainly helps prove the case if you have field sobriety
exercises."

Morales-Soriano then refused to take a breath test, which should have led to the
suspension of his license for 120 days. But the police accidentally gave
Morales-Soriano all the copies of the form that was supposed to have been sent
to the Maryland Motor Vehicle Administration to begin the suspension, McCrone
said.

"The information was never transmitted to the MVA," said Buel Young, an agency
spokesman. "We have no idea of knowing he is even stopped unless the police tell
us."

Morales-Soriano, a landscaper, moved to Maryland about a year ago from North
Carolina, according to court and state records. A woman who answered the phone
at his home yesterday said the family would not comment.

Although police charged him in February with four counts related to drunken
driving, the case was dropped in April after prosecutors determined that they
could not obtain a conviction. There were no witnesses who saw him driving
drunk, no field sobriety test and no form showing that he had refused a breath
test, McCrone said.

"We need evidence to prove our cases," he said. "We didn't have it."

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              152 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 1, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. Citizenship Process Is Getting a History Test

BYLINE: Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A10

LENGTH: 607 words


The Bush administration yesterday unveiled dozens of new questions that may be
added to the nation's naturalization test, and immigration advocates are
concerned that the changes could make it more difficult for millions of legal
immigrants to become U.S. citizens.

Immigrants seeking citizenship who now answer questions such as "What are the
colors of our flag?" would be asked "Why do we have 13 stripes on the flag?" if
the new questions are approved. Other queries include "Who sold the Louisiana
Territory to the U.S.?," "Name the writers of the Federalist Papers" and "What
did the abolitionists try to end before the Civil War?"

Officials at U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, the Department of
Homeland Security agency that administers the exam, said the questions are part
of an effort  to standardize the tests, given nationwide,  and increase
immigrants' knowledge of U.S. history.

"It's a bold new era," said Emilio T. Gonzalez, director of the immigration
agency. "We're not just giving a test for testing's sake, but giving a test
which has meaning."

The agency will roll out the new questions in sample tests given to about 5,000
immigrant volunteers in 10 cities early next year, Gonzalez said. The cities
include Boston; Miami; Denver; El Paso; Yakima, Wash.; and Albany, N.Y.

A notice  will be mailed to applicants scheduled for an interview. It will
explain the  program and include a study guide.  Volunteers who fail the new
test  can try again using the old test.

Immigrants must answer six of 10 questions correctly to pass. Officials will
decide  which of the 144 questions work and which do not. About 40 questions
will be deleted before permanent changes are made in 2008.

Watchdog groups such as the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights
say they are examining  the process to make sure the immigration agency  is not
placing a heavier burden on people who use legal channels to enter the country.

"We ourselves are going to be trying this out in our citizenship classes," said
Fred Tsao, policy director for the Illinois group.  Teachers will be encouraged
"to see which of these questions make sense, which are too hard and which of
them are off the wall."

Some of the questions are simple, such as "What country is on the southern
border of the United States?" The answer is Mexico, the home country  of most
legal and illegal immigrants.

Others are more difficult. "What alliance of North American and European
countries was created during the Cold War?" The answer is NATO, the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization.

The new test and its questions were drawn up because "over the past 10 years . .
. the standardization and meaningfulness of the naturalization test have come
under scrutiny," according to a statement by the American Institutes for
Research, an independent firm that helped design the pilot program.

A 1997 study concluded that the test lacked standard content, protocols and
scoring mechanisms, according to the research group. Also, the immigration
agency  found inconsistencies in the way tests were given in its district
offices. The criticism led to the formation of a panel to guide the redesign.

The agency  handles  6 million to 7 million citizenship-related applications
each year, 1 million of which are applications from people hoping to become
citizens.

The new questions are being proposed at a contentious time for legal and illegal
immigrants.

Congress is set to continue debating several bills designed to keep closer tabs
on the whereabouts of legal immigrants and to make it much more difficult for
them to remain in the country if they overstay their visas.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              153 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 3, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Leads City's Concerns;
Manassas to Seek Help From State on Issue

BYLINE: Christy Goodman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Prince William Extra; T03

LENGTH: 739 words


Immigration issues top Manassas's legislative wish list for 2007.

The city wants the 2007 Virginia General Assembly to compensate it for any costs
related to a plan to train law enforcement officers to expedite federal
immigration laws and is requesting more state aid to combat crowding in
single-family houses.

The City Council will meet tomorrow with state representatives regarding the
session.

The council recently passed a resolution that would allow Manassas to
participate in a federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement program that gives
local law enforcement the power to initiate deportation proceedings for illegal
immigrants who commit serious crimes or multiple misdemeanors.

The resolution recommends that staff members at the Adult Detention Center,
which the city owns jointly with Prince William County, receive the training.
But if the center's jail board and the Prince William Board of County
Supervisors do not support the proposal, Manassas instead would send city police
officers to the training, according to the resolution.

"I think we are being leaders, and I would like to think that is the confidence
people place in us  --  that we lead and not sit back and watch what everyone
else does," City Council member Marc T. Aveni (R) said. "There is always a risk
when you try something new. This is new."

Aveni said he fully expects Jackson H. Miller (R), a former council member who
led the council's ICE training proposal in October, to assist Manassas at the
state level in his new role as a state delegate.

The jail board is awaiting answers regarding the program's impact on corrections
officers, such as how long the training will last, how the program would be set
up and its cost, said Patrick J. Hurd, board chairman.

"At this point, it is accurate to say we have more questions than answers and
are looking forward to getting those answers," Hurd said.

"The jail board hasn't made a decision. Our board hasn't made a decision,"
Prince William County spokeswoman Liz Bahrns said.

Training each police department for the federal program would be costly, would
strain already thin forces and could harm the police's relationship with the
community, Manassas Police Chief John J. Skinner said.

Skinner said he was more inclined to support a new state-funded task force,
similar to the Northern Virginia Gang Task Force, that works with federal agents
and has more than 300 ICE cases pending.

The City Council's second legislative priority relating to immigration is a
request for state support to enforce zoning laws in single-family neighborhoods.

"It is about overcrowding," council member Andrew L. Harrover (R) said.

He said that the issue is related to health, safety and public welfare but that
current codes and enforcement are not strict enough to have an effect. "We are
looking for some acknowledgment from the state that a problem exists that just
hasn't been dealt with at a state level," he said.

Although crowding is a big issue in Manassas and is often discussed at meetings,
Harrover said, complaints about it have decreased over the past year.

Previous attempts to address crowding in the city have not been successful. The
U.S. Department of Justice, for one, is investigating complaints by residents,
civil rights groups and the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
that the city illegally targeted Hispanic families in the enforcement of zoning
laws, such as with a short-lived anti-crowding ordinance passed last winter that
sought to limit the number of extended family members who could share a
dwelling.

Complaints are also pending against the city with the U.S. Department of
Education from four Hispanic families who claim the Manassas public school
system turned over student records to zoning inspectors without notifying the
children's parents, a violation of the Family Educational Rights and Privacy
Act.

"In the absence of any federal or state action to mitigate illegal immigration,
the state should underwrite the costs of local governments to do it. The brunt
of the cost of illegal immigration, whether it is law enforcement or schools,
falls very locally," City Manager Lawrence D. Hughes said.

"All we are saying in many of these priorities is: 'Here are ideas. Here are
actions. Here are facts that we as local governments are trying to deal with.
The state has the ability to assist with all of them, and here are some ways to
assist,' " he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              154 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 6, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Supreme Court Allows Discretion In Deportation For State Felonies

BYLINE: Robert Barnes, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 440 words


The Supreme Court ruled yesterday that an immigrant convicted of a state felony
drug charge that would be a lesser crime under federal law may contest the
government's decision to deport him.

The 8 to 1 ruling, with Justice Clarence Thomas dissenting, held that a state
felony charge that would be only a misdemeanor under federal statutes is not the
kind of conviction that would trigger automatic deportation under the federal
Immigration and Nationality Act.

The court's action reverses lower-court decisions that led the government to
send back to Mexico Jose Antonio Lopez, a South Dakota grocery store owner who
had pleaded guilty in 1997 to aiding and abetting another person's possession of
cocaine.

The decision came in one of several cases the justices are considering to
reconcile conflicting lower-court decisions on when immigrants convicted of
crimes must be deported. After announcing yesterday's decision, the court heard
arguments in a separate case from California in which a Peruvian immigrant was
convicted on car theft charges.

Justice David H. Souter's opinion contained something of a grammar lesson for
prosecutors and said Lopez's crime could not be classified as the kind of
"aggravated felony" that means the government must move for deportation without
any discretion.

At issue was the phrase "felony punishable under the Controlled Substances Act."

The government held that that meant the crime could be a felony under state law,
as long as it was also punishable under the act.

"But we do not normally speak or write the Government's way," Souter wrote. "We
do not use a phrase like 'felony punishable under the [CSA]' when we mean to
signal or allow a break between the noun 'felony' and the contiguous modifier
'punishable under the [CSA].' "

Neither, Souter wrote, should it be read as "if it said 'felony punishable under
the CSA whether or not as a felony.' "

Thomas agreed with the government's view of the law and found his colleagues'
arguments "unpersuasive."

Despite Lopez's victory, his future is uncertain. He entered the country
illegally in 1986 and became a legal permanent resident in 1990. He married and
had two children in South Dakota and, according to his attorney  --  Washington
lawyer Robert A. Long Jr.  --  had never been in legal trouble until his
conviction in 1997 for telling someone where he could buy cocaine.

The court's decision does not mean that Lopez could stay if he decided to return
to this country, only that the government had discretion over whether to
initiate deportation proceedings. The justices remanded the case, Lopez v.
Gonzales, No. 05-547, to the lower courts.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              155 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 9, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Through the Eyes of Immigrants;
Annandale Students Share Latino Experience With Georgetown Day

BYLINE: Maria Glod, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 792 words


Five Fairfax County high school students, all Latino immigrants or children of
immigrants, stood in a tight circle and held hands. They asked God to help them
tell their stories to an audience and privately worried they would be booed.

"Give us the strength to not be so nervous and to not speak too fast," said
17-year-old Vanessa Cerro. "Let our hearts speak out, and let them understand
how we feel."

"And let us take something back with ourselves," added Carlos Galicia, 16.

Yesterday, these emissaries from the Annandale High School Hispanic Leadership
Club faced a crowd they feared would be intimidating  --  a few hundred students
from the prestigious Georgetown Day School in Northwest Washington. Students at
the private school have been studying immigration, and the Annandale teenagers
are living it. So they came together for a town hall meeting in Georgetown Day's
bright atrium.

Georgetown Day students listened as Carlos told of how his mother was pregnant
with him when his parents slipped across the U.S.-Mexico border by jumping
fences and hiding in sewers. Silvina Orellana, 16, said that her father was
deported to her native Argentina and that she hopes he can come back someday.
Before long, the teenagers were chatting freely about stereotypes, homecoming
games and college plans.

"People think you're in gangs, Mara Salvatrucha," Vanessa said. "They're
vicious. You hear they chop off people's arms. But I'm just not that person. I'm
more than that."

"I'm like, 'Oh my God, I just wish they could be in my body one day and walk
through those doors everyday and have to face people with their comments,' "
said Carlos, who dressed up in a blue button-down shirt and pink tie. "People
say . . . 'Look at that Mexican' "  --  or use ethnic slurs.

"I'm like . . . 'Yeah, I'm a Mexican. Yeah, I like my frijoles con huevos,' " he
joked, prompting laughs all around. He also told the crowd that his parents are
legal residents seeking citizenship.

Georgetown Day senior Laura Gilbert, 17, raised her hand: "Do you guys generally
hang out with children of other immigrants? Are there kids at your school who
are against you being there?"

"My best friends are Asian, Afghan, Arab," Vanessa replied. "It doesn't even
faze us."

At Annandale High, one of Fairfax County's most diverse public high schools,
about 25 percent of the 2,300 students are Hispanic, 22 percent are Asian and 35
percent are white. Nearly 40 percent are from poor families.

In some ways, Georgetown Day, where high school tuition is about $26,000 per
year, presents a stark contrast. Many of Georgetown Day's students have
international experience, either from living abroad or traveling, but teachers
could think of no student who is a first-generation immigrant. About one-third
of the students at the school, which opened in 1945 as an integrated school in
the still-segregated city, are ethnic minorities; every ninth-grader takes a
diversity seminar.

"Our kids are World Bank kids and embassy kids," said Mariama Richards, a
Georgetown Day administrator. "That's an experience, but it's a different
experience."

Last spring, students from both schools marched for immigrant rights on the
Mall. Georgetown Day students tutor children from a nearby public elementary
school with a large Latino population, and the Annandale students helped plan a
Hispanic heritage banquet in their community.

Traditionally, Georgetown Day hosts a Latino arts assembly in December with
musicians and dancers. But this year, with a theater unavailable because of
construction, teachers looked for an alternative and decided to put together a
panel to explore immigration issues. So they called the National Council of La
Raza, a nonprofit Latino advocacy group.

Marco Davis, La Raza's director of leadership development, considered sending an
adult. Then he thought of Annandale students and their sponsor, an English
teacher who had been a La Raza intern a few years ago. Both schools thought it
was a great idea.

After the town hall meeting, it was time for pizza. Talk turned to common
grounds, such as strict parents who get in the way of weekend fun.

"My mom says, 'Where are you going, and when will you be back?' If I don't pick
up the cellphone, she'll call 911," Vanessa told a group of her new friends.

"My parents wait up until I get home," Naomi Flagg, 16, said with a sympathetic
sigh.

"Dinner in my house, if you're not home for dinner," Megan Panzer, 16, added.
"Whew."

E-mail addresses were traded, and the teenagers hugged one another and promised
to visit.

Abigail Chavez-Canedo, 16, turned to her Annandale classmates as they left the
school.

"Some people have this perception that rich people can be snobby," she said.
"They were so warm. It was awesome."

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              156 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 9, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Putting Remittances to Work

BYLINE: Marcela Sanchez

SECTION: Editorial; A19

LENGTH: 799 words


El Salvador has become the first  lower-middle-income  country to secure a grant
from the Millennium Challenge Corp., President Bush's foreign aid program
designed to assist well-governed developing nations. With the $461 million
grant, the agency is set to join Salvadoran immigrants in sending money south.

The grant might seem small relative to the $2.8 billion in remittances sent by
immigrants last year, particularly since it will be spread over five years. But
that doesn't mean Salvadorans in the United States don't have some suggestions
for the Millennium Corp. and a hope that the program can help them change the
way remittances affect their country.

Salvadoran immigrants are frustrated that their cash isn't reaping more
development rewards back home. Although remittances have proved to be a lifeline
for thousands of families in extreme poverty, immigrant Salvadorans fear that
the money is creating a culture of dependency in the home country.

Carlos Castro, a Salvadoran community leader and owner of a Hispanic specialty
supermarket in Northern Virginia, is dismayed that El Salvador now has to import
workers from other Central American countries because some Salvadorans don't see
a need to work and rely instead on monthly checks from relatives abroad. He
further laments the consumerism that has Salvadoran immigrants working hard at
tough jobs to pay for "a pair of the latest name-brand shoes" demanded by their
kids back in El Salvador.

Salvadoran officials heard similar complaints of consumerism and dependency in
meetings with Salvadorans across the United States as part of the consultation
process to gain public support for their Millennium  proposal. According to
their records, there was a general sense that "it is time to put an end to that
paternalistic mentality" and that their support should generate work, not just
money to spend.

In other words, remittances are "neither 'manna from heaven' nor a substitute
for sound development policies," a recently released World Bank report
concluded. In "Close to Home: The Development Impact of Remittances in Latin
America," the World Bank found that if aid flows are consumed rather than
invested, they have no impact on economic growth.  This is certainly true for El
Salvador  --  it is the largest per capita recipient of remittances in Central
America and has had the region's lowest economic growth for at least four years.

To reverse this trend, governments in recipient countries should, according to
the World Bank, provide incentives for investment and promote the development of
human capital.  The Millennium plan for El Salvador appears to follow this
model, aiming to increase incomes in El Salvador's lagging northern zone  --
the area of origin for most Salvadorans in this country  --  through a
combination of investments in education, public services, enterprise development
and transportation infrastructure.

What's missing in this equation, say some critics, is a direct connection
between the new development plan and the current flow of help. This seems to be
a serious oversight and opportunity missed. The $461 million grant will have an
effect, to be sure, but imagine the impact if the Millennium Corp. could help
leverage the billions sent annually from immigrants in the United States.

According to Manuel Orozco, a remittance expert for the Inter-American Dialogue,
a Washington-based think tank, the Millennium-sponsored plan might have created
investment portfolios for small-scale projects back home that immigrants could
contribute to.

To a small degree, this investment has already begun. Such collective or
community initiatives, organized through hometown associations, are investing
about $3 million annually, mostly in educational and health projects.

Yet some members of hometown associations suspect that Salvadoran officials
intentionally locked them out of the  Millennium plan. Jaime Peñate  of
Comunidades, which represents hometown associations formed by Salvadoran
immigrants living in the Los Angeles area, said he was among the dozens invited
by the Salvadoran government to hear about the Millennium effort.  But then he
discovered that other Salvadoran officials were meeting in another room with big
investors.

Nevertheless, some Salvadorans here aren't giving up on trying to tap Millennium
funds. Luis Felipe Romero, executive director of Comunidades Unidas
Salvadoreñas, the Washington area's equivalent of Peñate's L.A. group, said he
reached out to the Salvadoran Foreign Ministry with a proposal to use some
Millennium funding to launch a pilot program and is awaiting an answer. "We are
going to continue working for El Salvador," he said. "If they take advantage of
the opportunity to work with us we will welcome it."

desdewash@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              157 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 10, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Shelters Provide Comforts but Little Legal Help

BYLINE: Peter Prengaman, Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 772 words

DATELINE: FULLERTON, Calif.


Life in a government-run shelter for illegal immigrant children might not sound
very inviting, but for 16-year-old Sandra it is a vast improvement from what she
left behind in Guatemala.

For starters, she has enough to eat and nobody beats her. She even gets to
study, a luxury she has not had since leaving school in third grade.

She has been on her own since she was 10, when she fled an abusive home in
Guatemala. She was picked up by U.S. immigration authorities two months ago
while trying to enter the country illegally through the Arizona desert. She is
among two dozen children at the shelter in Fullerton, about 35 miles southeast
of Los Angeles.

"I feel more protected here than I've ever felt. It's like I'm a young girl
again," said Sandra, whose last name could not be disclosed because she is a
minor in government custody.

What happens when unaccompanied children are picked up varies by their country.
Mexican children generally are sent straight back to their home country. Those
not from Mexico are housed in shelters while the government decides whether to
release them to family living in the United States, deport them or put them in
foster care.

The shelters, meant to be a temporary refuge, resemble college dorms, where the
children take English classes, receive medical care and play soccer at local
parks.

"This is like a hotel," said Edwin, a 17-year-old Honduran detained while trying
to cross the Arizona-Mexico border.

Before 2003, the children were often put in juvenile detention centers. They
lived more like criminals than schoolchildren, and the conditions prompted
lawsuits. Congress intervened and assigned the care of unaccompanied children to
the Office of Refugee Resettlement, which revamped and expanded a sparingly used
shelter system.

While day-to-day life is better, civil rights and legal groups criticize the
system for not preparing children for the legal process awaiting them.

After being released, thousands do not show up to their immigration court
hearings because of confusion about the process or a fear they will be deported.
Many who don't show up would be eligible for U.S. residency because they were
abandoned or abused in their homeland.

Sandra, who says her father beat her so often that she fled her home, could get
a green card if she is able to convince a judge of the abuse and years on her
own.

Civil rights groups say children such as Sandra need legal help to navigate the
immigration system.

"Most never apply for a legal status they are eligible for because nobody helps
them," said Peter Schey, an immigration lawyer in Los Angeles who specializes in
minors.

A majority of the 7,800 immigrant minors who passed through government custody
last year were teenagers from Central America, though countries of origin  are
as far-flung as China and Iraq. Their reasons for coming vary, from seeking work
or reuniting with family to fleeing violent street gangs.

On average, they spend between 45 and 60 days at a shelter in Arizona,
California, Florida, Illinois, Indiana, New York, Texas or Washington.

Anti-illegal-immigration groups say they are sensitive to the plight of
children, but argue there are few situations that warrant allowing them to stay
here. They are particularly unsympathetic to minors who come to be reunited with
family members who themselves came here illegally.

If their parents "break the laws, and in doing so they broke up their families,
it's their obligation to fix it," said Ira Mehlman, spokesman for the Federation
for American Immigration Reform.

Fear of deportation pushes some children to flee the shelters, even though by
law they cannot be sent home until after a hearing or agreeing to leave the
country.

Lynda Scarlino, program director at the Fullerton shelter, said children close
to 18 are particularly jumpy because they know as an adult they can be
immediately deported.

Elsa, a 17-year-old Guatemalan who is eight months pregnant, is worried she'll
be sent home. Her parents still are in Guatemala; she came to work and support
them. She hopes she will be released to a brother living in Phoenix before she
turns 18.

Children can be released to adult relatives, regardless of their immigration
status, if case managers at the shelters deem them capable providers.

No matter what, Elsa said, she cannot attempt to do anything before she has the
baby, who if born in the United States will be an American citizen. But the
baby's status does not remove the possibility that Elsa could be deported.

"It's better for me to wait," Elsa said. "If I leave here and they catch me
again, it will be worse."

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              158 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 10, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Food Crops for Immigrants;
University Program Promotes Cultivation of Foreign Staples

BYLINE: Adam Gorlick, Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A14

LENGTH: 560 words

DATELINE: FRAMINGHAM, Mass.


When Lucia Almeida moved here from Brazil about eight months ago, she assumed
that her tastes would have to change. How could she expect to find the bitter
eggplant called jilo around here? And abobora, the squash that Brazilians hollow
out and fill with beef or shrimp stew, surely did not exist in a Massachusetts
grocery store.

"I was very worried," she said in Portuguese. "I didn't think I'd get the
vegetables I wanted here."

But her trips to a local grocery store keep surprising her.

Thanks to a program started by Frank Mangan, an associate professor at the
University of Massachusetts, Almeida and other Latin American immigrants are
able to find more of the vegetables they know from home in their new local
marketplaces.

"I'm very happy this is here," Almeida said as she placed a pumpkin-like abobora
in her shopping cart at a Market Basket grocery store.

Combining a flair for market research, an interest in emerging immigrant
communities and his skills as a plant scientist, Mangan has been figuring out
ways for Massachusetts farmers to grow new crops that satisfy the appetites of
new Americans settling in the state.

"The marketing comes first, then the production," Mangan said. "I go to the
communities to make sure there's a demand. Then I go to the farmers and say
'There's a market for you.' "

Once the crop proves successful at his research farm at the U-Mass. campus in
Amherst, Mangan gives farmers the information they need to grow it themselves
and the contacts they will need to sell it.

He came up with the idea about 10 years ago, when a group of Hispanic farmers
from Holyoke asked him for help growing ajicitos, a popular Puerto Rican pepper.
After he figured out how to adapt the peppers to Massachusetts soil, they
started growing with no problem, he said.

From there, he began making connections with Asian and Latino immigrants
throughout the state. A fluent Spanish speaker who knows enough Portuguese to
get by, Mangan has been focusing on the Brazilian community in the past few
years.

With his assistants and students from the U-Mass. Extension Department, Mangan
has been building relationships with market owners and produce managers in towns
such as Framingham, a suburb about 21 miles west of Boston where about 15,000 of
the state's 84,000 legal Brazilian immigrants live.

When he wanted to determine whether there was any demand for the taioba he had
been growing on his research farm, he showed up with about 50 pounds of the
broadleaf vegetable at the Market Basket in nearby Ashland. To make sure people
knew the taioba would be available, Mangan advertised in Brazilian and
Portuguese-language newspapers that circulate in the state.

"It was gone in about 45 minutes," said Tim Shea, Market Basket's produce
manager. Shea said about 40 percent of his customers are Brazilian.

"People were driving up from Cape Cod to buy it," he said. "Nobody realized it
could be grown around here."

Mangan took the same steps to ensure that about a dozen other crops from warmer
climates could be successfully grown in the Northeast. By figuring out how to
raise those vegetables at U-Mass., Mangan reduces the risks that farmers face.

"We figure things out, give the information to the farmers, then we disappear,"
said Maria Moreira, a dairy farmer from Lancaster who helps Mangan with his
market research.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              159 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 10, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Combating Methamphetamine by the Book;
Tome Targets Anti-Drug Message to Mexican Immigrant Laborers in California

BYLINE: Garance Burke, Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A09

LENGTH: 577 words

DATELINE: MERCED, Calif.


Fotonovelas, pocket-size picture books popular in Mexico, have gotten a
California makeover that authorities hope persuades immigrant laborers to resist
the easy-money temptation of the methamphetamine trade.

Thousands in the meth-plagued Central Valley have read the bilingual
graphic-novel story of José, a farmworker who creates tragedy for his family by
working for a drug ring. "No Vale la Pena," or "It's Not Worth It," has inspired
a Spanish-language docudrama, and police from Tennessee to Colorado have
requested copies of both projects.

In Mexico, fotonovelas often illustrate life's struggles through recurring
characters, like the trucker with a heart of gold, or the secretary trying to
get ahead. Community leaders in and around Merced, about 130 miles southeast of
San Francisco, saw them as an effective way to reach immigrant workers.

"We were trying to get that message across to a population that has a very low
literacy level and that's really isolated," said public relations executive
Virginia Madueño,  who created the booklet. "So we thought, 'Aha! A fotonovela.'
"

The Central Valley, a broad agricultural swath that runs up the middle of the
state, remains a primary distribution point for meth, according to a Justice
Department report released last month.

Mexican drug cartels have begun to dominate the trade in the area: Merced County
Sheriff Mark Pazin said they accounted for more than 80 percent of
meth-production arrests in 2003. The federal report suggested the cartels are
looking to expand into other areas with large populations of illegal immigrants.

Immigrant laborers can see setting up a meth lab as a lucrative alternative to
backbreaking work in the fields, but it may end up exposing their families to
the dangerous work. It's so common for meth cooks to be arrested at home in
front of spouses and children that Madera County has assigned a social worker to
accompany police on drug busts, Pazin said.

"No Vale La Pena" ends even more tragically. José, recruited by a drug lord to
cook meth, hides his backyard lab from his pregnant wife, Maria, only to expose
their young daughter, Raquel, to a fatal dose of chemicals.

"I've known people related to family members who thought cooking meth was an
opportunity to get ahead and get a piece of the American dream," Madueño  said.
"I've seen what it has done."

The first run of 15,000 copies of "No Vale La Pena" was soon exhausted, said Ben
Duran, president of Merced College, who helped create the storybook using
private-sector donations. More were printed, and it is now available at Hispanic
supermarkets across California.

"Then we thought, 'What if we make the book come alive?' " Duran said.

Last year, Duran started working on a film based on the same story, styled to
look like a telenovela, or Mexican soap opera. He played the drug kingpin in the
project, made with help from the sheriff and $100,000 in federal funding.

The film has been shown in classrooms, at nurses' conventions and at commercial
theaters in several states.

When it premiered in the cafeteria of Merced's Margaret Sheehy Elementary School
last month, the children sat entranced. As the narrator delivered somber
anti-drug declarations in Spanish, a few third-graders wiped away tears.

"Kids, I'm here to tell you we don't make any of this up," Pazin said. "It is
happening here in the Central Valley, in California and the U.S. People are
getting sick and passing away."

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              160 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 11, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Venture Capital Funding Lags Immigrant Growth

SECTION: Financial; D02

LENGTH: 347 words


It's a good time to be an entrepreneur in the Washington area as the amount of
money given out by venture capitalists has increased in recent years.

And in an area where one in five residents is foreign-born, you'd think it would
be a great place to be an immigrant business owner. The Fairfax County Economic
Development Authority has recruited dozens of businesses from Korea, Israel and
India. Entrepreneurial networking groups have spouted in recent years to help
immigrants get venture funding and promote their businesses.

Yet a recent survey shows the portion of immigrant-owned businesses getting
venture capital financing is smaller than in other regions around the nation.

According to the MoneyTree report, a quarterly survey on venture investment
funding, there were 54 venture capital deals valued at $332.1 million in the
Washington region during the third quarter, up from 45 deals in the third
quarter of 2005, valued at $321.3 million.

The report's co-sponsor, the Arlington-based National Venture Capital
Association, published a separate study on immigrant entrepreneurs that shows
about one-third of the venture capital funding in the Washington area went to
immigrant-owned businesses. That compares to 62 percent in California and 46
percent nationally.

The NVCA survey had a small number of respondents  --  just 18 in the Washington
area  --  yet it provides a glimpse into the role immigrants play in the local
start-up economy.

NVCA President Mark G. Heesen says  the region's high-tech and biotechnology
markets  --  sectors that attract foreign-born engineers and scientists  --  are
still developing, compared with those markets in Silicon Valley and Boston.

"Immigrant entrepreneurs also often come as students and are attracted to places
like Stanford, MIT and the University of California system where a lot of tech
transfers and innovation takes place," Heesen said. "Once they are there, they
tend to stay in those geographies."

He said things would change as the region's high-tech economy grows. "Success
begets success," he said.

--  Cecilia Kang

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              161 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          December 13, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Ill. Governor To Announce New Benefits For Immigrants

BYLINE: Kari Lydersen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A11

LENGTH: 389 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO Dec. 12


Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich (D) will announce on Wednesday a wide-ranging set
of measures meant to better integrate immigrants, legal and illegal, into the
state's economy, education system and workforce.

The measures are the result of an executive order that Blagojevich signed in
November 2005 requiring state agencies to coordinate with community groups,
business leaders and religious institutions to better serve immigrant
populations.

Key points of the New Americans program include increasing the number of
dual-language schools, English-as-a-second-language programs and bilingual staff
members at state agencies, as well as providing job training for skilled and
unskilled immigrants. The program is described as the first of its kind
nationwide.

"It's a fact that immigrants are driving the job market, immigrants are driving
the housing market," said Gerardo Cardenas, the governor's spokesman. "So
helping them acquire English language proficiency and providing better services,
moving them up the job ladder, is strategic for the future of the state."

The measures were developed by a new state agency; a policy council of Illinois
business, religious and community leaders; and a national advisory panel that
included former Immigration and Naturalization Service commissioner Doris
Meissner.

"The debate going on in our country is focused almost entirely on illegal
immigration, but we overlook the fact that there's a very large legal
immigration taking place,"  she said. "It's in our interest as a nation to make
sure that process is working well."

About 1.7 million immigrants make up 12.6 percent of Illinois's population and
17 percent of its workforce, according to a recent report by the Illinois
Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights. The state has about 425,000  illegal
immigrants.

The New Americans program promises health care, education and other state
services for illegal and legal immigrants. The program will be publicly and
privately funded.

Susan Tully, national field director of the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, said the program will put Blagojevich in violation of U.S. immigration
law.

"He does not have the right under the Constitution, even as governor of
Illinois, to grant benefits to people who haven't been cleared by immigration
and customs agents," she said.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              162 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 16, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

26 Bosnian Serbs Arrested in U.S.;
Ties to Srebrenica Massacre Alleged

BYLINE: R. Jeffrey Smith, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 634 words


A Justice Department dragnet based on war crimes probes in Europe led to 26
arrests in the past week of Bosnian Serbs who had obtained refugee status in the
United States by allegedly concealing their service in the Bosnian Serb military
during the bitter Yugoslav conflict of the mid-1990s.

The arrests occurred in at least eight cities, including Denver and Orlando.
They reflect an intensified effort by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE)
to root out unacknowledged members of the Bosnian Serb military using data
supplied by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia,
located in The Hague.

A former U.S. Army intelligence analyst who worked at The Hague from 1997 to
2001, Richard J. Butler, helped instigate the U.S. effort when he prodded the
agency to compare immigration records with lists of Bosnian soldiers in units
linked to the 1995 massacre of 8,000 Muslims in the town of Srebrenica. The
killings are considered the worst European war crime of the past 50 years.

Butler was a key witness at the trials of Bosnian Serb officers involved in the
massacre before the Hague tribunal, where he spent three years reconstructing
events at Srebrenica from seized military documents, combat reports, photos,
videotapes, witness testimony and transcripts of intercepted radio
communications. He now works at the immigration office in Atlanta.

In 2004, U.S. officials said, immigration agents in Massachusetts were
investigating Marko Boskic, a Bosnian Croat who served in a Serb military unit
at Srebrenica, when Butler offered them a list of soldiers attached to other
units deployed in or near the Bosnian town.

That list has since become fodder for a nationwide investigation overseen by the
immigration office's Human Rights Violators and Public Safety Unit in
Washington. Boskic has been convicted of immigration fraud.

Those targeted are a small fraction of the more than 200,000 refugees who came
to the United States from the former Yugoslavia during the 1990s, mostly because
of the Bosnian conflict. Previous immigration roundups related to Srebrenica, in
September 2005 and in June, netted 20 Bosnian Serbs in Phoenix and four Bosnian
Serbs in Salt Lake City. Like those arrested in the past week, they were charged
with visa fraud, perjury or making false statements.

Some of those recently arrested have been criminally charged and face prison
terms, while others have been put into administrative proceedings that could
lead to deportation. Most have families or jobs here. After deportation to
Bosnia, which is now independent and governed by an ethnic coalition, they could
face further investigation, detention and prosecution by the country's
indigenous war crimes chamber.

Only a few of those arrested here are accused by the Justice Department of
directly taking part in the Srebrenica killings, but all allegedly were in units
that did.

A government affidavit filed before the recent arrest of Nedjo Ikonic in
Greenfield, Wis., for example, alleges that he commanded a police company that
oversaw the evacuation of Bosnian Muslims from Srebrenica as part of the planned
massacre. It cites a report written by Butler, witness statements and a police
roster recovered by Hague investigators from a headquarters building in Bosnia.

No one answered the telephone at Ikonic's residence yesterday.

Julie L. Myers, assistant secretary of homeland security for ICE, said in a
statement that her office "will not allow the United States to be a safe haven
for those who failed to disclose their service in military forces that were
known to commit atrocities."

An ICE official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said additional
investigations are underway of Bosnian Serb, Croat and Muslim immigrants linked
to atrocities but declined to provide details.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              163 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          December 20, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Study Warns of Hunger Among Hispanics

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A04

LENGTH: 507 words


Nearly one in five Hispanics lacks sufficient access to nutritious food and one
in 20 regularly goes hungry, posing serious health and economic risks to the
nation's largest and fastest-growing minority group, according to a new study.

The National Council of La Raza, a Latino advocacy group, noted in its study
that the "food insecurity" rate of Hispanics is nearly as high as that of
non-Hispanic blacks and substantially greater than that of non-Hispanic whites,
of whom only about 5 percent suffer from limited access to nutritious food,
according to U.S. government statistics.

"Yet the Latino community is practically invisible when it comes to this issue,"
said co-author Jennifer Ng'andu. "Folks notice the presence of Latinos in their
area, but they are not connecting it to the need for food assistance."

As with African Americans, poverty appears to be the main factor limiting
Latinos' access to nutritious food. About 22 percent of Latinos and 25 percent
of non-Hispanic blacks are poor, compared with 8 percent of non-Hispanic whites.

Latinos, about 40 percent of whom are foreign-born, also often face linguistic,
cultural and legal barriers to enrolling in federal hunger programs.

In 1996, Congress disqualified legal immigrants from nearly all forms of
government assistance. Although a 2002 law restored access to certain programs
for many categories of immigrants, including all otherwise eligible immigrant
children, many Latinos appear unaware of the change. For instance, slightly more
than half of eligible Latinos participate in the national food stamp program,
compared with more than 70 percent of eligible blacks.

"For a lot of our immigrant families, there's either a lack of understanding of
the system or fear, due to their immigration status," of approaching
authorities, said Beatriz Otero, director of CentroNía, a nonprofit child-care
center in the District that has helped many Latino parents apply for federal
assistance.

The problem extends to immigrants' children who are U.S. citizens. Only about
half of such children participate in the food stamp program, compared with more
than 80 percent of eligible children who are U.S. citizens but whose parents are
also U.S. citizens.

Just as daunting to many immigrant Latinos are the complex requirements and
paperwork involved in signing up for many federal programs, Ng'andu said. By
contrast, she noted, the government's nutrition program for low-income pregnant
or post-partum mothers has a simpler enrollment process and a high rate of
Latino participation.

Ng'andu argued that other federal food assistance programs need to follow suit
by undertaking aggressive outreach in the Latino community and training their
staff to better understand the eligibility rules affecting immigrants.

Otherwise, she cautioned, the consequences could be telling: Children who lack
sufficient nutritional food have more difficulty concentrating in school as well
as higher levels of anxiety, depression and obesity and its attendant health
complications.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              164 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 23, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Organizer Of Sham Marriages Sentenced

BYLINE: Jerry Markon, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B02

LENGTH: 693 words


A ringleader in a massive marriage fraud scheme was sentenced to nearly 31/2
years in prison yesterday by a judge who criticized the man for saying he had
arranged more than 100 phony marriages only to help fellow Ghanaian immigrants
stay in the United States.

"That's a mansion you built," U.S. District Judge T.S. Ellis III said to Samuel
Acquah, holding up a picture of Acquah's $775,000 house in Bowie. "You did this
for greed. You didn't do it to help anyone. So get that notion out of your
head."

Acquah, a longtime patent examiner at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office who
admitted pocketing $200,000 from the fake marriages, was sentenced to 40 months
in prison. "Sham marriages, the number that you engaged in, the scheme that you
engaged in, do serious injury to the proper administration of our immigration
system," Ellis said.

It was one of the longest sentences handed down in the investigation of one of
the Washington region's biggest and most brazen immigration scams. Centered in
the area's little-noticed but rapidly growing community of immigrants from
Ghana, the scheme involved an estimated 1,000 fake marriages between immigrants
and U.S. citizens willing to tie the knot for money.

Immigrants would pay as much as $6,000 to be introduced to a "spouse," usually
on the day of the marriage. They would then be coached on how to lie to
immigration inspectors to make the marriage seem real. Immigrants who marry U.S.
citizens can get a visa to stay in this country immediately, instead of having
to wait years, and can shorten the route to citizenship by several years.

Since an undercover federal and state investigation broke up the fraud ring in
September, 20 of 22 people charged have pleaded guilty in federal court in
Alexandria. Most have been sentenced to probation or to prison time already
served, but another man identified by prosecutors as a ringleader, Mark Owusu,
yesterday received 21 months in prison. Most of the immigrants will be deported.

The case is part of an intensifying federal crackdown, triggered by the Sept.
11, 2001, attacks, on marriage and other immigration document frauds.

Most of the local marriages were performed in Arlington and attracted Ghanaians
from as far as New York and South Carolina. There are no waiting periods for
couples applying for marriage licenses in Virginia, as there are in Maryland and
the District. Arlington, with its proximity to the Metro system and the
District, was especially convenient, people involved in the scheme have said.

An Arlington County Circuit Court clerk triggered the nearly four-year
investigation when she spotted couples coming in for marriage licenses who acted
as if they didn't know each other. A man named "Sam" often escorted them, the
clerk said in a recent interview.

Sam turned out to be Acquah, a Ghanaian immigrant who has master's and law
degrees and worked in the chemical engineering section of the patent office
until October.

"It was essentially a marriage fraud mill," Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeanine
Linehan said yesterday as she urged a tough sentence for Acquah. "He would run
people through the Arlington courthouse, two to three in the course of a week."

Prosecutors and Ellis yesterday identified Acquah, who pleaded guilty in October
to conspiracy to commit immigration fraud, as one of two key ringleaders.

According to court documents and Acquah's statements in court, he charged
immigrants $3,000 to $3,500. Several employees were Acquah's "contacts" and
helped find U.S. citizens willing to get married for money. Acquah would split
the profit with his contact, who would pay the U.S. citizen $500.

Acquah ran the fraud ring partly out of his government office, using his fax
machine there to communicate about illicit marriages, court documents said.

Yesterday, in the comment that aroused the judge's ire, Acquah said he had
intended to help his fellow immigrants. But mostly, he expressed regret. "This
is a country that I love very much," he told Ellis. "The job that I had with the
federal government for over 20 years is over. The career that I created for the
33 years I have been in this country is gone.''

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              165 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 25, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Tracking Failure;
Another 10 years of border insecurity?

SECTION: Editorial; A28

LENGTH: 533 words


SINCE 1996, Congress has passed a series of laws requiring federal border
security officials to collect information on foreign nationals leaving the
United States. The goal: to match it with data gathered when those nationals
entered the country, creating a database listing all of the non-resident aliens
--  minus most Canadians, who are exempt from the program  --  in the country at
any one time, including information on how long they have been cleared to stay
and when they must leave.

If compiled correctly, proponents argue, a searchable pool of border crossing
data would do more than just assist in catching a few small-time violators of
immigration law. Many of the Sept. 11 hijackers resided in the United States
past their visa expiration dates. As one element in an effort for potential
terrorists, overstaying a visa can be a real warning sign.

The Department of Homeland Security's two-year-old US-VISIT program reliably
tracks only those who enter the country, not those who exit. American border
officials take photographs of and gather fingerprints from non-resident aliens
entering at land border posts, airports and seaports while those exiting breeze
past border guards on the way out.

Now Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff says that his department will
focus on tracking airport exit traffic, neglecting land border crossings until
new technology makes it feasible to collect biometric information without
backing up traffic for miles in Detroit, San Diego and other busy border posts.
A recent Government Accountability Office report estimates that will take
another five to 10 years. Mr. Chertoff argues that targeting airports in the
meantime will allow Homeland Security to gather exit data from most of the
non-Canadian and non-Mexican foreign nationals exiting the United States, which
is better than not gathering any information at all.

But if the database is significantly incomplete, it's of little use. Homeland
Security officials will not be able to rely on it to tell them if a foreign
national flew in and never left or if he merely drove out without border
officers taking note. If Congress and others are right that reliably tracking
the movements of only a few individuals might mean the difference between
catching a terrorist on American soil or not, then Homeland Security's
logistical shortcomings along the country's borders need fixing, and not 10
years from now.

Homeland Security says it will submit a report  --  already a year and a half
late  --  to Congress early in the new year detailing its plans for biometric
tracking at airports and land border posts. After a critical GAO report and a
spate of negative media coverage, the department will be tempted to temporarily
quiet critics by embracing inadequate half solutions  --  such as its recent,
abortive attempt to use radio transmitters akin to E-ZPass embedded in
immigration documents to track border crossings. It should resist these
pressures. Instead of sinking more money into pilot programs doomed to fail,
Homeland Security should propose ways to solve its logistical problems at border
posts, which might mean teaming up with the Canadian or Mexican authorities.

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              166 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 29, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Somalis, Ethiopians Observe A Faraway War as Neighbors;
Immigrants Turn Two Cafes Into Hubs of Political Discourse

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B03

LENGTH: 1009 words


As Ethiopian invaders rolled into Mogadishu yesterday, the debate in a pair of
Northern Virginia coffeehouses turned on the fate of that beleaguered capital in
the Horn of Africa.

Was this liberation from Islamic extremists? Or foreign intervention at its
worst?

Views on the conflict diverged at the Baileys Crossroads Starbucks, where dozens
of Somali men gather each day to chat, and at the Dama Ethiopian cafe, where
Ethiopian immigrants drop in to sip coffee and talk politics. Although their
nations are historically enemies, the opinions split not by country or religion
--  but from one person to the next.

"I'm very happy . . . people are crying for [Somali] government," said Abdul
Kadir Sair, 40, a small-business owner who stopped at Starbucks yesterday. "If
Bush can go over there and make stability, I'll support it 100 percent. Anybody,
I don't care. Anybody who can make my country stable, I support 100 percent."

But he won't find agreement from a fellow Somali, Basto Osmond, who plunked down
in a Starbucks chair and denounced Ethiopia's move and the United States' tacit
support of it. When the Islamic Courts wrested control of the Somali capital
from various warlords, it "liberated" the nation by imposing order, he said.

"The Courts came in with the will of the people," said Osmond, 50, an engineer.
"If they had done wrong, the people would have gotten rid of them."

When war broke out last week, it came as no great surprise to the crowds at
these two shops. They had been monitoring the escalating conflict for months,
hearing  the worries of family members still in their homelands. And they had
brought those worries to their coffee shops, where cafe tables turn into
political round tables and details are dissected over Earl Grey and lattes.

For some, Ethiopia is meddling in the affairs of its neighbor or fighting
against the only leaders  --  even if unofficial ones  --  who have restored
order to Mogadishu, Somalia's capital. To others, the Somali Islamic movement
threatens to bring extremism, even terrorism, to the two countries and the
entire Horn of Africa.

Despite the differences of opinion, nearly all of those who discussed the
conflict expressed fear that the fighting would spread bloodshed across the Horn
of Africa. And many spoke with a tone of weary fatalism, lamenting that such
fighting is so routine, yet still so disappointing and that international aid to
alleviate poverty and support development seems remote.

But at the coffee shops, the differences of opinion are the point.

Yesterday, as the Islamic Courts fighters abandoned Mogadishu and Ethiopian
forces advanced, some Ethiopian immigrants sipped hot drinks at Dama, a cozy
Arlington cafe where Christmas garland graced shelves holding tea. At one table,
a taxi driver, a college student and a lawyer took turns opining, jabbing their
fingers on the table as they debated.

"It's probably a good idea to strike now, in the infancy," before Somalia's
Islamic movement can threaten Ethiopia, said Binyam Yinesu, a soft-spoken cab
driver. "Any extremism, be it Christian or Islam, is not a good idea."

Lawyer Fitsum Achamyeleh Alemu, 37, shook his head. The war, he said, makes
Ethiopia a "playground in the war on terror" and is a conflict he thinks the
Ethiopian government is using as a distraction from its own problems, including
public complaints about human rights abuses.

"Is there any clear and convincing evidence that there are Islamists attacking
Ethiopia?" he asked, his voice raising. The student, who did not want to be
named for fear of angering the Ethiopian government, nodded in agreement.

The Washington region is home to the nation's largest Ethiopian communities.
According to 2005 Census figures, more than 22,000 immigrants from Ethiopia,
whose residents include Christians and Muslims, reside in the area, although
many community leaders believe the population is closer to 120,000. Community
leaders say about 6,000 Somalis, most of whom are Muslim, live in the region.

Many immigrants from both countries arrived as refugees who fled violence and
political turmoil and have made their way here as taxi drivers, professionals
and shop owners.

Here, as there, they have lived as neighbors, albeit more peacefully.
Interaction is limited by language differences, but those at the coffee shops
said they have made friends with immigrants from the other nation  --  while
praying together at the mosque, standing in the taxi line or doing business.

And although some community leaders privately say there is a quiet tension
between the groups here, those at Dama and Starbucks insisted the conflict is
one between the leaders and power-seekers in their countries, not their emigres.

"Finally Ethiopia is helping. . . . This is a great day for Somalia," said
Somali taxi driver Abdi Mohamed, 44, as he sunk into a plush Starbucks armchair
Wednesday. "There is no difference between the [Somali] warlords and the
Islamists."

On Wednesday afternoon, Somali Mahamed Abubacar, 37, paid his second visit that
day to Starbucks, where, by 6 p.m., more than 20 men were filling the room with
the hum of the Somali language. The Islamic Courts movement, he said, had rooted
out the warlords that had caused chaos in the capital. Along with other members
of a group called the Somali Diaspora of the Washington, D.C., Region, Abubacar
staged a protest at the State Department on Dec. 15 against the impending war.
Ethiopians participated, too, he said.

"We will talk always about the future," said Abubacar, who fled Somalia for the
United States, settling in Falls Church nearly 10 years ago. "We just always
dream of having good relations between the two countries. . . . That's what we
talk about when we see each other. We don't hate each other."

The next day at Dama, Alemu echoed that.

"I really feel sorry for the Somalis. . . . Families have been torn apart. They
don't have a government," he said. "I hope that this time  --  this time  --
will be the last time to hear about wars in that region."

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              167 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 31, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Pratfalls and Prophecies In 2006

BYLINE: David S. Broder

SECTION: Editorial; B07

LENGTH: 805 words


The controversies of the year past  --  Iraq, immigration, domestic surveillance
and the rest, plus the political battles that climaxed in the Democratic
victories in November  --  all contributed to an exceptionally heavy load of
reader-generated corrections and objections. Thanks to e-mail, many more of you
are now contributing to this annual year-end "goofs" column, where I review (and
repent) some of the judgments and misjudgments of the past year.

To start with the simplest, in an August piece about Ohio politics, I wrote that
Ted Strickland was trying to become the first member of Congress since
Rutherford B. Hayes to be elected governor of Ohio. Several of you pointed out
that I had ignored two subsequent figures who moved from Congress to that
governorship, James M. Cox and Frank B. Willis.

An interview with Bill Gates produced a wave of protests. The Microsoft
billionaire was in Washington to lobby for an expansion of the H-1B visa
program, which provides entry for foreign-born scientists and engineers offered
jobs in the United States. Gates said that the limit on their numbers was
hurting America's competitive position.

The letter writers, many of whom identified themselves as unemployed or
underemployed people with similar skills, claimed that the H-1B workers were
taking their jobs and working at lower wages. I waded through a mass of
testimony and evidence, supplied by both sides in the controversy, without being
able to resolve the issue. It will  probably come up again when the next
Congress tackles immigration reform, and this time, I promise I'll look at both
sides before I write about it.

I had a similar experience when I wrote about Sen. Joe Biden's proposal for
decentralizing the government of Iraq, allowing more authority for separate
Shiite, Sunni and Kurdish regions. I commended the Biden proposal as a step
forward from what was already,  in May, a seriously stalemated and deteriorating
situation in Iraq.

But after the column appeared, I received several communications from people
with as much knowledge of Iraq as Biden possesses. They argued that such a step
toward federalism had serious dangers. It would be difficult to apply in urban
areas such as Baghdad, where ethnicities and sects are mixed, and it risked, the
correspondents said, inviting other countries such as Iran and Turkey to spread
their influence into a partitioned Iraq.

Those same objections have blocked adoption of the Biden plan, but meanwhile,
Iraqis fleeing violence have increasingly separated themselves into Shiite or
Sunni strongholds, leaving the situation even worse than if there had been an
orderly and legal division of authority.

Another column that drew great protest was one in which I took my colleagues in
the media to task for their treatment of Karl Rove in the Valerie Plame leak
investigation. When the special prosecutor announced that he was not charging
Rove with anything, I reviewed some of the many articles  that had accused the
White House aide of masterminding the "outing" of Plame and said that an apology
was in order.

The e-mail and letter writers argued that the simple fact that Rove had escaped
prosecution did not mean that he was innocent of using his position to harass
and frustrate critics of the administration. He had, after all, confirmed
Plame's identity to at least two reporters working on the story. Even if the
original leak came from elsewhere, these letter writers said, Rove was no
innocent.

But I still believe that there is an important cautionary tale for the media  in
the Rove-Plame story. Too many of us got way ahead of the facts and let our
suspicions grow into assumptions and assertions for which we had no evidence.
That tendency to get ahead of the story is rampant in the media just now, fed by
the speedup of news delivery through the Internet and cable. Just look at the
stories announcing  --  in 2006  --  who are "serious" candidates for president
in 2008.

Speaking of politics, I'm embarrassed to say that the one state I wrote about
that I got wrong was Michigan, where I had spent enough time to have known
better. I thought Gov. Jennifer Granholm was going to be sunk by unemployment in
the auto industry, but she put on a great campaign and won.

On the other hand, I saw both stages of the Connecticut race correctly  --  Joe
Lieberman losing the primary but winning  as an independent in November. And the
downfall of the Republican Congress and rise of an independent breed of
Democrats was forecast here from early March onward.

But a column about Hillary Rodham Clinton, touching lightly on the state of her
marriage, drew lots of catcalls  --  a tip-off that this subject will be a tough
one to handle if she enters the presidential race. Bring on 2007.

davidbroder@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              168 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 9, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Groups Demand State's Help In Fight Against Wage Abuses;
Report Recommends More Funds, Staffing for Investigations

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B05

LENGTH: 522 words


Immigrants' and workers' rights groups yesterday called on the Maryland
government and incoming governor Martin O'Malley to beef up support for low-wage
workers and day laborers who are cheated out of wages by shifty employers.

Such workers, many of them immigrants, are often paid too little  --  because of
improper deductions, below-minimum-wage salaries or unpaid overtime  --  or not
at all, according to a report released yesterday by the immigrant advocacy group
CASA of Maryland.

The wage abuses have reached "crisis" proportions, CASA Executive Director
Gustavo Torres said at an Annapolis news conference. Behind him, immigrant
workers lined up holding red-and-yellow signs that read, "They Stole My Salary"
in Spanish and "Enforce the Law" in English.

The state does not do enough to enforce labor laws, leaving nonprofit community
organizations overwhelmed with wage-theft cases, said Jessica Salsbury, a CASA
lawyer.

"The labor laws on the books should be enforced," said O'Malley spokesman Rick
Abbruzzese, who would not make specific commitments in response to the report.
"The governor-elect is concerned about these issues and looks forward to working
with the community to address these issues."

The report recommended that the Employment Standards division of the state
Labor, Licensing and Regulation Department  --  which investigates wage-theft
cases  --  issue a report on its "current activity" and asked the state to boost
funding and staffing for the division. It also suggested that the labor
department work more closely with the state attorney general's office, police,
prosecutors and community groups to enforce wage laws.

The report cited a 2006 George Washington University survey that said 75 percent
of 286 local domestic workers were not paid overtime and a 2005 University of
California at Los Angeles study that found that 58 percent of the Washington
region's day laborers have been cheated at least once by employers.

Funding for the Employment Standards unit was cut completely in fiscal 2006 and
reinstated for fiscal 2007. It has seven employees and a $300,000 budget, Labor
Secretary James D. Fielder Jr. said.

Together with another unit that investigates wage claims, Employment Standards
has helped workers recoup about $1 million in fiscal 2007, said Fielder, who
soon will be leaving office.

Increasing the unit's funding could require action in the upcoming session,
which begins tomorrow. CASA of Maryland officials said they expect several
proposals targeting immigrants, similar to nine that were defeated last year.
Some would have declared English the official language of Maryland and
Baltimore; limited driver's licenses to people in the country legally; and
excluded illegal immigrants from workers' compensation.

Yesterday's gathering included testimony from Sergio Delgado, a Guatemalan
immigrant, who said a Silver Spring construction company paid him nothing for
the 300 hours he worked in 2004. The boss does not return his calls, he said.

"It's unfair," said Delgado, 26. "They take advantage of you."

Staff writer John Wagner contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              169 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 9, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Rights Groups Call on Md. To Better Enforce Wage Laws

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 561 words


Immigrants' and workers' rights groups yesterday called on the Maryland
government and incoming governor Martin O'Malley to beef up support for low-wage
workers and day laborers who are cheated out of wages by shifty employers.

Such workers, many of them immigrants, are often paid too little  --  because of
improper deductions, below-minimum-wage salaries or unpaid overtime  --  or not
at all, according to a report released yesterday by the immigrant advocacy group
CASA of Maryland.

The wage abuses have reached "crisis" proportions, CASA Executive Director
Gustavo Torres said at an Annapolis news conference. Behind him, immigrant
workers lined up holding red-and-yellow signs that read, "They Stole My Salary"
in Spanish and "Enforce the Law" in English.

The state does not do enough to enforce labor laws, leaving nonprofit community
organizations overwhelmed with wage-theft cases, said Jessica Salsbury, a CASA
lawyer.

"The labor laws on the books should be enforced," said O'Malley spokesman Rick
Abbruzzese, who would not make specific commitments in response to the report.
"The governor-elect is concerned about these issues and looks forward to working
with the community to address these issues."

The report recommended that the Employment Standards division of the state
Labor, Licensing and Regulation Department  --  which investigates wage-theft
cases  --  issue a report on its "current activity" and asked the state to boost
funding and staffing for the division. It also suggested that the labor
department work more closely with the state attorney general's office, police,
prosecutors and community groups to enforce wage laws.

The report cited a 2006 George Washington University survey that said 75 percent
of 286 local domestic workers were not paid overtime and a 2005 University of
California at Los Angeles study that found that 58 percent of the Washington
region's day laborers have been cheated at least once by employers.

Funding for the Employment Standards unit was cut completely in fiscal 2006 and
reinstated for fiscal 2007. It has seven employees and a $300,000 budget, Labor
Secretary James D. Fielder Jr. said.

Together with another unit that investigates wage claims, Employment Standards
has helped workers recoup about $1 million in fiscal 2007, said Fielder, an
Ehrlich appointee who soon will be leaving office. His replacement has not been
named.

Increasing the unit's funding could require action in the upcoming session,
which begins tomorrow. CASA of Maryland officials said they expect several
proposals targeting immigrants that probably will be similar to nine that were
defeated last year. Some would have declared English the official language of
Maryland and Baltimore; limited driver's licenses to people in the country
legally; and excluded illegal immigrants from workers' compensation.

Yesterday's gathering included testimony from Carl Johnson, 20, who said he
never got paid from a temp agency that hired him to clean toilets and sweep
peanuts at Camden Yards in Baltimore. Also there was Sergio Delgado, a
Guatemalan immigrant, who said a Silver Spring construction company paid him
nothing for the 300 hours he worked in 2004. The boss does not return his calls,
he said.

"It's unfair," said Delgado, 26. "They take advantage of you."

Staff writer John Wagner contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              170 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 28, 2007 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

In Herndon, We Respect Immigrants -- and the Rule of Law

SECTION: Editorial; B08

LENGTH: 574 words


Last spring, before my election as mayor of Herndon, I knocked on hundreds of
doors, talking to people I knew well, people I'd met in passing and people I
didn't know at all. I visited longtime residents, relative newcomers to our town
and, it is important to note, many immigrants who had entered the United States
legally and chosen Herndon as the place in which to buy homes and raise their
families.

There were differing opinions among those I met. But there were some common
threads as well: They all were respectful. Their opinions all seemed to be
carefully considered and well-reasoned. None were motivated by hate, nor were
they racists.

Yet that is how the people of Herndon, the people I met during the campaign and
those who are my neighbors and friends, have been characterized. I take strong
exception to that seemingly reflexive characterization.

Is it asking too much to require people to obey the law and enter the country
legally? I don't think so, nor do many of my constituents. This does not mean we
are unwelcoming to immigrants, nor does it mean we are against any ethnic group.
It means that we respect and seek to follow the law of the land.

The efforts we have undertaken in Herndon since my colleagues on the Town
Council and I took office on July 1 do not deal with federal immigration policy.
Our efforts instead deal with the detrimental effect the state and federal
governments' abject failure to enforce immigration laws has on a local
community.

Workable, enforceable reforms to immigration laws and policies must be enacted.
The town of Herndon believes that the ability of illegal aliens to work in the
United States is the central problem. Businesses must be brought into the
process to make them responsible for their actions with respect to hiring
illegal aliens. Legislation and enforcement are needed to prevent document fraud
and abuse or circumvention of the federal I-9 process (which requires employers
to verify employees' eligibility to work in the United States). The federal
government must control our borders; our nation needs more effective laws  --
and consistent and vigorous enforcement of those laws  --  for dealing with the
millions of illegal aliens already in our country.

Until this happens, towns and cities across America, including Herndon, must
struggle to find solutions to the impact that the unchecked influx of illegal
aliens has had on our communities. Here in Herndon one mechanism by which we are
able to do this is to require that all workers show legal documentation during
the hiring process at the town's official day worker center. That is why we are
seeking to find a new operator for the site, an operator who will agree to check
for legal eligibility to work in the United States. We are not looking to close
the site; rather, our intent is to modify its operations to conform to the law
--  the law that my colleagues on the Town Council and I as mayor have sworn to
uphold.

Herndon welcomes immigrants. We celebrate the diverse cultures of our town. But
we are no longer willing to tolerate illegal behavior. Illegal immigrants need
to go through the process that allows them to live and work in the United States
legally. After they do that, we, the citizens of Herndon, will welcome them into
our community.

--  Stephen J. DeBenedittis

Herndon

The writer is the mayor of the town  of Herndon. His e-mail address is
mayor.steve@herndon-va.gov.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              171 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 29, 2007 Monday
                                 Final Edition

In Exchange for Records, Fewer Immigration Raids;
Businesses Skeptical of New Federal Program

BYLINE: Darryl Fears and Krissah Williams, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 1244 words


Over the past seven months, Bush administration officials have quietly toured
the country, trying to persuade businesses that rely heavily on immigrant labor
to join a little-known program that would spare them from embarrassing federal
raids if they voluntarily handed over their workers' documents so the government
can scan them for fraudulent information.

Officials at the Department of Homeland Security have asked companies to join
the ICE Mutual Agreement Between Government and Employers program, known as
IMAGE, operated by the department's Immigrations and Customs Enforcement
division. It calls on businesses to submit all I-9 employee eligibility
verification forms to ICE for an audit and to "ensure the accuracy of their wage
reporting" by verifying workers' Social Security numbers, according to a
description of the program.

An ICE spokesman said IMAGE is another step in the administration's drive to
tighten work-site enforcement as more than a million immigrants illegally cross
the Mexican border each year in a quest for jobs.

"The upside for those who . . . participate is that they're better equipped to
know whether their workforce is legal, and ICE is less likely to be on their
doorstep unexpectedly, interfering with their business," said Matthew Allen,
acting deputy assistant director for infrastructure and fraud in the agency's
investigations division. "It's an investment in making sure that their workforce
is secure."

The government's efforts under IMAGE are much broader and deeper than those
under another program, Basic Pilot, in which businesses voluntarily enroll.
Companies that take part in Basic Pilot can check the Social Security numbers
that job applicants provide against a national database of Social Security and
immigration records.

In contrast, IMAGE covers all members of a company's workforce and does a more
extensive scrub of records to determine if a worker is in the country illegally
or is using fraudulent documents.

Allen would not disclose the names of companies recruited into IMAGE, saying
only that dozens have taken the steps toward enrollment.

One business, Smithfield Packing Co., which operates the world's largest hog
slaughterhouse, in Tar Heel, N.C., has participated since June, with dramatic
results. Twenty-one workers at the plant were arrested last week after the
government scrutinized forms submitted by the company.

ICE alerted Smithfield by e-mail of discrepancies in employees' records. A
company spokesman said 541 workers in the plant's workforce of 5,000 are facing
termination because of discrepancies on their job applications. Nearly half of
Smithfield's labor pool is Latino.

"This is terrible for everyone, us, the employees, their families," said Dennis
Pittman, a company spokesman. "It's heart-wrenching. These are our better
people. These are folks who have been with us seven, eight, nine years. They are
good people. People have been in tears. Fifty or so people have quit.

Pittman called Smithfield's agreement with ICE "a business decision" resulting
from an implied threat. "We knew raids could be a possibility," he said. "We
felt going this way, there would be less of an effect."

But Smithfield received an added benefit from cooperating with the government,
according to the union that is helping its workers organize. Union officials say
the company submitted the names of organizers as a tactic to intimidate some
workers and get rid of others. The officials note that the National Labor
Relations Board has found that Smithfield worked to undermine union elections by
intimidating employees in 1994 and 1997.

"Most of the leaders of a walkout in November are on their list," said Leila
McDowell, a spokeswoman for the United Food and Commercial Workers. "Whether ICE
is consciously in collusion or not, Smithfield could very easily manipulate the
process and can use it as a tool to intimidate and threaten workers, which it
has done in the past and been found to have done so illegally."

Smithfield strongly denied the claim.

A number of businesses said they have no intention of joining IMAGE, citing the
disruptive action at Smithfield. The arrests in North Carolina were the second
unpleasant surprise in two months for firms that say they have tried to work
with immigration enforcement agencies to hire legal workers, only to be raided.

In December, ICE rounded up 1,297 illegal immigrants in six states in raids on
meatpacking plants  run by Swift & Co., of Greeley, Colo. Swift's president and
chief executive, Sam Rovit, criticized the arrests, saying the company has
"played by the rules and relied in good faith" on the Basic Pilot program since
1997.

A Swift spokesman said the company is not participating in IMAGE, preferring to
stick with Basic Pilot. Swift has a chorus of supporters among businesses that
say they hire immigrants to do work that American citizens do not want, for pay
that they will not take.

"There is no upside in signing up for new obligations," said Stuart Anderson,
executive director of the National Foundation for American Policy and a former
policy chief in the immigration agency. Businesses "end up not only with the
current obligations of the law but new requirements," he said.

He compared it to "advising average citizens to drive up to their local police
station to get frisked."

In November, ICE pitched IMAGE to the Essential Worker Immigration Coalition,
which includes the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the National Restaurant Association
and other trade groups. Co-chair Laura Reiff was not impressed.

"We are loath to participate in a program with self-audits until we get
comprehensive reform," Reiff said. "Business understands that it is going to
rest on our shoulders  to have to verify the employment eligibility of our
workforce. We'll take on that obligation, but we can't have it outside of
comprehensive reform where we get some assurances."

About 12 million illegal immigrants live in the United States, and unauthorized
workers make up 5 percent of the nation's workforce, according to business
lobbyists. They mostly fill agriculture, meatpacking, hospitality and
construction jobs. Employers say a large reduction of immigrant workers would
hurt their businesses and raise the prices of consumer goods.

In last year's immigration debate in Congress, business and advocacy groups
sided with bipartisan comprehensive legislation in the Senate that would allow
illegal workers to remain in the country if they turn themselves in, pay a stiff
fine for crossing the border illegally, learn English and go to the back of the
line for a guest-worker program.

Last week, immigration officials pitched IMAGE to the National Council of
Agricultural Employers. The presentation included a slide about the
vulnerabilities of "allowing illegal aliens to exploit employment
opportunities," said Craig Regelbrugge, a spokesman for the American Nursery &
Landscape Association and the Agricultural Coalition for Immigration Reform.

After the presentation, Regelbrugge raised his hand. "I can save you a lot of
time," he recalled telling ICE officials. The vulnerabilities are "the existence
of 1.6 million job opportunities, many of which are seasonal and intermittent,"
he said. "Virtually no Americans are applying to work in the fields."

He added: "We really can't focus on partnering with you until we have a
solution."

Staff writer Spencer S. Hsu contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              172 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 9, 2007 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Raid Leaves Texas Town a Skeleton

BYLINE: Sylvia Moreno, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A02

LENGTH: 1055 words

DATELINE: CACTUS, Tex.


The streets of this small, isolated city in the Texas Panhandle are virtually
empty nowadays, and "For Rent" signs decorate dilapidated trailers and shabby
1940s-era military barracks that just weeks ago were full of tenants.

Sales of tortillas and other staples are down. Money wire transactions to
Central America have mostly dried up. The "Guatemalas," as local residents call
them, are almost all gone, and so are a significant number of Mexican nationals.
An estimated 12 to 18 children are now living with only one parent since the
other was arrested in a massive immigration raid at the biggest employer in
town.

On Dec. 12, hundreds of Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents clad in riot
gear and armed with assault rifles descended on the Swift & Co. meatpacking
plant in a coordinated raid of six of the company's facilities nationwide. The
operation was the government's largest single work-site enforcement operation
ever. The plant in little Cactus  --  a town better known in the state of
Chihuahua, Mexico, and in the department of Quiché, Guatemala, where workers
came from, than in Texas  --  was the largest one raided. Almost a quarter of
the 1,282 suspected illegal immigrants arrested in the raids were removed from
the Cactus plant.

That an obscure town 600 miles north of the border and in the middle of High
Plains country once owned by Anglo ranchers and farmers was a haven for illegal
Mexican and Central American immigrants was no surprise to anyone here. The draw
to Cactus has existed since American Beef Packers opened the meat-processing
plant in 1974. Swift's predecessor company bought the plant in 1975, and it
became known as Swift & Co.'s Cactus Beef Plant in 2002.

Although opened with local hires, Vietnamese and Laotian refugees became the
dominant workforce by the late-1970s. By the mid-'80s the workforce was
overwhelmingly Mexican immigrants, and by 2000 the Guatemalans, speaking the
Mayan language of Quiché, had started to arrive. Before the Dec. 12 raid, Swift
employed 3,050 workers in Cactus at a starting wage of $11.50 an hour to
slaughter, process and package several thousand head of cattle daily.

Work inside the plant is hard, dirty, stinky and dangerous, and it is where
Cactus's biggest business owner and mayor, Luis Aguilar, and Cactus's largest
landlord, Thanh Nguyen, got their starts in the United States. Aguilar, a native
of Chihuahua, began working at the plant in 1976 using false identity papers, he
admits. In 1986, he was able to legalize his status in the United States, along
with 2.7 million illegal workers, under the amnesty program authorized by the
federal Immigration Reform and Control Act.

Previously criticized by some local officials who thought he aided and even
encouraged illegal immigrants to settle in Cactus, Aguilar took the raids almost
personally. He canceled the annual city Christmas party because so many
residents, including City Council members, had spouses or other relatives who
had been arrested by immigration authorities. Aguilar subsequently lent one of
his buildings to be used as a food and used-clothing pantry for residents whose
relatives were caught in the raid.

"These are my people," said Aguilar, 50, who today owns the largest house in
Cactus, a nearby 575-acre ranch, a laundromat and the town's only full-fledged
grocery store. About half of his 26 rental units are empty now.

Nguyen and his family, part of the mass exodus of "boat people" who left Vietnam
after the fall of Saigon, arrived as legal refugees in nearby Dumas, Tex., in
1979 under the sponsorship of a restaurant owner who wanted cheap labor. Within
six months, Nguyen and his wife left for the better-paying meatpacking plant in
Cactus, said Nguyen's son Phuong, 37, who is also known as Ben.

Except for the Nguyens, Asian immigrants moved out of Cactus, which is now 99.5
percent Hispanic. Some local officials recently said that 75 percent of the
city's estimated 5,000 residents before the raid were illegal immigrants.
Aguilar disputes that, saying it was only 15 percent.

To Ben Nguyen, that number is not important. His father usually offered a few
weeks of free rent to immigrants until they got a job at the meat plant and
their first paycheck and provided thrift store mattresses and clothes, if
necessary, Nguyen said. Now only eight of his father's 60 rental units are
occupied. Some were vacated the day of the raid, but the majority were abandoned
within weeks, when frightened immigrants moved away. Since then, vandals have
been kicking in the doors of the empty apartments, looking for any items of
value that might have been left behind.

"I do believe in punishment for the crime, but this is too much," Ben Nguyen
said. "You scare kids; you push people so far away that you destroy the economy
of the town. . . . This town is built by immigrants. They were just like me when
they come over here. They didn't have anything. They came over here just to work
and start their lives."

But authorities charge that these immigrants had false identity documents,
enabling them to get driver's licenses and jobs illegally, victimizing U.S.
citizens and fueling the fraudulent document industry. Traffic stops or crime
reports became confusing events in Cactus in recent years. Immigrants would
offer two names, said former Cactus Police Chief Tim Turley. The had "el
verdadero," as they called it  --  the true name  --  and their work name.

Mario Lux, 26, from the town of Canilla in Quiché, said the piece of paper that
gave him his work name cost him $1,400 and was obtained for him by a friend in
Cactus. With that document, Lux said he got an identification card in nearby New
Mexico and then a job at the Swift plant in March 2006, cutting fat and gristle
off meat for $11.90 an hour. He was not working the day of the raid but now will
not return for fear of being discovered and arrested. He says that he still owes
$3,200 to the smuggling network that got him to Cactus and that he has been
unable to send money to his wife and three children back home. He is also three
weeks behind in his rent. He and his three roommates pay $120 a week for their
small apartment.

"I have no idea how I will pay that now," Lux said as he stood in the food and
clothes pantry established in the Cactus town center.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              173 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 10, 2007 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

High Cost of Citizenship

SECTION: Editorial; A16

LENGTH: 268 words


Congress must prevent exorbitant increases in citizenship fees [news story, Feb.
1].

For the first time in memory, both sides of the polarized immigration debate are
in full agreement: The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services' proposed
increases in the fees to become a citizen are thoroughly misguided. Immigrants
who have come to America in accordance with our laws, learned English, qualified
to become citizens and are willing die for our country should not have such a
high financial barrier placed in their path that, as Sen. Edward Kennedy
(D-Mass.) explained, would put citizenship  out of reach.

Imagine elderly refugees who have fled persecution in Bosnia, Somalia or Iraq.
Being unable to support themselves, they qualify for $603 a month in  federal
Supplemental Security Income.  The proposed new fees amount to an 80 percent
increase in the cost to apply to become a citizen, from $330 to $595. The new
fee would be just $8 less than the amount that such people have  to live on for
a month. They would have no choice but to pay the fee because their SSI benefits
would stop if they were not to become  citizens within seven years after they
enter the United States.

Citizenship and Immigration Services says it needs this revenue to modernize and
speed up its notoriously unreliable services, and its only option is to increase
fees. Congress needs to step in and fix this mess by funding system
modernization without putting this unconscionable burden on immigrants seeking
to become citizens.

DAN LESSER

Senior Attorney

Sargent Shriver National Center on Poverty Law

Chicago

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              174 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 11, 2007 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

REGIONAL BRIEFING

SECTION: Metro; C03

LENGTH: 382 words


ALEXANDRIA

A woman's body was found yesterday morning in a dumpster outside an Alexandria
high-rise in the 5300 block of Holmes Run Parkway. An autopsy was scheduled for
yesterday afternoon.

The body showed no obvious cause of death, said Lt. James Bartlett, adding that
he had no information about the age or identity of the victim. He said that the
body did not match any Alexandria missing person's reports.

--  Tara Bahrampour

PRINCE GEORGE'S COUNTY

Three people were injured yesterday in a crash that occurred while Prince
George's County police were pursuing a vehicle allegedly taken in a carjacking
in the District, county police said.

A  police spokesman said that after D.C. police began pursuing the vehicle about
4 p.m., it entered Prince George's near Central Avenue and Addison Road in Seat
Pleasant. A county officer who was going to the chase collided with a vehicle
carrying a 35-year-old woman and a 17-year-old girl. None suffered
life-threatening injuries. Two people were arrested in the carjacking.

--  Steve Vogel

IMMIGRATION

Federal immigration agents arrested 35 people in Northern Virginia last week in
raids targeting convicted and suspected criminals who might now be deported.

Part of an ongoing sting, "Operation Quick Draw," the arrests in Fairfax County,
Herndon and Arlington County nabbed 23 legal and illegal immigrants who had
served time for or been charged with crimes including sexual assault and
burglary, said Michael Keegan of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Some are legal permanent residents whose criminal records make them subject to
deportation, he said. Twelve others with no criminal record also were arrested
on immigration charges, he said.

--  Karin Brulliard

METRORAIL

A man was pulled off the Metrorail tracks at Union Station early yesterday after
people saw him lying on his back in the middle of the tracks, Metro officials
and an eyewitness said.

The man was carried off the tracks about 1:50 a.m. as lights indicating an
approaching Red Line train were flashing, said Thomas Gaffney, a student at
Catholic University who saw the rescue.

Metro officials said the man was intoxicated and was escorted out of the station
by the station manager and a custodian. They could not identify him.

--  Aruna Jain

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              175 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 12, 2007 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Notoriety of President Morales Roils Area's Bolivian Community

BYLINE: Pamela Constable and Karin Brulliard, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1435 words


On weekend nights, the dance floor at Cecilia's Club in Arlington County
pulsates with strobe lights and salsa dancers. But one recent Saturday
afternoon, this social hub of the region's large Bolivian population became a
sober forum for debate on the political storm that has convulsed the immigrants'
native country and sent shock waves through their quiet, prosperous community.

The storm has a name: Evo Morales. He is the charismatic indigenous leader whose
election as Bolivia's president just over a year ago brought new pride to the
impoverished South American nation. Now, his radical rhetoric and friendships
with foreign leftist leaders such as Venezuela's Hugo Chavez are causing
consternation in both Bolivia and the United States.

"People are always asking me about Morales. No one ever asked me about any
Bolivian president before," said Miriam Rodriguez of Fairfax, who helped
organize the forum. "But now we see him making mistakes, following in the steps
of Chavez, being pushed to hate America. We want to make sure he does the right
thing, because everyone is watching us now."

Greater Washington is home to the largest population of Bolivian immigrants in
the United States, with 37 percent of the total. Census figures show that more
than 20,000 Bolivian-born immigrants live in the area, but activists and
diplomats say the community is more than three times that size. Although smaller
and less visible than the area's Central American populace, Bolivians and
Peruvians constitute its largest South American immigrant groups.

Bolivians are also one of the oldest and most successful Hispanic communities in
the area. Most came here for economic reasons rather than fleeing conflict, and
on average they have higher income and education levels than U.S.-born
Americans. Although some Bolivians toil at menial jobs, many are professionals
or own small businesses.

Bolivians here have clung tightly to their roots, establishing dozens of
folklore groups, three soccer leagues in Northern Virginia and a weekend school
in Arlington where children study Bolivian traditions. Many fly to Bolivia often
to visit relatives or have invested in binational ventures.

Yet surprisingly, they have never formed an ethnic enclave or become politically
active as a group. Although many are eligible to vote, almost none has run for
local office, and most have avoided becoming involved in the public debate about
immigrant rights.

"Bolivians here have been unperceived for many reasons," said Ruddy Orellana,
editor of Los Tiempos, a Bolivian-owned newspaper in Falls Church. "They have
been peaceful and their kids have not gotten involved in gangs. They have been
ambitious in business but have not reached for political influence. . . . They
have been scattered and dispersed."

In the past year, however, Morales's election has plunged this quiet community
into a political maelstrom. Morales, 47, rose to prominence as a leader of
coca-leaf growers, whose crop produces cocaine but also has traditional uses
such as tea. He led peasants in highway blockades and opposed U.S. drug
eradication policies, saying they unfairly punished poor farmers.

Most Bolivians here say they initially welcomed Morales's presidency as a change
from elitist and military governments, but many say they became indignant and
alarmed as he has antagonized domestic opponents and befriended Chavez and
Cuba's Fidel Castro.

"We were all tired of corrupt governments, and we were all excited when Morales
won," said Monica Williams, president of the Washington-based Bolivian-American
Chamber of Commerce. "But he is making mistakes and putting too much emphasis on
native issues. We are beginning to see a clash of races and regions. It is
polarizing the country."

In recent months, violent demonstrations have broken out in Bolivia, spurred by
Morales's promises of an agrarian revolution, with large landowners pitted
against landless peasants. Critics say his government has become increasingly
confrontational, and opposition leaders have accused him of seeking to impose a
totalitarian regime.

Wherever Bolivians gather here, the mention of Morales provokes animated debate.
Last Sunday at the Iglesia Santa Maria in Falls Church, whose Episcopal
congregation is 90 percent Bolivian, some worshipers expressed fears that his
government would seize their family land. But one man counseled patience,
adding, "The important thing is that people are participating."

At an indoor gym nearby, men watched two teams of sweaty indoor soccer players
chase a blue soccer ball. Gustavo Chalco, a house painter who lives in Burke,
said everyone had hoped Morales was going to change things. "But now we are at
the edge of a civil war," he said.

Jose Martinez, a gray-haired construction worker, said he dreams of returning
home but is no longer sure what awaits him. "Bad image for my country, Evo. Bad
image," he said.

In a glassy, modern office in Rosslyn, Oscar Bazoberry, a high-tech developer
and venture capitalist, said he admires Morales's concern for the poor but
worries that his administration will alienate rather than attract the foreign
investment Bolivia needs to develop. So far, his economic policies have stressed
nationalizing resources such as natural gas and mining.

"For the first time, Bolivia has a government that cares about the needs of the
indigenous poor, but they have no understanding of capital markets and how to
make a real dent in development," Bazoberry said. "Morales has put Bolivia on
the map, but now that it is a player, let's play."

Some indigenous Bolivians in the area remain enthusiastic about Morales, who has
promoted indigenous activists to senior positions and elevated their status in a
society long stratified among white, mixed-race and indigenous inhabitants.

Julia Garcia, 58, principal of Escuela Boliva, the weekend school in Arlington,
said she still remembers childhood taunts from classmates back home about her
Indian-style braids and Quechuan accent.

"I think the high elites never thought we would educate ourselves . . . and be
at a level to speak with them," Garcia said. She acknowledged that Morales had
made mistakes but said he should not abandon his agenda. "There is a new dawn"
in Bolivia, she said.

But others express conflicted feelings about the man who is championing their
cause. Elmer Herrera, a stonemason from Annandale and founder of an indigenous
organization called Jach'a Uru, said Morales had proved that a Bolivian without
pale skin and a foreign degree could rise to power. Yet Morales's refusal to
compromise has led to increasingly sharp divisions, Herrera said.

"Evo is ruining the country," Herrera said. "We would like that in Bolivia, the
rich and poor, the indigenous and non-indigenous, would sit at a table
together."

Morales's emphasis on indigenous rights has hit a sensitive nerve in the area.
Although many Bolivian immigrants speak Quechua and join folkloric groups, they
are also anxious to blend into American life and not be singled out as an ethnic
or racial minority.

"There is a lot of racism," said Alicia Ruiz, who organizes day laborers in
Falls Church. Many Bolivians here don't want to acknowledge that they are part
Indian, she said. "They ask how a peasant can govern us."

Immigrant leaders are especially concerned about U.S.-Bolivian relations, which
have been tested by Morales's role as a champion of coca growers and by his
high-profile friendships with Chavez and Castro. Proud of their pro-American
values, some Bolivians fear being tarred with the Morales brush.

The Bolivian Embassy in Washington has done little to win them over. For much of
last year there was no ambassador, and the new one arrived just as his
government proposed that Bolivian residents  in the United States obtain costly
visas to travel to their homeland.

"We want to have an open door,"  Ambassador Gustavo Guzman asserted. "People
here want us to maintain very good relations with the USA. They worry how close
we are becoming to Cuba and Venezuela. They tell us, 'Please be careful. If
relations are hurt, we will be the ones who suffer.' "

Yet even immigrants strongly opposed to Morales's views say they want to avert a
political crisis in their homeland, which has a long history of instability and
military coups.

"We are all Bolivians, and none of us wants to see a divided Bolivia," Williams
said. "I am not crazy about Morales, but we have to give him the benefit of the
doubt. All we ask is that he bring the country together, that he speak for all
Bolivians, not just some of us."

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              176 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 15, 2007 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

In Virginia, the Harm Of an Anti-Immigrant Bill

BYLINE: Nancy Lyall and Teresita Jacinto

SECTION: Editorial; A27

LENGTH: 764 words


A young mother who wants to support her first-grader and get a better-paying
job. A man in his late 50s who has diabetes  but no access to health care. A
16-year-old day laborer who is hungry and needs winter clothes. These and
thousands of others like them are the people who will be most harmed if Virginia
enacts House Bill 2937.

Last month, the House of Delegates voted 70 to 29 that no organization receiving
state or local funds "shall use those funds to provide benefits or assistance to
ineligible persons such as undocumented immigrants." As volunteers with the
Woodbridge Workers Committee in Prince William County, we regularly work with
members of the immigrant community and know the disastrous effects a cutoff of
state money could have for new immigrants who may lack official residency
paperwork.

The immigrant population in Prince William has risen significantly in the past
five years in response to the need for construction labor. Because no jobs were
available back home, many immigrants are here trying to provide for their loved
ones. The growing Northern Virginia economy not only thrives on their labor but
also would collapse without it.

Current federal immigration policy provides no legal avenue for their presence,
so many immigrant workers cross the border without authorization. Most of these
people are hardworking and focused on supporting their families. But if this
bill becomes law, not only will immigrants suffer but the organizations that try
to help them also will be compromised.

Let's look at the lives of some undocumented immigrants:

One gentleman in his late 50s has diabetes and had no access to health care. We
referred him to the Family Health Connections mobile clinic of Potomac Hospital,
where he was given advice and medicine to correct his failing health. Family
Health Connections is funded by public-private partnerships but also receives
significant state funding. Under the House bill, this man would have been denied
care and probably become seriously ill. He might have ended up in an emergency
room with his care ultimately  paid for by Virginia taxpayers.

Then there's the young mother with limited income who wanted to support her
first-grader's education and get a better-paying job. She found year-around
English classes right in her neighborhood through which she could learn to
communicate with her child's school, help her child complete assignments and
read simple books. She became a committed student,  attending class twice a
week. Under the House bill, the group that sponsors the classes would have to
deny this mother services or risk losing its nonprofit status.

A 16-year-old Totonac Indian with limited Spanish skills recently arrived from
his village in Puebla, Mexico. This young man had no winter clothes and hadn't
eaten in three days. We referred him to the Hilda Barg Homeless Shelter, where
he was fed and given warm clothes. The Hilda Barg center, which currently
provides assistance to all without question, plans to discontinue clothing and
food distributions if the House bill becomes law. This would be catastrophic for
all who count on the shelter for help, not just undocumented immigrants.

Organizations such as  Prince William Action in Community Through Service  and
the Salvation Army are among those that  could be affected if the House bill
becomes law. Although the Woodbridge Workers Committee is staffed entirely by
volunteers and has never sought or received state funding, this bill would
directly affect our work. Churches and other not-for-profit community groups
that assist us may withdraw their support. Some of these groups themselves
operate soup kitchens, participate in clothing drives, provide transportation or
housing, or otherwise assist immigrants. Most community service organizations
don't have the resources to implement the onerous regulations required by this
legislation. Although the bill stipulates that it would affect only people over
age 19, it would surely hurt  children the most, as their parents would be
denied any assistance.

It is scandalous to us that Del. Jackson Miller, who sponsored this bill, and
others would be so callous when it comes to hungry children, those with urgent
health-care needs and others who are struggling in this brutal winter. This is
the opposite of good public policy. We hope the Senate will rise above the
House's cynical political opportunism and soundly reject HB 2937.

Nancy Lyall is legal coordinator for the Woodbridge Workers Committee. Teresita
Jacinto  is the committee's education coordinator.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              177 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 15, 2007 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Deportations Rising

SECTION: Metro; B06

LENGTH: 90 words


Deportations by Department of Homeland Security, Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, and predecessor agencies:
  Fiscal                              Deportations
   Year
   2002                                  116,154
   2003                                  145,935
   2004                                  162,014
   2005                                  131,579
   2006       186,000   Daily average number of individuals in detention by
                          Immigration and Customs Enforcement:

  Fiscal                              In Detention
   Year
   2002                                  20,282
   2003                                  21,133
   2004                                  22,812
   2005    19,718 Notes: The fiscal year ends Sept. 30. Full figures for 2006
             were not available, but in September 2006, the daily average in
                                  detention was 27,521.

 SOURCE: Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              178 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 15, 2007 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A02

LENGTH: 472 words


SALT LAKE CITY  --  A shopping mall where five people were gunned down this week
reopened Wednesday, as authorities tried to figure out why a Bosnian immigrant
committed the rampage and how he got his hands on a gun.

FBI agent Patrick Kiernan in Salt Lake City said the bureau has no reason to
believe that Sulejman Talovic, 18, who was killed by police, was motivated by
religious extremism or intended an act of terrorism. "It's just unexplainable,"
Kiernan said. "He was just walking around and shooting everybody he saw."

Armed with a .38-caliber pistol, a shotgun and a backpack full of ammunition,
Talovic shot nine people, five fatally, at the Trolley Square shopping center
Monday before he was stopped by police, including an off-duty officer from
Ogden.

"We are Muslims, but we are not terrorists," said Ajka Omerovic, Talovic's aunt.

*  PAHRUMP, Nev.  --  The Pahrump Town Board has struck down a law that made
English the official language and barred residents from flying a foreign flag by
itself. The ordinance, which briefly put this growing desert community 60 miles
from Las Vegas in the middle of the national immigration debate, was enacted in
November but never enforced.

*  RALEIGH, N.C.  --  Former North Carolina House speaker Jim Black (D) resigned
from the legislature, and his attorney Ken Bell confirmed that he plans to plead
guilty to a federal corruption charge. Black, who chose not to run for a fifth
term as House speaker in December, was not in the chamber when a clerk read his
resignation letter.

*  TOPEKA, Kan.  --  An investigation into an abortion provider that was
initiated by the state's previous attorney general has been dropped, though the
official's successor has the option  to refile charges. The criminal charges
filed late last year by then-Attorney General Phill Kline against Wichita
physician George Tiller will not be reinstated, the Kansas Supreme Court ruled
Tuesday.

*  NEW ORLEANS  --  A grand jury was selected to investigate the deaths of four
patients at a sweltering, flooded hospital during Hurricane Katrina, an
assistant district attorney in New Orleans said. Anna Pou, a doctor, and nurses
Lori Budo and Cheri Landry were arrested after an investigation by the office of
Louisiana Attorney General Charles C. Foti Jr. Foti said the women killed
desperately ill patients with an injection of drugs after determining that they
were too ill or too incapacitated to be transported.

*  ST. LOUIS  --  True love may conquer all, but it was still pretty cold as
more than 100 couples tied the knot on Valentine's Day under the Gateway Arch.
Many of the brides wore wedding gowns and veils despite snow drifts and a wind
chill of minus-2. The wedding, billed as the largest in St. Louis history, was
organized by country radio station WIL-FM.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              179 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 19, 2007 Monday
                                 Final Edition

A Fair Shake;
Asylum from the asylum process

SECTION: Editorial; A18

LENGTH: 398 words


TWO YEARS AGO, the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom released a
report detailing the upsetting inconsistency with which immigration agents and
judges treat  foreigners seeking asylum in the United States. The study's
conclusion: Asylum seekers are often not given a fair chance to argue their
cases, putting legitimate claimants  --  especially those who can't contact a
lawyer  --  at risk of being sent back to their countries of origin, where they
face retribution from their  governments. This month,  the commission issued a
follow-up that included a report card on the government's progress since the
original study. Both the Department of Homeland Security and the Justice
Department earned a fair number of D's and F's from the bipartisan group.

In the 2005 report, the commission found that statements taken by immigration
officers early in the process were often incomplete and that claimants were
often not given the chance to correct them. Yet immigration judges heavily
relied on the statements to make their determinations. Access to legal counsel
was also found to be inconsistent, a major problem when, according to the
commission, asylum seekers with lawyers are about 11  times as  likely to have
their applications approved.

The commission has not conducted an exhaustive study examining the scale of
these problems since its 2005 report. Rather, the panel used the government's
sins of omission as evidence that the situation has not improved over the past
two years. It noted that the Department of Homeland Security in particular has
released little information on the progress, if any, it has made on implementing
many of the recommendations in the 2005 report.

Leaving aside some of the more controversial recommendations the commission
offered in its previous report  --  such as giving front-line officers the power
to grant asylum at an early stage  --  there is no good reason that, after two
years, Homeland Security has not been able to adopt much of the commission's
advice. This includes expanding video monitoring systems at border stations,
improving training and instruction of federal immigration agents, and ensuring
consistent access to pro bono legal services. If the government has made
progress, it should get credit. If it hasn't, the U.S. Commission on
International Religious Freedom, and Americans in general, should know.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              180 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 20, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Emotion vs. Reason on Immigration

SECTION: Editorial; A12

LENGTH: 193 words


The Feb. 15 op-ed by Nancy Lyall and Teresita Jacinto, "In Virginia, the Harm of
an Anti-Immigration Bill," was an emotional appeal on behalf of "new immigrants
who may lack official residency paperwork."

The authors stated that the sponsors of legislation regarding undocumented
immigrants that would limit the use of state funds "are callous when it comes to
hungry children, those with urgent health-care needs and others who are
struggling in this brutal winter."  Using their logic, one could conclude that
any artificial (that is, government-dictated) limit on immigration should be
abolished.

The Constitution gives Congress the authority to "establish a uniform rule of
naturalization." The Founders understood that it was in the best interest of the
nation to control who comes in  and under what circumstances. Perhaps the
authors should take their case to Congress and ask lawmakers  to amend the
Constitution to abolish all limits on immigration.

In the absence of such an effort, it is wrong to ask the Virginia legislature to
open the state's limited coffers to thousands who shouldn't be here in the first
place.

BILL RHATICAN

Alexandria

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              181 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 24, 2007 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Social Security Number As Mortgage Prerequisite

BYLINE: Kenneth H. Harney

SECTION: Real Estate; F01 , THE NATION'S HOUSING Kenneth H. Harney

LENGTH: 700 words


New legislation on Capitol Hill seeks to curb an increasingly popular mortgage
practice: providing home loans to applicants using their Individual Taxpayer
Identification Numbers (ITIN), in lieu of Social Security numbers.

ITINs are issued by the Internal Revenue Service to  immigrant workers who do
not qualify for Social Security numbers for use when they report their income
and pay federal taxes.

Dozens of banks around the country have begun offering home mortgages to
undocumented immigrants using ITINs, but their programs generally have been
low-key and small. Bank of America stirred controversy earlier this month when
it announced a pilot program in Los Angeles to provide credit cards to resident
immigrants who lack Social Security numbers but have ITINs.

Some critics charged that the bank was seeking to profit by helping illegal
immigrants who should be deported or prosecuted, not extended consumer credit.
Bank of America said its program is legal and may be rolled out nationwide if
the pilot is successful.

A bill (H.R. 480), introduced by Rep. John T. Doolittle (R-Calif.), would amend
the Truth in Lending Act to prohibit financial institutions from providing home
mortgages to anyone who does not have a Social Security number.

A statement from Doolittle's office said: "The government should not be in the
business of creating incentives to encourage illegal behavior. Nor should
companies be permitted to reward those individuals in clear violation of our
laws."

Proponents of ITIN-based lending to home buyers say Doolittle has it all wrong.
Timothy Sandos, president and chief executive of the National Association of
Hispanic Real Estate Professionals, said Doolittle's bill would be "extremely
disruptive" and affect far more people than the illegal immigrants the measure
is purported to target.

Sandos estimated that as many as 8 million resident aliens in the United States
do not have Social Security cards but are in some phase of the immigration
process leading to citizenship. That process can take more than eight years and
"meanwhile these individuals are working here, earning incomes, paying taxes,
contributing to the economy."

They "are not illegal, they are undocumented," Sandos said. "The government
knows exactly who they are and where they are." Doolittle's bill "is the
equivalent of trying to drive a tack with a sledgehammer," he said.

A study conducted by Sandos's group  --  which includes representatives of
banks, real estate firms, developers, home builders and real estate service
providers  --  concluded that if mortgage companies made more use of ITINs to
extend home loans to qualified buyers, $44 billion in new mortgages  --
primarily to first-time buyers  --  could be originated.

Geoffrey F. Cooper, director of emerging markets for MGIC Investment, a private
mortgage insurer, said lenders in about 40 states already grant mortgages to
customers using ITINs. MGIC's role is to provide insurance against losses to
lenders in the event borrowers default or go to foreclosure.

Cooper said his company's program was initiated at the request of community
banks and other local lending institutions that found that many of their
customers who lacked Social Security numbers but had ITINs earned solid incomes
and had stable employment histories and excellent payment histories on debt
obligations.

Under MGIC's program, underwriting standards are strict, with mandatory
documentation of income, assets, residency and other criteria  --  stricter
standards than many lenders impose on applicants who have Social Security cards.

Home buyers with ITIN mortgages "perform like 'A' credit borrowers," and they
qualify for MGIC's favorable 'A-premium' insurance rates because they are so
dependable, Cooper said.

Janis Bowdler, senior housing policy analyst for the National Council of La
Raza, a Hispanic advocacy group, said home buyers who use ITIN mortgages should
be seen simply as "hardworking, taxpaying families who want to participate in
the American dream," even if they do not yet have Social Security numbers
because of their immigration status.

Kenneth H. Harney's e-mail address is kenharney@earthlink.net.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              182 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 26, 2007 Monday
                                 Final Edition

A Symbolic Setback to Linking Pay With Performance

BYLINE: Stephen Barr

SECTION: Financial; D01 , FEDERAL DIARY Stephen Barr

LENGTH: 647 words


MaxHR is out.

Human Capital Operational Plan is in.

The name change at the Homeland Security Department reflects a new set of
priorities aimed at improving how thousands of Border Patrol, customs and
immigration officers are hired and how career leaders are chosen and trained.

But the name change  --  from trendy branding to prosaic government jargon  --
also can be taken as a symbol of how one of the Bush administration's signature
efforts to shake up the federal workforce lost momentum because of overly
ambitious goals, adverse court rulings and budget cuts.

The shift to the new plan means that a key goal of the Bush White House  --  to
use about 110,000 Homeland Security employees as a model for a rigorous pay
system with raises linked to job performance ratings  --  will not be completed
before the presidential election in 2008, leaving it to a new White House team
to forge on or abandon that effort.

Marta Brito Pérez, who became the department's chief human capital officer five
months ago, called the decision to adopt a new workforce management plan "the
right thing to do."

"It should be reassuring to the employees, employee representatives, the Hill
and the public," she added.

Instead of pushing forward on a department-wide performance-based pay system,
Homeland Security will set up a pilot project in 2008 focused on the
department's employees who work in intelligence. The pilot will be coordinated
with a pay initiative being developed by the director of national intelligence
for the government's primary intelligence agencies.

Because intelligence analysts are in high demand across government, the pilot
project should help the department stay competitive in hiring and pay while also
providing a test of Homeland Security's new performance management system. That
system calls for developing job goals for employees, tracking their
accomplishments and using job ratings to steer larger pay raises to the best
workers.

"There was a conscious decision that this organization needs to have a good
performance management program in place before pay can be linked to it," Perez
said. "We have to get this right."

If the pilot goes well, the department in 2009 could move to the next step:
shifting employees off the 15-grade General Schedule, a decades-old pay system
that the Bush administration faults as giving too many automatic pay raises to
federal workers, and into "pay bands" where salaries are more closely tied to
occupation and geographic location.

But changing pay rules at Homeland Security may prove difficult. Federal unions
have won court rulings that block the department's efforts to limit their
bargaining rights, and the department will probably have to negotiate with
unions over the design and implementation of a new pay system.

The unions and some employees are skeptical about revamping pay practices, in
part because they believe giving managers greater discretion over raises will
let them play favorites or use pay decisions to single out employees for
punitive actions.

Under the new plan, known as HCOP, the department will focus on hiring and
retaining a talented and diverse workforce, creating a "culture of performance,"
creating high-quality training programs and improving leadership development
programs.

Pérez said the department is not jettisoning MaxHR, which kicked off in February
2004. "We are moving beyond Max in areas that are keys to our success," she
said.

Still, she acknowledged in an interview, "every time someone mentions Max, their
eyes roll," apparently because it has become tainted by union lawsuits or
because it is no longer seen as living up to its catchy name.

"We're not going to be using the term MaxHR anymore," Pérez said. "Folks around
here don't seem to like it. It is not reflective of the things we are doing."

Stephen Barr's e-mail address is barrs@washpost.com.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              183 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 26, 2007 Monday
                                 Final Edition

At Customs and Border Protection, Always on the Lookout for a Passport-Toting
IMF Staffer

BYLINE: Al Kamen

SECTION: A Section; A13 , AL KAMEN

LENGTH: 971 words


U.S. citizens landing at our airports after trips abroad often are waved through
by Customs and Border Protection officials. Some may think this shows a lack of
vigilance. Not so.  Officials are on hyper-alert, 24-7. Ask Alex Segura, an
employee of the International Monetary Fund in Senegal and Gambia.

Segura, a Spanish citizen, was headed to Washington on Jan. 28 for an IMF
executive board meeting at headquarters here the next day. But after a 10-hour
flight, he was detained by immigration officials in Atlanta and held for seven
hours, even though he had a valid Spanish passport and a highly coveted G-4 visa
for employees of international agencies, according to an e-mail we received the
other day from Takatoshi Kato, the IMF's deputy managing director.

We're told he even had his beautiful, sky-blue U.N. "laissez-passer" passport,
which, while useful perhaps in other countries when the military is banging
people around, is of absolutely no use here.

Then, instead of letting him go on to Washington, immigration officials put him
on a plane back to Dakar, Senegal, Kato said, noting that this was a
"distressing incident."

Turns out this was not the first time immigration officials have barred Segura
from entering the country. In March 2004, he was held at Dulles Airport for
several hours while his pregnant wife waited for him. He was eventually allowed
in.

After that, IMF officials raised the issue with U.S. officials, Kato said, and
had "measures" put in place to "prevent such an incident from recurring."

The IMF is trying to figure out once more what's going on. "However, we do know
that it is not related to any general change in policy that would potentially
affect other staff," Kato wrote.

So maybe it's that Osama T-shirt?

Compared with  Baghdad, Kabul is the picture of serenity, an oasis of calm. But
that doesn't mean folks don't get jittery from time to time. Thursday, for
example, there was heightened concern about a rally the next day calling for
amnesty for war criminals.

Some of the 25,000 people rallying at the Ghazi soccer stadium  --  where the
ever-charming Taliban used to torture and behead people  --  were former
fighters against the Soviets, top government officials and, of course,
interested war criminals.

Security officials for one NGO alerted all employees to be careful.
"International organizations in Kabul are locking down for tomorrow," an e-mail
alert said. "We will do likewise and hence there will be no movement except for
essential travel tomorrow." In addition, more guards would be posted and cars
and drivers  would be ready "in case evacuation is required."

Keep your cellphones charged and on, the e-mail advised, "though it is likely
that the network will go down if there is serious trouble." And please have a
bag packed with your passport, prescriptions, phone and phone charger along with
some cash, a flashlight, a pocket knife, a jacket and a "scarf/cloth that can
double as bandage/tourniquet."

"Tourniquet"? Well, turns out it was a peaceful demonstration, according to BBC
News, with just some youths who later "marched through the streets" shouting the
requisite "death to America."

In the end, no big deal. Something like College Park after a big Terrapins win.

This e-mail came in Friday from Allyn Brooks-LaSure, press secretary for Sen.
Robert Menendez (D-N.J.):

Our office is moving on Monday. We will be relocating to Hart 317  --  Senator
Martinez's old office.

Please  --  no jokes.

Many Loop Fans have expressed a deep sense of loss over the absence of former
senator Bill "Dr. Video" Frist (R-Tenn.) from Washington events. Well, we're
happy to report you can stay in touch with the former majority leader, now
blogger extraordinaire, at his PAC Web site, VOLPAC.org.

In an e-mail Friday, he reports that he's back from his "Africa Medical Mission"
in Darfur. "Karyn and I had an amazing trip," he writes. "I am pulling together
notes from the trip and will email you with more detail soon. I hope you'll
visit the site and keep up with our journey. I've posted new blogs from my trip
as well as new photos." Excellent photos. They show the Frists touring refugee
camps, various health facilities and some with Frist, M.D., talking to patients
and even assisting in medical procedures.

Meanwhile, Frist has taken to blogging and does so regularly. In one entry last
month, titled "Stand Firm," he says "it is time to rally around President Bush
and unify behind his plan to curb the violence in Baghdad and Anbar province."
Maybe it won't work completely, he acknowledges, but "that should not lessen our
resolve."

So where is he going with all this? "I am working now to identify and encourage
conservative, forward looking Republicans to run for office," he says. "I'm also
carefully reviewing each of our 21 Republican Senate incumbent races and will
soon identify those campaigns which most need our investment."

This is called not retiring from public life, staying visible for the future,
gathering chits for, well, for when you might need them. So stop pining, it will
be great to have him back.

U.S. officials at the United Nations were steaming last week after they found a
photo on the Web site of the U.N. Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian
Affairs. The photo showed a billboard of an elephant with a U.N. logo on its
side, hobbled by an American flag wrapped around its front legs.

The billboard aims to symbolize the deadly impact of sanctions on ordinary
people, and the accompanying article is very critical of sanctions, saying there
is "an increasingly difficult dilemma for the United Nations' dual mandate of
preserving peace and protecting human needs."

Problem is, Washington is now pushing for new sanctions on Iran for its
continued nuclear program.

Hey, beats all-out war.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              184 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 27, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrants Rally to Support 3 Bills

BYLINE: Lisa Rein, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B03

LENGTH: 551 words


More than 1,200 Latino and Asian immigrants and their advocates took to the
State House last night to press Maryland lawmakers to expand their rights and
fight legislation they say would take them away.

The rally, coordinated by CASA of Maryland, drew many day laborers, restaurant
workers, housekeepers, nannies and other low-wage earners who could not take
time off from their jobs during the day. Organizers said their sixth annual
lobby day in Annapolis reflected a sense of urgency over federal efforts to
crack down on illegal immigration, although the Maryland General Assembly has
historically rejected such legislation.

A handful of bills related to immigration have been proposed in the legislature
this year.

Advocates point to an ally in the new Democratic administration. "It was very
clear during his campaign that Governor [Martin] O'Malley recognized that one in
10 Marylanders was born in another country," said Kim Propeack, CASA's advocacy
director.

Lt. Gov. Anthony G. Brown (D) and his wife, Patricia Arzuaga rallied the crowd
gathered on Lawyers Mall, speaking in English and Spanish. "My father came from
Jamaica," Brown said. "My parents found in this country a land of opportunity,
founded on a good education." He said he and O'Malley (D) support a bill that
would allow illegal immigrants to receive in-state tuition at community colleges
and state universities. The crowd roared.

Arzuaga said her parents came to New York from Puerto Rico looking for a better
life for their children. "All of you have history," she said. "It's also my
history."

Before the rally, organizers fanned out to lawmakers' offices to push for
passage of three bills. One would dramatically boost state funding for English
as a second language classes to $24 million from $3.8 million. O'Malley has said
he would sign the tuition bill, which requires students to have graduated from a
Maryland high school. A similar measure passed the General Assembly four years
ago, but Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. (R) vetoed it.

The most far-reaching measure would block the state from implementing a federal
law passed after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks to tighten security requirements
for driver's licenses. One controversial provision of the federal measure would
require applicants to verify their immigration status.

The driver's license plan, Real ID, is scheduled to take effect in 2008. Costs
to states to comply are estimated at $11 billion. "It's strictly an unfunded
mandate," said Sen. Jennie M. Forehand (D-Montgomery), Senate sponsor of a bill
to block the law, which could cost Maryland $150 million. Opponents say the
changes would also create big bureaucracies and long waits as driver's licenses
are reissued.

General Assembly Republicans, however, have proposed legislation to speed up the
law's implementation in Maryland.

"The legislation has already passed, and trying to kill it is not going work,"
said Del. Patrick L. McDonough (R-Baltimore County), who is sponsoring a bill to
add a 5 percent surcharge to electronic bank transfers to Mexico from anyone in
Maryland, whether a legal or illegal resident.

Organizers said a majority of the immigrants who rallied last night are in the
country legally. But they said there are an estimated 250,000 undocumented
workers in Maryland.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              185 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 6, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

In Diversity Push, Top Universities Enrolling More Black Immigrants;
Critics Say Effort Favors Elite Foreigners, Leaves Out Americans

BYLINE: Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A02

LENGTH: 1095 words


The nation's most elite colleges and universities are bolstering their black
student populations by enrolling large numbers of immigrants from Africa, the
West Indies and Latin America, according to a study published recently in the
American Journal of Education.

Immigrants, who make up 13 percent of the nation's college-age black population,
account for more than a quarter of black students at Ivy League and other
selective universities, according to the study, produced by Princeton University
and the University of Pennsylvania.

The large representation of black immigrants developed as schools' focus shifted
from  restitution for decades of excluding black Americans from campuses to
embracing wider diversity, the study's authors said. The more elite the school,
the more black immigrants are enrolled.

"A lot of these institutions have been promoting the increase in their black
populations, but clearly this increase reflects a growth in their black
immigrant populations," said Camille Z. Charles, an associate professor of
sociology at the University of Pennsylvania who co-authored the study.

Black American scholars such as Henry Louis Gates and Lani Guinier, two Harvard
University professors, have said that white educators are skirting long-held
missions to resolve historic wrongs against native black Americans by enrolling
immigrants who look like them.

In an interview, Guinier said that the chasm has less to do with immigrants and
more to do with admissions officers who rely on tests that wealthier students,
including black immigrants, can afford to prepare for.

"In part, it has to do with coming from a country, especially those educated in
Caribbean and African countries, where blacks were in the majority and did not
experience the stigma that black children did in the United States," Guinier
said. "The fathers of these students tend to be much better educated. This is
not just true of immigrants from Africa and the Caribbean, this is true across
the board. We have an admissions system that prefers wealth, that rewards wealth
and calls it merit."

Officials at several top  universities, including Harvard,  the University of
North Carolina and Princeton, did not respond to calls or e-mail messages
seeking comment on the study.

The University of Pennsylvania's dean of admissions, Lee Stetson, said that
although the university takes note of students' backgrounds, "we do not focus
specifically on whether students are Caribbean American, African American or
African. We do not involve ourselves with exact roots.

"They bring diversity to the campus," Stetson said. "We try to find students
from all walks of life, including African American students who have their roots
in the southeastern United States."

The study relied on data from the National Longitudinal Survey of Freshmen,
which included 1,028 black students, 281 of whom were immigrants. Black
immigrants were defined as students who emigrated  directly from Africa or the
Caribbean, including countries such as Guyana that are on the South American
continent and nations in the black diaspora or their American-born sons and
daughters.

Stanford, Duke, Columbia, Vanderbilt and Harvard universities had the highest
percentages of black students in their fall 2006 freshman classes, according to
the Journal of Blacks in Higher Education. The percentage of black freshmen at
elite colleges and universities ranged from a high of 12.3 percent at the
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill to 1.4 percent at the California
Institute of Technology.

The study's authors  considered several possibilities to explain the large
number of immigrant students. They noted that black immigrants tend to come from
the uppermost  classes of their native land and tend to be highly motivated to
succeed. The authors also considered that black immigrants posted higher grades
and test scores, and that admissions officers were impressed by their work
ethic.

But the final theory, based on previous research by Nancy Foner and George M.
Fredrickson, who co-wrote a 2004 study on immigration, ethnicity and race, was
the most provocative.

"To white observers," they wrote, "black immigrants seem more polite, less
hostile, more solicitous and 'easier to get along with.' Native blacks are
perceived in precisely the opposite fashion."

On campus, native black Americans and immigrant students both embrace and
wrestle with diversity. At the University of Georgia, native black American and
African students met in the student union two years ago to discuss an emotional
topic, "Where's the Africa in African American?" They were quiet at first,
senior Oluwatoyin Mayaki recalled, but with some coaxing, the black American
students spoke up.

"They were saying, 'I don't think it's fair that you get affirmative action like
we do,' " said Mayaki, the American daughter of Nigerian parents. " 'This
country was built on my parents' backs, not on your parents' backs. You didn't
go through the years of slavery, discrimination or the civil rights movement.' "

Mayaki  counts many black Americans as friends, but that was not always so. As a
child, she was steered away from black Americans by her protective Yoruban
mother, who emigrated  from Nigeria in the 1980s.

"My mom wouldn't let me go next door for a sleepover with African American kids,
but I could go five houses down to Asian houses. I kind of got along better with
foreigners," she said. "You don't go to parties. You don't go to movies. You
just study, stay at home, do your chores. My Indian and Asian friends got it.
All my other friends, they never got it."

At Rutgers University in New Jersey, Ghanaian immigrant Abena Busia  said that
drawing distinctions between black Americans and Africans is divisive and
dangerous.

"What disturbs me . . . is it immediately casts African Americans as
unmotivated," she said. "It's like a good Negro, bad Negro syndrome and I reject
it. It creates more problems than necessary. It's also a myth."

Busia grew up in Ghana's upper classes, was educated at Oxford University and
received  additional education in the United States. Regardless, she said, U.S.
immigration laws were stacked against her and other ethnic immigrants.

"Look at me. Even with all my degrees, when I adopted my daughter in Ghana it
took more than seven years to get her here," she said. "They lost my papers
twice. I had my fingerprints taken three or four times. You have to do this and
. . . that. This country . . . has always been an inhospitable place for
Africans to enter."

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              186 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 7, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Escaping a Painful Past To Find a Shaky Future;
Iraqi Man Who Fled Hussein's Regime Awaits Fate After Failed Asylum Bid

BYLINE: Brigid Schulte, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 1437 words


Hussein Hayal al Zaidi says he spent nearly four years in jail in Saddam
Hussein's Iraq, once in a 13-by-13-foot cell with 20 other men. His captors
blindfolded him and pummeled his eyes, detaching one of his retinas. He has
scars on his ankles, feet and hands from where they strung him up with ropes and
beat him. His genitalia bear the marks of electric shock burns.

He was sentenced to death in 1999 for participating in an anti-Hussein riot, al
Zaidi said. An uncle paid $7,000 to smuggle him out of jail and out of Iraq. He
was flown from Syria to Moscow to Cuba to Ecuador before arriving at an airport
in Newark, disoriented and ill. He asked for asylum.

An immigration officer in Newark believed his story and let him stay. But an
immigration judge in Arlington County, who heard final arguments on his case 10
days after Sept. 11, 2001, did not believe him.

She ordered him deported.

But, like 165 others, the Northern Virginia man cannot be deported. Since the
war in Iraq began in 2003, the United States has followed a United Nations
directive not to forcibly return Iraqis to their country because it is too
dangerous.

Al Zaidi's fate was decided at a time when places such as Anbar province,
Nasiriyah and Ramallah had yet to become almost household words. Trial
transcripts show that U.S. immigration prosecutors and judges had little idea
what a Sunni or a Shiite was or why they would want to kill one another.

Since then, al Zaidi has become part of the largest refugee crisis unfolding in
the Middle East in decades, with one in eight Iraqis having fled their homes or
the country. In the process, he has become one more story of the fallout of war.

When al Zaidi's appeal of the deportation order was denied in September 2005,
immigration officials picked him up at his job at a laundromat and put him in
jail, where he stayed until June. He was released, because detainees who can't
be deported but pose no threat can't be held for more than six months.

So al Zaidi, 39, lives like a dangling man, in limbo between the hell of his
past and fears of a hellish future. In the United States, government officials
had suspected he might be an agent of Hussein. In Iraq, he fears that his
countrymen, suspicious of his long absence, will think he works for the CIA.

"Of course they're going to kill me," he said in accented English. If not the
Shiite militia already asking about him, then the Sunnis or Hussein loyalists.
"But I am already dead."

Before he was detained, when he still had hope of staying in the United States,
al Zaidi saved money. He thought about buying a house and having a family. He
listened to English-language tapes. But now, nothing matters. He started smoking
unfiltered Marlboros again. He spends his days watching television, not really
paying attention. On a whim, he bought a new car.

"I don't know what I'm doing," he said. "Before, I was careful. But now, for
what? Let me enjoy."

Except that he doesn't.

Since his release, he has lived with a friend in a bare townhouse in Vienna,
furnished with two white plastic chairs and a TV. The laundromat doesn't want
him anymore. Because of his immigration status, the community college he had
hoped to attend will not take him. He doesn't eat, except for coffee and nibbles
of junk food, such as the packets of Oreos and Mentos strewn on the floor of his
room among piles of legal papers. His bed is a sheet on the floor, his pillow a
rolled-up winter jacket.

Sometimes, in the middle of the night, he is seized with the notion that he must
see the ocean. He goes to Atlantic City. He watches the waves. He doesn't
understand what is happening to him.

"It's like I destroy my life."

Some people have believed al Zaidi. A doctor at George Washington University
concluded that al Zaidi "did indeed suffer the torture and abuse that he
claims." And a psychoanalyst diagnosed him with post-traumatic stress disorder,
writing that "he has suffered a process of brutal human degradation."

In February 2001, he told his story on the stand in U.S. immigration court in
Arlington. Al Zaidi said he had been drafted into the Army, like all other Iraqi
men, and served as a mail clerk during the Iran-Iraq war.

His first arrest, he said through a translator, came in 1991 for participating
in an uprising against Hussein after the Persian Gulf War. When his mother tried
to bar police officers from their home, they hit her in the head, he said, and
killed her.

He said he was arrested in 1996 for having writings of a Shiite cleric in his
house. In 1999, he said he was arrested after he and other Shiites shouted
anti-Hussein slogans after their leader, cleric Mohammed Sadeq al Sader, was
assassinated.

Prosecutors had relatively minor questions about the case. "You still hopeful
you can reach agreement in this case?" Judge Joan Churchill asked prosecutors,
according to a court transcript  --  meaning that they would agree to asylum.

"Yes," the prosecutor answered.

Then, in March, Churchill received an anonymous note that said that while al
Zaidi was in Iraq, he was "working as secret service" for Hussein and that he
was sent to the United States to kill high-level officials.

A new prosecutor submitted pages from "Saddam's Bombmaker," a book by Iraqi
exile Khidhir Hamza, who claimed to have run Hussein's nuclear weapons program.
Hamza wrote that during the Iran-Iraq war, Hussein used Shiite soldiers as human
mine detonators. Therefore, prosecutors said, al Zaidi must have had special
ties to get a desk job.

Assertions in the book were later questioned by a number of former U.N. weapons
inspectors, Iraqi scientists and Iraqi military officers.

The author of the letter, determined to be al Zaidi's roommate in Arlington at
the time, Khalid Houmadi, testified that al Zaidi's trip to the United States
was financed by Hussein, but he admitted to regularly loaning al Zaidi money.

Churchill sided against al Zaidi. She said she thought his escape through Russia
and Cuba was "suspicious," her written decision says. She dismissed the GWU
doctor's exam and physical evidence of al Zaidi's torture, saying that it might
"be consistent with other causes."

And she said Houmadi "cast considerable doubt upon the credibility of crucial
aspects of [al Zaidi's] claim."

Al Zaidi went into a rage. Houmadi was just out to get him, he said. Before
writing the letter, Houmadi had threatened to attack a man, and al Zaidi had
said that he would report him.

Months later, Houmadi attacked the man. And, as promised, al Zaidi testified
against him. Elliot Casey, an assistant commonwealth's attorney in Alexandria,
wrote a letter to Churchill, saying that the court found al Zaidi's testimony
"completely credible." Houmadi was sentenced to 10 months.

Karla Harr, an attorney for al Zaidi, appealed his case in 2002. It was denied
in a one-sentence opinion by one judge, a product of the Department of Justice's
new policy of "streamlining" asylum cases. Before, a three-judge panel had
reviewed asylum appeals. Under streamlining, the amount of overturned decisions
dropped from 25 percent to less than 5 percent, according to studies by the
American Bar Association and the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights.

"The complexity of the issues involved in this case demanded a three-panel
review, " Harr said.

Al Zaidi was in the process of filing an appeal when he was detained in late
2005. In May 2006, in detention and on a one-month hunger strike, al Zaidi asked
for his appeal to be dropped because he thought it would get him out. His
attorney assured him that it wouldn't and that he would be released soon because
of the rule that says that detainees who pose no threat can't be held for more
than six months. But al Zaidi said he had to get out. He dropped his appeal.

"They punish me too much." He was released in June.

Al Zaidi sat in front of the TV in the spare townhouse. The announcer mentioned
Nasiriyah, where he was born. "It's very beautiful there," he said absently.

He is officially under an order of supervision and is waiting for the U.S.
government to send him back to Iraq. Once a month, he must check in with his
supervisor at the Department of Homeland Security.

He goes to a Panera Bread restaurant where other Arabs and Iraqis hang out. He
even sees Houmadi there from time to time. "He apologized to me," al Zaidi said,
shrugging.

"I'm really, really tired," he said. And the nightmares come if he tries to
sleep. He no longer prays. "It's like I can't find myself."

And so the dangling man with the story that was not believed went out for
cigarettes.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              187 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 10, 2007 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Prisoners to Work Colorado Fields;
Attempt to Supply Workers Is Criticized by All Sides of Immigration Debate

BYLINE: Sonya Geis, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A02

LENGTH: 820 words


Ever since Colorado passed tough immigration laws last year, farmers have
worried that the immigrant laborers they depend on to plant and harvest their
crops will not  show up in the fields this season. So, a state legislator has
proposed a novel idea: Send in the prisoners.

In a pilot program officials hope to roll out before the May planting season,
minimum-security prison inmates will work five farms in  southeastern  Colorado
to fill in for migrant workers. The inmates will earn the state's standard
prison pay of 60 cents per day.

Critics from every side of the immigration debate have called  Colorado's plan a
deeply flawed stopgap solution to the chronic labor shortage, which afflicts
agriculture from New York's apple orchards to Oregon's Christmas tree farms.

"One generation ago here in Oregon, the crops were picked by high school kids,"
said Gordon Lafer, associate professor of political science and labor studies at
the University of Oregon. Now, he said, the inmate program tells workers, "for
all those industries that couldn't move to Mexico or China, we're going to bring
those conditions to you."

"The basic problem is that the pay is so low that it's difficult for people to
accept those jobs," said Charles Tafoya, executive director of Rocky Mountain
Service, Employment, Redevelopment, a job training agency in Denver. "If farm
work paid a livable wage like any other industry, they wouldn't have that
problem."

Those who want to restrict immigration tend to agree that farm wages are too
low.

"Like illegal immigration, using inmate labor is simply forestalling or
preventing the ultimate solution to this problem, which is, a) to let wages and
benefits rise, and, b) at the same time, to mechanize," said Steven A. Camarota,
director of research at the Center for Immigration Studies, which supports more
restrictions on immigration.

"If the goal of illegal immigration is to allow a tiny number of
undercapitalized farms to continue to eke out a living for another few years,
then boy, that's a strange national policy," he added.

The inmate program has  precedents. In Arizona, about 60 prisoners worked in
watermelon fields last year, filling in for migrant workers. Iowa legislators
have expressed interest in copying Colorado's program.

Colorado's plan calls for supervised teams to plant, weed and harvest on farms
in Pueblo County. Farmers will contract with the state for the labor, paying the
cost of transportation and guards.

State Rep. Dorothy Butcher (D-Pueblo) is the architect of the prisoner program.
She  also voted for Colorado's new immigration laws, which require residents to
prove they are  in the country legally to receive benefits such as in-state
tuition or business licenses. "A lot of [immigrants] have felt threatened, and
aren't coming," Butcher said. "We can't let the agriculture business just dry
up."

About 78 percent of the nation's 1.8 million agricultural workers are
immigrants, according to Department of Labor statistics. The majority are in the
country illegally.

"Thousands of immigrants and their families have left Colorado in the past
year," Julien Ross, coordinator of the Colorado Immigrant Rights Coalition,
said. Some of those are legal immigrants who do not understand the law and fear
they could be deported for just a speeding ticket or other minor offense, Tafoya
said.

Phil Prutch, one of the Colorado farmers  negotiating with the state to use
convict labor on his 250 acres of sweet corn, peppers, tomatoes and melons, said
he pays workers all he can afford  --  $6.85 an hour, or Colorado's minimum
wage. He said he needs workers to fill 10 to 20 jobs this season, and does not
expect immigrants to fill them all.

But even he is lukewarm to the idea of replacing immigrant labor with convicts.

"It's not a fix," Prutch said. "The people we hire  --  most people don't think
much of them, but they're skilled labor. A person who doesn't know what they're
doing can ruin you in a day."

Ari Zavarasl, executive director of the Colorado Department of Corrections,
said inmates are already used to  tame wild horses, build furniture and work in
a dairy, and should be able to adapt to farm work.

"They will be learning some work skills," Zavaras said. "One could raise the
question of, 'How marketable is working in the fields?' But you'd be surprised
how many inmates we have who've never held a job. And if we can teach them they
have to be up, ready to go for a day's work, that's a step in the right
direction."

Immigrant advocates and farmers  say agriculture jobs would be filled if
Congress passed a guest-worker program, such as the Agricultural Job
Opportunity, Benefits and Security Act. AgJobs, as the bill is known, would
allow undocumented farmworkers already in the U.S. to become legal permanent
residents.

"The federal government needs to get off their heinies and get something done,"
Prutch said.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              188 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 13, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Anonymity of Death Echoes Life For Undocumented Latino Immigrants;
Unidentified Bodies Are a Growing Challenge for Authorities

BYLINE: Theresa Vargas, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1443 words


Etched on the ring on the dead man's finger were a woman's name and a date, and
that is how Virginia Chief Medical Examiner Marcella Fierro knows he had a wife,
perhaps children  --  that in life, he was somebody to someone.

Not so in death.

When the Hispanic man came to Fierro's morgue in Richmond, he had no name, no
address and no one to claim him. Over the years, a forensic artist would
construct a clay bust of him, police would circulate his picture in the Latino
community and embassies' officials would reach out overseas. But with no leads,
never a hint at a name, the man would remain unidentified  --  no one to nobody.

"I would love to send him home," Fierro said. "We recognize there is probably
someone out there looking for him, and we're looking for them. But it's like two
ships passing in the night."

There have always been people who are difficult, or impossible, to identify
after death, including the homeless and crime victims who are purposely hidden.
But law-enforcement officials are seeing an increasing number from another
group: Hispanic immigrants, most probably undocumented. Many don't carry
identification, and, if they do, the name is often false. And when a real name
does surface, investigators say, other identification hurdles await: no
fingerprints on file, no school records, no dental history and, sometimes, no
one wanting to claim them  --  or someone too afraid to.

In Montgomery County, a man from Honduras had been using his brother's name when
he was found dead in a parking lot. In Fairfax County, a Mexican man died when a
detached garage that he and others had huddled in for heat caught fire. The case
of a man who was found shot, lying partially dressed near a canoe launch in
2002, continues to stump Richmond authorities.

No one keeps count of how many immigrants go unidentified each year, and without
a name, it is nearly impossible to know whether they are illegal. But
law-enforcement officials say that as the foreign-born population has increased,
so have these types of cases. Hispanics pose special investigative challenges
because of their hesitation to deal with authorities for fear of deportation and
the sparse paper trail of their existence. Because so many don't want to be on
the radar in life, they fall off it in death.

About a third of the region's foreign-born population is Hispanic, but Hispanics
make up more than half of the undocumented population, said Jeffrey S. Passel of
the Pew Hispanic Center. In a forthcoming study, the Urban Institute estimates
that in 2003 and 2004, 345,000 illegal  immigrants lived in the region.

Ricardo Juarez of Mexicans Without Borders said this group's vulnerability in
death starts with its tentative position in life. Because they fear deportation,
they avoid police. And because they cannot obtain legitimate licenses but must
get to work, they carry false ones, he said. "People do things like that because
they are scared," Juarez said. "It's a survival skill." As far as the
consequences of going unidentified after death, he added: "It's a symptom that
something is not right."

Two young Hispanic men, one possibly a teenager, were just skeletons when they
were found in a wooded area off Interstate 95 in Caroline County, Va. They wore
Rustler jeans and western-style shirts with pearl buttons. The older man wore a
belt with the name Silvano and a pendent of the Virgin Mary that says in
Spanish, "Pray for us."

"How they got there, I got no idea," said James R. Lyons, a special agent with
the Virginia State Police. "Where they were going? Where they were coming from?
No idea."

Detectives say they often work backward when investigating these cases, whether
unattended natural deaths, homicides or traffic fatalities. A Mexican flag on a
belt buckle might lead them to the Mexican Embassy. A CVS card in a pocket might
lead them to a place that might then lead them to a friend who might know a
relative. They check missing person reports, run fingerprints through criminal
and government databases and sometimes file "Black Notices" with international
police.

Often, they seek out someone like Catyana Skory.

A forensic artist for the Prince William County police, Skory ensures that even
if people are nameless, they are not faceless. She can look at a skull and
sketch what the person might have looked like.

Prince William police struggled in November to identify a young woman who was
one of four victims of a fatal accident on Route 28. Possibly in her 20s, she
had full lips, a broad nose and almond-shaped eyes. She was known only by the
nickname "Ingrid." Lt. Chris Feather, who heads the crash unit, said police
followed several leads but repeatedly met resistance from a community known to
distrust authorities.

"We'd call and ask a pointed question, and they'd hang up," Feather said.

After Skory's sketch was published in several newspapers, police learned that
the woman was a 17-year-old from Honduras living in the area without relatives.
An acquaintance identified her, police said.

Although most John and Jane Does are eventually identified, sometimes after
weeks or months, others will lie nameless in the morgue until space runs out,
then will be turned over to local authorities for burial or cremation.

At the end of last year, the bodies of three unidentified men, believed to be
immigrants, lay in the Northern Virginia medical examiner's office, said William
H. Whildin, a former Fairfax detective who is an investigator for the Fairfax
office.

Medical examiners must also stray from normal means of investigation.
Fingerprints are one of the first things they use to try to identify someone,
then dental records.

"But where do I go to get those records?" Whildin asked.

The difficulty, he said, starts at the beginning, with a name that never seems
to be correct.

"That creates major problems for everything: death certificates, autopsy
reports, the lab reports," he said. "The same thing with age. Are they really
35?"

In May, park police in Wheaton found a dead man in a parking lot. Police got a
name and age  --  Roque Jacinto Rivera, 33  --  but when they called family
members in Honduras to notify them, they were told the name belonged to the
man's dead brother, said Blanca Kling, the Hispanic liaison in Montgomery
County. The man's real name was Josue Lagos-Rivera, and he was 30.

Kling also notified a family after a Hispanic man was hit by a car. He was a
John Doe for several weeks; the family never reported him missing because he was
known to disappear for days at a time, she said.

"When we went to the house, I asked them if they knew where their father was.
They said he always went to visit his friend," she said. "They were devastated."

Fierro said part of the reason many immigrants go unidentified and unclaimed is
that there is no central database for families to search. Information such as
fingerprints and dental information are entered into the National Crime
Information Center, but the public cannot search it without a law enforcement
official's help, she said. Some states have detailed databases for unidentified
bodies, but Fierro said that doesn't help a woman in Mexico who has not heard
from her husband in two months and does not know where he last lived.

"Families can find anything they want on eBay. Why shouldn't they be able to
find their person?" she said. "The odds are there is someone out there caring
and looking and wondering what happened to their person. And it's entirely
possible he could be sitting in someone's morgue."

She thinks that is what happened to the man with the ring.

"That's him," said Fierro, motioning to the green-hued clay bust gathering dust
on a top shelf in a conference room. "He's been sitting there, sitting there,
sitting there and sitting there."

The man, who was shot and left on the side of Interstate 95 in Hanover County,
came to Fierro in 1982. He would be the first of several unidentified, unclaimed
Hispanic people her office would deal with over the years, and his case bothers
her to this day.

She estimates that he is between 25 and 40. He was wearing a gold crucifix and a
Seiko watch with the dates in Spanish, which tells her he was more comfortable
in that language. The name Lucy and the date 4-14-75 are on his ring. The
clothes he was wearing the day he died are draped on the bust: a thick white
knit sweater over a baby blue T-shirt that reads, "Someone went to Florida and
all I got was this lousy T-shirt."

"He has all these attachments. That's what makes you crazy," Fierro said. "He
has a wedding ring. He wears a watch. He has a sweater that only a wife would
buy."

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              189 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 17, 2007 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                                Regional Edition

Hypocrisy on Immigration;
A raid in New England reveals a broken system.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 718 words


THE HYPOCRISY of U.S. immigration law was on lurid display last week in a raid
on a defense contractor in New England. Accompanied by dogs and a helicopter
swooping overhead, hundreds of Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents
charged into Michael Bianco Inc., a leather-goods factory in New Bedford, Mass.,
that makes backpacks, ammunition pouches and other gear for GIs.

When the dust settled, the agents had arrested some 360 illegal immigrant
employees at the plant, many of them women from Guatemala and other Central
American nations. The workers had toiled in sweatshop conditions that allegedly
included draconian restrictions on bathroom breaks, toilet paper supply, and
snacking and talking at their workstations. They were seized, handcuffed,
questioned and, in about 200 cases, whisked away to detention centers in New
Mexico and Texas without regard to their roots in the community, their spouses
or their children, including American-born children who are U.S. citizens.

Amid the pandemonium, families and communities were split, and children were
left with babysitters, relatives, siblings or other families. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement insisted it had released about 60 of the immigrants --
including nursing mothers and sole or primary caregivers for young children --
for "humanitarian" reasons. But reports of confusion and mistakes were common,
and state officials said scores of children were separated from their parents.
In one case, doctors treated an 8-month-old baby, Keylyn Zusana Lopez Ayala, for
pneumonia and possible dehydration after her mother was detained and unable to
breast-feed her. Keylyn is an American citizen. Three days after the raid, a
federal judge was sufficiently concerned that he barred immigration officials
from transporting any more detainees out of state. The raid, said Massachusetts
Gov. Deval L. Patrick (D), "reflects, for me, not what this country is about."

Federal officials have been under mounting pressure to enforce immigration laws,
and there have been other sweeps recently. But even if such raids net tens of
thousands of illegal immigrants, they will not seriously address the issue of 12
million undocumented immigrants. Few Americans have the stomach for mass
deportations, and few politicians support such a policy.

Among the absurdities revealed by the raid, consider the following: Because the
factory held military contracts worth more than $90 million, the Pentagon
maintained a quality control office there, staffed by an inspector who must have
known or suspected the plant employed hundreds of undocumented immigrants.
Apparently the inspector was operating under a "don't ask, don't tell" policy,
and for good reason -- the federal government, like so many other enterprises,
depends on illegal immigrant labor.

Or consider the factory owner, Francesco Insolia, who has been charged with
conspiring to recruit and hire illegal immigrants, and with imposing harsh
workplace conditions. He was arrested along with plant managers but was released
the next day in time to make a scheduled business trip to Puerto Rico. In his
first public statement after his release, Mr. Insolia noted in his own defense
that the Pentagon inspector "interacted with our workers without incident or
complaint."

Activists who oppose illegal immigration say undocumented workers take jobs from
U.S. citizens. But it's unlikely that many native-born Americans would have put
up with the conditions at the New Bedford factory. The activists argue that
state and local governments should take matters into their own hands by
cooperating with federal authorities and harassing immigrants with get-tough
laws. In this case that would have meant interfering with a firm that furnishes
combat troops with vital supplies.

Cruel, self-defeating and illogical, the New Bedford raid is an inelegant
example of how badly this country needs a clear-eyed immigration policy, one
that provides not only for tough enforcement but also humane protections and a
path to citizenship for immigrants who have put down roots and contributed to
the national economy. The current regimen is a blight -- on immigrants who need
the work, on employers who need the labor, and on a nation whose ideals of fair
play and image as a welcoming and caring place are seriously at risk.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

CORRECTION-DATE: March 22, 2007



CORRECTION: A March 17 editorial on the arrest of 360 illegal immigrants at a
leather-goods factory in New Bedford, Mass., misstated the number of detainees
subsequently released for humanitarian reasons by Immigration and Customs
Enforcement. ICE released 90 detainees for humanitarian causes -- 60 initially
plus an additional 30 in the days following the raid. The editorial also erred
in saying that many of the immigrants had been flown to camps in Texas and New
Mexico; the camps were only in Texas.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              190 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 18, 2007 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

Hypocrisy on Immigration;
A raid in New England reveals a broken system.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 720 words


THE HYPOCRISY of U.S. immigration law was on lurid display earlier this month
in a raid on a defense contractor in New England. Accompanied by dogs and a
helicopter swooping overhead, hundreds of Immigration and Customs Enforcement
agents charged into Michael Bianco Inc., a leather-goods factory in New Bedford,
Mass., that makes backpacks, ammunition pouches and other gear for GIs.

When the dust settled, the agents had arrested some 360 illegal immigrant
employees at the plant, many of them women from Guatemala and other Central
American nations. The workers had toiled in sweatshop conditions that allegedly
included draconian restrictions on bathroom breaks, toilet paper supply, and
snacking and talking at their workstations. They were seized, handcuffed,
questioned and, in about 200 cases, whisked away to detention centers in New
Mexico and Texas without regard to their roots in the community, their spouses
or their children, including American-born children who are U.S. citizens.

Amid the pandemonium, families and communities were split, and children were
left with babysitters, relatives, siblings or other families. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement insisted it had released about 60 of the immigrants --
including nursing mothers and sole or primary caregivers for young children --
for "humanitarian" reasons. But reports of confusion and mistakes were common,
and state officials said scores of children were separated from their parents.
In one case, doctors treated an 8-month-old baby, Keylyn Zusana Lopez Ayala, for
pneumonia and possible dehydration after her mother was detained and unable to
breast-feed her. Keylyn is an American citizen. Three days after the raid, a
federal judge was sufficiently concerned that he barred immigration officials
from transporting any more detainees out of state. The raid, said Massachusetts
Gov. Deval L. Patrick (D), "reflects, for me, not what this country is about."

Federal officials have been under mounting pressure to enforce immigration laws,
and there have been other sweeps recently. But even if such raids net tens of
thousands of illegal immigrants, they will not seriously address the issue of 12
million undocumented immigrants. Few Americans have the stomach for mass
deportations, and few politicians support such a policy.

Among the absurdities revealed by the raid, consider the following: Because the
factory held military contracts worth more than $90 million, the Pentagon
maintained a quality control office there, staffed by an inspector who must have
known or suspected the plant employed hundreds of undocumented immigrants.
Apparently the inspector was operating under a "don't ask, don't tell" policy,
and for good reason -- the federal government, like so many other enterprises,
depends on illegal immigrant labor.

Or consider the factory owner, Francesco Insolia, who has been charged with
conspiring to recruit and hire illegal immigrants, and with imposing harsh
workplace conditions. He was arrested along with plant managers but was released
the next day in time to make a scheduled business trip to Puerto Rico. In his
first public statement after his release, Mr. Insolia noted in his own defense
that the Pentagon inspector "interacted with our workers without incident or
complaint."

Activists who oppose illegal immigration say undocumented workers take jobs from
U.S. citizens. But it's unlikely that many native-born Americans would have put
up with the conditions at the New Bedford factory. The activists argue that
state and local governments should take matters into their own hands by
cooperating with federal authorities and harassing immigrants with get-tough
laws. In this case that would have meant interfering with a firm that furnishes
combat troops with vital supplies.

Cruel, self-defeating and illogical, the New Bedford raid is an inelegant
example of how badly this country needs a clear-eyed immigration policy, one
that provides not only for tough enforcement but also humane protections and a
path to citizenship for immigrants who have put down roots and contributed to
the national economy. The current regimen is a blight -- on immigrants who need
the work, on employers who need the labor, and on a nation whose ideals of fair
play and image as a welcoming and caring place are seriously at risk.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 20, 2007 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

For Many Immigrants, No Answers;
Manassas Legal Clinic Aims to Assist Hispanic Community

BYLINE: Pamela Constable; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1295 words


Juggling children and clutching files, several hundred Hispanic immigrant
families crowded into a free, one-day legal aid clinic in Manassas on a recent
Saturday, hoping for miracles. All had put down roots in the community, but most
still lived in some degree of legal limbo.

The clinic highlighted the intimate, sometimes desperate dilemmas faced by
thousands of immigrant families in Manassas and other area communities, whose
households often include a confusing mix of legal U.S. residents or citizens,
illegal immigrants and others with temporary permits or pending immigration
cases.

A house painter's wife from Mexico asked whether she could get a tourist visa
for the 6-year-old son she had left behind as a toddler. A Guatemalan
construction worker sought to recover Social Security payments for his brother,
deported after paying taxes in the United States for a decade. A Salvadoran
grandmother wondered whether she could legally visit her homeland after living
as a virtual recluse with relatives in Virginia.

"For 18 years, I only spoke to my daughter by telephone," Clara Rivas, 72, said
in Spanish. "Now I want to go home, but it's like I don't exist either here or
there. They ask for bills and pay stubs, but I don't have any. I was always
inside the walls. I never even learned enough English to take a bus. If I go
now, they might never let me come back."

The clinic also afforded a look at a very different set of problems that some
longtime Manassas area residents say have been caused by the rapidly swelling
Hispanic community, including overcrowded housing, extra demands on schools and
police and the widespread reported employment of illegal immigrants in
construction jobs.

The event, which was sponsored by Ayuda Inc., a legal aid agency, and the
Washington area Salvadoran-American Chamber of Commerce, was held partly to
deflect such concerns. It offered free consultations with lawyers and consuls
from six Latin American countries. By helping immigrant families clarify or
advance their legal status, sponsors said, they hoped to make them more welcome.

"The community here has grown so fast that we Hispanic business owners are
worried about an environment of hostility being created," said Jose Luis
Semidey, a Venezuela-born entrepreneur who helped organize the day. "We want to
educate our people and find viable legal solutions for their immigration
problems. Otherwise we lose human capacity, and there is no positive way to
channel relations."

The Hispanic community in Mannassas has expanded steadily for a decade, and
Hispanic leaders said it has reached 20,000 to 30,000 people. By all accounts,
most have been quiet and hardworking. There are dozens of Latino-oriented
commercial businesses, including a gleaming supermarket called El Primero
Mercado. Hundreds of families have moved out from apartment enclaves closer to
the Washington area's core and bought their first houses.

In the past several years, however, the influx has reached a sensitive, critical
mass and included increasing numbers of illegal immigrants -- no one knows how
many -- raising alarm signals among some residents and putting pressure on
officials to take action. The recent controversy in Herndon over a work site for
day laborers has added to the tension, increasing awareness that many illegal
immigrants are in the area's workforce, especially its thriving construction
industry.

"It's not an anti-Hispanic thing; it's the problem with illegals. It's
frustration with crowded schools and housing, seeing our taxes go up to pay for
ninth-graders who can't speak English, seeing businesses fail because the
competition hires cheaper illegal workers," said Maureen Wood, a teacher and
community activist in Manassas. "I feel sorry for these people, but there should
be consequences when you break the law."

The issue that most rankles longtime residents is the renting or sharing of
houses by groups of unrelated Hispanic immigrants, often single, male workers.
Two years ago, the City Council passed an ordinance limiting households to
family members, but it was withdrawn amid a flurry of protests and allegations
that it was a back-door form of discrimination.

Since then, some community leaders said the problem has spread, spilling into
affluent neighborhoods, where immigrants have increasingly bought homes. They
said dozens of such houses have their screen doors propped open -- even on cold
winter nights -- as a silent signal that rooms are available to rent to single
workers.

"When you have houses with 16 people crammed into them, the quality of life
suffers tremendously," said Greg Letiecq, an activist affiliated with a group
called Help Save Manassas. "It's fine to have Hispanic communities and
homeowners, but how many illegals are they harboring?" Because of "permissive"
laws and employment practices, he added, "we have made it very easy for illegal
aliens to live here."

A variety of Hispanic residents, including established business owners, said
they felt comfortable in Manassas and had not experienced any personal
hostility. There have been no clashes over day laborers lounging on corners and
no signs of Hispanic gang activity, except one recent discovery of graffiti on a
residential fence.

But because of a recent economic slump, the residents said, more immigrants are
losing steady jobs and going into mortgage foreclosure. Some also described a
growing sense of insecurity in the Hispanic community, especially anxiety about
being deported. Fewer and fewer immigrants are going out to eat at night, even
in a town where every strip mall has at least one Salvadoran or Mexican
restaurant.

"We are not a minority here anymore, or at least we are a large one. I pay
taxes, and I have no problems with anyone. But some people are afraid," said
Dimas Lizano, 45, a Salvadoran-born man who owns a small paving company. He
mentioned a recent early morning incident in which a truck full of Hispanic
workers sideswiped a car. The police came quickly, he said, "but the immigration
van came even faster."

As the issue of illegal immigrants becomes more pronounced in Manassas,
pro-immigrant organizations have begun taking actions, such as holding the free
legal aid clinic, to prevent it from erupting into the kind of protracted, ugly
political dispute that has bitterly divided immigrants from longtime residents
in Herndon.

Officials of Ayuda Inc., which is based in the District, said they held the
Manassas clinic to help families resolve as many immigration problems as
possible, including visa processing, delayed residency applications, family
reunification and travel complications and relief from unscrupulous lawyers or
notaries who had misled them about pending cases.

Still, the officials acknowledged, there were many people they could not help,
because either they or their relatives were in the United States illegally. A
number of couples came in with hopeful faces and left crestfallen after brief
interviews. Under current law, they were told, they had no chance of resolving
their immigration problems.

The mother from Mexico who wanted to bring her son for a visit had no legal
standing to request his visa. The grandmother from El Salvador could not get
permission to travel. The man from Guatemala could do nothing to help his
brother, who lost his chance at residency because he violated immigration rules
by flying home to visit his sick mother.

"Everyone here has someone who is legal and someone who is not," said Erica
Gomez, 34, a Bolivian woman married to a Salvadoran man. Under separate
provisions of immigration law, both have the right to live here, but both have
legal limits on the right to work and travel abroad. "This is our daily life,
full of frustration and worry," she said. "All we can do is wait."

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Pamela Constable -- The Washington Post; Hispanics from
across the Manassas area await assistance during a clinic sponsored by Ayuda
Inc. and the Washington area Salvadoran-American Chamber of Commerce.
IMAGE; Photos By Pamela Constable -- The Washington Post; Sponsors of the legal
clinic hoped to assist members of the Manassas Hispanic community, which leaders
say has 20,000 to 30,000 people.
IMAGE; Shoppers examine produce at El Primero Mercado, a supermarket that is one
of dozens of commercial businesses in Manassas that cater to the area's growing
Hispanic population.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 22, 2007 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Correction

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 82 words


A March 17 editorial on the arrest of 360 illegal immigrants at a leather-goods
factory in New Bedford, Mass., misstated the number of detainees subsequently
released for humanitarian reasons by Immigration and Customs Enforcement. ICE
released 90 detainees for humanitarian causes -- 60 initially plus an additional
30 in the days following the raid. The editorial also erred in saying that many
of the immigrants had been flown to camps in Texas and New Mexico; the camps
were only in Texas.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              193 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 24, 2007 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Immigration Puzzle

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 88 words


The March 17 editorial "Hypocrisy on Immigration" contains a perhaps unintended
ambiguity: "But it's unlikely that many native-born Americans would have put up
with the conditions at the New Bedford factory."

Did you mean that Americans might take these jobs if the working conditions were
improved? Or did you mean that we must have illegal immigrants to work under
these deplorable conditions? A clarification would be helpful.

-- Leslie Wilder

Alexandria

The writer is a board member of the American Council for Immigration Reform.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              194 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 29, 2007 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Naturalization Up Among Immigrants;
High Rates in Md., Va., Report Says

BYLINE: Darryl Fears; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 842 words


The number of naturalized citizens in the United States grew to nearly 13
million between 1995 and 2005, a historic increase that reflects the nation's
changing ethnic makeup and could increase the power of immigrants to affect
public policy at the ballot box, according to a study released yesterday by the
Pew Hispanic Center.

More than half of the nation's legal immigrants are now naturalized citizens,
"the highest level in a quarter century and a 15 percent increase since 1990,"
when the proportion of naturalized immigrants reached historic lows, the study
said. Since 1995, the average number of yearly naturalizations has surpassed
650,000, compared with 150,000 in 1970.

Maryland was one of five states where more than 70 percent of eligible
immigrants became citizens. The number of naturalizations in Maryland rose to
274,000 in 2005 from 120,000 in 1995.

Sixty-five percent of Virginia's eligible immigrants were naturalized in 2005,
along with 50 percent of eligible immigrants in the District.

"We've seen dramatic changes in countries across the board," said Jeffrey
Passel, the Pew Hispanic Center's senior research associate. "Today's immigrants
are interested in becoming U.S. citizens," he said.

Mexicans were by far the largest group to naturalize, at more than 1.5 million.
The number represented a 144 percent increase over 10 years, and it could have
been much higher because Mexicans are the least likely of all groups to
naturalize, Passel said. Another 3 million are eligible.

Immigrants from Cuba, China and the Philippines followed Mexicans as the largest
groups to naturalize, Passel said. Most settled in four states -- California,
New York, Texas and Florida.

The study, based on census data, did not address immigration policy or politics,
and Passel declined to comment on those issues, except to say the trend would
probably increase immigrant voting.

Immigrant residents with higher levels of education and better English skills
are more likely to naturalize, Passel said. An additional 8.5 million legal
immigrants are eligible to naturalize, but that group is made up of those who
are least likely to do so. "They tend to be poorer; they tend to speak English
less well and have lower levels of education," Passel said.

The increase in naturalizations can be partly attributed to the 1986 amnesty by
the Reagan administration, Passel said. More than 3 million illegal immigrants
became permanent residents, and many became eligible for citizenship in the
early to mid-1990s after living in the country for five consecutive years.

Other immigration experts said the increase is also the result of laws that
barred states from providing welfare and other subsidies to non-citizens in the
1990s, forcing eligible immigrants to naturalize.

The study comes amid a tense debate over immigration.

Early this year, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, a division of the
Department of Homeland Security, caused an uproar by dramatically increasing
citizenship application fees and toughening citizenship tests. Opponents said
the government was throwing up a barrier to legal immigrants to naturalize.

The new fees followed a more intense battle over illegal immigration, as
politicians and citizens groups clashed over how to manage an estimated 12
million foreigners who entered the country illegally or who overstayed their
visas since 1986.

Last week, two congressmen sought to address the problem of illegal immigration
by proposing a temporary guest-worker program that would allow millions of
illegal immigrants to remain in the United States if they paid a steep fine,
left the country, returned legally and broke no additional law. Opponents said
the bill amounts to another amnesty.

The new bill replaced earlier House legislation that sought to strengthen and
strictly enforce federal laws targeting illegal immigrants in an effort to
encourage them to leave the country. The bill sparked huge marches on behalf of
undocumented immigrants before it died last year in a joint House-Senate
conference committee.

At the marches, advocates vowed to encourage eligible immigrants to apply for
citizenship and register to vote. Deepak Bhargava, executive director of the
Center for Community Change, which advocates permanent residency for illegal
immigrants, said the study shows "a response to immigrant bashing.

"I think we're on the cusp of seeing a national transformation," Bhargava said.
"There are community organizations day in and day out that are registering
people to vote, assisting people to become citizens, and I think it will pay
off."

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a
group that seeks to limit immigration, said that the increase is not surprising,
and that the impact on immigrant voting will be marginal.

"I'm not sure what real-world political consequences it will have," Krikorian
said. "Immigrants are not a monolithic voting bloc. I think it's easy to
overplay that. I think this is a development to be applauded but not a political
earthquake or anything like that."

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 4, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

U.S. Holds Suspects In War Crimes;
Argentine in Va. Among 3 Arrested

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu and Nick Miroff; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1337 words


Ernesto Guillermo Barreiro seemed to fit in well with his neighbors in
Virginia's placid horse country. The quiet, genteel man from Argentina opened an
art and antiques store after moving into a farmhouse last year in The Plains.

From the FB Art Gallery & Antiques store attached to his home to a craft shop
called Pampa's Corner on nearby Main Street, Barreiro kept a low profile,
selling imported leather goods and artwork with his wife.

That unassuming life imploded Sunday morning, when U.S. immigration agents
bundled the retired Argentine army major into a van to face criminal charges of
visa fraud and eventual deportation to his native country, where he is accused
of serving as the chief interrogator at a clandestine torture facility known as
La Perla during Argentina's Dirty War in the 1970s and 1980s.

Barreiro was among three former South American military officers suspected of
war crimes whose arrests were announced yesterday by U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, which has renewed its efforts to crack down on alleged
human rights violators living as fugitives in the United States.

The others arrested include Telmo Ricardo Hurtado, a former Peruvian army major
who led an attack that killed 69 villagers, many of whom were tortured and
raped, in the Peruvian Highlands village of Accomarca on Aug. 14, 1985, during
the military's war against the Shining Path guerrilla movement. Hurtado was
arrested Friday in Miami.

A fellow soldier now living in Gaithersburg, Juan Manuel Rivera-Rondon, was
arrested in Baltimore and faces deportation to Peru, where U.S. officials said
he and Hurtado will be turned over to local authorities to face charges for
their alleged roles in the 1985 killings.

American officials and human rights advocates said the three were among the most
important suspects seized since ICE activated a human rights unit early last
year. Diplomatic challenges and the government's lagging efforts have caused the
United States repeated embarrassment when notorious human rights abusers from
around the globe turned up leading otherwise normal lives in the country.

"This is a very significant step taken by this agency," said Jose Miguel
Vivanco, executive director of Human Rights Watch's Americas division. "There
are so many individuals like these ones who have managed to successfully find
second homes in the U.S. . . . with no fear of any kind of potential prosecution
or arrest or legal programs in the U.S., much less in their home countries."

In December, U.S. authorities indicted the son of former Liberian president
Charles Taylor in connection with the alleged torture of an ally of his father's
political opponents. Known as Chuckie Taylor but legally renamed Roy Belfast
Jr., Taylor's son is being held without bail in a Florida jail.

In January, the United States indicted Luis Posada Carriles, 78, an anti-Castro
Cuban exile being held by U.S. immigration officials who accuse him of
immigration fraud. Posada, a former CIA operative with ties to the failed 1961
Bay of Pigs invasion, has been accused of plotting the 1976 bombing of a Cuban
jetliner in Venezuela. Emmanuel "Toto" Constant, convicted in absentia by a
Haitian court for his role in a 1994 massacre, was arrested last year on charges
of mortgage fraud in Queens after immigration authorities declined to deport
him.

Barreiro's arrest came as a shock in The Plains, the rustic hamlet set in the
rolling hills of Fauquier County where Barreiro and his wife, Ana Delia Magi de
Barreiro, moved their shop last year. On a mild April afternoon, neighbors
recalled the nicely dressed couple, whom real estate agent Keith Nelsen Stroud
called "very quiet, very sweet, very refined," and their toy poodle, Lulu.

"I'm floored," said James Wiley, who holds the lease on Pampa's Corner and who
wore a black Argentine leather belt he bought from the man he called Ernesto.

"I'm knocked off my feet," said Wiley's wife, Lynn, who sold the Barreiros their
home and art gallery. "I could've never imagined that this meek and mild little
man could be guilty of killing people."

Yesterday, Barreiro appeared in U.S. District Court in Alexandria, where U.S.
Magistrate Judge T. Rawles Jones Jr. ordered him held without bail before trial.

From 1976 to 1979, more than 2,200 people were imprisoned in La Perla, a
detention center near Cordoba where critics of Argentina's military dictatorship
were tortured and killed, according to "Nunca Mas," a 1984 government report
compiled from the testimony of thousands of witnesses.

According to Argentine news reports, Barreiro flew to Dulles International
Airport in 2004 just days before a judge ordered him to face trial for his
alleged role in the disappearance of Diego Hunziker, a 17-year-old student who
reportedly had been kidnapped, tortured and killed in 1977.

"The detention of Barreiro for us has great importance because he is the only
person within the Hunziker case who until now has remained a fugitive," Graciela
L?pez de Filo?iuk, a prosecutor in charge of the case, told Buenos Aires
newspaper Pagina/12.

U.S. inspectors learned that Argentina had issued a warrant, through Interpol,
for Barreiro's arrest on charges of murder and torture when he applied to renew
his visitor's visa, ICE officials said. His visa was extended until March 28,
officials said. It is unclear why the extension was approved when the government
knew of the charges pending in Argentina.

Peruvians Hurtado and Rivera led one of the most brutal massacres committed by
Peru's military during its 20-year battle against the Maoist group Shining Path.

Hurtado was among a group of soldiers to face trial for the massacre in 1986. In
1992, only Hurtado was found guilty, not of murder but of abuse of authority, by
a military court-martial before which he took responsibility for the patrol's
action.

Hurtado, a graduate of the U.S. Army School of the Americas, was sentenced to
six years in prison, though it remains unclear whether he served any time,
according to U.S. and Peruvian court documents and news reports. Even after his
conviction, he remained in the Peruvian army and was promoted from lieutenant,
first to the rank of captain and then to major.

Hurtado escaped to the United States via Colombia in December 2002, when
Peruvian authorities reopened the investigation into the killings, shortly
before a Truth and Reconciliation Commission released a report detailing the
political violence that claimed an estimated 69,280 victims in Peru between 1980
and 2000.

"We first became aware that Hurtado was still in the army in 1999 and the
government, for the first time, reacted, ordering him removed," said Susanna
Villaran, an associate at the Legal Defense Institute, a human rights group, and
a former cabinet minister. "This man has been able to get away with a crime that
has been thoroughly documented."

In Peru, Lorenzo Gomez is among those who celebrated the arrests. His father,
Pastor Gomez de la Cruz, was among those killed.

"I remember everything about that day and how they shot my father and other
relatives and then burned their bodies," said Gomez, 65, who lives in Lima but
travels to Accomarca frequently to supervise family farms. "It has been 22
years, but the memory does not fade."

The case could be a test for President Alan Garcia, who was reelected last year.
He had just been inaugurated to his first term in 1985 when the massacre
occurred. He fired military commanders, but his political party, APRA, was later
accused of covering up attacks on witnesses in this and other human rights
cases.

"No one wants there to be a trial, because no one wants to know who really gave
the order to kill my town," said Gomez. "I don't think President Garcia wants to
see Hurtado or Rivera back in Peru, because they might speak the truth."

Correspondent Monte Reel in Buenos Aires, special correspondent Lucien Chauvin
in Lima, and staff writers Jerry Markon, Clarence Williams and Martin Weil and
staff researchers Julie Tate and Meg Smith in Washington contributed to this
report.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 7, 2007 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Judge Orders Bail for Accused Jet Bomber

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 261 words

DATELINE: EL PASO, April 6


A federal judge  Friday ordered Cuban militant Luis Posada Carriles set free on
bail pending trial on charges that he lied in a bid to become a U.S. citizen.
The government immediately asked that he remain jailed while it determines if it
can appeal the judge's decision.

U.S. District Judge Kathleen Cardone did not immediately rule on the request.
Felipe D.J. Millan, Posada's attorney, said Posada will probably not be released
over the holiday weekend.

Posada, 79, is wanted in Cuba and Venezuela on charges that he was in Caracas
when he plotted the deadly 1976 bombing of a Cuban jetliner. He also has been
ordered deported by a federal immigration judge, though U.S. authorities have
been unable to find a country willing to accept the former CIA operative.

Cardone ordered that Posada post a $250,000 cash or corporate surety bond. His
wife and two adult children must post a $100,000 appearance and compliance
signature bond and agree to take responsibility of him when he is released.

The judge also ordered that Posada,  who had a role in the failed Bay of Pigs
invasion of Cuba, live with his wife in Miami under 24-hour home confinement and
submit to electronic monitoring.

Posada has been jailed since May 2005, when he was arrested on an immigration
violation after telling authorities that he sneaked across the Mexican border
into Texas. An immigration judge later ordered that he be deported but ruled
that Posada could not be sent to Cuba, where he was born, or Venezuela, where he
is a naturalized citizen, because of fears that he could be tortured.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 197 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 8, 2007 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

H-1B;
H-1B

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. F03

LENGTH: 129 words


In immigration law, a renewable, three-year visa reserved for foreign
professional workers.

A legal necessity for skilled workers from abroad or for foreign students
graduating from U.S. graduate schools who are recruited by U.S. companies.

According to the technology industry, the only way to deal with the current
shortage of highly trained American scientists and engineers.

According to critics, a way for U.S. companies to recruit lower-paid foreigners
and drive down wages of mid-level American tech workers.

Because of a legislated annual quota of 65,000, a type of visa that is usually
exhausted within two months after applications are accepted for the year.

This year, a type of visa exhausted on the first day, with receipt of more than
150,000 applications.

-- S.P.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved
