
                               1 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   November 10, 1994, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Courts block immigration law in Calif.

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 230 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Proposition 187 was put on legal hold Wednesday, one day after voters
overwhelmingly approved the law denying most state services to illegal
immigrants.

Ruling on separate lawsuits filed Wednesday, a state judge and a federal judge
said illegal immigrants cannot be denied services and their kids cannot be
expelled from schools.

"It sends a loud clear message to any parts of the country tempted to pass an
unconstitutional, discriminatory law like this that it's not going to be allowed
to take effect," says Lucas Guttentag of the American Civil Liberties Union.

Hearings are scheduled for next week and later this month on whether to extend
restraining orders or block enforcement of 187 until courts rule on its
legality, perhaps in years.

The state vows to take the fight to the Supreme Court. Backers want to force a
review of a 1982 high court ruling that illegal immigrant children cannot be
denied public education.

Supporter Ron Prince says illegal immigrants "are a category of criminal, not a
category of ethnic group."

Gov. Pete Wilson, a proponent, wrote President Clinton Wednesday, arguing
California should not lose federal funds because of 187, calling it "the
people's will" and "an issue not of race but of fairness."

Wilson had cautioned health and social service providers to wait for guidelines
to be drawn up before turning people away.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                               2 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   November 17, 1994, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Judge puts Prop. 187 on hold / Immigration measure may be headed for Supreme
Court

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 503 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


A federal judge Wednesday put the emotionally charged issue of Proposition 187
on hold, stopping the state from denying most services to illegal immigrants.

U.S. District Judge Matthew Byrne Jr. granted a temporary restraining order,
citing "serious questions" about the constitutionality of several provisions of
the measure. The order stops denial of educational, welfare and non-emergency
medical services to illegals.

Byrne said Proposition 187:

-- Doesn't set up a hearing process to determine whether services are justly
denied.

-- Could violate federal immigration law by forcing educators, police officers
and oth- ers to do the job of U.S. immigration officers.

Byrne's order does not apply to sections dealing with the sale and manufacture
of forged immigration papers - already a felony under federal law.

"What it signals . . . is that it's a wrong measure," says Ann Bradley of the
American Civil Liberties Union, one of several groups suing the state.

The measure was approved by 59% of voters last week.

Activists against illegal immigration, meanwhile, announced plans to recall Los
Angeles school board president Mark Slavkin because of the district's lawsuit to
overturn part of Proposition 187.

Glenn Spencer, president of Voice of Citizens Together, said the measure was the
will of the people and shouldn't be opposed with tax dollars.

"If those who are charged with administering our laws refuse to do so, the
people will replace them with representatives who will," he said.

Slavkin said he would take the recall effort seriously: "They're looking for
somebody to vent their anger at."

Another hearing is set Tuesday, when U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer
returns from vacation. Pfaelzer may set a date for a preliminary-injunction
hearing on four lawsuits, which would be combined.

In a separate case in San Francisco, a state Superior Court judge last week
barred enforcement of a provision to oust illegals from public schools. A
preliminary-injunction hearing is set Nov. 28.

"I think it's a strong signal that it's likely to turn into a permanent hold,"
says Erwin Chemerinsky, constitutional law professor at the University of
Southern California. "There's a strong likelihood that large parts, if not all,
of 187 will continue to be enjoined until and unless the Supreme Court finds it
unconstitutional."

Opponents are pinning their hopes on a 1982 Supreme Court ruling against a Texas
law that banned illegal immigrants from attending public schools.

In the meantime, immigrants-rights groups are continuing to try to allay fears.

"We're frantically doing outreach to immigrant parents to keep their kids in
school," says Katherine Brady of the Immigrant Legal Resource Center in San
Francisco. "People are still terrified."

Under 187, teachers, doctors, police officers and others would be required to
report "suspected" illegals to immigration agents, who then would be required to
verify their status, arrest and deport them. Contributing: Maria Puente

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Steven Lewis, AP

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                               3 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     March 7, 1995, Tuesday, FIRST EDITION

Increasingly, immigrants pursuing citizenship

BYLINE: Sandra Sanchez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 867 words

DATELINE: SAN ANTONIO


When Eduardo Flores moved to Texas in 1981, he was content straddling two
cultures: working in the United States but retaining his Mexican citizenship.

Now, the anti-immigrant sentiment spawned by California's Proposition 187 is
making him have second thoughts: Flores wants an unassailable claim on the
rights available in his adopted land.

Legal immigrants like Flores throughout the Southwest have been applying for
citizenship at record levels, and many say they want the right to vote to stop
the spread of laws like Proposition 187. If implemented, the law would deny
education and certain medical services to undocumented aliens.

Flores says he's changed his view of U.S. citizenship for reasons both tangible
and not.

Flores' son Jesus racked up straight A's in high school but couldn't accept a
scholarship to Texas A&M, where he wanted to study computer engineering, because
he's not a citizen. Instead, Jesus, now 21, is a meat cutter at a grocery store.

Flores also feels intangible prods toward U.S. citizenship.

Although he's lived in the United States for more than 14 years, Flores says he
has begun to feel vulnerable since California voters adopted the Proposition 187
initiative.

He fears hostility toward immigrants could escalate to a point where police
would check anyone who looks Latino for citizenship credentials.

"Proposition 187 can affect all of us," says Flores, 46, a school janitor who
immigrated from Matamoros, Mexico, in 1981. "They'll stop and investigate us
just because of the color of our skin."

"We have folks who have made this their home for years and who now are afraid of
what is happening," says Arturo Vargas, of the National Association of Latino
Elected and Appointed Officials.

"If you want to be in the safe line, get your citizenship," adds Puerto
Rican-born Enrique Birriel, at a citizenship swearing-in ceremony for his
Nicaragua-born wife, Candida Rosa Birriel. "I told her and told her she needs to
become a citizen, and after (Proposition) 187, she finally listened."

Legal residents wouldn't be affected by Proposition 187. But many aren't
reassured.

"(Immigrants) have been exploited, taken advantage of, and people have gotten
away with it because they haven't been able to vote or express their rights,"
says Vargas. "It (Proposition 187) has been a real swift kick in the butt for
the Hispanic community."

While noting the extra business, INS officials are hesitant to attribute it to
Proposition 187's influence.

They cite a Green Card Replacement Program that requires legal residents who
have been in the U.S. since 1978 to renew their cards by March 20. Instead of
paying the $ 75 fee, many apply for citizenship for $ 95.

In addition, hundreds of immigrants who gained permanent residency through the
Amnesty Program in the 1980s now are eligible for citizenship.

However, "there are other people who are kind of rushing the service to
naturalize," says INS spokesman Ray Dudley. "They have been misled by certain
people in the press who are creating a sort of fear."

In San Antonio, citizenship ceremonies are held monthly and average 250 people.
But because of the increase in applicants, additional ceremonies have been
scheduled.

"We can't handle the numbers of people we're getting per ceremony now," says the
INS' Wiley Blakeway, who coordinates the ceremonies for applicants in a
78-county area.

At a February ceremony, U.S. District Judge Orlando Garcia waved a voter
registration card before the crowd and urged all to take advantage of their new
rights. "It's the single most important thing, next to the Holy Bible, that you
will ever have."

Nearby, Jose Luis Gonzalez, 46, was preparing to teach free citizenship classes
starting Monday behind the Pico de Gallo restaurant. Classes - three nights a
week for 12 weeks - were expected to attract 80 restaurant employees and their
family members for drills on 100 possible questions they could be asked during a
citizenship test.

"You literally have to grab them by the hand, pull them out of the kitchen and
sit them down and teach them how to be U.S. citizens," says Gonzalez, a former
Marine.

Jacinto Hernandez, 37, a restaurant parking lot attendant, has enrolled.

"We work hard, but we don't get anything back from the government," says
Hernandez, who immigrated from Mexico City in 1983. "I could vote for people
that could do something to stop the discrimination."

More immigrants seek citizenship Citizenship applications in January rose
sharply this year in some Immigration and Naturalization Service districts in
Texas and California:
District                 1994     1995    Increase
Los Angeles             4,259   17,094      301%
Dallas                    617    1,468      138%
San Diego                 957    1,905       99%
Harlingen, Texas          148      262       77%
El Paso                   502      872       74%
Houston                 1,048    1,748       67%
San Francisco           4,800    7,697       60%
San Antonio               454      494        9%

LOAD-DATE: March 08, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w,

THE NATION; See related story; 01A; See info box at end of text.

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                               4 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     March 7, 1995, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Immigrants say bias is 'swift kick' to citizenship

BYLINE: Sandra Sanchez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 861 words

DATELINE: SAN ANTONIO


When Eduardo Flores moved to Texas in 1981, he was content straddling two
cultures: working in the United States but retaining his Mexican citizenship.

Now, the anti-immigrant sentiment spawned by California's Proposition 187 is
making him have second thoughts: Flores wants a claim on the rights available in
his adopted land.

Legal immigrants like Flores throughout the Southwest have been applying for
citizenship at record levels, and many say they want the right to vote to stop
the spread of laws like Proposition 187. If implemented, the law would deny
education and certain medical services to undocumented aliens.

Flores says he's changed his view of U.S. citizenship for reasons both tangible
and not.

Flores' son Jesus racked up straight A's in high school but couldn't accept a
scholarship to Texas A&M, where he wanted to study computer engineering, because
he's not a citizen. Instead, Jesus, now 21, is a meat cutter at a grocery store.

Flores also feels intangible prods toward U.S. citizenship.

Although he's lived in the United States for more than 14 years, Flores says he
has begun to feel vulnerable since California voters adopted the Proposition 187
initiative.

He fears hostility toward immigrants could escalate to a point where police
would check anyone who looks Latino for citizenship credentials.

"Proposition 187 can affect all of us," says Flores, 46, a school janitor who
immigrated from Matamoros, Mexico. "They'll stop and investigate us just because
of the color of our skin."

"We have folks who have made this their home for years and who now are afraid of
what is happening," says Arturo Vargas of the National Association of Latino
Elected and Appointed Officials.

"If you want to be in the safe line, get your citizenship," adds Puerto
Rican-born Enrique Birriel, at a citizenship swearing-in ceremony for his
Nicaragua-born wife, Candida Rosa Birriel. "I told her and told her she needs to
become a citizen, and after (Proposition) 187, she finally listened."

Legal residents wouldn't be affected by Proposition 187. But many aren't
reassured.

"(Immigrants) have been exploited, taken advantage of, and people have gotten
away with it because they haven't been able to vote or express their rights,"
says Vargas. "It (Proposition 187) has been a real swift kick in the butt for
the Hispanic community."

While noting the extra business, INS officials hesitate to attribute it to
Proposition 187.

They cite a Green Card Replacement Program that requires legal residents who
have been in the USA since 1978 to renew their cards by March 20. Instead of
paying the $ 75 fee, many apply for citizenship for $ 95.

In addition, hundreds of immigrants who gained permanent residency through the
Amnesty Program in the 1980s now are eligible for citizenship.

However, "there are other people who are kind of rushing the service to
naturalize," says INS spokesman Ray Dudley. "They have been misled by certain
people in the press who are creating a sort of fear."

In San Antonio, citizenship ceremonies are held monthly and average 250 people.
But because of the increase in applicants, additional ceremonies have been
scheduled.

"We can't handle the numbers of people we're getting per ceremony now," says the
INS' Wiley Blakeway, who coordinates the ceremonies for applicants in a
78-county area.

At a February ceremony, U.S. District Judge Orlando Garcia waved a voter
registration card before the crowd and urged all to take advantage of their new
rights. "It's the single most important thing, next to the Holy Bible, that you
will ever have."

Meanwhile, Jose Luis Gonzalez, 46, was preparing to teach free citizenship
classes starting Monday behind the Pico de Gallo restaurant. Classes - three
nights a week for 12 weeks - were expected to attract 80 restaurant employees
and their family members for drills on 100 possible questions they could be
asked during a citizenship test.

"You literally have to grab them by the hand, pull them out of the kitchen and
sit them down and teach them how to be U.S. citizens," says Gonzalez, a former
Marine.

Jacinto Hernandez, 37, a restaurant parking lot attendant, has enrolled.

"We work hard, but we don't get anything back from the government," says
Hernandez, who immigrated from Mexico City in 1983. "I could vote for people
that could do something to stop the discrimination."

More immigrants seek citizenship Citizenship applications in January rose
sharply this year in some Immigration and Naturalization Service districts in
Texas and California:
District                 1994     1995    Increase
Los Angeles             4,259   17,094      301%
Dallas                    617    1,468      138%
San Diego                 957    1,905       99%
Harlingen, Texas          148      262       77%
El Paso                   502      872       74%
Houston                 1,048    1,748       67%
San Francisco           4,800    7,697       60%
San Antonio               454      494        9%

LOAD-DATE: March 09, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service (Chart);
PHOTO, b/w, Darren Carroll

THE NATION; See related story; 01A; See info box at end of text.

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                               5 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   November 21, 1995, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Judge overrules Calif. voters // Strikes down rule denying services to illegal
immigrants

BYLINE: Gale Holland

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 530 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


A federal judge Monday struck down parts of a voter-approved California law that
denied public services, including schooling, to illegal immigrants and their
children.

U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer, in response to a motion in a lawsuit filed
by immigration rights advocates, ruled that undocumented newcomers can't be
asked about their immigration status when they apply for public benefits.

She also ruled that the immigrants and their children cannot be barred from
public elementary and high schools.

Pfaelzer did not rule on other sections of the law, including provisions denying
welfare benefits and non-emergency health care to undocumented aliens. Those
portions will go to trial.

Lawyers on both sides said the court battle will rage on for years, probably
reaching the U.S. Supreme Court.

"This decision is the beginning of the end for Proposition 187," said Peter
Schey of the Center for Human Rights and Constitutional Law.

"This is an outrageous decision," said Ira Mehlman of the Federation for
American Immigration Reform. "A single judge has taken it on herself to overrule
60% of the people of this state."

Gov. Pete Wilson, who endorsed Proposition 187, said the ruling is "very
unfortunate. It frustrates the will of the people of California."

Attorney General Dan Lungren's office confirmed that the ruling would be
appealed.

In Florida, organizers vowed to fight on with a similar statewide
anti-immigration drive.

"We're not going to let this stop us," said Tony Klobuchar in Boca Raton,
spokesman for FLA-187.

The most sweeping attempt ever by a state to regulate immigration, Proposition
187 was denounced in Mexico and much of the Hispanic community as an invitation
to bigotry. It spawned several get-tough immigration bills in Congress, as well
as drives in Texas, Arizona and New York.

Human rights groups in Los Angeles said the measure triggered a wave of hate
crimes, and public health officials warned it could unleash epidemics of
tuberculosis and other diseases.

The central issue before Pfaelzer was whether Proposition 187, with its broad
definition of illegal immigrants and provisions for dealing with suspected
illegal immigrants, was an attempt by the state to regulate immigration, which
is under federal authority.

Pfaelzer agreed that some provisions of the state law were unconstitutional.
"The state is powerless to enact its own scheme to regulate immigration,"
Pfaelzer wrote in the 71-page ruling.

The only provisions still standing are increases in criminal penalties for
making, selling or using false immigration documents. Pfaelzer kept a
preliminary injunction preventing all but that part of the law from going into
effect.

"This is a fantastic ruling," said Stephen Yagman, one of the lawyers who fought
the initiative in court. "Proposition 187 was a statute of bigotry, and now it
is essentially dead."

But supporters said they welcome taking the battle to a higher court.

"If I was the opposition, I wouldn't be dancing too high on this," said Harold
Ezell, former federal immigration official and proposition supporter. "We want
to go to the Supreme Court." Contributing: Carrie Dowling

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Lacy Atkins, AP

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                               6 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     April 7, 1994, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Hispanic rights leader indicted / Illegal immigrants brought in by 'busload,'
feds charge

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 491 words


The indictment of a national Hispanic civil rights leader on charges of running
a multimillion-dollar immigration fraud scheme is the largest such case ever,
Justice Department officials say.

The 17-count federal indictment filed Tuesday in Las Vegas accuses Jose Velez,
president of the League of United Latin American Citizens, of running a nearly $
6 million "assembly line" operation that produced fake docu- ments for thousands
of illegal Asian and Hispanic immigrants. Three Taiwanese businessmen also were
indicted.

The Velez indictment, coupled with reports of illegal Chinese immigrants being
smuggled into the USA, provides a glimpse of the lucrative underground
trafficking in human cargo that investigators say has grown dramatically.

"No one can put a dollar value on it . . . but there's no question it's a
big-time business, ranging from the nickel-and-dime 'coyotes' (smugglers) on the
Mexican border to large organized-crime syndicates," says Alan Nelson, former
commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

LULAC, which lobbies for political, economic and educational rights for Hispanic
Americans, was not accused of any wrongdoing.

But some officials said the charges are embarrassing and there is fear they
could hurt other Hispanic groups.

Velez, 56, has been under investigation by INS since 1990, when authorities
revoked his company's right to handle immigration cases and raided LULAC offices
in Las Vegas seeking evidence of fraud.

The Velez indictment charges that between March 1988 and January 1991, Velez and
his immigration consulting firm, Velez and Sons, brought illegal immigrants to
Las Vegas "by busloads" to file false applications for amnesty under the 1986
Immigration Reform and Control Act.

The law allowed illegal immigrants who had lived continuously in the USA before
1982 to legalize their status. It also allowed immigrants who did seasonal
agricultural work to legalize their status. Both programs are now closed.

Velez and co-defendants, Billy Tzeng, Simon Chang and Al Feng, are charged with
conspiring to falsely claim in documents, applications and statements to INS
that their illegal clients qualified for amnesty or as agricultural workers.

Velez's son Peter pleaded guilty March 22 to helping his father process 5,600
false applications for $ 5.7 million. Five others also pleaded guilty.

John Russell, a Justice Department spokesman, said two-thirds of the Velez
clients were Hispanic, many Mexican. The others were Asians, including wealthy
Taiwanese. Most applicants were charged between $ 250 to $ 3,500, but at least
one Taiwanese was charged $ 45,000, he said.

Velez is to be arraigned Friday. His lawyer, Edward Marshall, refused to comment
but previously had told the Las Vegas Review-Journal that Velez was not
involved.

"He gave (his staff) clear and implicit instructions that nobody was to be
involved in any illegalities," Marshall said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, AP

THE NATION; See related story; 03A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                               7 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     May 26, 1993, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Illegals strain system // Influx of Chinese burdens Immigration

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 504 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Chinese desperate for a new life will pay up to $ 30,000 to escape to the USA.

And at those prices, smugglers are getting bolder - creating a monstrous problem
for immigration officials and human rights activists.

As the Immigration and Naturalization Service continues searching for Chinese
illegally dumped ashore in San Francisco Monday, officials see no end to the
rising problem.

"It's a very serious problem putting a tremendous strain on the budget and
resources of the INS," says INS spokesman Duke Austin.

But Susan Lydon of San Francisco's Immigrant Legal Resource Center says the
concern "really smacks of the yellow peril fears of waves of Asians coming on
our shores."

Lydon says illegal Chinese immigration is still low but the United States cannot
ignore China's human rights violations driving people here.

Since 1991, the INS has caught 16 ships in U.S. waters and arrested 1,700
illegal Chinese immigrants.

And, Chinese immigrants smuggled through the U.S.-Mexican border are on the
rise: 500 since October; 50 the year before.

Most illegal immigrants who are captured seek political asylum, requiring months
of detention while applications are reviewed.

"It's very expensive to the INS and to the American public," says Austin, who
says the INS would like to see stiffer penalties for smugglers.

Monday, a Honduran-registered ship slipped in to San Francisco Bay and unloaded
its human cargo at the foot of the Golden Gate Bridge.

Already, 182 passengers - including 30 juveniles - and 10 crew members have been
arrested. Up to 60 more could still be on the loose.

Monday in Jersey City, N.J., dozens of illegal Chinese immigrants were found
locked in a cramped warehouse. They told authorities they were held captive by
smugglers, forced to work to pay them off.

Two weeks ago, a trawler with 200 illegal Chinese immigrants was stopped near
San Diego.

And last December, 180 Chinese were rescued from a crowded freighter off San
Francisco.

Says David Ilchert, San Francisco INS director: "These young people . . . are
going to be in economic bondage. They're going to work it off through
prostitution, sweatshops . . . or as . . . soldiers of gangs."

Ilchert says some arrested had paid $ 1,000 but owed $ 19,000.

"These illegal immigrants also are victims of international crime rings," says
Xu Jinzhong, with the Chinese Consulate in San Francisco. He says the Chinese
government is trying to curb illegal immigration. The INS's "efforts should be
directed not on undocumented aliens but on those folks that got them here," says
Yvonne Lee, of San Francisco's Chinese American Citizens Alliance.

Lee says most Chinese who take such desperate measures are farmers trying to
escape poverty and political persecution or some who just want to be reunited
with families here. Chinese-Americans who try to bring relatives here legally
face waits of up to 16 years, she says.

"In some ways, it encourages people to go the illegal way," Lee says.

Contributing: Sally Ann Stewart

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Craig Lee, San Francisco Examiner via Reuters

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                               8 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     April 12, 1994, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Fla. sues U.S. over illegal immigration

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 809 words


Florida sued the U.S. government Monday, demanding $ 1.5 billion reimbursement
for federally mandated health, education, legal and welfare services to illegal
immigrants.

The suit says the government's failure to protect borders attracts undocumented
immigrants. "We refuse to pick up Washington's tab any longer," says Gov. Lawton
Chiles. Last month, a state report said Florida paid $ 884 million in 1993 alone
for social services for 345,000 illegal immigrants.

California is considering a similar lawsuit.

New Jersey lawmakers began hearings to determine the annual cost of illegal
immigrants, pegged at $ 300 million.

SEA CHASE: U.S. Coast Guard cutters 240 miles west-southwest of San Diego are
chasing a 180-foot ship suspected of smuggling Chinese illegal immigrants. The
Jin Yinn No. 1, discovered Sunday, is headed back to open sea, authorities say.
In July, three ships carrying 650 undocumented Chinese were intercepted in the
area. Also, a second suspect was charged in last week's raid on a Mitchellville,
Md., house where authorities found 63 Chinese nationals.

POOR CHILDREN: Two studies say that an increasing number of infants and toddlers
are living in poverty. A General Accounting Office study found that poverty in
the group rose 26% during the 1980s - to 2.3 million from 1.8 million. A second
study, prepared for the Carnegie Corporation, shows that 3 million children,
nearly 25% of the USA's infants and toddlers, live in poverty, The New York
Times reports today. Reasons included: parents overwhelmed by poverty, teen-age
pregnancy, divorce or work.

GAY RIGHTS: A proposed Oregon initiative against gay rights can't go on the
ballot because the state constitution limits amendments to one subject, Judge
Rod Miller in Salem ruled. He made the same ruling Feb. 12 but withdrew it
because of a procedural error. Proponents said they will appeal because
proposals all deal with one subject: "prohibition of minority status based on
homosexuality." A 1993 state law bars enforcement of anti-gay-rights measures,
passed by voters in 20 Oregon cities and counties.

TRAIN SHOOTING: Kevin McCarthy, critically hurt in the Long Island Rail Road
massacre that killed his father and five other riders Dec. 7, was released from
a New York hospital. Doctors had given him a 10% to 20% chance of survival. He
hopes to return to work at Prudential Insurance Co. in September and go to Las
Vegas in June for his 27th birthday. Colin Ferguson, 35, of Brooklyn, has been
charged with the shootings.

TWIN'S DAD RELEASED: Kenneth Lakeberg, father of Siamese twins Amy and Angela,
separated last summer, was released from prison in Greencastle, Ind., after a
six-month term for skipping a probation hearing. Lakeberg, 26, was accused of
slashing his cousin's hand with a knife. Angela, still at Children's Hospital of
Philadelphia, weighs 18 pounds. Amy died during the operation.

RADIATION EXPERIMENTS: A House panel began hearings in Cincinnati on possible
compensation to families of at least 88 cancer patients, most of them poor and
black, in federally funded experiments by a University of Cincinnati radiologist
in 1960-71. School officials say the experimental therapy was to ease the dying
patient's suffering.

ALSO MONDAY . . .

-- SHUTTLE MAPPING: Endeavour's advanced radar peered beneath the Sahara Desert
for traces of ancient rivers. The environmental mapping mission ends Monday.

-- ABORTION PROTESTS: Massachusetts' highest court upheld a 1991 injunction that
bars Operation Rescue from blocking abortion clinics.

-- BARNEY ATTACK: Worcester (Mass.) State College student Derek McMahon is due
in court April 25 on an assault and battery charge in the attack Friday on a
woman dressed as Barney the dinosaur at a store opening.

With heavy rain, familiar fright

Heavy rains hit the Midwest for a third day, raising rivers and the anxiety of
residents with vivid memories of last year's disastrous floods. More rain is
expected today.

The system spawned a tornado that killed one person in Barry County in extreme
southwest Missouri. The Missouri River at Jefferson City, Mo., rose 7 feet in 24
hours and is expected to crest 7 feet above flood stage Wednesday. The
Mississippi River also is expected to crest above flood stage Wednesday at St.
Louis and Chester. Elsewhere:

-- The Kansas National Guard was deployed in Pittsburg to help with evacuations
and deliver supplies. Hardest hit: the same areas of Crawford and Neosho
counties that were inundated in last summer's flooding.

-- Families were evacuated from Miami, Okla., as the Neosho River spilled out of
its banks. It was expected to crest Wednesday 9 feet above flood stage.

-- A late winter-like storm dumped heavy snow across eastern Colorado and
sections of Kansas and Nebraska.

Contributing: Jane Schmucker

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w; PHOTO, b/w, Ken Spencer, AP; PHOTO, b/w, Sean Meyers,
Columbia Daily Tribune via AP

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                               9 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     June 2, 1994, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Voices: Who should pay for services for illegal immigrants?

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 60 words


The federal government should pay more to care for illegal immigrants, says
California Gov. Pete Wilson, who filed a $ 370 million lawsuit against the U.S.
government. Arizona, Texas, Illinois, Florida, New York and New Jersey also have
taken or plan to take action to recoup costs of caring for illegal immigrants.
USA TODAY asked readers their opinions.

LOAD-DATE: July 07, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate; Voices

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; Complete text not available -- please see microfiche

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              10 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   August 31, 1994, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

OK would cut back on services

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 144 words


Major provisions of California's Proposition 187 would:

-- Bar illegal immigrants from public schools and universities. By January 1996,
schools would have to verify legal status of all students, their parents or
guardians. Illegal immigrants can now attend public higher education but are
charged the higher rate for non-resident tuition.

-- Bar undocumented immigrants from care at publicly funded health facilities,
except for emergency medical care.

-- Cut off aid from public social programs such as welfare and those directed
toward troubled youth, the elderly and blind.

-- Force state, city and county law enforcement personnel to question those who
are arrested about their citizenship status and report suspected illegal
immigrants to the INS and the state attorney general.

-- Make it a state felony to manufacture false documents.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

See main story; 01D

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              11 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   August 31, 1994, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

A CLASS SCHEDULE / Immigration puts Calif. schools to test / Illegals will drop
out if plan passes

BYLINE: Dennis Kelly

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 1179 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Leslie Hiatt surveys the many Latino faces that occupy her third- and
fourth-grade classroom at Garfield Elementary School in the city of Bell
Gardens.

If Proposition 187 passes on California's Nov. 8 ballot - a measure that would
ban public services to illegal immigrants, including a free education - she
guesses one-third to one-half of her children could be removed from school. As
she reads the measure, teachers will be among those asked to report which
children are legal or illegal.

"I couldn't do it," Hiatt says defiantly. "I'd go to jail before I'd do it."

But just to the west, at Bell High School, business teacher Ezola Foster is
angry that schools such as hers run year-round to deal with the overcrowding she
says is caused by illegal immigrants. And although she loves the children, the
ones here illegally have to go, she says.

"The people are fed up, and the people got together to put up this initiative,"
she says.

The kettle of public opinion simmering for years over illegal immigration is now
reaching a boiling point in the battle over the so-called Save Our State
initiative.

In narrow terms, Proposition 187 says illegal immigrants and their children can
no longer receive a host of services, including a public education, all but
emergency medical care, and other programs targeted at troubled youth and the
elderly.

In broader terms, the vote on Proposition 187 could be a national referendum on
emotions Americans harbor as they watch the illegal immigration drama unfold,
with Haitians and Cubans the last to take center stage. Both critics and
proponents say success here - like California's tax-slashing Proposition 13
before it - could spread to other states.

Schools everywhere are bending under the weight of immigration, both legal and
illegal. Florida's Broward County is adding 10,000-11,000 school kids a year,
perhaps a fifth of whom are illegal, says past school board chairman Diana
Cendoya Wasserman. In the border town of Laredo, Texas, taxpayers complain of
buses bringing hundreds of illegal immigrant kids to schools every day for free
education.

And in California, Gov. Pete Wilson estimates the Golden State's schools are
populated with 308,000 illegal immigrant children, at a cost of $ 1.5 billion
for their education alone.

That's part of what's fueling support for the measure, running far ahead -
64%-27% - in a Field Poll in mid-July. Interestingly, though, "awareness" of the
measure was low: Only 37% had heard of it.

"The question I think every Californian will be asked is, 'How many of these
illegals can you educate, medicate, compensate, incarcerate? How many can you
afford to do that?' " says Harold Ezell, former Western region commissioner for
the Immigration and Naturalization Service under President Reagan. He
co-authored the initiative. "I think the majority of people are going to vote
yes because we can't afford it."

But opponents, including the California Teachers Association and California
Medical Association, are lining up with money and arguments to fight a measure
that has been called racist. Critics fear creation of an uneducated class of
children who'll spread disease if they cannot obtain health care or
immunizations.

"This initiative in and of itself really has nothing to do with retarding the
flow of immigrants," says Ralph Flynn, CTA executive director.

At Garfield Elementary School, teacher's aide Maria Gutierrez, says in Spanish
that backers are just afraid of losing power to Latinos.

"Who's going to work in the fields? Who's going to work in the restaurants?"
Gutierrez asks. "Why do they say we're a burden? We're working to meet our
responsibilities."

The initiative's threat isn't lost on schoolchildren, either.

"If this law passes, I would lose some of my friends and would feel real bad,"
says fourth-grader Adrian Llerenas, 9.

Gutierrez came as an illegal immigrant from Guadalajara, Mexico. She became a
citizen four years ago but says some of her children were born in the U.S. and
thus became citizens even while she was illegal.

Had this passed while she was an illegal, it would have meant "I would have to
leave my daughter who is a citizen here and return with my two children to my
country," she says.

Defenders of immigrants say they come for jobs - not free education.

But Ezell begs to differ. He says entire families are crossing the border, drawn
by free services, in contrast to past immigration involving just young single
males.

"The fact still remains if you're a 5-year-old kid anywhere in the world today,
and you can get here, in America you'll get 12 free years of education," Ezell
says. "Well, how many can we educate?"

And protests to the contrary, Bell High teacher Ezola Foster says illegal
immigrants are taking jobs away from Americans.

The total cost of providing services to illegals is "well over $ 3 billion,"
nearly 10% of the state's general fund budget, says Wilson spokeswoman Leslie
Goodman.

That's money that could be used to ease burdens of overcrowding (average class
size in many L.A. classrooms now is 38) and boost teacher salaries.

But the California legislative analyst says the measure risks the loss of $ 2.3
billion in federal aid to schools alone. The reason: Requirements in the measure
that schools release information about students' legal status without parental
consent would violate federal law.

CTA President Del Weber answers this way when asked the primary question
Californians are asking: Why should they provide free services to someone here
illegally?

"Because not paying doesn't make (the problems) go away," Weber says. "Not
educating them doesn't make it go away. Not taking care of tuberculosis doesn't
make it go away. This is not the solution."

Ezell dismisses CTA opposition as "economics" - an effort to protect money
schools get for each student.

"It's not racist," Ezell says. "We are a nation built on legal immigration. The
Statue of Liberty hasn't changed. It still says, 'Give us your tired, your poor,
huddled masses yearning to breathe free.' It doesn't say, 'Send us all your
illegal aliens.' "

The union says teachers will be asked to become police - the ones who will have
to confirm citizenship status of students and their parents.

Ezell says the measure does not require teachers to become police and that this
is another example of misinformation about the initiative.

But a very real stumbling block for proponents is that the U.S. Supreme Court
already ruled in 1982's Plyler vs. Doe decision that the constitution guarantees
a public education to all children in the U.S., regardless of immigration
status.

Ezell says that was a narrow 5-4 decision and is counting on a more favorable
ruling by the now more conservative court.

Whatever the outcome, both backers and critics of the measure say the federal
government must deal with the larger problem of immigration.

"We need more attention from the federal government," says Broward County's
Wasserman. "That's the key to the solution, not to close our doors to these
children."

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, color, Robert Hanashiro, USA TODAY (2); PHOTO, color, Chris
Pizzello, AP

TYPE: Cover Story

Proposal pits the plight of foreigners against the soaring costs of education

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              12 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   September 30, 1994, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Immigration issue defines California race / Wilson's tough stand winning over
voters

BYLINE: Bob Minzesheimer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 1220 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


A registered Democrat, Megan Ryan usually gives female candidates the benefit of
any doubts because "somehow I think they understand things better."

But come Nov. 8, she says, there's no way she'll vote for Democrat Kathleen
Brown for governor. The main reason: Brown's "squishy" stand on illegal
immigration.

Ryan is only one vote, but she helps explain why Republican Gov. Pete Wilson,
who showed up in polls as one of the nation's most unpopular governors, now
leads Brown in the latest surveys, 48%-41%.

While two-thirds of voters tell pollsters that Wilson has done a poor or fair
job, analysts credit his current standing on his relentless focus on two
emotional issues that many Californians see as threats to their way of life:
crime and illegal immigration.

A Wilson TV ad shows immigrants running across the border as an announcer warns
"They keep coming. Two million illegal immigrants in California," and Wilson
concludes: "Enough is enough."

Ryan, 38, a nurse, agrees: "I'd never say this 10 years ago, but the more I pay
taxes, the more resentment I feel."

And asked about the governor's race, the first thing she says is "I'm voting for
Proposition 187," a ballot initiative that would deny most government services
to illegal immigrants in California.

Wilson endorses that initiative; Brown opposes it. And here on the border, where
county supervisors recently declared an "illegal immigrant emergency," that
stand is key.

This year's gubernatorial race started out with predictions of big implications
for the 1996 presidential race.

A win by Wilson, 61, would establish him as a GOP presidential contender,
pundits said. A win by Brown, 47, would help President Clinton in a state he
desperately needs in 1996.

Brown, the state treasurer, came out swinging: "In four years under Pete Wilson,
we've seen the promise that once was California destroyed - job by job, school
by school," she said.

But Wilson took on Brown, daughter of former California governor Pat Brown and
sister of another governor, Jerry, calling her "a political cipher."

Now it appears immigration is defining both candidates - and that could also
affect the national immigration debate.

Immigration is a huge issue in California, where an estimated 1.7 million
illegal immigrants live.

Wilson and other critics says that's damaging the state's economy, citing
estimates that illegal immigrants add $ 2.4 billion a year in education, health
and prison costs.

That number is subject to intense debate. A study commissioned by the Justice
Department says it's $ 1.3 billion, noting that immigrants do many vital jobs
like farm work, and contribute to the economy.

But fears about rising immigration has galvanized voters, who favored the ballot
initiative, 57%-31% in the Field Poll.

Wilson calls the initiative "the two-by-four" to "send a message to Washington
that we can't educate every child from here to Tierra del Fuego."

Brown charges Wilson is "hypocritically exploiting our people and our fears" and
that denying schooling to children of illegal immigrants, "throwing them into
the streets . . . will cost us a lot more in the end."

Brown and other critics question the initiative's constitutionality and premise.
A 1984 Supreme Court ruling says illegal immigrant children are entitled to
public education. Most experts say people cross the border for jobs, not
benefits.

But the initiative is now a symbolic issue in a state battered by the recession,
says San Jose State University political scientist Terry Christensen: "When
you're paranoid about your own well-being, strangers are a threat."

And it's the people most likely to be threatened who are most likely to vote.

"There are two Californias," says Sherry Bebitch Jeffe, political analyst at the
Claremont Graduate School: "One is older, Anglo, conservative, anti-government,
anti-tax and more likely to vote. The other is younger, more minority, less
likely to vote and more in need of government services that the other California
votes on."

The Field Poll shows white Anglos back the immigration initiative 60%-27%;
Latino voters split 48%-44%.

That could change, Jeffe says, if the debate turns into a "hate campaign"
reminiscent of California's turn-of-the century laws to exclude Asian
immigrants. That could "energize" Brown's liberal and Latino supporters.

But so far, the campaign has focused on issues favoring Wilson. After struggling
through a 1991 tax increase, and a budget crisis where the state issued IOUs
rather than paychecks, his approval rating is 44% - as low as Clinton's in
California.

Now he's got immigration in focus, with the help of the ballot initiative.

San Diego County Commissioner Brian Bilbray, who's using the issue to run for
Congress, says 4,800 babies were born in the county last year to mothers who are
illegal immigrants; 41% were on welfare.

That stirs angry middle-income voters like Gary Leonetti, 46, who runs a shoe
repair shop here.

"Both Wilson and Brown can go to hell," Leonetti snaps. "He jacked up taxes and
if she's like her brother, she'll raise them too."

But because of immigration, Leonetti says he'll vote for Wilson: "She's on the
fence and he's talking tough. Maybe he'll do something. Maybe he's learned how
to run this state. But I doubt it."

Public supports this proposition

Supporters hope California's Proposition 187 will do for immigration control
what Proposition 13 did for tax-cutting here after it passed in 1978.

Co-authored by Alan Nelson, Immigration and Naturalization Service commissioner
under President Reagan, the proposal has drawn strong public support.

The law would:

-- Bar illegal immigrants from public schools or colleges; parents of all
schoolchildren, including U.S. citizens, would have to prove legal residence.

-- Deny non-emergency public health care and social services to anyone who can't
prove legal status.

-- Require educators, police and public health officials to report anyone
suspected of being an illegal immigrant.

Opponents include the state Parent-Teacher Association, Los Angeles County Board
of Supervisors, California Medical Association, and Roman Catholic Cardinal
Roger Mahoney.

They warn that the state could lose $ 15 billion annually in federal aid if it
violates federal laws.

Supporters doubt President Clinton will ever cut off federal aid to California.

A contrast of California voters

Political analysts say there are two kinds of Californians, those who live there
and those who vote. Non-Hispanic whites make up about half of California's
population, but they dominate the polls - especially when there is a low turnout
of voters. How the makeup of the population contrasts with the roll of
registered voters and those who voted in the 1992 election and the 1994 primary:
                     Registered     1992   '94 primary
Group          Pop.      voters     turnout     turnout
Whites          54%        76%        79%          83%
Hispanics(1)    28%        11%        10%           8%
Blacks           7%         7%         6%           5%
Others          11%         6%         5%           4%

Source: Field Poll 1 -- Hispanics can be of any race

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Grace Saenz, AP; PHOTO, b/w, Robert Hanashiro, USA TODAY

THE NATION; See related story; 04A; See info boxes at end of text.

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              13 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 18, 1994, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

State, local governments tired of bearing the burden

BYLINE: Margaret L. Usdansky

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 732 words


One of the most controversial issues on illegal immigration is the burden it
places on state and local governments.

California, with the most illegal immigrants, and five other states - Arizona,
Texas, Florida, New York and New Jersey - have filed lawsuits seeking billions
of dollars from the Clinton administration.

The states argue that federal officials are supposed to keep illegal immigrants
out of the USA, so they should pay for services of those who slip into the
country illegally.

But how much do the USA's estimated 4 million illegal immigrants cost
governments in services - and how much do they pay in taxes?

A recent study commissioned by the federal Office of Management and Budget says
the precise costs never may be known. But illegal immigrants cost states
substantially more than they pay in taxes, probably up to $ 2 billion each year.

Most of the burden falls on a handful of states.

Foremost among them is California, where polls show voters overwhelmingly favor
an upcoming ballot measure that would cut off most public services to illegal
immigrants, including schools.

"California has by far the largest number of illegal immigrants of any state,
43% of all illegals in the country," says Jeffrey Passel, co-author of the OMB
study done by the Urban Institute, a Washington research center. "And their
costs of providing services to illegal immigrants are higher than any other
state."

The Urban Institute examined what are believed to be the largest costs and
benefits of illegal immigrants in the seven states with the most undocumented
residents: Arizona, California, Florida, Illinois, New Jersey, New York and
Texas.

The study found that California spends about $ 1.8 billion annually on illegal
immigrants but receives only about $ 732 million from them in taxes. That means
the Golden State is saddled with costs of over $ 1 billion per year, the study
says.

By far, the most expensive service was education.

California, for example, spends about $ 1.3 billion a year on public school
education for illegal immigrant children. It also spends $ 368 million to keep
about 15,100 illegal immigrants in state prisons and $ 166.5 million to provide
illegal immigrants with emergency medical services.

One reason for the states' complaints: Academic studies have consistently shown
that the federal government receives most of the taxes paid by immigrants, legal
and illegal, while states and cities bear most of the costs.

"Most people who look at this find that the burdens are greater at the state
level and the local level than at the federal level," says Brown University
sociologist Michael White.

But most studies, including the Urban Institute's, only examine costs and
benefits that affect governments.

"What's not quite as clear," says Brown, "is what role undocumented immigrants
play in the overall economy."

Passel agrees: "There's a whole set of non-governmental costs and benefits that
are very hard to quantify."

One hot point is whether illegal immigrants take jobs from legal residents.

Most studies suggest they don't, Passel says, although they appear to lower
wages of other workers.

On the other hand, Passel says, illegal immigrants benefit the economy by
spending money, which creates jobs, and by working for low wages: "As a result,
the goods that they produce and the services they provide cost the rest of us
less than they would otherwise."

Apprehensions of illegals on rise The number of illegal immigrants apprehended
nationally has climbed over the past four years, while the number legally
admitted has declined. Apprehensions and legal admissions:
Year     Apprehensions     Legal admissions
1993     1,327,259         880,014

Where most illegals are caught Border Patrol sectors where most illegals were
apprehended in 1993:
San Diego       531,689
El Paso         285,781

McAllen, Texas 109,048
Tucson, Ariz.    92,639
Laredo, Texas    82,348

California is No. 1 destination In 1992, there were about 3.38 million illegal
immigrants in the USA. States with the largest populations of illegal
immigrants:
State              Number
California      1,441,000
New York          449,000
Texas             357,000
Florida           322,000
Illinois          176,000

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Nick Galifianakis, USA TODAY, Source: Immigration and
Naturalization Service (Line graph, Bar graph); PHOTO, b/w, Denis Poroy, AP

ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION; See info box at end of text; See related story; 01A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              14 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 21, 1994, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Voices: Should public services to illegal immigrants be cut off?

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 60 words


California's Proposition 187 would bar illegal immigrants from receiving public
education, non-emergency medical care and welfare. It also would ask teachers,
doctors and police to report suspected illegal aliens to officials. The debate
on this volatile measure to be decided Nov. 8 has divided the state. USA TODAY
asked readers their opinions.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate; Voices

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; Complete text not available -- please see microfiche

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              15 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 28, 1994, Friday, FINAL EDITION

'Second thoughts' about illegals in Calif. / Polls indicate Prop. 187 losing
ground

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 582 words


Support for a California ballot measure that would deny public benefits to
illegal immigrants and their children has dropped sharply in recent weeks,
giving opponents new hope that they can defeat it.

New polls by the Los Angeles Times and the independent Field Poll show
majorities of voters still favor Proposition 187, but by far slimmer margins.
Favored nearly 2-1 in earlier surveys, the new polls show support for the "Save
Our State" ballot measure now between 51% and 53%.

The latest results were collected in the wake of intensifying scrutiny of 187
and after opponents began airing negative ads. Several high-profile politicians
- including President Clinton and Republican Jack Kemp - recently condemned 187
as unconstitutional, too expensive and ineffective in curbing illegal
immigration.

"The trend is clearly downward," says the Field Poll's Mark DiCamillo. "If it
wins, it will be very narrow - it will all come down to turnout."

One of the toughest anti-illegal immigration measures in recent memory, polls
show Proposition 187 will prompt more people to vote Nov. 8 than even the
state's hotly contested gubernatorial race.

The measure would deny social and health services to illegal immigrants, kick
their kids out of public schools and require teachers, doctors and other public
workers to report suspected illegal immigrants.

The Times poll shows that many Hispanic voters and registered Democrats - who
favored 187 in earlier polls - have changed their minds since September, with
majorities now opposed. Conservative and older voters still support it by large
majorities.

The downward shift in the polls is "not unexpected, considering we haven't (run
media ads)," says 187 spokesman Robert Kiley.

DiCamillo said voter opinion typically shifts on ballot measures as the election
nears. "As people learn more about the implications, the weaknesses and flaws,
they start to have second thoughts," he said.

Says immigrant rights activist Fabian Nunez: "There are a lot of good folks in
California who aren't going to tolerate passage of a mean-spirited, racist
measure."

Meanwhile, Republican Gov. Pete Wilson - who has made illegal immigration the
top issue of his re-election bid - backed away from earlier comments in which he
said all Californians would have to carry tamper-proof national ID cards to
prove their citizenship if 187 passes.

"If you are a legal resident you have absolutely nothing to fear," Wilson told
the San Francisco Chronicle.

After his remarks caused a furor, Wilson said people would only have to carry
the card when applying for a job or for state-funded services. But Democratic
rival Kathleen Brown accused Wilson of seeking to create a new national
bureaucracy to enforce "Big Brother surveillance."

Brown, however, supports use of national IDs in the form of a new, tamper-proof
Social Security card that would be presented only when applying for a job.

Also Thursday, state and federal officials in Florida said they would begin
deporting - without trials - illegal immigrants accused of non-violent crimes,
to help keep violent offenders behind bars longer.

Democratic Gov. Lawton Chiles, who's in a tight race for re-election, has been
pushing for speedy deportation of incarcerated illegals.

Backlash against illegals Just over half of respondents in a new California poll
supported the banning of most social services for illegal immigrants:
     For   Against
Oct.  53%     39%

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Stephen Conley, USA TODAY, Source: Field Poll of 681
Californians conducted Oct. 21-25 (Line graph); PHOTO, b/w, Judi Parks, AP

THE NATION; See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              16 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    November 4, 1994, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Foes plan all-out blitz this weekend

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 379 words


California's anti-illegal immigrant ballot measure goes into the final weekend
before Election Day with enough votes to pass, but with support for the first
time dropping below 50%.

Meanwhile, opponents prepared to mount a variety of protest events over the next
four days to persuade voters to reject the controversial Proposition 187, which
has dominated the California election.

The ballot measure would deny education and social services to all illegal
immigrants and their children.

A KCAL-TV poll, conducted Oct. 28-31, showed support at 49%-41% among likely
voters. A KCBS-TV poll, conducted at the same time, showed likely voters
splitting 48%-38%.

On Thursday, eight representatives of leading conservative and libertarian think
tanks in Washington, D.C., came out against the measure, charging it would
promote government intrusion in people's lives.

Meanwhile, law enforcement agencies in Los Angeles are prepared to go on
tactical alert Tuesday and Wednesday, in case of possible unrest if 187 passes.

Spokesman Lt. John Dunkin said police are keeping an eye on area schools, where
student opponents of 187 over the past two weeks have led the largest wave of
student walkouts and demonstrations since the anti-war rallies of the Vietnam
era.

"We're not canceling vacations or emergency days off, but there will be no
regular days off," says Dunkin.

About 10,000 high school students walked out of their classrooms Wednesday in
mostly peaceful protest against 187. Most of the walkouts were in Los Angeles,
but there also were protests as far south as San Diego. About 8,000 students had
walked out on Oct. 28 in the Los Angeles area.

About a dozen people were arrested in Compton Wednesday when youths pelted a bus
and police with rocks and bottles, blockaded a supermarket and smashed windows
in a shopping center.

Student opponents of 187 are planning to rally Saturday in a Los Angeles park.
Other opponents plan to rally Sunday on the west side of the city, where
Democratic gubernatorial candidate Kathleen Brown is expected to speak against
187.

The pro-187 campaign committee, which has had trouble raising money, is keeping
a low profile this weekend, though separate organizations are paying for media
ads promoting the measure.

LOAD-DATE: November 05, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Eric Draper, AP

IMMIGRATION; See main story; 07A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              17 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    November 11, 1994, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Illegal immigrant measure may not fly in Fla., Texas

BYLINE: Sandra Sanchez; Deborah Sharp

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 286 words

DATELINE: AUSTIN


Proponents of California's Proposition 187 hope to export their anti-illegal
immigration movement to Florida and Texas, but analysts say they won't find
fertile ground.

Neither state has economic, social or political conditions similar to California
- nor as many illegal immigrants.

Even more important, the just-elected and re-elected governors of both states
are opposed to any legislation that would deny education, health and social
services to illegal immigrants and require government workers to report them.

"Texas has the obligation to educate all children, regardless of who their
parent is," says George W. Bush Jr., who Tuesday defeated incumbent Democratic
Gov. Ann Richards of Texas.

Says re-elected Democratic Gov. Lawton Chiles of Florida, who beat Bush's
younger brother, Jeb Bush: "I don't think we're out to punish people or cause
divisiveness."

By contrast, GOP Gov. Pete Wilson of California was re-elected Tuesday largely
on the strength of his support for 187.

"Economically we're a completely different state - we're healthy, productive,"
says Luis Wilmont, regional counsel for the Mexican American Legal Defense and
Educational Fund in San Antonio. "When an economy is sour, the politicians . . .
blame groups they feel can't defend themselves, like immigrants."

Texas immigration advocates say Hispanics there have enough clout to stop any
Proposition 187-type campaign.

Still, some in Florida would welcome such a measure. "These illegal aliens have
overrun Dade County," says Enos Schera, a leader in the drive to keep English
Miami's official language. "They're making our standard of living go down,
making this a Third World country. People just can't stand any more."

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, AP

THE NATION; See related story; 08A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              18 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  November 16, 1994, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Next stop for Prop. 187: Courts / Restraining order may be granted today

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 966 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


A Spanish-language version of the Yellow Pages lands on Michael Almaguer's
doorstep, and he fires off an angry call to the phone company. He sees new
immigrants lining up at the bank he has used for years, and it infuriates him.
He hears about crowded schools, and he feels cheated.

All of it "bothers the hell out of me," says the 72-year-old retired postal
manager and third-generation Mexican-American. His message to the estimated 1.6
million illegals in California: "You have to go. You've got to get out of here."

The anger has been brewing for years. Almaguer and a majority of California
voters found a way to crystallize their frustration: Proposition 187, passed
handily last week.

The sweeping legislation, which cuts educational and most health services to
illegal immigrants, struck a chord in a state where many residents feel under
siege - surrounded by illegals, stealing what belongs to citizens.

But a flurry of lawsuits questioning the measure's constitutionality are putting
it on hold.

Today, a federal judge in Los Angeles could grant a temporary restraining order
that will delay the measure even further. The fight promises to be emotional.
Among those in one class-action suit: Barbara Ayala, a 15-year-old deaf student
and illegal immigrant attending a public school here.

And a San Francisco Superior Court put a hold on the provision that would oust
illegal children from schools.

But, whatever happens to Proposition 187, the fury over illegals is here to
stay.

It's fueled by an annual influx of 300,000 illegals to the USA, and the prospect
of a Hispanic majority in California and other states.

Much of the battle comes down to economics.

California goes through a budget crunch, and services get cut. Then the
finger-pointing begins, with Republican Gov. Pete Wilson citing staggering
numbers to illustrate the financial burden illegals put on taxpayers. Annual
cost: $ 3.4 billion. Tax revenues from illegals: $ 739 million.

Wilson's main goal is to get the federal government to pay attention and money,
while demanding tightened borders and enforced sanctions against employers
hiring illegals.

Residents pick up on that angry call for action in a big way.

"Even if it's only symbolic, it will send the message to Washington," says
Almaguer.

The state is now home to 40% of the nation's illegals. They moved in next door,
changing the profile of familiar neighborhoods. Public schools had to add
bilingual education. And as lines at state unemployment offices grew - for
example, from aerospace industry cutbacks - it suddenly seemed that only
illegals were getting work.

The federal Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 promised to crack down on
those hiring illegals. But enforcement costs too much.

Also, "we all benefit from illegal work," says H. Eric Schockman, an urban
politics analyst at the University of Southern California.

"It keeps the prices down" on everything - like food harvested by low-paid
illegals and garments made in illegals-filled sweatshops, he says.

Wilson is asking state agencies to draft regulations to enforce provisions of
the measure. Among them: Cutting prenatal care for illegals.

Immigrants' rights groups say Proposition 187 already has had a chilling effect.
Hospitals and clinics report a drop in patients, and scared immigrants are
flooding hot lines.

"We've got some moms who want to take these kids out of school," says Tom
Johnstone, principal of Buford Elementary School, where up to half the kids are
illegals.

Says Bobbi Murray of the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles:
It's "open season."

Even services that would not be banned are being denied, she says.

A car accident victim was denied emergency care because he could not prove his
legal status, and a Palm Springs pharmacist refused to fill a child's
prescription because the father did not have documentation, Murray says.

She also reports an ethnic backlash, which Proposition 187 opponents feared.

Proponents, while bemoaning such reaction, say the measure only seeks to cut
services that illegals should not be getting in the first place.

But critics say Proposition 187 is so short-sighted it's likely to spawn more
problems, while doing little to oust illegals.

"How can one argue that denying prenatal care to illegal mothers . . . is a
better solution than helping them have healthy babies," says Dennis Aigner, dean
of the graduate school of management at the University of California Irvine.

Ira Mehlman of the pro-187 Federation for American Immigration Reform, admits
it's not the best solution. But, he says, "it's the only thing that California
could do independently. We refuse to pay the bills. Now it's up to Washington to
get its act together."

There's much hope being placed on the new Republican stronghold in Congress.
Incoming House speaker Newt Gingrich is already vowing to beef up border
enforcement.

"Message sent. Message received," says Wilson spokesman Sean Walsh, who says
Proposition 187 may clear hurdles faster now that there's more support in
Washington.

California's immigration tide

More than one-fourth of the 904,292 legal immigrants admitted to the USA in 1993
said they intended to live in California. The latest federal estimates put
another 1.6 million illegal immigrants in California, although Gov. Pete
Wilson's estimates top 2 million. Immigration in California:

Immigrants intending to live in California
1993     260,090

The states where illegal immigrants live
California         1.6 million
New York           449,000
Texas              357,000
Florida            322,000
Illinois           176,000
New Jersey         116,000
Other states       518,000

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Nick Galifianakis, USA TODAY, Source: Immigration and
Naturalization Service (Line graph, Pie chart); PHOTO, b/w, Robert Hanashiro,
USA TODAY; PHOTO, b/w, Bob Riha Jr., Gamma-Liaison; PHOTO, b/w, AP

THE NATION; See info box at end of text; See sidebar; 03A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              19 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    November 21, 1994, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Prop. 187 used to deny pizza, girls say

BYLINE: Gordon Dickson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 255 words


Nothing in California's Proposition 187 denies anyone the right to buy a pizza.

But in Stockton, Calif., three Hispanic girls - all legal residents - say they
were denied a pizza by a restaurant cashier who asked them for immigration and
naturalization papers.

Proposition 187, on hold by court order, would deny illegal immigrants public
services like education and health care.

"The kids are humiliated," says Freida Alvarez, whose daughter Selina, 13, and
two friends say they were snubbed at The Graduate restaurant.

Manager Glenn Plank says employees deny refusing service to the girls. "We have
probably 75% Hispanic customers. I doubt we'd turn anyone away. It's silly."

The incident happened Nov. 11 and was reported this weekend in the Stockton
Record.

Such incidents have been reported across the state, even though federal Judge
Matthew Byrne put a hold on 187. He questions its constitutionality.

And a state judge won't allow schools to oust illegal immigrants.

Lawyers and civil rights groups say they're flooded with complaints from
residents who say they're being wrongly questioned about citizenship.

Republican Gov. Pete Wilson, who tied his re-election bid to Proposition 187,
says residents need to learn the limits.

"People should not be using 187 for their own purpose," says spokesman Sean
Walsh.

Other complaints:

-- A woman says she was denied service at a San Joaquin County government
office.

-- A Hispanic boy, 14, says Asian students told him to go "back across the
border."

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

See related story; 02A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              20 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   November 22, 1994, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

3 Republicans urge immigration caution

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt; Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 834 words


Three leading Republicans launched a campaign Monday to stop the spread of
anti-illegal-immigrant measures based on California's Proposition 187.

"You're dealing with people's assumptions, people's attitudes; these are tricky
and dangerous waters," said William Bennett, a former Education secretary. "It's
an explosive issue."

Jack Kemp, a former HUD secretary and possible 1996 presidential candidate, said
any GOP attempt to push a national 187 threatens the "soul" of the party.

"There are those who want the party to be the equivalent of the Know-Nothing
party that was anti-immigrant, anti-Catholic, anti-black," Kemp said.

Linda Chavez, a former head of the Civil Rights Commission now at a conservative
think tank, sees a possible "tide . . . of unwise proposals to limit legal
immigration."

"The same as in the health-care debate," Bennett said, "there are problems of
illegal immigration, but there is no crisis." The problem is not immigrants, he
said, but failure to advance American culture, beliefs, language and values.
"It's assimilation, stupid."
- Maria Puente

USAIR 'NOISE': The "whooshing sound" aboard a USAir jet before the Sept. 8 crash
that killed all 132 aboard was just a pilot's microphone left open on the public
address system, industry officials said. That view was confirmed by an off-duty
pilot riding in the cockpit on the flight before the plane left Chicago for
Pittsburgh, where it crashed.

WHO'S LAUGHING NOW? Celia Montalvo of Cliffside Park, N.J., faces 18 months in
jail if convicted on charges she made a bogus call to 911 to get her husband off
the couch to go shopping. Police say Montalvo, 35, called the emergency number
Saturday, cried "Don't shoot me! Don't shoot me!" and then hung up. She said it
was just a joke.

SENTENCED TO CHURCH: The American Civil Liberties Union has gone to court stop
Lake Charles, La., City Court Judge Thomas Quirk from sentencing people to
attend church. He estimates he's handed down 350 such orders over three years.
He said church is a popular alternative for someone who can't afford a fine for
a minor offense, and the person's church is available, costs nothing, and isn't
full of criminals. "I'm not going to stop until the courts tell me."

Pioneer female pilot buried IN ARLINGTON, VA.: Dagny Spears at the burial in
Arlington National Cemetery of her sister, Navy Lt. Kara Hultgreen, 29, who died
Oct. 25 when her F-14 crashed in the Pacific off San Diego. She was one of the
first female military aviators to qualify for jet fighter carrier operations.

DENVER AIRPORT: The days of chewing up luggage may be over for Denver
International Airport's $ 231 million baggage system, but glitches remain. New
tests show one system, which delayed the airport's opening, is now working, and
improvements are being made on a second. But nagging problems persist. The
airport is to open Feb. 28.

EXECUTION: Warren Bridge, 34, was executed by injection in Texas early today for
the 1980 murder of convenience store clerk Walter Rose, 62, in Glaveston.

ALSO MONDAY . . .

-- CONCEALING WEAPONS: The Stockton, Calif., City Council rejected 6-1 a
proposal that would have allowed most residents to carry concealed weapons.
Proposal foes said it would lead to more gun violence.

-- MEDICAID ABORTIONS: Illinois must resume paying for abortions for indigent
victims of rape or incest, a Chicago federal judge ruled. The federal government
requires such funding in states that participate in Medicaid.

-- CHILD ABUSE: Stephen Rogers, 30, and his girlfriend, Trudy O'Connor, 32, were
sentenced to prison for keeping his daughter, 9, tied up and chained to a
urine-soaked bed in Deckerville, Mich. Rogers said the girl was a "sneak" and
couldn't be trusted. He got 10 to 15 years; she got six to 15.

Ladder fails as fireman attempts rescue

The New York Fire Department plans to continue using Seagrave Aerial ladders,
despite the collapse of one during a rescue in which one person died and four
were injured.

Yreno Espanoso, 37, was killed Sunday when the lightweight, aluminum-alloy
ladder buckled after being fully extended to 91 feet. Firefighter Greg Smith
clung tightly to Lissetto Espanoso, 6, and her brother, Edwin, 4, as the ladder
crashed to the ground. The children's mother, Aqueda Santana, 31, who was
following Smith, also managed to hold on. The mother and children are in
critical condition. Smith is stable.

"There are probably thousands of these ladders in service and they've been
involved in thousands of successful rescue operations," said Seagrave's Joe
Kaufmann in Clintonville, Wis. Also:

-- Former Glendale, Calif., arson investigator John Orr, serving a 30-year
federal sentence for arson, was charged in Los Angeles with torching a South
Pasadena building supply store, killing four people. He faces a possible death
penalty if convicted of the new state charges.

With: Gary Fields, Leo Mullen, Carrie Dowling, Paul Hoversten and Gordon Dickson

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 29, 1994

CORRECTION: CORRECTION RAN 11/23/94:A Tuesday story on Proposition 187 fallout
should have quoted former Education secretary William Bennett as saying:"There
are problems of legal immigration, but there is no crisis."

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, USA TODAY; PHOTO, b/w, Doug Mills, AP; PHOTO, b/w, John
Paraskevas, Newsday via AP

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              21 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     August 20, 1993, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Crack down on illegals

BYLINE: Pete Wilson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 279 words


In the past three years alone, enough illegal aliens have crossed into
California to fill a city the size of Pittsburgh. And, there are now more
illegal aliens living in California than there are legal residents of 18 other
states. Ignoring this flood of illegal immigration will erode the quality of
life for all those who reside legally in the USA.

Our public health-care facilities are being swamped, but two-thirds of all
babies born in Los Angeles public hospitals are born to illegal aliens.
Providing services to illegal immigrants now costs California taxpayers nearly $
3 billion a year.

We need to secure our borders. We must repeal the federal mandates that require
states to provide services to illegal immigrants and serve as a reward for those
who violate our nation's immigration laws. And the federal government must
establish a tamper-proof service-eligibility card to ensure only legal residents
receive government benefits.

But finally, we must fundamentally rethink the very foundation of our
immigration laws: It's time to amend the Constitution so that citizenship
belongs only to the children of legal residents of the United States.

Some illegals come here simply to have a child born on U.S. soil. That, of
course, renders the child eligible for a host of public benefits. Just since
1988, the number of children of illegal aliens on California welfare rolls has
grown more than fourfold. The 14th Amendment to the Constitution was never
intended to be a reward for illegal immigration; it's time to change it.

President Clinton and Congress must enact fundamental reform to address the
nation's immigration crisis without delay.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, UPI

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; Today's debate is on IMMIGRATION and the effect of illegal
immigrants on U.S. society; OPPOSING VIEW; Give citizenship only to children of
legal residents and restrict government benefits.; Pete Wilson is the governor
of California

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              22 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  September 29, 1993, Wednesday, FIRST EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 262 words


The San Diego County Supervisors voted to bill the federal government for the
cost of health, education, and welfare benefits to illegal immigrants. The board
estimates its annual cost at $ 146 million. Also sought: deployment of National
Guard troops at the Mexico border. Raymond Uzeta, an advocate for the local
Mexican community, called the proposals "un-American." Polls show most
Californians are hostile to immigration.

BOMBING TRIAL: Eight women and four men were chosen as jurors in the New York
federal trial of four Islamic fundamentalists charged with the World Trade
Center bombing. Among the jurors: a man who initially said the defendants were
guilty, but later said he could be fair. A black woman in the telecommunications
business is the forewoman. Six alternate jurors will be chosen, beginning today.
Opening statements could be Thursday. The Feb. 26 bombing, described as the
worst terrorist attack ever in the USA, killed six people and injured more than
1,000.

DOOLITTLE DIES: Retired lieutenant general James Doolittle, who led the first
World War II bombing raid on Japan in 1942, died Monday at his son's home in
Pebble Beach, Calif., after a stroke earlier this month. He was 96.

ALSO TUESDAY . . .

CASEY HOSPITALIZED AGAIN: Pennsylvania Gov. Robert Casey, 61, was readmitted to
University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, where he had a rare heart-and-liver
transplant in June. This time he's in for anemia after a bout with the flu last
week, doctors said.
Contributing: Haya El Nasser, Gary Fields and Mark Downey

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION; FROM USA TODAY'S NATIONAL NEWS NETWORK

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              23 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    January 18, 1994, Tuesday, FIRST EDITION

IMMIGRATION COSTS

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 72 words



Florida, which intends to sue the federal government for the cost of services to
illegal immigrants, is denying foster care to two young illegal aliens. Legal
Services of Greater Miami has sued Florida because it won't take the two minors
as wards. Jim Towey of the Department of Health and Rehabilitative Services said
if federal officials "want us to be on the front line providing the service, pay
for it and we'll do it."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Nationline

NATION/WORLD; FROM USA TODAY'S NATIONAL NEWS NETWORK

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              24 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 11, 1994, Friday, FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 119 words


ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION: California Gov. Pete Wilson said he'll sue the federal
government if it doesn't provide $ 3.1 billion for services for illegal
immigrants. Wilson told CNN he was "bitterly disappointed" President Clinton's
budget doesn't include the money. Florida Gov. Lawton Chiles also has threatened
to sue over the same issue. In Washington, House Republicans unveiled a plan to
add 6,000 U.S. Border Patrol agents, build fences and ditches to curb illegal
crossings, require a tamper-proof Social Security card for all citizens and
impose a $ 1.50 fee on everyone entering the USA by land. People arriving by air
already pay a $ 10 fee.

Contributing: Jane Schmucker and Paul Hoversten

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Chris Martinez, AP

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              25 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     August 28, 1995, Monday, FINAL EDITION

His trumpet: Immigration issue

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 192 words


With the Statue of Liberty in the background, California Gov. Pete Wilson today
formally announces his GOP presidential candidacy.

Wilson, an outspoken foe of illegal immigration and affirmative action, will
speak in New York City's Battery Park then head to Portsmouth, N.H.

The backdrop ensures TV coverage highlighting Wilson's tough stance on
immigration. Spokeswoman Leslie Goodman says he chose the spot because Lady
Liberty "stands as a beacon of hope and opportunity for all those who worked
hard to come to the United States, but also reminds us of the important
responsibilities that come with freedom."

Liberty's image is in Wilson's campaign logo to reinforce his opposition to
illegal immigration, she says: "He's been saying . . . there's a right way and a
wrong way to come into this country and the wrong way is not the American way."

Wilson backed California's Proposition 187, denying state services to illegal
immigrants. Courts have delayed its use.

Wilson has campaigned since spring, but his formal announcement was delayed by
recovery from surgery - to remove polyps from his vocal cords - and budget
talks.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

POLITICS; See main story; 06A

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              26 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    March 2, 1994, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

States want U.S. help paying immigrants' way

BYLINE: Gary Fields

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 192 words


Florida is not alone in thinking the federal government should do more to cover
the cost of illegal immigrants.

-- The National Governors' Association agreed during its winter meeting that the
federal government should pick up certain costs, like health care and education,
because of failures in immigration policy.

-- The governors of California, Illinois, Texas and Florida sent letters to
President Clinton calling on him to "restore a partnership with states" in
paying immigration costs.

-- Last August, California Gov. Pete Wilson called for a constitutional
amendment to deny citizenship to the children of illegal immigrants.

-- Both New York and California have in recent years sued the federal government
seeking relief from part of the burden. Courts dismissed the complaints.

-- Texas and Illinois also have complained that the federal government has not
helped them pay the rising costs of social services for immigrants.

More than 75% of all legal immigrants are concentrated in California, Florida,
Illinois, New Jersey, New York and Texas. When illegal immigrants are added,
that rises to about 90%, demographers say.

IMMIGRATION; See main story; 09A; See related story; 11A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              27 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    March 24, 1994, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Mutilation fear wins halt to deportation

BYLINE: Stuart Wasserman; Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 545 words

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore.


A Nigerian woman won permission to stay in the United States Wednesday, after a
judge ruled that deportation could subject her American daughters to ritual
female genital mutilation.

Legal experts said the unprecedented decision is a belated recognition that
sex-based persecution in foreign countries can be a human-rights violation - and
grounds for U.S. protection.

Lydia Oluloro, 32, an illegal immigrant with two daughters, Shade, 6, and Lara,
5, smiled broadly and raised her fist in victory as immigration Judge Kendall
Warren granted her request to suspend deportation. "Thank you, your honor, I
appreciate your help for finding the truth," she said.

Oluloro, who later sobbed while holding her daughters in her lap, is the first
woman to win the right to stay in the USA on the grounds of fear of female
genital mutilation.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service said it will not appeal the ruling.
Oluloro, a janitor, is now free to seek legal immigrant status.

"This does not change the law," says Deborah Anker, head of Harvard Law School's
immigration and refugee program. "It (means) applying the . . . law in a fair
and non-discriminatory manner so that women aren't excluded."

Warren found Oluloro met the standard for suspension of deportation: of good
moral character, residing in the United States for at least seven years (she
entered illegally in 1986), and extreme hardship if forced to return.

In the procedure, external female sexual organs are cut away and the opening is
sewn, except for a pencil-sized hole for urination. The practice is intended to
guarantee girls' virginity.

Warren cited a State Department report that about 50% of the women in Nigeria
have been subjected to the procedure. Oluloro, who underwent it as a child,
feared family members would do the same to her daughters if deported.

"This court attempts to respect traditional cultures, but this is cruel and
serves no known medical purpose," Warren said.

Experts say female genital mutilation is an ancient custom practiced in more
than two dozen African, Arab and Middle Eastern countries. It can cause
infections, painful intercourse, complicated childbirth and even death.

"It's not an innocuous practice and we stand in solidarity with women fighting
such traditions all over the world," said Peggy Norman of Oregon National
Organization for Women.

NOW offices reported hundreds of calls from people offering Oluloro money, a
place to stay and even marriage.

Opponents of loosening grounds for asylum in the USA say they fear the
already-overwhelmed system will be strained by millions of refuge-seekers.

Rep. Pat Schroeder, D-Colo., called the decision a victory for women. "I am so
excited," she said Wednesday night. She said she introduced a bill banning
genital mutilation of girls in the USA because increased immigration from
countries where it is practiced means it will become more common here.

Oluloro came to the USA in 1986 to join her Nigerian-born husband, who failed to
file papers necessary to legalize her status. They are now divorced.

Oluloro said she doubts the decision would curb mutilation in Nigeria. "Why shed
the blood of a human being for no reason?" she said. "It is a such a terrible
thing to do to children."

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Don Ryan

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              28 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     April 29, 1994, Friday, FINAL EDITION

States' immigration lawsuits have more bark than bite

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 607 words


Suing the U.S. government can be an exercise in futility, since Uncle Sam first
has to give his permission. But even a failed attempt can be useful - especially
for politicians running for re-election.

Some legal experts say that may be the thinking behind recent efforts by several
states to sue the federal government over illegal immigration. California Gov.
Pete Wilson is expected to file a lawsuit today.

Already, publicity over the suits has prompted Congress and the White House to
make concessions - though states say they're not enough.

Legal experts are sympathetic to the states but say their cases are likely to
fail because the Constitution protects the government from suits.

"I think within one year they'll be dismissed on jurisdictional grounds or the
government will win on summary judgment because there's just no legal basis,"
says Charles Wheeler, head lawyer at the National Immigration Law Center in Los
Angeles.

"My heart's with the states, but I don't think (they) really believe deep in
their hearts they have much of a chance," adds Robert Boyer, a Miami immigration
lawyer.

Florida filed suit this month. Texas and New Jersey may join that case. New York
has had a case pending since 1992 and may join one of the others. Arizona plans
to join California's suit.

Incumbent governors of both parties are running for re-election in all the suing
states except New Jersey. Wilson has made illegal immigration a top issue in his
campaign.

The suits differ in details but make the same points: The federal government has
failed to control illegal immigration. Millions of people here illegally live in
certain states, and these states are being crushed by extra health, education
and prison costs. Therefore, Uncle Sam owes the states billions.

"The average person looks at this and says if there isn't a remedy, there should
be," snaps Janice Brown, the lawyer handling California's case.

The cases raise important constitutional questions:

-- Do states or their political subdivisions have what lawyers call "standing"
to sue the government? In the past, the answer has been: sometimes.

-- If the states prevail, how can a court tell the government to do a better job
of enforcing immigration laws? And who decides what's a better job?

-- If the states prevail, can the judiciary branch order the legislative branch
to appropriate money to the states?

"The states run a big risk of getting a bad court ruling that will leave them
worse off than before," warns Boyer.

But the states have already succeeded in focusing more attention on their gripes
and pumping up the pressure on Congress and the White House.

-- Last week, the House voted to require the U.S. to pick up the tab for
imprisoning illegal convicted felons or put them in federal prisons.

-- Also last week, Clinton said he would seek $ 350 million to help states pay
for those prison costs - though the nationwide cost may be as much as $ 615
million per year.

Budget Director Leon Panetta insisted the timing of the announcement had nothing
to do with the lawsuits.

Panetta also pointedly noted the states would be better off lobbying Congress
than fighting in the courts.

"We've seen Congress authorize (funds) time and again and then never
appropriate," complains Wilson. "To get political accountability we need 100%
reimbursement."

Immigrants in prison The number of suspected illegal immigrants in California
prisons and the state's total prison costs:
Fiscal     Immigrants   Cost
year       held         (in millions)
1994(1)    19,502       $ 402.7

(1) - Up to March 1, 1994

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Gary Visgaitis, USA TODAY, Source: California Department
of Corrections (Line graph); PHOTO, b/w, USA TODAY

THE NATION; See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              29 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     July 14, 1994, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Familiar voice leads way in reform effort

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 941 words


Former congresswoman Barbara Jordan - absent from Washington politics for 15
years - is bringing the little-noticed Commission on Immigration Reform into the
spotlight.

Politicians and advocates eagerly await the commission's first report in
September. The report will contain recommendations for fixing what ails the U.S.
immigration system: especially illegal immigration; the overloaded political
asylum system; and immigrants in prison and on welfare.

Interest ratcheted up Tuesday with word the commission will recommend issuing a
Social Security-type national identity card. The card would go to every citizen
and legal alien so employers can verify work eligibility through a data base.

The idea is to prevent illegal immigrants from getting jobs through fake
documents, and reduce job discrimination against citizens and legal aliens who
look or sound foreign.

Critics say it would cost too much and is ripe for abuse.

Jordan says final details of the proposal have not been worked out, but a fierce
debate can be expected in Congress.

Still, the commission could provide political and moral cover for those in the
White House and Congress who want reform but also want to protect immigrants
from public antipathy.

"I've been surprised at the breadth and extent of the interest (in the report),"
says Jordan. "There has been an invitation from the National Press Club to
present it, which will guarantee wide circulation."

Jordan, 58, knew little about immigration before President Clinton appointed her
to the bipartisan commission in December 1993. She's been out of Washington
since 1979, when she became a professor at the University of Texas in Austin.

Her voice - deep, dignified, authoritative - has not been widely heard since she
served as a Texas Democrat on the committee debating impeachment of President
Nixon. But Jordan's name still commands respect, even among combatants in the
often nasty immigration reform debate.

"The chair had to be someone whose intelligence and moral authority is so strong
that if she says (a strategy) makes sense, it will be considered seriously,"
says Susan Martin, CIR executive director.

"We have faith in her, she represents fairness and concern for civil rights,"
says Celia Munoz, analyst at the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic
advocacy group fighting what it says is widespread anti-immigrant hysteria.

"She's neutral, she's evenhanded, she's an independent broker and she has great
moral authority," says Dan Stein, head of the Federation for American
Immigration Reform, a group that favors reducing legal immigration.

But even admirers are anxious about what Jordan's commission might recommend.
And House Republicans, who hope immigration will be a potent political weapon
against Clinton and Democrats, fear the work is just a delaying tactic.

"We need fewer words, more actions," says Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, head of a
House GOP group on reform.

The nine-member commission was created by the 1990 Immigration Act but wasn't
organized until December 1992. Throughout 1993, it labored in obscurity,
operating on a shoestring budget, lacking a permanent chairman. Public hearings
were held around the country, but got little media coverage.

"The presumption was it had no credibility," Stein says.

Immigration reform was supposed to be a hot topic in Washington, with action
promised last year by Clinton. Scores of bills were introduced, but little has
happened.

Consensus is difficult given the emotional tenor of the debate, the complexity
of the system and the high cost of change.

Enter Jordan, appalled at the "negativism" of the debate and determined to get
the facts.

"There is no credible basis for the anti-immigrant sentiment which appears to be
so pervasive," she says.

"The way to counter emotionalism is with facts, look at the numbers, what is the
reality of the financial impact on schools, health care, the criminal justice
system? We hope to bring a light of rationality on claims that have no factional
basis."

While Jordan agrees that illegal immigrants are not entitled to welfare
benefits, she's not convinced that most are on welfare or that they come here
just to get on welfare.

"There are many people who have failed totally to see that there are any
benefits we derive from immigration in this country," she says.

Immigration foes, meanwhile, worry the commission won't respond to public
resentment of illegal immigration. "It's in danger of marginalizing itself as
just a broker on the mechanics of how to defuse the issue," says Stein.

Jordan is aware of the difficulties of the task.

"To try to bring sense and credibility to our policy is a very big challenge,"
she says mildly.

"I wasn't ecstatic about the appointment, but now that I have a sense of getting
my arms around the issue, it feels right that I'm involved."

A look at the panel

Members of the Commission on Immigration Reform:

Barbara Jordan, chair, LBJ Centennial Chair in National Policy at LBJ School of
Public Affairs, University of Texas, Austin

Lawrence Fuchs, vice chair, immigration historian at Brandeis University,
Waltham, Mass.

Michael Teitelbaum, vice chair, program officer of Sloan Foundation, N.Y.

Richard Estrada, editorial page associate editor, Dallas Morning News

Harold Ezell, immigration consultant in Newport Beach, Calif., former
immigration official

Robert Charles Hill, Washington immigration lawyer

Warren Leiden, head of American Immigration Lawyers Association, Washington

Nelson Merced, official of Youth Build USA, West Somerville, Mass.

Bruce Morrison, immigration lawyer, New Haven, Conn.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Rebecca McEntee, Austin American-Statesman

IMMIGRATION; See related story; 05A; See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              30 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     July 14, 1994, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

'Big Brother' warning sounds again / Critics fear 'evil' in national ID cards

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 596 words


Identity cards are under consideration again as an answer to illegal immigration
problems, but critics say they would be an Orwellian nightmare.

The Commission on Immigration Reform, a bipartisan group created by Congress, is
expected to propose that every citizen and legal immigrant get a Social
Security-type identity card so that employers can verify work eligibility
through a national database.

"The implications of this are staggering," says Marc Rotenberg, director of the
Electronic Privacy Information Center. "It becomes a way to monitor people, like
an internal passport."

"It's the consensus view at this point," says Dan Stein, head of the Federation
for Immigration Reform, which favors reducing immigration.

"Down the line it could turn out to be benign or it could be Orwellian, but we
just can't tell and no one is monitoring implications," says Lance Hoffman, a
George Washington University professor who studies privacy and security issues.

The concept has been around for years, but more in Congress are embracing it in
the face of public resentment of illegal immigrants and the failure of laws
against hiring illegal workers.

Last year a national poll showed that 53% of the public opposes ID cards for
immigration, while 39% support them.

Still, California Gov. Pete Wilson, a Republican who's made immigration an issue
in his re-election bid, wants his state to be the testing ground.

"If (illegal immigrants) have to produce proof of their legal presence and
cannot do so, they will be denied employment, and if they know that, they won't
come (here)," Wilson says.

Critics include immigrant, civil-rights and privacy advocates, plus liberals,
conservatives and libertarians worried about government knowing too much.

"People aren't thinking about the potential for evil," says Steve Moore,
economist at the libertarian Cato Institute think tank. "This is a fundamental
invasion of privacy rights."

"It won't work, it will cost billions, it won't solve the problems, and it will
cause new forms of discrimination," says Lucas Guttentag of the American Civil
Liberties Union.

Wilson says he's not worried:

"We have already given up a certain amount of privacy, but I don't see this as a
further intrusion."

The National Conference of La Raza, a Hispanic civil rights group, fears that
people who look or sound foreign will be forced to carry the cards at all times.

"The Social Security and immigration databases are notoriously flawed and filled
with inaccuracies," says Celia Munoz, a La Raza analyst.

A similar outcry greeted Social Security cards in the 1930s, though the numbers
weren't to be used for other purposes. Today, SSNs are used on drivers licenses
and employee IDs.

"Look at history and see the abuses - they used SSNs to round up the Japanese
during World War II," Moore says.

California governor hopes to close the door to illegals

There are about 3.38 million illegal immigrants in the USA. Most are from
Mexico, followed by El Salvador, Guatemala, Canada, Poland and the Philippines.
Most illegal immigrants settle in one of seven states, with more than 40% living
in California. States with the most illegal immigrants:
State       Number
California    1,441,000
New York        449,000
Texas           357,000
Florida         322,000
Illinois        176,000
New Jersey      116,000
Arizona          57,000
Other states    461,000

Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service estimates of 1992 data, the most
recent available.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Grace Saenz, El Paso Times via AP

IMMIGRATION; See related story; 05A; See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              31 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      July 15, 1994, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Good card can stop fraud

BYLINE: Dan Stein

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 363 words


A decade-old plan to create a counterfeit-resistant work-welfare eligibility
document to help stop illegal immigration got a boost when the Commission on
Immigration Reform hinted this week that it might recommend the idea.

This tame proposal is endorsed by Democrats and Republicans. California's Dianne
Feinstein and Pete Wilson support it. Polls by Time, Roper and Field show most
Americans do, too. The Los Angeles Times, San Diego Union and Sacramento Bee nod
approval. Liberals such as Barbara Jordan and the Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, who've
chaired our last two major immigration commissions - are also on board.

So why the flak? Because the idea got mislabeled as a sinister-sounding
"national ID card." Ridiculous.

In a country where the average American now carries a driver's license, credit
cards, calling cards, bank cards and leaves electronic fingerprints all over
town, isn't it time to improve the integrity of America's birth records and make
the Social Security card fraud-proof?

Americans are comfortable with today's technologies and want illegal immigration
stopped. With secure documents, we could do it. Without them, we can't.

There would be other benefits. A secure identification system would save us
money, reduce welfare fraud, voter fraud and tax cheating, while improving
delivery of vital government services and reducing discrimination.

Most compelling is the fact that illegal immigration pressures are growing fast.
You heard it here first: These are the "good old days." Unless we take steps now
to improve our ability to tell who's here legally and who's not, we're going to
lose the nation.

Because of birth-record fraud, our citizenship is built on a foundation of sand.
Americans may not notice it, but criminals and smugglers do. Crime rings know
that if you've got a good laser printer, you can become a citizen of the USA -
by making a phony birth certificate and Social Security card. That's all it
takes to make the phony foundation for other state and federal documents and
benefits.

We're taking steps to secure the currency of the USA against fraud. Isn't it
time our citizenship is given the same protection?

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; Today's debate; PROVING CITIZENSHIP; OPPOSING VIEW;
Americans accept today's technologies and want illegal immigration stopped.; Dan
Stein is executive director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
Washington, D.C.

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              32 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     July 28, 1994, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Border blockade called a success

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt; Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 875 words


The U.S. Border Patrol's seven-month border blockade at El Paso was a success, a
study for the U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform reported Wednesday.

Daily illegal crossings dropped from 8,000 to 200. Petty crime in El Paso and
complaints about agent harassment of Mexican-Americans also dropped
substantially during the operation between September 1993 and April 1994, says
the study by the University of Texas Population Research Center.

Saturating the border with agents cost $ 250,000 in extra overtime. But many
agents hated Operation Hold-the-Line, citing boredom, loss of job skills and
stress from sitting alone in cars for hours.

California Gov. Pete Wilson has praised the blockade and wants it duplicated
near San Diego.  - Maria Puente

TERRORISM PLEA: Three Palestinians suspected of belonging to the Abu Nidal
terrorist cell pleaded guilty in St. Louis to federal racketeering charges from
a 1993 indictment accusing them of plotting to kill Jews and blow up the Israeli
Embassy in Washington. Tawfiq Musa, 45, of Racine, Wis., and brothers Saif
Nijmeh, 35, of St. Louis, and Luie Nijmeh, 30, of Dayton, Ohio, face 20-year
terms at sentencing Oct. 21. A fourth suspect, Zein Isa, 61, and his wife,
Maria, 50, were convicted in 1991 of murdering their 16-year-old daughter to
silence her about their terrorist activities.

RACE-BIAS FINE: An administrative law judge fined Edith Marie Johnson $ 300,300
for "a relentless campaign of intimidation" at a public housing complex in
Vidor, Texas. She must pay $ 125,300 to Ross Dennis, a white former resident who
supported integration, and $ 175,000 to the estate of Bill Simpson, who last
August was the last black resident to move out. He was killed hours later in
Beaumont when a black gang member tried to rob him. Under a recent court order,
21 black families have moved into the complex.

FATAL BLAST: A propane truck hit a highway abutment in White Plains, N.Y., and
exploded into flames - killing the driver, injuring 24 residents and burning
nine houses and dozens of cars. "The sky turned orange," said Police Chief James
Bradley. Resident Pat Caridi said it was "like a towering inferno. I really
thought it was the end of the world." Dead: truck driver Peter Conway, 24, of
Selden. The cause of the predawn crash isn't known.

UNITY CONFERENCE: The media must be more sensitive and respectful of other
cultures, minority journalists meeting in Atlanta said. "It's a journalist's
responsibility to . . . find out how people want to define themselves," said
Ellen Carton of the Gay and Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation. About 5,000
black, Hispanic, Asian and Native American journalists are at the first joint
conference.

CUSTODY CASE: Steven Smith - who won custody of his daughter because a judge in
Mount Clemens, Mich., said the child should be with "blood relatives" rather
than "strangers" - was arraigned on recently discovered charges he beat and
choked the child's mother 18 months ago. The arrest warrant had been lost until
publicity over the custody case Tuesday. Smith plans to have his grandmother
care for 3-year-old Maranda. Her mother, Jennifer Ireland, 19, put the child in
day care while she attended college classes.

WESTERN FIRES: Firefighters in Western states battled huge blazes, many sparked
by lightning. The Tyee Creek fire was within 2 miles of Ardenvoir, Wash., which
was ordered evacuated. Several houses and structures were destroyed, but no
injuries have been reported. Other wildfires were raging in Montana, Oregon,
Idaho and California.

ALSO WEDNESDAY . . .

-- PETA PROTEST: Three members of People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals
were arrested in Philadelphia on trespassing and disorderly conduct charges. Two
are also charged with assault. All are accused of spraying urine on police
officers during a protest at a drug company.

-- DENVER AIRPORT: Denver International Airport could open around Nov. 1, before
its automated baggage system is fixed, The Associated Press said, citing City
Council sources. The opening has been delayed four times.

-- AIR SAFETY: The FAA repeatedly disregarded reports that Boeing 757s created
turbulence problems for trailing aircraft, although the turbulence isn't more
dangerous than for other planes its size, an internal review found.

-- BOBBITT BAIL: John Bobbitt, accused in Las Vegas of battering his former
fiancee, was allowed to remain free pending trial, but the judge warned him to
stay away from her and abstain from alcohol. He gained notoriety last year when
his wife severed his penis, later reattached.

Wife convicted in 'Lobster Boy' case

A Tampa jury convicted Mary Stiles, 56, of second-degree manslaughter in the
contract slaying of her husband, Grady Stiles, the claw-handed sideshow
performer known as "Lobster Boy." Mary Stiles, who had used a battered spouse
defense, also was convicted of conspiracy to commit first-degree murder. She
faces a 22-year term at sentencing Aug. 29. Grady Stiles, 55, was shot in the
head Thanksgiving at his Gibsonton mobile home. The teen-age gunman was
convicted last year of second-degree murder.

Contributing: Charmagne Helton, Joyce Harris Jones, Steve Marshall and Gary
Fields

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, AP; PHOTO, b/w, Gannett Suburban Newspapers; PHOTO, b/w,
Peter Cosgrove, AP

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              33 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    August 4, 1994, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Registry proposed to catch illegals

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt; Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 1081 words


The head of the federal Commission on Immigration Reform told Congress Wednesday
the group will recommend a pilot program in five states to check job applicants
against a national computer registry to catch illegal immigrants. The United
States has never had a register of all its people.

Chairwoman Barbara Jordan said the "most promising option" of ways to cut
illegal immigration is a fraud-resistant system to verify who can legally work.

The plan - suggested for California, Florida, Illinois, New York and Texas -
would use a new driver's license, new Social Security card or telephone
verification for every job applicant. Jordan said the panel isn't recommending a
"national ID card," opposed by many on privacy and bias grounds. "Those who
object usually are those who don't want barriers to employment because they are
not here legally," she said.

Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., warned that "unreliability of underlying documents
(such as fake birth certificates) is going to be a serious problem." The
bipartisan panel makes recommendations Sept. 30.  - Maria Puente

-- In Brownsville, Texas, the state sued the federal government for more than $
5 billion the state says it has spent on illegal immigrants the past six years.
Arizona, California, Florida and New Jersey have filed similar suits.

POLICE BEATINGS: The Los Angeles City Council voted 11-1 to pay black motorist
Rodney King the $ 3.8 million a jury awarded him for being beaten by four white
police officers. But the money may sit in a no-interest trust while lawyers
fight over what the city should pay them for costs and fees. King's 1991 beating
was captured on videotape.

-- In Compton, the FBI and Los Angeles County prosecutors are investigating
black police officer Michael Jackson, seen on a videotape beating Felipe de la
Cruz, 17. Jackson had been summoned Friday to help a social worker taking the
youth and siblings into state care as neglected children.

ABORTION CLINICS: The FBI is probing whether the use of force against women's
clinics and their doctors is a conspiracy by anti-abortion militants, The New
York Times reports today. The paper reports the bureau had information from
abortion rights groups indicating about half a dozen anti-abortion militants
signed a "justifiable homicide" declaration that supported killing abortion
doctors. Also: Services were held in Fernandina Beach, Fla., for John Britton, a
doctor gunned down Friday outside a Pensacola clinic.

TAILHOOK SUIT: Paula Coughlin, the former admiral's aide who blew the whistle on
sexual harassment at the 1991 Tailhook convention, doesn't have to have a mental
health exam sought by defendants in her civil lawsuit, a Las Vegas federal judge
ruled Tuesday. Trial begins next month.

WINNERS: After claiming a $ 50.1 million Powerball jackpot, Lyle and Diann
Fleharty of Hastings, Neb., were asked what they were going to do with the
money. "Spend it!" he replied. They'll get nearly $ 1.7 million annually, after
taxes, for 20 years. The couple have five children. He's the physical plant
director at Hastings College. She's a secretary at a plumbing and heating
company.

GEORGIA FLOODS: Jesse Jackson suggested in last month's floods black homes were
sacrificed to protect white areas, but officials say water was too high to
control. "The rich, the poor, the black and the white," all got hit, Dougherty
County Commissioner Gil Barrett told The Atlanta Constitution.

COSTLY PIZZA: California's "three strikes" law that took effect in March means
Jerry Williams, 27, faces a prison term of 25 years to life if convicted of
taking pizza from kids on a pier in Redondo Beach, Calif. Police said that when
a teen-ager rejected Williams' request for pizza, he took a piece and left.
Williams, convicted of robbery in 1987 and 1992, told police he wasn't hungry,
took the pizza on a dare and threw it in the ocean because he doesn't eat
pepperoni.

ALSO WEDNESDAY . . .

-- GUN COURT: Rhode Island Gov. Bruce Sundlun signed into law a bill to reduce
violent crime by requiring offenses in which a gun is used to be tried within
two months. Officials said it's the first law of its kind in the USA.

-- FLAG FLAP: The Sons of Confederate Veterans launched a boycott of
Atlanta-based Holiday Inns Worldwide because the chain stopped flying the state
flag at its Georgia motels. The flag contains the crossed bars of the
Confederate battle flag, which some find racially offensive.

Wildfire shifts, becomes new threat

The 120,000-acre Tyee wildfire that has consumed 19 homes and 75 other buildings
near Chelan, Wash., changed direction, prompting residents to prepare for
evacuations. Smoke from the blaze could be seen in Seattle, 75 miles away. Red
flags flew over fire camps, warning of dry lightning and 45-mph winds. And
there's danger the Tyee fire could merge with the 26,400-acre Hatchery Complex
fire near Leavenworth. Officials estimate more than 2.02 million acres of
Western forest and range have been charred by fires this year, 200,000 acres
more than burned in 1993.

Contributing: Haya El Nasser

LOAD-DATE: August 07, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, AP; PHOTO, b/w, Dennis Grundman, AP; PHOTO, b/w, Lacy
Atkins, AP

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              34 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     August 8, 1994, Monday, FINAL EDITION

National registry could slow illegal immigration

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 491 words


The logic is simple: There are 3.8 million illegal immigrants in the United
States, and most looking for work. So if you want to slow illegal immigration,
one obvious way is to choke off access to jobs.

The big problem: figuring out how to keep illegals from being hired without
discriminating against legitimate job-seekers, and without resorting to a
national ID card and its jackboot overtones.

The big solution, offered last week by Barbara Jordan, who leads the U.S.
Commission on Immigration Reform: a national employment registry.

The registry would contain basic data for every working American - name,
citizenship or immigration status, date and place of birth, Social Security
number - from the Social Security Administration and the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. Employers could use the registry to verify the status of
new workers.

This would be a vast improvement over the current law, which requires employers
to confirm a worker's status through easily-forged documents such as birth
certificates and green cards.

Everybody hates that system. Employers say it is costly and ineffective.
Immigrant groups say it leads to discrimination. Anti-immigrant groups say it
doesn't work.

By contrast, Jordan's registry reduces the process to a single question: "What's
your Social Security number?" The employer then calls the registry and confirms
the number. Because new workers must supply a Social Security number anyway, the
system would add no extra burden on employers. Nor discriminate against
foreign-sounding or foreign-looking job applicants.

Opponents worry that by embracing the registry, Americans surrender some measure
of privacy and freedom. But national registries are part of American life now.

-- The National Driver Registry is used 25 million times a year by states
seeking to check the driving records of new residents.

-- The Internal Revenue Service collected nearly 120 million tax returns last
year.

-- And the Social Security Administration now lists 215 million active numbers.

Of course, any data bank of personal information requires special safeguards.

The registry must contain minimal information, and that information must be used
only to confirm an applicant's claims. It must not be distributed. In case of
error, it must have a fast appeals process built in.

Finally, Jordan recommends that various pilot programs be instituted in the
states with the biggest immigration concerns. Similar experiments should be run
in other states, too, to assure that the system can't be used to discriminate
against legitimate job-seekers.

Are there other problems with the plan? None so big that they overshadow the
idea's appealing promise. A national registry could reduce discrimination in
hiring, ease the burden on employers, rationalize a system that encourages
fraud, and deter illegal immigration all at once.

Good grief, that's a system worth its weight in green cards.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; Today's debate; IMMIGRATION REFORM; OUR VIEW; If employers
could check job applicants' eligibility, fewer illegals would come.

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              35 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  September 28, 1994, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Reformers seek test of an ID database

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt; Carrie Dowling

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 881 words


Five states would test a worker identification database to determine if
applicants are legally in the country, under a proposal the U.S. Commission on
Immigration Reform will present to Congress Friday. The states: California,
Florida, Illinois, New York and Texas. Opponents say it will lead to a national
ID card and more discrimination. Other recommendations released this week
include expanding the successful El Paso border blockade and barring illegal
immigrants from most public aid.

In California, a Field Poll released Monday shows 57% of registered voters
support Proposition 187, which would deny educational, social and health
services to illegal immigrants. Also, 31% were opposed and 12% were undecided.

WELFARE REFORM: Urban League President Hugh Price says the group will oppose a
2-year limit on welfare benefits, a key part of President Clinton's welfare
bill, unless it's accompanied by a jobs program. Price says he told Clinton,
"That's a very dangerous piece of legislation." Time limits without a jobs
program, Price says, "would be a replay of deinstitutionalization" - the 1960s
policy of releasing mental patients without corresponding social services.

SLAIN NEW YORK JOGGER: New York police - using fingerprints filed in a New
Jersey job application - identified a slaying victim as Carol Ann Artutis, 23.
The case had puzzled police since Artutis' body, clad in jogging clothes, was
found last week near a popular trail. Detectives were seeking to question a
Rikers Island inmate who may have been Artutis' boyfriend. He was arrested on an
unrelated charge sometime after the killing.

WAYWARD MANATEE: A 1,000-pound Florida manatee that made its way up the
Intracoastal Waterway to the Chesapeake Bay is eluding capture. The 10-foot
endangered sea cow has enthralled the Annapolis, Md., area since July. But it
can die in water below 68 degrees so today biologists will make a second try to
net the agile swimmer and return it to warmer Florida waters.

PARKS ATTACK: Joseph Skipper, 28, was ordered to stand trial in the Aug. 30
beating and robbery of Rosa Parks, 81, whose refusal to stand at the back of a
Montgomery, Ala., bus in 1955 helped spark the civil rights movement. Parks said
Skipper broke into her home and hit her in the face. "I put my hands over my
eyes and all I could do was scream, even though I knew no one would hear."

ALSO TUESDAY . . .

-- BOBBITT CONVICTED: John Wayne Bobbitt was convicted of a second domestic
battery charge in Las Vegas against his former fiancee and ordered to serve 30
days in jail. The judge called Bobbitt a "bully." Bobbitt gained notoriety last
year when his ex-wife cut off his penis.

-- LABOR DISPUTE: An American Airlines flight attendants' union must stop
disciplining 13 flight attendants who crossed picket lines during a five-day
strike in November, a Fort Worth judge ruled. The union said it will continue to
file charges against others who crossed picket lines.

-- HARRIMAN TRUST: A New York federal judge rejected a bid by the children and
grandchildren of W. Averell Harriman to freeze assets of trusts from his will.
They sued two weeks ago contending his third wife, Pamela, and her lawyers
squandered the fortune. She is U.S. ambassdor to France. No date has been set
for a trial.

-- JORDAN CASE: Larry Demery and Daniel Green will be tried separately in
Lumberton, N.C., on charges they murdered former NBA star Michael Jordan's
father, James Jordan. Prosecutors didn't seek a joint trial by Monday's
deadline. Demery and Green have until Dec. 31 to plead.

-- SHUTTLE PREPARATIONS: NASA started the countdown to launch Endeavour from
Cape Canaveral Friday on a 10-day mission. Aboard: Dan Bursch, the only
astronaut to endure two aborted launches. He said one wag suggested he take a
cue from Dorothy in Oz - "click my heels three times and say, 'There's no place
like space.' "

NAACP: Teen's indictment 'racist'

Dehundra Caldwell, 18, will be arraigned Thursday in Thomaston, Ga., on a new
indictment that accuses him of breaking into a school cafeteria and stealing a
50-cent Snickers ice cream bar. His earlier 3-year prison sentence for the July
1993 incident prompted a national outcry.

In June, the state Board of Pardons labeled the sentence a "miscarriage of
justice," and reduced it to probation. Then the state Court of Appeals threw out
Caldwell's guilty plea. But a grand jury issued a new indictment against the
Upson-Lee High School senior, a first offender and B student who just wants to
get on with life. "I'm not a bad kid," he said. "I'm not a criminal or menace to
society."

The local NAACP says prosecution of the black youth is blatant racism. Says
NAACP lawyer Bruce Roberts: "We're dealing with a small town that has some
extremely conservative, extremely racist people. And they don't want to let it
appear that someone black got the upper hand."

"It's not about educating the child or doing the right thing," says Audrey
Fisher, an education specialist with the regional NAACP. "It's about winning."

Prosecutor Johnnie Caldwell says there's no race issue. "They indicted him," he
says. "If someone violated the law, they will be prosecuted." - Carrie Dowling

Contributing: Linda Kanamine, Steve Marshall and Desda Moss

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, USA TODAY; PHOTO, b/w, Richard Sheinwald, AP; PHOTO, b/w,
AP

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              36 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   September 30, 1994, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Immigration issue defines California race / Panel today will urge a national
database

BYLINE: John Ritter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 606 words


The Commission on Immigration Reform today will recommend creating a national
database to prevent illegal immigrants from getting jobs.

The idea - fiercely opposed by civil libertarians - is among the first formal
recommendations to Congress by the bipartisan panel, which is trying to figure
out how to curb the flow of undocumented workers into the country.

The report comes as polls find a majority of the public believes illegal
immigrants are an economic drain on the USA.

It also comes as voters in politically influential California debate a November
ballot proposition that would deny schooling and medical care to illegal
immigrants and their children.

"In a few flash points, people are blindly hostile to illegal immigration," says
commissioner Warren Leiden. "Other places, they think it's not right, that
something ought to be done."

Former Texas congresswoman Barbara Jordan heads the nine-member panel, which
reports to a Congress ever more mindful of national unease over illegal
immigration.

Congress can do whatever it wants with the proposals - from trying to enact them
into law to ignoring them.

But the commission's recommendations go beyond a national database. They will:

-- Urge that citizens who help foreign family members come to the USA be
required to sign binding affidavits agreeing to support them. The goal: to keep
immigrants off the public dole.

-- Call for barring illegal immigrants from most public aid, except
immunizations, emergency medical care, school lunches and child nutrition.

But the database recommendation has overshadowed the rest of the commission's
work because opponents believe it will ultimately lead to a national ID card for
all workers, including native-born citizens.

Civil libertarians and immigrant advocates, evoking "Big Brother" rhetoric, see
potential for abuse and loss of privacy.

The commission is not proposing an ID card. Leiden, for one, says such a card is
"inherently discriminatory." But many are convinced a database can't work
without one.

A database proposal emerged as the commission's way to make sanctions work
against employers who hire illegal immigrants, as called for in the 1986
immigration act.

The law let job applicants choose among 29 documents to prove legal work status,
but no good way for employers to verify them.

Moreover, critics say, most illegal workers - including household domestics -
are knowingly hired by employers who take advantage of a cheap labor supply.

To curb the illegal flow, the commission decided the "most promising option" was
a database, possibly based on Social Security or immigration records, to give
employers a fast way to check applicants.

The commission will propose tests in the five states with 80% of the nation's
immigrants - California, Texas, Florida, New York and Illinois.

"I'm a skeptic," Leiden says. "Before anybody gets denied a job, let's find out
how much a database costs, how accurate and reliable it is, how convenient it is
for employers."

But critics say any national system will cost billions, won't stem fraud and
will perpetuate discrimination against people who look or sound foreign.

Others think something has to be tried.

"There's a big difference between a card you have to carry all the time and a
card you show only when you apply for a job," says John Martin, research
director at the Center for Immigration Studies.

Some critics argue it's overkill to create a database on 250 million people to
rein in 4 million undocumented aliens.

"A nuclear bomb to kill mosquitos," says Jeanne Butterfield, of the American
Immigration Lawyers Associaton.

LOAD-DATE: October 01, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Gannett News Service

THE NATION; See related story; 04A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              37 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     October 3, 1994, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Big hurdle for national registry is INS disarray

BYLINE: Robert Davis; Sandra Sanchez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 562 words


The Clinton administration is trying to find out whether a database that would
list all eligible U.S. workers, as recommended by the Commission on Immigration
Reform, is advisable or even possible.

The bipartisan commission reported to Congress Friday that a database employers
could use to confirm the status of job applicants is crucial to stemming the
flood of illegal immigrants to the USA.

The proposed employee database would someday allow an employer to dial a phone
number, punch in a Social Security number or personal security code, and verify
that a job applicant is eligible to work in the USA.

But Susan Martin, executive director of the commission that prepared the report,
says the registry "is a hot-button issue."

Before the commission had a chance to meet with Clinton administration
officials, headlines declared the database - criticized as a "Big Brother-like"
invasion of privacy - as already dead.

White House officials say the database idea is welcome, but not yet possible
because the Immigration and Naturalization Service databases are in disarray.

"Those databases are not accurate and are not state of the art," says Ginny
Terzano, a White House spokeswoman. "A lot of improvement is necessary. We are
putting resources into this project."

The Crime Bill added $ 154 million to the INS technology budget, raising it to $
254 million. The agency may get an additional $ 300 million over the next five
years through the crime bill.

"We have an ambitious program under way to upgrade the INS databases that
support employer verification," says INS Commissioner Doris Meissner.

The INS has been plagued by database problems.

In August, the American Civil Liberties Union sued the INS, claiming applicants
were denied jobs because INS lost 60,000 files.

"The INS failed to enter data and then when it does it is so inaccurate that it
is impossible to locate the people," says ACLU lawyer Lucas Guttentag. "INS's
track record is very clear. It is incapable of entering and updating data."

He says a national registry system using INS computer data "is bound to fail."

But, says Martin: "We have a commitment from the INS to improve its data."

As commission staffers meet this week with Clinton officials to establish pilot
programs in some states, both sides say they will be looking to learn exactly
what is needed for a national registry.

Existing pilot programs using a telephone-accessed database in California,
Florida, Illinois, New York and Texas will expand next year.

Terzano says the tests will be done with an eye toward the national system:

"Before you go top speed, you have to make sure you're ready. When an engineer
is designing a car, it goes through several tests before coming off an assembly
line."

Commission chairwoman Barbara Jordon says some people apparently fear "the
government will have too much information."

"I would hope that Congress spends the money necessary to correct the data that
is kept by Social Security/INS. The government needs good data, too."

Melvin Straus, chairman of the El Paso branch of the ACLU, says the registry is
just a bad idea:

"There is no compelling interest, either national or state, for the government
to know the backgrounds of everyone. That's an invasion of privacy. The right
not to be bothered and the right to be left alone should be primary."

LOAD-DATE: October 04, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, AP

IMMIGRATION; See related story; 11A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              38 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   November 15, 1994, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Prop. 187: Just the beginning / Battle shifts to Congress, but GOP remains
divided

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 727 words


California's overwhelming passage of Proposition 187, and the Republican
takeover of Congress, promises an intensified federal focus on reducing illegal
immigration.

"The political battle is over," says Dan Stein, head of the Federation for
American Immigration Reform, which favors reducing illegal and legal
immigration. "Now the battle turns to ways and means."

Says Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, who could be the next chairman of the House
subcommittee on immigration: "Passage of 187 by such a large margin created a
tidal wave on the way to washing up on the steps of the Capitol."

Newt Gingrich, the likely next House speaker, says he favors sealing the
borders, denying illegal immigrants all benefits and faster deportation of
illegals. He predicts immigration will be an even larger issue in the 1996
elections.

An early consensus is likely on increased border patrols, since many Democrats
and Republicans agree that's the best place to focus resources.

That could mean more sophisticated detection technology, thousands more Border
Patrol agents and possibly a border-crossing fee.

Even immigration advocates support tougher patrols.

"People have been forced to bite the bullet (because) alternatives like 187 are
worse," says Cecilia Munoz, analyst for the National Council of La Raza, a
leading Hispanic civil rights group. "It's more humane to stop people from
coming than chase after them when they get here."

Republicans also are likely to launch in-depth examinations of deficiencies in
the Immigration and Naturalization Service, long seen as one of the most inept
federal agencies.

But observers say it's too soon to predict sweeping changes, because the GOP is
deeply divided on key aspects of the immigration issue.

"The change in Congress does not guarantee that the restrictionist view will
prevail," says Munoz. "It's premature to predict a tidal wave."

The GOP is divided on questions of a national identity verification system and
measures like Proposition 187 that would kick illegal immigrant children out of
public schools and require teachers to report them.

Smith says he thinks he can bring doubtful Republicans around on some kind of ID
card by calling it a tamper-proof Social Security card that no one has to carry
at all times.

"But there's no consensus at all on the education question. That's clearly the
most controversial issue and will be the subject of hearings," he says.

John Miller, an immigration expert at the conservative Manhattan Institute think
tank in Washington, says immigration is "one of those realignment issues" that
produce unconventional alliances. "You can't draw neat party lines on
immigration," he says.

Some of the strongest opponents of Proposition 187 were conservative Republicans
Jack Kemp and William Bennett. Wednesday they joined 28 other conservative
leaders in a letter to Gingrich urging rejection of any national computerized ID
system, calling it "misguided and dangerous."

Meanwhile, Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, and Rep. Henry Hyde, R-Ill., are in line to
be chairmen of their respective judiciary committees - and both are known as
strongly pro-immigrant. Hatch called for repealing employer sanctions, a move
long sought by immigration advocates who contend sanctions foster
discrimination.

"Ironically, we could end up with more friends in the Congress than we had two
weeks ago," says Munoz.

Republicans are also expected to discuss reducing legal immigration, something
some Democrats have called for. But Smith says he doubts that has widespread
support. Another proposal, amending the Constitution to deny citizenship to
U.S.-born children of illegals, is so fraught with emotion many Republicans may
steer clear.

"The ugliness of the 187 debate is unappealing (to the GOP) on the national
level," says Munoz.

Immigration crackdown likely The passage of Proposition 187 in California, and
strong signals sent by the leadership of the incoming congressional Republican
majority, foreshadow tougher stands on legal and illegal immigration trends:

Illegal alien apprehensions
1993              1,327,259

Cities with most apprehensions
San Diego           561,670
El Paso             297,043
San Antonio          25,749
Phoenix             120,639
Harlingen, Texas    107,925

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Web Bryant, USA TODAY, Source: Immigration and
Naturalization Service (Line graph, Bar graph); PHOTO, b/w, Greg Bull, The
Brownsville Herald via AP

IMMIGRATION; A number in the graphic is incorrect -- the number of apprehensions
in San Antonio should be 125, 749, not 25,749; See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              39 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  December 14, 1994, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Prop. 187 still alive in Calif., heads for Fla.

BYLINE: Leo Mullen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 418 words


Proposition 187 backers Tuesday stepped up their campaign to take the
anti-immigrant law to Florida, while the voter-approved law moved closer to a
first legal hurdle in California.

U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer is to hear arguments in Los Angeles today
on whether to extend an injunction on Proposition 187 until lawsuits challenging
the referendum that approved it go to trial.

The law would deny public schooling, government assistance like welfare, and
non-emergency medical care to illegal immigrants and their children.

Floridians who want a similar law there say they're prepared to pursue a
referendum if the Legislature isn't receptive.

Florida has an estimated 322,000 illegal immigrants.

"American citizens and taxpayers are feeling very abused and taken for granted,"
says Nancy Jacobs of Floridians for Immigration Control. "We are taking in far
too many legal and illegal immigrants."

Enlisted in the Florida campaign: Bob Kiley, a consultant who fashioned and
promoted the referendum in California, which has 1.6 million illegal immigrants.

"What starts here in California spreads very quickly," Kiley says. "This is the
campaign that won't die."

Floridians know getting the Legislature to pass such a law will be difficult.
Some legislators and Gov. Lawton Chiles oppose it.

"The governor feels strongly that you don't turn people away from hospitals or
turn children away from classrooms," says Chiles spokeswoman Jo Miglino.

Florida was one of the states that sued the federal government to recover money
spent on services to illegal immigrants.

But the state also has a large Cuban immigrant community that wields
considerable political clout in south Florida.

If the Legislature fails to act, backers would need 430,000 signatures by August
1996 for a referendum to be on the next possible ballot, in November 1996.

In Dade County, immigrants and their supporters are preparing for a fight.

"We don't think Proposition 187 is focusing on the problem, and the problem is
stricter border control," says Susan Reyna of Centro Campesino. "We will be on
the other side of it, making sure that anything that resembles Proposition 187
will not pass in Florida."

Meanwhile, federal and Texas health officials are criticizing efforts to cut off
medical services to illegals.

"To deny access to preventive services . . . we increase the risk for everybody
in this country," says physician David Satcher of the U.S. Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Reuters

IMMIGRATION; See related story; 08A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              40 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     June 11, 1992, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Immigrants get civil rights

BYLINE: Jim Orr

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 182 words


Suspected illegal immigrants will get written notice of their rights and be able
to talk with a lawyer under a landmark settlement of a class-action lawsuit.

The deal, reached in Los Angeles with the federal Immigration and Naturalization
Service, was announced Wednesday and tentatively approved by U.S. District Judge
William Byrne Jr.

The INS is printing millions of notices in several languages for those arrested,
says Peter Schey, the suit's lead lawyer.

''It's long overdue,'' says Roberto Martinez of the American Friends Service
Committee's Mexico-USA border program. ''Up to now, we've had total mistreatment
of civil rights of undocumented people.''

About 1.5 million immigrants are arrested each year, says Schey.

Arrestees will be told they:

- May talk with a lawyer.

- Make a phone call.

- Request a list of legal services.

- Seek a hearing before an immigration judge.

- Obtain release on bond.

- Contact a diplomatic officer of their country.

A federal court hearing is set for July to finalize the plan, which would get a
30-month study period.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              41 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   January 20, 1993, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

'I acted as a mother' // Baird explains hiring violation

BYLINE: Sam Vincent Meddis

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 422 words


A contrite Zoe Baird Tuesday told the Senate Judiciary Committee that she
knowingly broke immigration laws in hiring two illegal immigrants as family
servants.

''It was a violation of the law ... and I deeply regret it,'' said Baird,
nominated to become the nation's first female attorney general.

Baird, 40, came under tough questioning from senators during the day-long
hearing, but the Democrat-controlled panel still seemed inclined to vote for her
confirmation. The hearing is set to continue Thursday.

Sen. Joseph Biden Jr., D-Del., the panel's chairman, said he was pleased that
Baird admitted the violation.

But Biden disagreed with some observers who dismiss the issue's importance and
instead contend ''this is like a parking ticket.''

''To me this is a big deal, personally, and I suspect it is to a lot of
Americans,'' Biden said.

The controversy involves the hiring of a Peruvian couple by Baird and her
husband, Yale law professor Paul Gewirtz, as a baby sitter and driver for about
a two-year period beginning in 1990. Baird had to pay back Social Security taxes
and $ 2,900 in civil fines for hiring the couple.

Baird offered a forceful defense, though insisted she was not trying to excuse
her conduct, only explain it.

Baird said she and her husband sought advice from a private lawyer about hiring
the couple. The lawyer advised that employment of the immigrants was a
''technical violation,'' but not one that appeared to be enforced by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, she said.

Maternal instincts about providing child care for her son, now 3, clouded her
legal judgment, Baird said.

''Quite honestly, I was acting at that time really more as a mother than as
someone who would be sitting here designated to be attorney general.''

While the prospect of confirming a woman to serve as the nation's top law
enforcement officer was at first greeted with excitement in Senate circles,
reports about Baird's immigration problem have taken their toll. Several
senators said that most phone calls from constituents about Baird's nomination
were negative.

Two female newcomers to the previously all-male committee, Carol Moseley- Braun,
D-Ill., and Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., likely will question Baird on Thursday.

Feinstein acknowledged that emotions are running high.

''Everything in me as a woman, sitting in on this for the first time in history,
would like to confirm a woman (for attorney general),'' she said.

But Feinstein said there are ''obviously complications.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, H. Darr Beiser, USA TODAY

CUTLINE: OVER, FOR NOW: Sen. Howard Metzenbaum, D-Ohio, left, talks with
Attorney General-designate Zoe Baird after her confirmation hearing Tuesday. The
panel still seems inclined to confirm her.

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              42 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   January 20, 1993, Wednesday, FIRST EDITION

'I acted as a mother' // Baird explains hiring violation

BYLINE: Sam Vincent Meddis

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 435 words


A contrite Zoe Baird Tuesday told the Senate Judiciary Committee that she
knowingly broke immigration laws in hiring two illegal immigrants as family
servants.

''It was a violation of the law ... and I deeply regret it,'' said Baird,
nominated to become the nation's first female attorney general.

Baird, 40, came under tough questioning from senators during the day-long
hearing, but the Democrat-controlled panel still seemed inclined to vote for her
confirmation. The hearing is set to continue Thursday.

Sen. Joseph Biden Jr., D-Del., the panel's chairman, said he was pleased that
Baird admitted the violation.

But Biden disagreed with some observers who dismiss the issue's importance and
instead contend ''this is like a parking ticket.''

''To me this is a big deal, personally, and I suspect it is to a lot of
Americans,'' Biden said.

The controversy involves the hiring of a Peruvian couple by Baird and her
husband, Yale law professor Paul Gewirtz, as a baby sitter and driver for about
a two-year period beginning in 1990. Baird had to pay back Social Security taxes
and $ 2,900 in civil fines for hiring the couple.

Baird offered a forceful defense, though insisted she was not trying to excuse
her conduct, only explain it.

Baird said she and her husband sought advice from a private lawyer about hiring
the couple. The lawyer advised that employment of the immigrants was a
''technical violation,'' but not one that appeared to be enforced by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, she said.

Maternal instincts about providing child care for her son, now 3, clouded her
legal judgment, Baird said.

''Quite honestly, I was acting at that time really more as a mother than as
someone who would be sitting here designated to be attorney general.''

While the prospect of confirming a woman to serve as the nation's top law
enforcement officer was at first greeted with excitement in Senate circles,
reports about Baird's immigration problem have taken their toll. Several
senators said that most phone calls from constituents about Baird's nomination
were negative.

Two female newcomers to the previously all-male committee, Carol Moseley- Braun,
D-Ill., and Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., likely will get their turn to question
Baird on Thursday.

Feinstein acknowledged that emotions are running high.

''Everything in me as a woman, sitting in on this for the first time in history,
would like to confirm a woman (for attorney general),'' she said.

But Feinstein said there are ''obviously complications'' in the nomination,
adding: ''We'll see how it turns out.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, H. Darr Beiser, USA TODAY

CUTLINE: OVER, FOR NOW: Sen. Howard Metzenbaum, left, talks with Attorney
General-designate Zoe Baird after her confirmation hearing Tuesday. The panel
still seems inclined to confirm her.

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              43 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   January 20, 1993, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

No human being is 'illegal'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 405 words


Zoe Baird, Bill Clinton's nominee for attorney general, is at the center of
controversy for the crime of hiring a couple of who are in the country without
work authorization.

Because of this, some have deemed her unqualified to head the Justice
Department, which includes the Immigration and Naturalization Service - to which
she's paid a $ 2,900 fine for employing the couple.

Washington focuses on the appropriate-ness of nominating someone who has broken
the law, but lost in the discussion is the dehumanization of the couple Baird
employed.

They've been called illegal aliens, an undocumented Peruvian couple, illegals -
or wetbacks.

All are euphemisms used to designate persons considered less than human. Those
who've been called nigger would understand this. So, too, would anyone else
who's been publicly denigrated and discriminated against because of the color of
his or her skin.

Should Baird be confirmed?

That's the wrong question - or at least the smaller question.

The real question is why we tolerate a racially biased and politicized
immigration policy that treats most immigrants from Canada casually yet
militarizes the U.S.-Mexico border. If that policy ever made sense, it makes
less sense now that the USA, Canada and Mexico are promoting the free flow of
trade and capital but continuing to criminalize the flow of human beings whose
only crime is wanting to work.

The INS has long been a thorn in the side of Latinos on a scale unimaginable to
others. Cesar Chavez of United Farm Workers once called it ''the gestapo of the
Mexican people.''

Latinos, primarily because of the color of their skin, must always be prepared
to prove their legal right to be in the country to federal law officers.

Historically, Latino citizens and non-citizens alike have been subject to
periodic mass deportation campaigns during economically difficult times. To this
day, there are Latinos born in the USA who were deported as children and
returned later as adults.

Massive sweeps and dragnet raids of factories, fields and neighborhoods in
search of illegal aliens are not a thing of the past. The potential for
harassment exists every time INS agents selectively interrogate those with brown
skin.

The Baird controversy will go away, but it's time to re-examine the necessity of
criminalizing immigrant labor while promoting free trade with our neighbors and
a unified market for the hemisphere.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; COMMENT; Roberto Rodriguez and Patrisia Gonzales are Joshua,
Texas, writers

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              44 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    January 26, 1993, Tuesday, FIRST EDITION

INS: Peruvians not singled out

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 798 words


Immigration and Naturalization Service officials insisted Monday they're not
unfairly singling out the Peruvian couple who once worked for Zoe Baird as
chauffeur and nanny. The INS has asked Baird's former household workers - Victor
and Lillian Cordero - to appear this week in Hartford, Conn., for a
''fact-finding interview'' to discuss their immigration status. ''Every illegal
alien ... that comes to our attention is singled out for action. That's our
job,'' said spokesman Rick Kenney. Baird withdrew her nomination for U.S.
attorney general last week because of the outcry over her hiring of the illegal
workers. Baird is in seclusion but is expected to return to her $ 507,000-a-year
job as general counsel for Aetna Life & Casualty.
HOME AGAIN: Sen. Bob Packwood, R-Ore., said the Senate - not his Oregon
constituents - will decide whether he should remain in office in light of
accusations he sexually harassed 10 women. On his first trip home since the
reports surfaced in November, following his re-election, Packwood said he won't
resign. ''Whether or not you are effective in the Senate pretty much depends on
how you make the arguments. That's the ultimate body that will decide.''
Packwood blames his behavior on alcoholism. Said Lou Norton of the National
Organization for Women, among protesters at his stop in Medford: ''He's not
really coming home here or doing anything about his problem.''
COURT MARTIAL: The former commander of Goodfellow Air Force Base in San Angelo,
Texas, faces up to 16 years in prison for sending obscene material via his home
computer. A military jury found Col. James Maxwell, 48, guilty on four counts,
including transmitting child pornography. Sentencing is today. The judge
dismissed a charge of disgracing the Air Force by inquiring about the location
of homosexual meeting places and child pornography.
FISH HABITAT: The federal government proposed protecting more than 2,000 miles
of river and backwater in the Southwest that is habitat to four species of
endangered fish. The areas in Colorado, Utah, New Mexico, Arizona and Nevada are
home to the razorback sucker, Colorado squawfish, humpback chub and bonytail
chub. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service plan faces a two-month review.
FATAL CARJACKING: In the first federal carjacking prosecution involving deaths,
Leondre ''Manny Boy'' Henderson, 17, will plead guilty and testify against three
youthful co-defendants, prosecutors said. The Nov. 29 carjacking in St. Cloud,
Fla., left two men dead and one wounded.
SEALE SENTENCED: Irene Seale was sentenced to 20 years in prison with no parole
for her part in the kidnapping of Exxon executive Sidney Reso, 57, from his
Morris Township, N.J., home last May. He was shot and died in captivity. Seale,
45, was given concurrent federal and state sentences. A psychological evaluation
said she suffered from battered-woman syndrome. She cooperated with authorities
against her husband, Arthur, who was sentenced Nov. 30 to life, plus 30 years.
The Seales were arrested in June trying to collect an $ 18.5 million ransom they
demanded.
ALSO MONDAY ...

- TOURISTS KILLED: Three tourists were killed and one was missing when a
sightseeing helicopter crashed in the Pacific Ocean off the island of Hawaii,
authorities said. A fifth person, believed to be the pilot, was rescued.

- 'RESCUE' LEADER TO QUIT: Kim Carmouche, head of Operation Rescue's Louisiana
chapter, will resign because his $ 13,000 delinquency in child- support payments
was hurting the group's image, another state leader said.

Newborn-for-drugs story untrue

Police in Tustin, Calif., called off their search for the man Robert Garcia said
sold him a newborn boy for $ 10 to buy drugs. Garcia, 18, said he paid the $ 10
''out of concern for the baby,'' but police said the story didn't ring true.

Monday, Garcia admitted the baby actually is his. He and his 17-year-old
girlfriend wanted the child to get proper care, but didn't want anyone to know
he was theirs. ''As most young people, they were simply afraid to tell their
parents,'' said Police Chief Doug Franks. He said the high school junior hid her
pregnancy by saying she was just gaining weight. Franks said no decision has
been made whether to charge the couple. Also:

- Charlene Burns, 22, of Franklintown, W.Va., was charged Monday with attempted
murder after police said she abandoned her newborn baby girl in a trash pile
Sunday. The child is recovering.

- Sherri Dale Owens, 37, of Dallas, was charged Monday with kidnapping a
2-day-old girl from Parkland Memorial Hospital and taking the baby home Sunday.
She claimed it was her own but relatives were suspicious, police said.

With: Jim Greenhill, Carl Weiser, Florestine Purnell, Sandra Sanchez and Steve
Marshall

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Don Ryan, AP; PHOTO, b/w, Mike Derer, AP; PHOTO, b/w, AP

CUTLINE: MEETING: Timber representative Sharla Moffett listens to Sen. Bob
Packwood in Medford. CUTLINE: EXXON KIDNAPPING: Irene Seale is led to court in
Morristown, N.J., for sentencing in a fatal kidnapping plot. CUTLINE: FRANKS:
Teens afraid to tell parents

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION; FROM USA TODAY'S NATIONAL NEWS NETWORK

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              45 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    January 26, 1993, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Ex-Baird worker feels 'like a hunted animal'

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 809 words


An illegal immigrant from Peru whose employment by Zoe Baird caused her to
withdraw her nomination as attorney general said Monday he feels immigration
officials are hounding him. In a statement to The Associated Press, Victor
Cordero said he ''always felt free here until the last few weeks ... Now I feel
like a hunted animal.'' Immigration and Naturalization Service officials
insisted they're not unfairly singling out Cordero and his wife, Lillian, who
once worked for Baird as chauffeur and nanny. The INS has asked the Corderos,
who are now separated, to appear this week in Hartford, Conn., for a
''fact-finding interview'' to discuss their immigration status. Cordero says he
has been in the USA for eight years and has ''no jobs or friends waiting for
me'' in Peru. ''Every illegal alien ... that comes to our attention is singled
out for action. That's our job,'' said INS spokesman Rick Kenney. Baird withdrew
her nomination Friday because of outcry over her hiring of the undocumented
workers. Baird is expected to return to her $ 507,000-a-year job with Aetna Life
& Casualty.
HOME AGAIN: Sen. Bob Packwood, R-Ore., said the Senate - not his Oregon
constituents - will decide whether he remains in office in light of accusations
he sexually harassed 10 women. On his first trip home since the reports surfaced
in November, following his re-election, Packwood said he won't resign. ''Whether
or not you are effective in the Senate pretty much depends on how you make the
arguments. That's the ultimate body that will decide.'' Packwood blames his
behavior on alcoholism. Said Lou Norton of the National Organization for Women:
''He's not really coming home here or doing anything about his problem.''
FISH HABITAT: The federal government proposed protecting more than 2,000 miles
of river and backwater in the Southwest that is habitat to four species of
endangered fish. The areas in Colorado, Utah, New Mexico, Arizona and Nevada are
home to the razorback sucker, Colorado squawfish, humpback chub and bonytail
chub. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service plan faces a two-month review.
FATAL CARJACKING: In the first federal carjacking prosecution involving deaths,
Leondre ''Manny Boy'' Henderson, 17, will plead guilty and testify against three
youthful co-defendants, prosecutors said. The Nov. 29 carjacking in St. Cloud,
Fla., left two men dead and one wounded.
SEALE SENTENCED: Irene Seale was sentenced to 20 years in prison with no parole
for her part in the kidnapping of Exxon executive Sidney Reso, 57, from his
Morris Township, N.J., home last May. He was shot and died in captivity. Seale,
45, was given concurrent federal and state sentences. A psychological evaluation
said she suffered from battered-woman syndrome. She cooperated with authorities
against her husband, Arthur, who was sentenced Nov. 30 to life, plus 30 years.
The Seales were arrested in June trying to collect an $ 18.5 million ransom they
demanded.
ALSO MONDAY ...

- COURT MARTIAL: The former commander of Goodfellow Air Force Base in San
Angelo, Texas, faces up to 16 years in prison for sending obscene material via
his home computer. A military jury found Col. James Maxwell, 48, guilty on four
counts. Sentencing is today.

- TOURISTS KILLED: Three tourists were killed and one was missing when a
sightseeing helicopter crashed in the Pacific Ocean off the island of Hawaii,
authorities said.

- 'RESCUE' LEADER TO QUIT: Kim Carmouche, head of Operation Rescue's Louisiana
chapter, will resign because his $ 13,000 delinquency in child- support payments
was hurting the group's image, another state leader said.

Newborn-for-drugs story untrue

Police in Tustin, Calif., called off their search for the man Robert Garcia said
sold him a newborn boy for $ 10 to buy drugs. Garcia, 18, said he paid the $ 10
''out of concern for the baby,'' but police said the story didn't ring true.

Monday, Garcia admitted the baby actually is his. He and his 17-year-old
girlfriend wanted the child to get proper care, but didn't want anyone to know
he was theirs. ''As most young people, they were simply afraid to tell their
parents,'' said Police Chief Doug Franks. He said the high school junior hid her
pregnancy by saying she was just gaining weight. Franks said no decision has
been made whether to charge the couple. Also:

- Charlene Burns, 22, of Franklintown, W.Va., was charged Monday with attempted
murder after police said she abandoned her newborn baby girl in a trash pile
Sunday. The child is recovering.

- Sherri Dale Owens, 37, of Dallas, was charged Monday with kidnapping a
2-day-old girl from Parkland Memorial Hospital and taking the baby home Sunday.
She claimed it was her own but relatives were suspicious, police said.

With: Jim Greenhill, Carl Weiser, Florestine Purnell, Sandra Sanchez and Steve
Marshall

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Don Ryan, AP; PHOTO, b/w, Mike Derer, AP; PHOTO, b/w, AP

CUTLINE: MEETING: Timber representative Sharla Moffett listens to Sen. Bob
Packwood in Medford. CUTLINE: EXXON KIDNAPPING: Irene Seale is led to court in
Morristown, N.J., for sentencing in a fatal kidnapping plot. CUTLINE: FRANKS:
Teens afraid to tell parents

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION; FROM USA TODAY'S NATIONAL NEWS NETWORK

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              46 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

               January 28, 1993, Thursday, INTERNATIONAL EDITION

Ex-Baird worker en route to Peru

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 665 words


Victor Cordero, the illegal immigrant who was Zoe Baird's chauffeur before her
nomination as U.S. attorney general, is en route to Peru because he doesn't want
to be questioned by immigration officials, his lawyer said. Cordero, 26, came to
the USA at age 18. Baird withdrew her nomination after outcry over her
disclosure of hiring him and his estranged wife, Lillian, 32, as a nanny in her
New Haven, Conn., home. U.S. immigration officials still want to talk to Lillian
Cordero.
DISABLED FREIGHTER: The crew of a disabled freighter worked to drop its stuck
anchors before the ship, carrying 340,000 gallons of heavy fuel oil, ran aground
in a fishing area off Cape Fear, N.C. The unoccupied freighter Lyra was being
towed when it broke from the tugboat in an Atlantic storm with 20- foot seas.
BAD BURGERS: A food poisoning outbreak blamed on bad hamburgers, which has
stricken 200 in the Northwestern USA, killing one, has spread to Las Vegas.
Seven people have been hospitalized and 100 have complained of diarrhea after
eating at Jack in the Box restaurants. The hamburger is contaminated with E.
coli 0157: H7 bacterium.
EXECUTION: Martsay Bolder, 35, was put to death by injection Wednesday in
Missouri for the 1979 stabbing murder of an inmate while Bolder was serving a
life sentence for a 1973 murder. The U.S. Supreme Court stayed Wednesday's
scheduled execution in Texas of Ramon Montoya, 39, for the 1983 murder of Dallas
police officer John Pasco.
CIA SHOOTINGS: Authorities continued searching for a lone gunman who opened fire
Monday outside CIA headquarters in suburban Washington, killing two people and
wounding three. Suspect: a swarthy, possibly curly-haired man with an AK-47-type
automatic rifle. One possibility is that the gunman is seeking revenge against
the CIA. In recent weeks, graffiti spray-painted on roads in nearby Vienna, Va.,
has linked the ''CIA ... Vienna police ... crime.''
RIGHT TO DIE: Missouri's Supreme Court granted the state's request to dismiss
the Christine Busalacchi case, allowing the 22-year-old brain-damaged woman's
father to decide her fate. She has been in a vegetative state since a 1987 car
accident. Her father plans to leave her in a St. Louis hospital ''for the
foreseeable future,'' his lawyer said.
'HOME ALONE': It will be at least another two weeks before David and Sharon
Schoo get to see their 9- and 4-year-old children, who they are accused of
abandoning by leaving the kids home alone in St. Charles, Ill., while they
vacationed in Mexico. A hearing on the Schoos' request to dismiss the case was
continued until Feb. 11. It's been five weeks since they've seen their children,
now in foster care.
MONKEY BUSINESS: A Miami federal agent in a gorilla outfit helped catch Mexican
zoo officials suspected of smuggling primates to Mexico.
ALSO ...

- EXPELLED: Andrew Martinez, known as ''The Naked Guy'' because he goes to class
nude, was expelled from the University of California-Berkeley.

- NEGLECT CASE: Douglas Rupe, 44, was sentenced in West Union, W.Va., to three
years in prison for neglecting his son Douglas, 11, whose frostbitten legs were
amputated after the two were found living in an unheated bus. ''I didn't mean
for it to happen,'' he said. Douglas is in foster care.

- PACKWOOD PROTESTS: Demonstrations increased against Sen. Bob Packwood, R-Ore.,
in the third day of his first trip home since accusations in November that he
sexually harassed 10 women. ''Hey Bob, find a new job,'' some shouted. Others
pounded on windows at his hotel.
DEATHS ...

- NEW YORK: Bert Andrews, 63, a photographer who chronicled black theater, died
of stomach cancer Monday.

- MONTREAL: Jeanne Sauve, 70, Canada's first female governor general and speaker
of the House of Commons, died Tuesday. Cause of death was not disclosed.

- AMSTERDAM, Netherlands: Jan Gies, 87, who risked his life to smuggle food to
Anne Frank and members of the Dutch underground during World War II, died
Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Pater Casolino, AP

CUTLINE: CORDERO: Heading back to Peru

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION; FROM USA TODAY'S NATIONAL NEWS NETWORK

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              47 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    January 29, 1993, Friday, FINAL EDITION

2nd Baird worker agrees to leave USA

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 768 words


The second illegal immigrant from Peru whose employment by Zoe Baird caused
Baird to withdraw her nomination for attorney general has agreed to leave the
United States, immigration officials said Thursday. The Immigration and
Naturalization Service focused on Lillian Cordero, 32, and her ex- husband,
Victor, after Baird disclosed she had hired them as a nanny and chauffeur at her
home in New Haven, Conn. INS officials then sought to question the Corderos for
possible deportation. Victor, 26, voluntarily left for Peru before Tuesday's INS
meeting in Hartford. Lillian Cordero agreed to leave under a 30-day ''voluntary
departure'' program. The couple's divorce became final this week. The INS says
the Corderos were treated no differently than other illegal immigrants brought
to their attention.
CHURCH SEX: Ex-Roman Catholic priest James Porter, accused of sexually abusing
children in Massachusetts and New Mexico, was sentenced in Minneapolis to six
months in jail for molesting a teen-age baby sitter in 1987. Porter, 57, must
serve 10 years' probation rather than the usual 2 1/2 because he showed no
remorse, Judge Kenneth Maas said. In New Mexico, retired priest David Holley,
65, of Worcester, Mass., was indicted on charges of molesting eight boys.
GOLDEN GATE TRAGEDY: Steven Page, 35, of Fremont, Calif., hurled his daughter
Kellie, 3, off San Francisco's Golden Gate Bridge and then jumped, officials
said. Both died. Police think Page, distraught over a pending divorce, killed
his estranged wife, Nancy, earlier in the day. Page left a note apologizing to
their 9-year-old son.
WOLF PLAN SCRAPPED: The Alaska Board of Game, faced with a tourist boycott,
backed down on a controversial plan to shoot 400 wolves annually to boost
caribou and moose herds. The board withdrew the plan after the Department of
Fish and Game agreed to present in June new plans to control the state's 5,900
to 7,200 gray wolves.
GOING APE: Congratulations may be in order for Timmy, the 34-year-old silverback
lowland gorilla brought from Cleveland to New York's Bronx Zoo in hopes he would
impregnate ape mate Pattycake. Two human pregnancy tests were positive, but not
conclusive. Still, Timmy's supporters are thrilled because of fears the primate
was past his prime. His infertile Cleveland mate, Kate, was moved to Fort Worth.
Their species is endangered.
RODNEY KING PAROLE: California officials denied Rodney King's request for early
release from parole, citing recent ''questionable behavior and judgment'' of the
black motorist whose videotaped beating by white Los Angeles police officers
outraged the nation. Spring riots were sparked by acquittal of the officers on
state brutality charges. A federal civil rights trial starts Wednesday.
CORRECTION: A story Thursday about Virginia Attorney General Mary Sue Terry
should have said Arlene Violet of Rhode Island was the first woman elected
attorney general of a state, in 1984.

ALSO THURSDAY ...

- GAY TEEN-SUICIDE PREVENTION: Massachusetts will launch what supporters say is
the USA's first state health and suicide prevention program to help gay youths.
Cost: $ 200,000. Gay youths are two to three times more likely than other teens
to attempt suicide.

- TORTURE KILLING: Toni Lawrence, 16, was sentenced in Madison, Ind., to 20
years in prison for the 1992 slaying of Shanda Renee Sharer, 12. Lawrence
admitting watching three girlfriends bludgeon, sodomize, douse with gasoline and
set afire Sharar. Motive: lesbian jealousy.

- HUD TRIAL: A jury in Washington, D.C., aquitted Victor Cruse, 43, a Hartford,
Conn., lawyer and real estate developer, of perjury and obstruction of justice
charges in the U.S. Housing and Urban Development scandal.

- FBI SPY: A San Francisco federal appeals court upheld the conviction and
20-year prison sentence of Richard Miller, 55, the only FBI agent ever convicted
of espionage.

Thousands bid farewell to Marshall

The powerless and the powerful came together Thursday for the funeral of
Thurgood Marshall, the nation's first black justice of the Supreme Court.
President Clinton did not speak but sat in the front row of Washington Cathedral
with his wife, Hillary. Also attending: Linda Brown - the child in Brown vs.
Board of Education, the landmark 1954 school desegregation case won by Marshall
as a lawyer. He won 29 civil rights cases before the Supreme Court. Marshall,
84, died Sunday. His burial today at Arlington National Cemetery will be a
private ceremony.

Contributing: Sandra Sanchez, Patricia Edmonds, Jim Greenhill, Dennis Cauchon,
and Steve Marshall

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Jim Mone, AP; PHOTO, b/w, Ralph Myers, The Plain Dealer via
AP; PHOTO, b/w, Greg Gibson, AP

CUTLINE: PORTER: 'No sign of remorse' CUTLINE: TIMMY: 34-year-old silverback
gorilla may become a father CUTLINE: MARSHALL SERVICE: More than 3,500 filled
Washington Cathedral for Thurgood Marshall's funeral.

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION; FROM USA TODAY'S NATIONAL NEWS NETWORK

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              48 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 8, 1993, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Ease immigration laws for domestic workers

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 330 words


President Clinton is learning the hard way how difficult it is to hire good
help.

For the second time, his pick for attorney general has been derailed by an
immigration law that too easily turns law-abiding people into criminals.

Both Zoe Baird and Kimba Wood hired illegal immigrants to care for their
children after efforts to hire U.S. citizens failed. Both took legal steps to
sponsor the workers and apply for green cards.

Yet Baird broke the law. And while Wood's actions were legal when she took them,
they wouldn't be today.

That law - at least as it applies to domestic workers - needs changing. The
government's own approach to the law shows how silly it is. Consider this:

Since everyone knows illegals work here, the government wants them and their
employers to pay income, Social Security and unemployment taxes. So the IRS
provides them special numbers. Then it hides the information from the
Immigration Service. It does, however, give the data to the Social Security
Administration, which can give it to INS.

Ridiculous.

Two proposals seeking to end the hypocrisy are beginning to gain attention.

One would raise the number of visas allotted ''unskilled'' immigrants, many of
whom are domestic workers, and cut the time they must wait for them.

Another would allow domestic workers waiting for green cards to work for up to
three years on a temporary status - enough time to get them launched toward
long-term legal status.

Both deserve consideration, and not just to benefit well-off families like
Baird's and Wood's.

Thousands of middle-class families seek child care - in their homes or group
settings - that U.S. citizens won't provide at an affordable price. There should
be a prompt, legal way to hire immigrants to fill that role without turning them
or their sponsors into criminals.

When people can't find good help for a job as important as caring for their
children, the least the government can do is try to get out of the way.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; Today's debate is on IMMIGRATION LAWS and whether they
should be changed for household workers; OUR VIEW; The law is confusing and
discriminates against less-skilled and less-educated immigrants

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              49 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      June 7, 1993, Monday, FINAL EDITION

U.S. vows to 'shut down' traffic in aliens

BYLINE: James Harney

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 504 words


U.S. immigration officials, faced with a deepening flood of illegal immigrants
from China, are vowing to make an example of immigrants who crashed ashore in
New York Sunday.

"We plan to shut down this traffic," says Immigration and Naturalization Service
New York director William Slattery.

About 200 illegal Chinese immigrants from the freighter that ran aground near
Rockaway Beach, N.Y. - on southern Long Island - are being held in detention
centers as INS officials begin the lengthy process of determining their legal
status. At least seven died.

Slattery concedes there are "holes" in the immigration process and the system
breaks down, adding, "The chances are they know they will get to remain here and
that's an inducement for more to come.

"Most of them come from Fukien province, a blue-collar area where they earn
about $ 80 a month," he said.

Officials say many Asian immigrants are smuggled into the USA by Chinese
underworld gangs that charge $ 20,000 to $ 35,000 per person.

Immigrants must work off the debt in up to 10 years of forced servitude,
officials say.

The gangs are in "the business of carrying human flesh for profits," says
Slattery. Immigrants then are "coached" to apply for political asylum claiming
the Chinese government limits their families to one child only, he says.

Slattery says Sunday's survivors will be allowed to make a claim for asylum but
will be held in INS detention centers in Pennsylvania and Maryland until they
are prosecuted.

For many, the detention seems stiff punishment after spending a harrowing night
in icy, black waters.

Still, it's a price many seem willing to pay. More than 1,800 illegal Chinese
immigrants have been caught since January. There were 613 detained last year. As
recently as 1990, none were detained.

INS officials said the Golden Venture, which crashed Sunday, was the 24th vessel
carrying illegal immigrants intercepted in the New York area since August 1991.

Wednesday, two fishing boats carrying about 300 illegal Chinese immigrants were
seized in harbors on the California coast, south of San Francisco.

On May 24, a freighter dumped more than 200 illegal Chinese immigrants near the
Golden Gate Bridge.

In all the cases, some immigrants were captured by U.S. officials while others
are believed to have slipped away.

"Over the last couple of years there has been a major increase of illegal entry
by Chinese," said Slattery.

Some estimate up to 100,000 Chinese enter the USA illegally each year, compared
with 30,000 legal entries.

The scene Sunday was "chaotic," said firefighter Russell Vomero, as hundreds of
passengers, some in underwear, dove or climbed overboard into bone-chilling
waters.

"They were all jumping off, climbing down the ladders, trying to swim," said
firefighter Michael Penna.

"Hypothermia set in. By the time they got to shore, they couldn't even stand."

Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly said it's possible some immigrants walked away
from the beach and vanished into the community.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Nick Galifianakis, USA TODAY (Map, New York City); PHOTO,
b/w, Jeff Christensen, Reuters

THE NATION; See related story; 01A

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              50 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     July 15, 1993, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

High tide of immigration overwhelms USA // Lack of money and direction add to
woes

BYLINE: Bruce Frankel; Marilyn Greene

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 689 words


Three rusting vessels, cramped with 659 undocumented Chinese, limped through the
waters off San Diego for more than a week as scrambling U.S officials tried to
coax Mexico into taking the unwanted immigrants.

Mexico finally acquiesced Wednesday and will repatriate the refugees. But
experts say the incident symbolizes U.S. immigration policy - chaotic and adrift
- and its inability to stem a vast tide of illegal aliens.

An overwhelmed Immigration and Naturalization Service needs more money, more
people and stronger laws to handle the record number of immigrants entering the
country.

But what the nation most needs, experts say, is a long-term, strategic policy
with the consistent backing of the president, Congress, and state and local
governments.

"Unfortunately, there's a firehouse environment. The bell rings. You've got
people hitting the coast, and you go after them without attending to a far
broader problem," says James Blume, assistant director of the U.S. General
Accounting Office.

Alan Nelson, who headed the INS from 1981 to 1989, accuses the Bush
administration of failing to fight for a sensible and enforceable immigration
policy. But the Clinton administration's failure to articulate an immigration
policy of its own has others fretting.

"There's a lot of rhetoric coming out of the administration," says Dan Stein,
executive director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which
advocates new limits. But at this point, he says, no real policy has emerged. "I
think we're in limbo."

Clinton's nomination of immigration lawyer Doris Meissner to be INS commissioner
has stirred some optimism that she may provide real leadership and a
refreshingly professional - instead of political - perspective.

Still, his decision to reverse campaign pledges and continue Bush's policy of
turning away boatloads of Haitians without asylum hearings, has suggested to
some that politics will again master policy.

"I don't see it's necessary to pin him to the wall on this," says Demetrios
Papademetriou, immigration policy director at the Labor Department during the
Bush administration. But if Clinton's campaign statements favoring tolerance and
diversity turn out to be no more than "rhetorical flourishes . . . then he ought
to be held accountable."

A coherent national immigration policy doesn't have to be invented anew, says
Lawrence Fuchs, acting chairman of the U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform.
The select commission on immigration proposed one in 1981.

"But Congress didn't carry it through all they way.," he says.

Fuchs also says Congress' failure to establish a fraud-proof work identity card
"undermined" the effectiveness of the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act.

Political asylum - though widely regarded as a small problem in comparison to
the number of aliens overstaying visas - is the most often cited flaw in U.S.
immigration policy. Congress is now considering a bill that will expedite asylum
hearings, and allow one appeal.

Sending "those abusing the system back to China will send the message, you're
wasting your $ 30,000 if you don't have a legitimate claim," says Gene McNary,
who resigned as head of INS in January.

But no policy will succeed, immigration experts say, until the nation
streamlines deportation laws and court proceedings and significantly increases
the number of trained asylum officers. There are only 150.

Immigrant rights advocates are troubled by the calls for tougher asylum rules
and more money to bolster border security. They are particularly hesitant to
throw funds at the INS, without a clear policy.

"We shouldn't be talking about more multiterrain vehicles and weapons without
first talking about what creates the flow," says Margie McHugh, of the New York
Immigration Coalition. "People are moving about the globe more freely than ever
. . . Instead of welcoming the future, we're trying to turn the clock back."

But Rosemary Jenks of the Center for Immigration Studies says a much more
restrictive response is needed: "We simply don't have the resources to resettle
millions of people who wish to come here."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EAR GRAPHIC, color (Illustration); GRAPHIC, b/w, (Illustration)

IMMIGRATION; IMMIGRATION BACKLASH IN THE LAND OF LIBERTY; An explosion in new
immigration - both legal and illegal - is sparking a growing backlash. The
opposition raises new questions about border policies, worrying those committed
to retaining the USA's diversity.

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              51 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    July 28, 1993, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Clinton vows immigration crackdown

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 469 words


President Clinton asked Congress Tuesday for $ 172.5 million and more tools to
crack down on illegal immigration.

His plan would:

Double penalties against smugglers to 10 years.

Use wiretapping and racketeering laws against them.

Add up to 600 more Border Patrol agents.

Allow officers to immediately turn away asylum seekers if their claim lacks
credibility. The asylum review process now takes years.

"We must say no to illegal immigration so we can continue to say yes to legal
immigration," Clinton said.

The proposed bill was hailed by a bipartisan chorus in Congress, suggesting easy
passage:

"It's an excellent first step," said Sen. Alfonse D'Amato, R-N.Y.

"It contains virtually everything I've called for," said Sen. Dianne Feinstein,
D-Calif.

But advocates for immigrants call the plan political.

"It's a cavalier, knee-jerk response," said Margie McHugh of the New York
Immigration Coalition.

"There will be more due process for people protesting parking tickets than for
people fleeing rape in Bosnia."

But the immigration bill looks like a quick bipartisan winner on Capitol Hill.

"I can't imagine that it won't pass," was the glum assessment of Warren Leiden,
director of the American Immigration Lawyers Association, which would like to
see it killed or amended.

Polls indicate the public is demanding a new hard-line attitude against
smugglers of illegal immigrants and people who abuse the asylum system.

Clinton's proposal alludes to Chinese refugees and Muslim terrorism like the
World Trade Center bombing.

"We cannot tolerate those who traffic in human cargo," Clinton said, "Nor can we
allow our people to be endangered by those who would enter our country to
terrorize Americans."

Anti-immigration groups grumble that Clinton didn't go far enough. "But at least
they recognize now it's a serious problem," said Louisa Parker, of the
Federation for American Immigration Reform.

How funds would be spent In his proposal to curb illegal immigration, President
Clinton has asked for an additional $ 172.5 million. The money would boost
border patrols and airport security, speed up the asylum and deportation
processes, and provide rewards for information on terrorist. How the money would
be distributed (in millions):
 Asylum                             27%          $ 45.8
Border agents                      26%          $ 45.1
Documents                          26%          $ 45.0
Security                           7%           $ 12.7
Deportation                        3%            $ 6.0
Rewards                            3%            $ 5.0
Other                              8%           $ 12.9

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Marty Baumann, USA TODAY, Source: White House staff,
Immigration and Naturalization Service (Pie chart)

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD; See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              52 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     August 27, 1993, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Stakes are high in two governors' races / California spotlight on immigration

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 626 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Immigration reform is becoming the hottest political button of the year in
California. And everyone seems to be pushing it.

Republican Gov. Pete Wilson just unleashed a series of controversial proposals
in an open letter to President Clinton - including a constitutional amendment to
deny citizenship to children born in the USA to illegal residents.

Democratic Sen. Dianne Feinstein wants a $ 1 border toll for crackdowns on drug
and alien smuggling.

And Sen. Barbara Boxer last week joined Feinstein in a late-night tour of the
jammed San Ysidro border checkpoint with Attorney General Janet Reno.

"It's evolving into the hottest ticket on the political scene in 1994, and
there's no reason to believe it's going to go away," says political consultant
Joe Cerrell.

It's no wonder politicians on both sides of the aisle are tackling immigration
reform. In recession-torn California - home to 6.5 million immigrants and more
than half of the nation's undocumented aliens - anti-immigrant sentiment is
rising.

"It all has to do now not only with politics but with economics," says political
analyst Sherry Bebitch Jeffe. "If the economy picks up dramatically, we may see
an easing of the rhetoric."

Wilson claims state taxpayers are spending about $ 3 billion a year to provide
education, health and welfare and other services to illegal immigrants and their
families, and to keep convicted felons who are here illegally in prison.

Other Wilson proposals call for repealing federal mandates that make illegal
immigrants eligible for health benefits and creating a tamper-proof ID card for
all legal residents.

Result? A volley of criticism from Democratic Party officials and immigrants'
rights groups.
Political analysts concede that Wilson, a moderate, may be taking a big gamble
just 10 months before the gubernatorial primary.

"It truly is a Draconian set of suggestions," Jeffe says. "In terms of Wilson,
it's another attempt to shore up an unshorable right wing. When will he ever
learn that that right wing will not move with him?'

Democrats - with challengers State Treasurer Kathleen Brown and State Insurance
Commissioner John Garamendi waiting in the wings - have pounced on Wilson.

The assault has been so vicious that Wilson lost his cool last week and told
Democratic Party officials: "They can kiss my rear end if they can leap that
high from the low road where they are dwelling habitually."

Wilson quickly countered criticism that he was throwing the problem in the
federal government's lap by endorsing state bills that would, for one, require
proof of U.S. residency to get a driver's license.

"He's touched a nerve," says Mark DiCamillo of The Field Poll, which just
conducted a statewide survey.

Some findings: 77% agree with Wilson that illegal residents should not get
welfare assistance; 72% support tamper-proof ID cards; 50% support a
constitutional amendment to deny citizenship to children born in the USA to
illegals; and 58% reject Wilson's proposal to deny emergency health care to
illegal immigrants.

"He may be bringing home some of the Republican rank-and-file, but in the long
run, he may have problems . . . when he tries to appeal to a broader
cross-section of voters," DiCamillo says.

Wilson has other problems to overcome. In his first term, California went
through the longest budget stalemate in its history. And Wilson angered
conservatives and liberals by intimating he would sign a gay-rights bill, then
stopping short.

The immigration issue "will definitely be a debate," says Orange County
political consultant Eileen Padberg. "People are very frustrated. They don't
have jobs, and for whatever reason believe illegals are taking away from the
system and not putting anything back."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Lois Bernstein, Sacramento Bee via AP

POLITICS; See sidebar; 06A; See related story; 06A

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              53 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    September 3, 1993, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Study revises estimates on immigrants

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 663 words


An estimated 3.2 million illegal immigrants live in the USA - about 1.3% of the
total population, says a new study by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

Forty percent of them live in California, the INS study says - a figure that
contradicts earlier studies that estimated half the illegal population lived in
California.

The new study, the most extensive ever compiled by the INS, comes as a fierce
debate rages in Congress and in California over the costs of new immigrants and
the need for immigration limits.

California Gov. Pete Wilson and others say illegal immigrants cost the state
billions in services, but they cited earlier Census Bureau estimates that 2
million aliens live in California.

Illegal immigrants are defined as those who overstay their visas by at least
nine months or people who sneak into the country and are now residents.

Dan Schnur, a spokesman for Wilson, said the debate in California won't be
affected by the new INS numbers "because the problem is the cost of providing
services for illegal aliens - and the cost is indisputable."

Among the INS findings:

About 80% of the illegal population is concentrated in just five states:
California, New York, Florida, Texas and Illinois.

The state with the second-highest number of illegal immigrants is New York, with
15% of the total, or 485,000 people. Earlier estimates put the New York figure
at 10%.

Mexico, El Salvador and Guatemala are still the leading sources of illegal
immigrants. But new figures show a reduction in the percentage of Mexicans, from
more than half to about 31%. Bob Warren, of INS, says that is due to the
Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, which led to the legalization of
some 3 million people, most of them Mexican.

Jeff Passel, a demographer at the Urban Institute, a Washington, D.C., think
tank, cautioned that the INS estimates aren't based on detailed data from each
state. "They assumed that, say, Mexicans were distributed across the states in
the same pattern as Mexicans who applied for legalization," he said.

Meanwhile, another new study issued today challenged research that says new
immigrants cost millions more in services than they contribute in taxes.

The study by the Urban Institute said that while new immigrants initially cost
more than they contribute to local governments, over the long haul they make
substantial tax contributions.

Proponents of immigration restrictions often cite a study by Los Angeles County,
which suggests new immigrants cost millions more in services.

But the institute study said county officials underestimated tax contributions
of new recent immigrants by $ 848 million, or 23%.

In addition, the Los Angeles study ignored the contributions of long-term
immigrants, who use fewer social services. Immigrants who came to the county
before 1980 make up 15% of the county population but pay 18% of total taxes
collected, the institute found.

Cecilia Munoz, with the Hispanic advocacy group La Raza, said the study was
important because "the Los Angeles County study has been a principal weapon" for
those calling for immigration limits.

Illegal immigrants in USA The Immigration and Naturalization Service estimates
there are 3.2 million illegal immigrants in the USA. Where they live and where
they came from: TOP 10 STATES
California       1,275,000
New York          485,000
Florida           345,000
Texas             320,000
Illinois          170,000
New Jersey        125,000
Massachusetts     48,000
Arizona           47,000
Virginia          37,300
Georgia           28,000

TOP 10 COUNTRIES OF ORIGIN
Mexico           21%
El Salvador       9%
Guatemala         4%
Canada            3%
Poland            3%
Philippines       3%
Haiti             3%
Nicaragua         2%
Colombia          2%
The Bahamas       2%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service

TYPE: Newsmakers

See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              54 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  September 30, 1993, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Immigration 'issue of the 90s' / Critics cite border influx, rights abuses

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 723 words


With the exception of health care and NAFTA, perhaps no other issue preoccupies
Congress more this year than immigration reform.

Reacting to a public backlash against immigrants, Democrats and Republicans are
competing to fashion reform legislation.

"This is the emerging issue of the 90s, not just the influx of illegal aliens
but their cost to American taxpayers and workers," says Rep. Lamar Smith,
R-Texas, chairman of the GOP Task Force on Illegal Immigration that met
Wednesday.

But a consensus on what to do has not yet emerged. For instance, President
Clinton has called for up to 600 new Border Patrol officers. But some Democrats
want up to 1,500 more, and Republicans want as many as 3,000 more.

Also Wednesday, a House subcommittee heard testimony on a Democratic bill to set
up an independent civilian review board to monitor the Border Patrol, accused of
civil and human rights abuses against illegal aliens.

"Not only have immigrants and U.S. citizens suffered abuses and indignity at the
hands of (the Border Patrol), but the complaint mechanism has been woefully
inadequate," said Rep. Xavier Becerra, D-Calif.

The Border Patrol and its parent agency, the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, strongly oppose such outside interference, claiming it would violate
the agencies rights to due process. They also noted that only a handful of abuse
cases were reported out of 1.2 million arrests last year.

House Republicans convened their third hearing Wednesday, to discuss their
belief that illegal immigrants cost billions by stealing jobs, filling up
prisons and crowding hospital emergency rooms.

"America is being overrun by wave after wave of illegal immigrants and if we
don't take steps this year it may be too late," said Rep. Elton Gallegly,
R-Calif.

Ideas under debate:

Clinton's proposed reform of the unwieldy and overloaded asylum system would
speed up the process of excluding people who arrive at U.S. airports without
documents or with fraudulent documents and what are believed to be frivolous
claims for asylum. The bill has the backing of key committee chairmen in both
houses, virtually assuring passage.

Some Democrats from states with many illegal immigrants would like to go
further. Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., wants to charge a $ 1 toll to every
person entering the U.S. by foot, ferry, ship or automobile, but hasn't yet
introduced a bill.

Meanwhile, the House Hispanic Caucus wants to loosen some immigration laws,
arguing for a repeal of employer sanctions because they lead to bias against
citizens who look or sound foreign. But the bill has almost no chance passing.

Republicans have more drastic measures in mind. They want to reduce legal
immigration by up to two-thirds, send the Army to patrol the borders, cut off
all benefits to illegal immigrants, deny citizenship to U.S.-born children of
illegals, and issue counterfeit-proof ID cards only to citizens and legal
residents.

Even some Democrats are coming round to the idea - like Rep. Anthony Beilenson,
D-Calif.

"It's the single most effective thing we could do," said Beilenson, a liberal
who turned hardliner on illegal immigration as a result of widespread concern in
his Los Angeles-area district.

Sampling of bills before Congress

Some of the bills introduced in Congress this year dealing with immigration:

A bill by Sen. Harry Reid, D-Nev., calling for a two-thirds cut in the number of
legal immigrants, from about 800,000 a year to 300,000 a year.

Bills by Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., and Rep. Jack Brooks, D-Texas, in the
House, would enact President Clinton's proposal for increasing penalties against
alien smuggling and speeding up exclusion of people with frivolous or fraudulent
asylum claims.

Bills by Rep. Bill McCollum, R-Fla., and Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., call for
even faster expulsion of those arrivingwith frivolous asylum claims.

A bill by Rep. Romano Mazzoli, D-Ky. would require other asylum applicants to
file within 60 days of entering the country, and set tighter deadlines for
decisions in cases.

A bill by Rep. Elton Gallegly, R-Calif., and others to deny citizenship to
U.S.-born children of illegal immigrants.

A bill by Rep. Anthony Beilenson, D-Calif., and others, to create a
counterfeit-proof national ID card for citizens and legal residents.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

THE NATION; See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              55 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   November 11, 1993, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Foreign criminals slip through cracks at INS

BYLINE: Dennis Cauchon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 404 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Foreigners who commit crimes in the USA are escaping deportation because of
sloppy government work and an
overburdened system, a Senate subcommittee said Wednesday.   Sen.

William Roth, R-Del., headed an investigation that estimated 452,000
non-citizens could be deported for crimes. But most avoid government action
because the immigration service doesn't know about them or doesn't have enough
resources to act, he said.

"If you want to follow a life of crime, you're better off as an illegal alien
than a U.S. citizen," said W. Leighton Lord, a Republican Senate staffer who did
the investigation.

Lord said the system was plagued by "leakage" - non-citizen criminals who slip
through the cracks.

He suggested that deportation appeals be further restricted and deportation laws
made harsher.

Immigrant activists attacked the report as political demagoguery.

"This is nothing but legislation by rhetoric," said immigration lawyer Peter
Hirsch. "It has nothing to do with the human beings and human lives and the real
world."

Hirsch says the system is stacked against immigrants. Rather than being all
hardened criminals, many are longtime legal U.S. residents who have committed
drug offenses.

More than 80% of people deported are drug offenders.

Cindy Levy of Waukegan, Ill., is fighting deportation of her Jamaican husband,
Robert, a legal resident who served in the U.S. Navy and was convicted of a
cocaine offense. "It's not just the guy you're talking about. It's the children
and family that's being destroyed too," said Levy.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service also defended itself, saying its
1,400 agents are doing what they can. Since 1991, INS agents have spent
one-third of their time deporting criminals, said INS spokesman Duke Austin.
Deportations have risen dramatically.

The INS estimates 250,000 criminals might be deportable. "If the state prisons
don't come to us with information, how is the INS supposed to know he's there,
much less deportable?" Austin said.

Immigrant inmates

Immigrants make up 25% of the federal prison population. Their numbers:
Fiscal year   Immigrant inmates
1988             10,647
1989             13,292
1990             15,093
1991             17,961
1992             20,708
1993             22,708

Source: Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

THE NATION; See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              56 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 4, 1994, Friday, FINAL EDITION

'Deterrence' on Southwest border / Plan aimed at illegal immigration

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 796 words


The Clinton administration, pressured by California lawmakers desperate to do
something about illegal immigration, said Thursday it would beef up the U.S.
Border Patrol in a two-year, $ 540.5 million program to stop the flow across the
border.

"This administration is committed to safeguarding America's proud history of
openness to newcomers," said Attorney General Janet Reno. "But we will not
permit this cherished tradition to be jeopardized by weakness in enforcing our
immigration laws."

Reno and Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner Doris Meissner
refused to characterize the new effort along the Mexican border as a "blockade."

"Our strategy at the Southwest border is deterrence through prevention," Reno
said at a news conference, flanked by a bipartisan group of beaming California
legislators.

By the end of 1995 the administration hopes to have 4,471 agents - up from 3,461
- in El Paso and San Diego, where most illegal crossings occur. The Border
Patrol alone would get $ 180 million under the plan, which requires
congressional approval.

GOP Rep. Duncan Hunter, who represents San Diego, praised the plan, but called
for 10,000 agents to be deployed along the 2,000-mile border.

An expensive blockade experiment in El Paso last fall cut illegal crossings to a
trickle.

Repeating the El Paso experiment would be difficult in San Diego because of
different terrain and more illegal crossings, Meissner said.

But the political pressure to take action on illegal immigration has reached
explosive proportions, especially in California, where ugly arguments over
immigration costs, and charges of job-stealing, fraud and discrimination have
divided communities.

Meissner said the strategy is to increase enforcement to the point that it
discourages people from even trying illegal crossings, thus reducing
apprehensions. Then, officials hope, most of the political, social and economic
consequences of illegal immigration would fade.

Immigrant-rights groups called the plan comprehensive and balanced, but are
concerned it could lead to tougher restrictions.

"We have never been opposed to increasing enforcement at the border (because) we
are as concerned about undocumented immigration as anybody," said Mario Moreno,
spokesman for the Mexican-American Legal Defense and Education Fund.

Elements of the plan:

-- Border Patrol: Add 1,010 new agents; half from new hires, half from desk
jobs.

-- New technology: Add infrared scopes, encrypted radios, night sensors,
automated booking and fingerprinting of apprehended. Five miles of lighting,
double fences in the San Diego area.

-- Criminal aliens: Expand effort to identify, deport criminals after serving
sentences.

-- Political asylum: Streamline overwhelmed system, double asylum officers,
judges, and restrict issuance of work documents to applicants.

-- Employer sanctions: Double efforts to verify worker eligibility, prevent
bias, and target those with a history of hiring illegal workers.

-- Worker identification: Reduce documents required and make immigration cards
less subject to fraud.

-- Naturalization: Encourage more immigrants to become citizens.

Crackdown along the U.S.-Mexican border Attorney General Janet Reno Thursday
unveiled a $ 540.5 million, two-year program to crack down on illegal
immigration across the Mexican border and to ease the path of legal immigrants
to this country. The 22% budget increase would include hiring more Border Patrol
agents, speeding up processing a backlog of political asylum applications and
improving efforts to deport illegal aliens in state prisons:

Illegal immigrants apprehended All illegal immigrant apprehensions, and the
number that were Mexicans:
         Total           Mexicans
'86      1,767,400        1,635,702
'92      1,258,482        1,168,946

More Border Patrol agents Reno's plan adds 1,010 more agents at San Diego and at
El Paso, where 65% of illegal immigrants are caught. Half of the agents would be
new hires and half moved from desk duties.
Current agents   3,461
With additions   4,471

Political asylum cases filed and adjudicated
      Filed       Adjudicated
'86    18,889       18,757
'92   103,964       10,425

Deportations About half of the people deported in 1993 were criminals. Annual
deportations:
'86    22,190
'93    36,000(1)

1 - Estimate

Illegal immigrants in prisons A federal survey of state prison inmates found
that 1 in 23 were illegal immigrants. Where they were from:
Mexico                   47%
Caribbean                26%
Central/South America    14%
Other                    13%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Stephen Conley, USA TODAY, Source: Immigration and
Naturalization Service; Survey of State Prison Inmates,1991; USA TODAY research
(Line graph, bar graph, pie chart); PHOTO, b/w, Joel Salcido, El Paso Times

THE NATION; See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              57 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   January 19, 1995, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Spotlight of public debate turns to legal immigration

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 678 words


Already locked in fierce debate over illegal immigration, Congress and reform
advocates are turning their attention to legal immigration.

At issue: How many and what kinds of immigrants does America need?

The national Commission on Immigration Reform, which last year delivered
recommendations to Congress for dealing with illegal immigration, Wednesday held
the first of nine public meetings to gather data on legal immigration and the
national interest.

At the same time, Republicans in Congress promise a push to cut the numbers, now
about 900,000 people a year.

Bills will call for a temporary moratorium on immigration, sharp reductions in
the number admitted every year, and restriction of family preference to spouses
and minor children only.

The debate could produce one of the most sweeping reviews of immigration policy
in decades.

"The starting point ought to be not what's fair to every single person in the
world but what's in the best interest of America and Americans," says Warren
Leiden, commission member and head of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association.

The pro-immigrant lobby - under siege from rising public antipathy to immigrants
- fears an attack on policies that allow hundreds of thousands of immigrants to
reunite with relatives in the U.S.

"This is not about cold numbers, it's about family values," says Cecilia Munoz
of the Hispanic group National Council of La Raza.

The restrictionist view of immigration is more skeptical.

"I'm not sure there is a national need for immigration anymore - maybe an Albert
Einstein or a ballerina, but the need for large-scale unskilled immigration
ended 100 years ago," says Dan Stein of the Federation of American Immigration
Reform, whose influence has grown dramatically.

Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., chairman of the Senate's immigration subcommittee,
will push for a five-year "breathing space," cutting legal immigration by 25%
per year.

Sen. Richard Shelby, R-Ala., introduced a bill last week to cut immigration by
two-thirds, to about 325,000 per year.

The country has had similar debates over immigration before, the last time in
1990, when Congress increased the overall numbers of immigrants and allowed for
more immigrants from certain countries.

The commissioners, led by ex-representative Barbara Jordan, D-Texas, are aware
of how touchy the issue can be.

"(But) we are really nudging the administration and we have the ear of Congress
at this time," Jordan said Wednesday.

The vast majority of immigrants are admitted because they're related to citizens
or legal residents.

The wait for a visa is long - up to 30 years, according to immigration lawyers.

Current policy also grants preference for parents, siblings and married older
children - who in turn can petition to bring in more relatives.

"We're on autopilot now," says Stein. "The system has to be deconstructed and
rebuilt in a way that takes the pressure off for growth."

Others argue that family preference unfairly favors certain countries - Mexico
chiefly - and unintentionally imitates the old "national origins" quota system
that favored immigration by white Europeans.

Peter Salins, a Hunter College professor and senior fellow at the Manhattan
Institute think tank, wants a "first-come, first-served" system, with some slots
reserved for close family members and refugees.

"We want them to be as random and as diverse as possible to fit the historical
rationale for immigration," Salins says. Contributing: Sandra Sanchez

Legal immigration downturn The national Commission on Immigration Reform
Wednesday began a series of public meetings on legal immigration. Annual legal
admissions and the top five countries where legal immigrants came from in 1993:

Legal admissions (in millions)
'93   904,292

Top 5 origins of immigrants
Mexico                   109,027
China                     65,552
Philippines               63,189
Vietnam                   59,613
Former Soviet Union       58,568

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Julie Stacey, USA TODAY, Source: Immigration and
Naturalization Service (Line graph, Bar graph); PHOTO, b/w, AP

THE NATION; See info box at end of text.

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              58 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   February 8, 1995, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Immigration fury triggers a 'madcap' battle for border

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 574 words


President Clinton's request for a $ 1 billion jump in immigration-related
spending, even as he cuts billions in his 1996 budget, reflects growing
competition between the White House and Congress to get tough on illegal
immigration.

"There's a madcap dash on to see who can come up with the most aggressive border
strategy," says Dan Stein, head of the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, a pro-restrictions group.

At stake: control of U.S. borders, and of volatile public opinion in key states
-- California, Florida and Texas - in 1996 presidential elections.

"The GOP in Congress will try to outdo whatever the administration proposes to
stay in charge of issue," says Stein.

But administration officials make a strong case that no president has paid as
much attention to border issues.

"While most of the talk was about cutting the budget, there are some things we
should spend more money on," says Clinton, who held a White House ceremony
Tuesday to spotlight anti-illegal immigration efforts. "We are doing more to
stem the flow of illegal immigration than has any previous administration."

Today, 62 U.S. Border Patrol agents arrive in Nogales, Ariz., to bolster efforts
to stem the illegal border crossings.

Under Clinton's proposed 1996 budget, released Monday, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service alone will get a $ 528 million increase, to $ 2.6
billion. That's a 24% increase over 1995 spending, itself 25% higher than 1994.

And millions more will go to other federal agencies for enhanced border control,
worksite enforcement, faster deportation of aliens and cash to states to help
pay for the costs of illegal immigration.

Clinton's program includes:

-- 700 new Border Patrol agents, bringing the total to 5,600 by the end of 1996.

-- Controversial pilot projects to test a national registry to verify work
eligibility.

-- Tripling deportations, especially of criminal aliens, to more than 110,000
per year.

--A new border-crossing fee of $ 1.50 per pedestrian and $ 3 per vehicle.

Clinton stressed many of the proposals were recommended last year by the
bipartisan national Commission on Immigration Reform. Lawrence Fuchs, an
immigration scholar and commission member, says Clinton's program is driven by
necessity, not politics.

"I've been waiting 15 years for some administration to do what he's now
proposing," Fuchs says. "I look at the action and I'm not as concerned about
motivation."

Republicans are likely to rally behind a more restrictive bill introduced by
Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., head of the immigration subcommittee.

But GOP consensus may fall apart on the border-crossing fee and the national
registry idea, which critics condemn as unworkable, too expensive and a threat
to civil liberties.

Budget gives immigration a boost Immigration spending would rise $ 1 billion
under President Clinton's 1996 budget, including a 24% increase for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

INS budget rises

(in billions)
1990     $ 1.1
1996     $ 2.6

Where extra money would go

(in millions)
Assisting states:      $ 383
Border control:        $ 369

Detention, deporting: $ 178
Verifying workers       $ 93

Border control strengthened The number of INS agents, inspectors and staffers is
growing:
1993       5,954
1994       6,496
1995       7,416
1996       8,961

LOAD-DATE: February 09, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Stephen Conley, USA TODAY, Source: Office of Management
and Budget, Immigration and Naturalization Service. (Line graph, bar graph, pie
chart); PHOTO, b/w, Tim Dillon, USA TODAY

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD; See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              59 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 13, 1995, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Worker registry could help control our borders

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 446 words


What's wrong with creating a national employment registry? It is a useful --
even essential -- tool to deter illegal immigration. But judging by the
criticism the idea received last week, you might think it was a step toward the
day when squinting, jackbooted militiamen demand your papers.

A registry is neither a new idea nor a dangerous one.

Yet immigrant groups and civil libertarians jumped on President Clinton last
week for including in his 1996 budget proposal $ 28 million for pilot
worker-verification projects. The idea is based on proposals made last summer by
the Commission on Immigration Reform.

Now as then, the idea makes sense. It is essential to the generally
well-balanced immigration policy currently under construction by the
administration.

At any time, the United States hosts more than 3 million undocumented
immigrants. They provide much cheap labor, but they can also impose considerable
costs. Many border communities face additional education, health-care and law
enforcement expenses due to illegal immigration. And then there are the costs to
employers, who must struggle to verify employment eligibility via easily forged
documents and ineffectual federal rules.

Solution? A computerized registry containing each legal worker's name, Social
Security number, current employment or eligibility status and, for verification
purposes, something like a mother's maiden name. No documents, no dithering.

Opponents of the idea fear a worker number will become a de facto ID card and
that the system will encroach on individual privacy. But you need a Social
Security number right now. And if privacy is your concern, this is supersmall
potatoes. Existing databases -- the Internal Revenue Service, for one -- contain
much more information.

Controlling illegal immigration is a complex challenge. It requires sound trade
pacts, such as NAFTA and GATT, to boost neighboring economies so workers stay
home. And it requires tighter borders to show we mean business.

But most illegal immigrants don't sneak over the border; they arrive legally and
overstay their visas. And they come for jobs, not benefits. That's why it's
smarter to shrink job opportunities than to deny needy people basic services.

Clinton wants to give the INS an extra $ 1 billion next year to pay for more
border guards and investigators and to accelerate deportations. He also wants to
double federal cash assistance to hard-hit states.

But even this plan can succeed only if accompanied by an effective employment
verification system. Jobs are the carrot of illegal immigration, and until you
restrict them, there's no stick big enough to keep the world out.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; Today's debate; REGISTERING WORKERS; OUR VIEW; Illegal
immigrants are lured by jobs. A worker registery would be a big step toward
ending that incentive.

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              60 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     July 5, 1995, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Feeling a sense of urgency, many try for citizenship

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 546 words


Many of the nation's legal immigrants want to become U.S. citizens, and so many
are applying that a huge backlog has developed.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service reports that applications have nearly
doubled since last year: Between October 1994 and January 1995, applications
rose to 232,850, about 80% above the same period last year.

Officials attribute the increase to a variety of factors:

-- Many longtime legal permanent residents fear that government programs now
available to non-citizens - such as welfare - will be cut off under
welfare-reform measures.

-- About 3 million formerly illegal immigrants who were legalized after the 1986
law that gave them amnesty are reaching the five-year mark after which they
become eligible to apply for citizenship.

-- Some longtime residents see growing anti-immigrant sentiment (and measures
such as Proposition 187 targeting illegal immigrants in California) and want to
be able to vote.

Because immediate relatives of those who have become citizens are eligible to
naturalize more quickly, the surge is likely to swell even more: The INS
projects about 760,000 applications this year; 920,000 for fiscal year 1996.

The increase has been so unprecedented that backlogs are growing in areas with
large immigrant populations.

"There were 240,252 people naturalized nationwide in 1992, and we have near to
that in the backlog in L.A. alone," says Skip Tollifson, an INS officer in the
naturalization section.

Congress has just authorized the hiring of 1,000 additional officers to handle
the demand. INS officials say they hope to boost the application completion rate
43% by 1996.

In general, any legal immigrant in the country for five years may apply for
citizenship and get it - if they have no criminal history and are not members of
the Communist or Nazi parties - and after demonstrating knowledge of English and
passing a test on U.S. history and government.

Applicants must be able to write a simple sentence in English, though there are
exemptions for people who are under age 16 or over age 65.

When applicants fail - the failure rate is less than 10% and applicants may try
as many times as they like - it's usually because of inability to write a
sentence, officials say.

Applicants may choose between an oral or written test. On the oral test, they
have to get all questions right. On the written test, they must correctly answer
12 of 20 questions.

WOULD YOU PASS THE NATURALIZATION TEST? Some of the questions (and answers) from
the written test to become a U.S. citizen:

Q: After the Civil War, the states changed the Constitution in order to:

A. Guarantee freedom of speech

B. Assure a free press

C. Protect the right to worship

D. Prohibit slavery

Answer: D

Q: Freedom of the press and freedom of assembly are protected in the USA by the:

A. Magna Carta

B. Declaration of Independence

C. Articles of Confederation

D. Bill of Rights

Answer: D

Q: When was the Constitution accepted by all the states?

A. 1757

B. 1776

C. 1789

D. 1812

Answer: C

Q: A person who wants to hold a meeting in the USA:

A. Must receive a government permit

B. Must notify the state police

C. Must announce it in a newspaper

D. Needs no special permission

Answer: D

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Michael Schwarz

SPECIAL REPORT; IMMIGRATION; THE NEW IMMIGRANTS; See related story; 04d; See
info box at end of text.

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              61 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     July 5, 1995, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Immigrants favor ID card / Poll: Many of those who came legally want controls

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 299 words


Legal immigrants so resent illegal immigration some are willing to go even
further than the general public to stop it.

A USA TODAY/CNN/Gallup Poll of legal immigrants - the first comprehensive poll
of its kind - shows 61% favor a national identity card to distinguish citizens
and legal residents from illegal immigrants.

Just over half the general public supports the ID card.

But legal immigrants worry that the backlash against illegal immigration is now
spilling onto them.

The nation is in the midst of the largest decade-long wave of legal immigration
since the turn of the century.

"Immigration should be controlled," says Rosendo Diaz-Peterson, a Spanish-born
professor at Drake University in Des Moines. "What's happening in the Southwest
(with illegal border crossings) is preposterous."

With illegal immigration estimated as high as 300,000 people a year, proposals
to create a national computer registry are gaining momentum in Congress, even
though strong opposition remains.

The poll also found 37% want to erect a wall along the Mexican border and 35%
want to bar illegal immigrants from public schools and hospitals. Other results:

-- 90% say they feel welcome in the USA.

-- 59% say it's better if immigrants blend into U.S. culture, not stay separate.

-- 86% either already are or planning to become citizens; of those who don't
plan to become citizens, 44% cite loyalty to their homeland as the reason.

-- 30% say immigration should be reduced, 44% say it should stay at current
levels, 15% say it should be increased.

-- 61% say they never have felt discrimination as an immigrant; 39% say they
have.

-- About a quarter of immigrants say they feel more negatively toward the USA
than they did before arriving; 64% feel more positive or the same.

LOAD-DATE: July 06, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

See related story; 5A

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              62 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   January 3, 1996, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Don't jeopardize rights

BYLINE: Stephen Moore

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 383 words


The best way to combat illegal immigration in the United States is to open our
gates wider to legal entrants.

It makes sense to crack down on criminal aliens and welfare abusers, but let's
not forget: Most immigrants who come to America, legally or illegally, do not
come to commit crimes or to get a handout. They seek freedom and economic
opportunity.

Isn't that precisely why so many of our ancestors came to these shores?

But many of the get-tough immigration policies supported by Congress and the
White House pose a danger to the rights of American citizens.

Lawmakers want to create a worker computer database which eventually would
require a national identification card for all U.S. citizens. That's just what
we need: Our $ 1.6 trillion federal government gathering more information about
us.

Surely we can deter illegal immigration without an internal police force
checking our papers and undermining the very fundamental freedoms that make
America such a special place. My grandfather came to America precisely to avoid
Big Brother.

Congress and President Clinton also want to enact new legal immigration
restrictions lowering the number of visas issued by at least 25%. Why? Legal
immigration is not a problem.

Today just 8.5% of Americans are foreign-born. This is a smaller share of
immigrants in our population than at any time from 1850 to 1950. A new Cato
Institute study shows that legal immigrants pay more in taxes than they use in
public services and that they generate wealth and jobs through their
entrepreneurial spirit and their productive energies.

The vast majority become productive citizens, contributing to our economy and to
our culture. Today, as always, the fresh blood and vitality of immigrants helps
keep the American economy prosperous and the flame of freedom brightly lit.

So yes, let's exclude the criminal aliens and the welfare abusers. But let's
expand legal immigration opportunities to those seeking liberty and economic
opportunity.

We won't solve the problem of immigrants entering unlawfully through our back
door by a national ID card system. We won't solve the problem by slamming shut
the front door to those who wait in line and play by the rules in hopes of
gaining the most cherished asset in the world: U.S. citizenship.

LOAD-DATE: January 04, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; Today's debate; CURBING ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION; OPPOSING VIEW;
Creating an 'internal police force' would put rights of all citizens at risk;
Stephen Moore is an economist at the Cato Institute.

                      Copyright 1996 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              63 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   October 20, 1994, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Kemp is critical of California Prop. 187

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 865 words


California's Proposition 187, which would bar most public assistance to illegal
immigrants, was opposed Wednesday by conservative Republicans William Bennett
and Jack Kemp. They said it's unconstitutional, contrary to conservative GOP
principles and would encourage discrimination. "Immigrants are becoming a kind
of all-purpose punching bag," they said in a joint statement. "They've been
sucked in by the Democratic Party line," said Harold Ezell, co-author of the
proposition, which is widely popular with voters and pushed by Republican Gov.
Pete Wilson.

SENTENCE OUTRAGE: A Maryland Bar Association committee that monitors sex bias in
the courts began an investigation of Baltimore Judge Robert Cahill. He handed
down an 18-month sentence to a man who killed his wife after he found her in bed
with another man. The complaint was filed by the Women's Law Center of
Baltimore. Prosecutors asked for a 3- to 8-year term for Kenneth Peacock, 36.
State Attorney General Joseph Curran Jr. urged the candidates for governor to
"speak out and make it crystal clear" they will appoint to judgeships only
people who are sensitive to domestic violence.

CHANGING WEATHER: There are signs that El Nino, the disastrous weather pattern
blamed for last year's Midwest floods and California rains, may be developing
into a significant system again. "It's warm, it's developing, and we're watching
it closely," said David Rodenhuis, director of the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration's Climate Prediction Center. El Nino systems, from
the warming of Pacific waters and changes in air pressure, affect global
temperatures and precipitation.

'REPARATIONS' FRAUD: The IRS says more than 20,000 African-Americans have filed
false claims for racial bias taxes. The IRS warns that taxpayers who refile
could be assessed $ 500 for a frivolous return. Many of the claims cite a
commentary in the April 1993 Essence that said racial discrimination is a hidden
tax and readers should seek a rebate claiming they had paid $ 43,209 in "black
taxes." Also cited is an 1866 proposal, never enacted, that would have provided
former slaves with 40 acres of land and a mule.

MOVING AHEAD: Puerto Ricans in the USA have enjoyed strong economic gains since
1980, but those lacking a degree, skills and the willingness to leave Eastern
cities are doing worse, says the National Puerto Rican Coalition. Its survey of
Census Bureau data found most of the USA's 2.7 million Puerto Ricans no longer
live in New York. And their median household income increased nearly 30% while
the median for all Americans grew only 7.3%.

SURVIVOR: When 2-year-old Andrea Scott let day-care workers into the apartment
she shared with her father, they found the tot caked with blood "from head to
toe." She had kept a two-day vigil over the body of her slain father, a drug
dealer who had been shot to death, execution-style. "She had thrown a blanket
over her father's body to keep him warm," said Elizabeth Byrd, a nurse at the
Learning Circle Day Care Center in Watertown, Conn. Andrea was born addicted to
cocaine. Nick Milonas, a neighbor who saw Andrea being taken away to temporary
foster care, said she "suddenly twisted around toward the apartment and cried,
'Daddy. Daddy. I want my daddy!' "

CHARGES DROPPED: Prosecutors in Muskegon, Mich., dropped a littering charge
against Margaret Daugherty. She had faced a $ 500 fine or three months in jail
because of her 7-year-old girl's hand-colored posters proclaiming "Lost Bunny,
Help!" The signs, on trees and utility poles, helped Kristen Sweeny find
Bun-Bun, who escaped Sept. 11. "It was just a ridiculous charge," said
Daugherty.

ALSO WEDNESDAY . . .

-- AIR SAFETY: The FAA said just .82% of the 268,809 people in the aviation
industry checked for drugs last year were positive. And 1,096 of the 2,193 who
tested positive were job applicants. Only 437 were commercial air carrier
workers or applicants. More than half the positive tests involved marijuana.
Cocaine and amphetamines were next.

-- REFINERY BLAST: An explosion and fire at Mobil Oil Co. plant in Torrance,
Calif., injured 30 people, three critically. The cause of the blast wasn't
known.

-- TURMOIL: Settlement talks failed in the Justice Department civil case against
a Wedowee, Ala., school where principal Hulond Humphries is accused of calling a
mixed-race student "a mistake" and threatening to cancel a prom if mixed race
couples attended. Trial begins Oct. 31.

Chicago tragedy's tearful goodbye

The mother of a 5-year-old Chicago boy who was tossed out a 14th-floor apartment
window because he wouldn't steal candy for older boys, kissed him goodbye and
prepared for his funeral today. Relatives say Toni Morse taught her children
right from wrong, a lesson that may have cost Eric his life. Two boys, ages 10
and 11, are charged with murder. As juveniles, they face at most five years
probation. "We hope that somebody, somewhere, somehow will do something about
the conditions which are causing our children to kill each other," said Eric's
grandmother, Lela Morse.

With: Maria Puente, Leo Mullen, Carrie Dowling, Steve Marshall and Gordon
Dickson

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, USA TODAY; PHOTO, b/w, AP; PHOTO, b/w, Beth A.  Keiser, AP

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              64 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    December 9, 1994, Friday, FINAL EDITION

GOP not eager for immigration debate / Leaders have 'different view' of Prop.
187

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 704 words


Since the overwhelming passage of California's Proposition 187, some have
predicted that the new Republican leaders in Washington would rush to pass a
national version.

But key GOP leaders are in near- harmony in rejecting the provisions of 187,
which would deny illegal immigrants most state services.

Incoming House speaker Newt Gingrich says he doesn't want it. Neither does Sen.
Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., the Senate's most influential voice on immigration issues.

And Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, the leading candidate to take over the House
subcommittee on immigration, says there's no consensus among Republicans about
the most important provisions of 187.

"I think nationally we ought to take a different view," says Gingrich.

Which raises the question: Just how will Republicans approach the volatile
immigration issue?

"You're not going to see the most controversial sorts of immigration-related
legislation pushed because leaders recognize that can be a divisive issue," says
David Mason, Congress expert at the conservative Heritage Foundation. In fact,
immigration isn't even mentioned in the GOP's Contract with America.

The approach reflects Republican efforts to avoid conflict within their own
party, not an easy task given the sharp divisions over key aspects of the
immigration debate.

California's Republican delegation still is likely to push for 187-type laws.
But Smith says: "Our primary interest will be in addressing the problems of
illegal immigration . . . and building bipartisan support for resulting
legislation."

Likely goals: "Sealing" the borders, reducing benefits to both legal and illegal
immigrants, cracking down on document fraud, setting up a national registry to
verify work eligibility, and investigating the failures and inefficiencies of
the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

That approach is welcomed by Republicans who fear the GOP could be blamed for
rising anti-immigrant sentiment. "The Republican Party has no chance of being a
majority party without being the party of immigrants . . . a party that is
inclusionary, not exclusionary," says former HUD secretary Jack Kemp, a likely
1996 presidential candidate.

Self-described "compassionate conservatives" - people like Kemp, former drug
czar William Bennett, conservative columnist Linda Chavez, and a host of GOP
governors - say the immigration issue has to be handled with care.

"It's an explosive issue," warns Bennett. "You're dealing with people's
assumptions, people's attitudes; these are . . . dangerous waters."

Bennett and Kemp are trying to promote the benefits of legal immigration and
stop the spread of 187-type laws. But they say it's legitimate to question
immigration policy and failed immigration controls.

"The real trick, where the GOP has to become more sensitive, is learning to talk
about these questions in ways that don't blame immigrants for all social
problems," says Chavez.

Conservative thinker Dinesh D'Souza, an immigrant from India, sympathizes with
Kemp and Bennett, but says many Americans have "visceral" concerns about how
immigration has changed the country's culture and demographics.

"Kemp and Bennett argue that America is a country based on an idea of what it
means to be American, and by embracing it we all become Americans," says
D'Souza, of the centrist American Enterprise Institute. "But most people's
deepest loyalties are not to ideas, but to ways of life."

But one of D'Souza's institute colleagues says Kemp and Bennett make a good
case. "They're issuing a political warning to the GOP that the way to succeed as
a majority is to be a party of hope and optimism, not play to fear and
prejudice," says Congress expert Norman Ornstein.

Frank Luntz, a GOP pollster and close adviser to Gingrich, puts it even more
plainly: "One of the greatest blocks of potential new support for the party is
the Latino community . . . and we have to be careful not to alienate them."

Legal, illegal immigration

Admissions of legal immigrants continue to drop, while the number of illegal
immigrants apprehended continues to rise:

Admissions of immigrants
1993      904,292

Apprehensions of illegals
1993    1,327,259

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Genevieve Lynn, USA TODAY, Source: Immigration and
Naturalization Service (Line graph); PHOTO, b/w, Matt Mendelsohn, USA TODAY

POLITICS; See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              65 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                       May 5, 1995, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Clinton policy fuels Fla. fire / Migrant-weary state considers a 187 of its own

BYLINE: Deborah Sharp

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 593 words

DATELINE: BOCA RATON, Fla.


To backers of a Florida version of California's Proposition 187, the timing was
perfect for President Clinton's reversal on bringing 20,000 Cuban rafters from
the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

"It helps our case, absolutely," says Enos Schera, a member of a group that
Thursday announced its ballot initiative to cut health, education and social
services to illegal immigrants. "It's fuel for the fire."

Clinton administration officials Tuesday announced a treaty with Cuba that opens
the way for nearly all rafters detained at Guantanamo to be allowed into the
USA, at a pace of about 500 a week.

New rafters will be returned to Cuba. Coast Guard officials said no rafters were
intercepted this week. Also Thursday:

-- About a hundred Cuban exiles in Miami vented their anger with the
repatriation pact in a street protest. They view the pact as a sell-out because
it returns freedom-seekers to the hated communist government of President Fidel
Castro. Read one sign: "Punish Castro, Not his Victims."

-- The volunteer pilots group Brothers to the Rescue said it will stop reporting
rafters to the Coast Guard.

Instead, the pilots will drop a radio and broadcast a warning that rafters will
be sent home.

"Nobody wants to betray them by sending them back to the Cuban government," says
Brothers founder Jose Basulto.

But the main event was the launching of FLA-187, a second attempt to get a
ballot initiative before voters in 1996 to block illegal immigrants.

Neither initiative would affect Cuban exiles. Virtually all Cubans in the USA
hold legal status as political refugees.

But the legal-illegal distinction becomes blurred in an immigrant-weary south
Florida - where TV has been filled in recent days with the pictures of thousands
of elated, Florida-bound Cubans at Guantanamo.

"In general, Americans are in a very anti-immigrant mood: legal, illegal,
whatever," says Max Castro, a sociologist at the North-South Center at the
University of Miami. "If they're able to get this on the ballot, it'll almost
certainly pass."

Frank Sharry, whose Washington, D.C.-based National Immigration Forum opposes
Proposition 187-style laws, says Florida is the most likely state to follow
California's lead. Arizona could be the next.

In California, the federal courts have blocked most of the provisions of
Proposition 187 until numerous lawsuits have been resolved.

Some key points that could affect the measure in Florida:

-- While California Gov. Pete Wilson was a staunch backer, Florida Gov. Lawton
Chiles is vehemently opposed.

-- With fewer illegal immigrants - 407,000, mostly in south Florida, to
California's 1.6 million - the issue has not been as hot here.

-- Two initiatives are being proposed, which could confuse voters. At least
450,000 signatures are needed to place a measure on the ballot.

"I think they're shooting themselves in the foot to some extent," says Max
Castro.

The proposals differ in several ways:

-- Orlando-based Save Our State Committee closely follows California's model,
proposing to cut health, education, and medical services, with the exception of
emergency and children's health care.

Boca Raton-based FLA-187 seeks the same, but wants English declared Florida's
official language, and local and state officials required to report illegals to
federal immigration authorities.

"I'm confident we'll have no trouble collecting these signatures," says Rob
Ross, a Boca Raton lawyer heading up FLA-187. "I don't think the situation in
Cuba will have any effect on our . . . efforts."

LOAD-DATE: May 09, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, USA TODAY (Map); PHOTO, b/w, Marta Lavandier, AP

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              66 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    March 23, 1994, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Not here . . . not ever

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 414 words


Lydia Oluloro of Portland awaits a decision today that could break her heart.

An immigration judge in Seattle decides if Oluloro, who has custody of her two
children, will be deported to Nigeria. If that happens, her U.S.-born daughters
would almost certainly be forced to undergo a painful ancient ritual, female
genital mutilation, which is both unsafe and barbaric.

Oluloro, who broke immigration laws by staying here eight years on a one-year
visa, argues that she is entitled to asylum because of the prospective
mutilation.

If allowed, her claim could open the floodgates to millions, from women fleeing
bride-burning in India to forced sterilization in China. It would threaten to
collapse an immigration system already straining under a backlog of 330,000
asylum claims. That's an issue Congress will have to tackle. But whether the
judge allows Oluloro to remain or deports her, the mutilation practice is a
silent scandal that needs to be attacked in other ways.

The ritual, although officially outlawed in many countries, is practiced in
parts of Africa and the Middle East. About 100 million girls have undergone the
procedure - 6,000 daily.

It is often confused with male circumcision, which cuts the foreskin of the
penis, usually in hospitals. But in female genital mutilation, the clitoris is
cut or removed, often with broken glass or sticks, without anesthesia. The
vaginal opening is often sewn shut with thorns, except for a hole the size of a
pencil. The purpose is to stem sexual pleasure and maintain virginity.

As more refugees flee to Western countries, the tradition follows. France,
England and Sweden have outlawed it.

The U.S. must do likewise. It must carve in stone a policy that says Not Within
Our Borders.

Rep. Pat Schroeder, D-Colo., has introduced legislation that makes that message
clear. It punishes with fines and jail terms anyone convicted of performing the
procedure. It also would fund education programs in immigrant communities.

The practice is under attack abroad, too. Women's groups from Africa are in the
USA pleading with UNICEF and the State Department to do more to help grass-roots
groups in affected countries to fight the ritual with education. The U.S. should
help.

Lorena Bobbitt's act of penis mutilation resulted in global attention. Now that
the focus is on millions of girls who, unlike John Bobbitt, have no hope of
their sex organs being reattached, policymakers can't afford to look the other
way.

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              67 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    March 30, 1994, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Clinton overhauling political asylum rules

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 391 words


The Clinton administration on Tuesday announced new rules for fixing the
nation's political asylum system - just as it begins accepting new kinds of
persecution claims.

Critics, meanwhile, fear the new rules will simply transfer a 370,000-case
backlog, which could jump to 500,000 by the end of the year, from one Justice
Department office to another.

The changes include doubling the number of asylum officers to 334, adding 50
immigration judges, imposing a $ 130 fee on applicants who can pay, and doubling
applicants' wait for a work permit to six months.

Immigration Commissioner Doris Meissner says the changes will protect asylum
applicants with genuine claims of persecution, while discouraging those with
spurious claims who apply only to get a work permit.

She says these people - and the scam artists who charge them high fees to submit
their applications - have helped clog up the system and create the backlog. As
an example, Meissner cites the recent major jump in applications from Mexico, a
country without a widespread persecution problem.

"We do not want to close the door on people who are persecuted, but we cannot
allow others to take advantage of a process they don't really need or deserve,"
says Meissner.

A key change will be assigning asylum officers to concentrate only on quick
approval of meritorious claims - about one-third of the total - while referring
the remaining two-thirds to immigration judges. The current 85 immigration
judges, controlled by a different office of the Justice Department, now complete
about 20,000 cases per year.

"There's a real risk this will simply transfer the backlog from the asylum
officers to the judges," says Arthur Helton, an immigrant-rights advocate.

Despite the changes, asylum law remains the same: an applicant must demonstrate
a well-founded fear of persecution based on race, religion, nationality,
membership in a particular social group or political opinion. Recently, the
social-group category has been interpreted to include women and homosexuals
persecuted for sex or gender-related reasons.

Rising asylum caseload

Asylum cases received and adjudicated annually by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service:
        Cases           Cases
  received        adjudicated
1993     150,386         11,298

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Nick Galifianakis, USA TODAY, Source: Immigration and
Naturalization (Line graph)

THE NATION; See info box at end of text; See related story; 04A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              68 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    April 20, 1994, Wednesday, FIRST EDITION

IMMIGRATION CHANGES

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 237 words


Immigration officials want to start charging fees - $ 4 to $ 32 - to some
Mexicans and Canadians visiting the USA.  Most affected: Visitors from Mexico
who want to spend up to 30 days in California, Arizona, New Mexico, Texas and
Nevada. They would be charged $ 4 each for the now-free I-444 Mexican Border
Visitors Permit, or a maximum of $ 8 a family. Most Canadians and Mexicans who
cross briefly would not be affected. Also, the Immigration and Naturalization
Service reversed its decision to stop routinely running FBI fingerprint checks
on foreigners in the USA seeking citizenship, asylum or permanent resident
status. About 1% of the 890,000 checks last year found criminals - nearly 9,000
in all. Immigration officials wanted to stop checking fingerprints to save
money.

ALSO TUESDAY . . .

-- SHUTTLE LANDING: Thunderstorms at Cape Canaveral postponed Endeavour's
landing until 11: 29 a.m. ET today. During the 10-day mission, advanced radar
imaging was used to map Earth's environmentally sensitive areas.

-- TEAMSTERS STRIKE: As talks continued in Washington to end a 15-day strike by
the Teamsters union against more than 20 trucking companies, about 2,000 union
members protested President Ron Carey's plan to abolish regional conferences
where his leadership has been criticized.

Contributing: Sandra Sanchez, Cathy Chestnut, Jane Schmucker, Steve Marshall and
Carrie Dowling

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              69 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      May 16, 1994, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Refugee policy example of U.S. at its best, worst

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 1166 words


Few things better illustrate the contradictions of U.S. immigration and refugee
policy than the treatment of Haitians and Cubans arriving in the USA by boat:
The Cubans usually are welcomed with open arms; the Haitians often are picked up
at sea and held, then sent back.

U.S. immigration policy is "a crazy-quilt approach," says Michael Olivas, an
immigration specialist at the University of Houston Law School. "Our immigration
policy shows our country at its absolute best - its generous impulses, its
willingness to absorb so many people - and simultaneously shows us at our worst
- our xenophobia, our fear of people of color and people from the Third World,"
says Olivas.

But as murder and mayhem escalated in Haiti, black lawmakers and refugee
advocates in the United States focused attention on the disparate treatment.
They accused President Clinton of conducting a racist policy. Members of
Congress were arrested in a protest outside the White House. And black activist
Randall Robinson went on a hunger strike.

Clinton finally softened his policy, announcing Haitian refugees would no longer
be automatically returned to Haiti but would first be interviewed to determine
whether they are political refugees.

Alarmed Florida lawmakers, anticipating a major influx of Haitians, complained.
Clinton officials tried to allay fears by declaring only 5% of Haitian refugees
would have a credible fear of persecution to grant them U.S. access.

Is this any way to make refugee policy? For decades, experts say, it's been the
only way in the USA.

The immigration system can be likened to lines of people waiting to get in under
categories - refugees, skilled workers, family reunification, and others.

But over the years, Congress and presidents have devised ways for certain groups
- Tibetan monks, Soviet evangelicals, Chinese students, even millionaires - to
jump ahead of the line.

"Any mature body of law is going to develop these kinds of 'special provisions'
because Congress responds where the wheel squeaks most loudly," says David
Martin, a University of Virginia law professor and consultant to the government
on immigration reform.

Experts say while U.S. immigration policy may appear racist in some areas,
political ideology, foreign policy, and domestic ethnic politics are even more
important factors.

"Groups . . . from different places look out for others from those places - it's
a game all groups play," says Gerald Neuman of Columbia University Law School.
"The strategy is not to push for a neutral set of rules but . . . for one's own
group."

At the height of the Cold War, Congress passed the Cuban Adjustment Act, which
welcomed people fleeing communist Cuba and let them become citizens quickly. In
theory, the U.S. attorney general can turn away Cubans who aren't true political
refugees. In practice, it's unlikely given the political clout developed by the
Cuban community here.

"The problem is that these special measures for special circumstances tend to
become entrenched and are hard to get rid of even when circumstances change,"
Martin says.

During the 1980s, Nicaraguans fleeing violence were welcomed as part of the
Reagan administration's opposition to the leftist government there. But
Salvadorans fleeing violence were turned away because Reagan policy supported
the anti-communist military government there.

Not everyone fleeing communism gets preferential treatment. In recent months,
the United States has persuaded Mexico and Guatemala to send home without
hearings hundreds of people fleeing communist China.

Yet a strictly neutral immigration system may not be practical or desirable.

"We have a shared history with certain countries," Martin says. "Does it make
sense for Belize to get the same number of visas as the Philippines, with which
we have had a long-standing close relationship?"

Experts say even immigration supporters are likely to resent newcomers if they
perceive the system as racist, easily abused, politically manipulated - or all
three.

"We could win an awful lot of credibility if we could say we have the same
standard for all," Martin says. "The most we can hope for is to strengthen
resistance to making special deals - and cut back on the deals we've already
made."

Refugees: Top countries Top 10 countries from which refugees were granted
permanent residency in the USA in 1992:

Admitted
Soviet Union      33,504
Vietnam           32,155
Cuba               9,919
Laos               8,026
Romania            4,971
Nicaragua          4,668
Thailand           4,048
Ethiopia           3,268
Iran               3,093
Afghanistan        2,082

Means of legal immigration In 1992, nearly 975,000 immigrants were granted
permanent-resident status in the USA. Most were relatives of U.S. citizens.
About 163,000 were former illegal immigrants who got amnesty under the 1986
immigrantion law. The second-largest group came in as skilled workers. The rest
came in under varous special categories.

Admitted under 1986 immigration act
 Residents since 1982    46,962
Agricultural workers   116,380
Total admitted           163,342

Admitted under annual limits Family-sponsored (226,000 limit)
  Unmarried sons/daughters of U.S. citizens    12,486
Spouses/children of resident immigrants     118,247
Married children of U.S. citizens            22,195
Adult brothers/sisters of U.S. citizens      60,195
Total admitted                                 213,123

Employer-sponsored (140,000 limit)
  Highly skilled workers                        5,456
Professionals with advanced degrees          58,401

or exceptional ability
  Skilled workers, needed unskilled workers    47,568
Special skills, investors, others             4,773
Total admitted                                 116,198

Immigrants exempt from annual limits
Immediate relatives of U.S. citizens           235,484
Spouses/fiances/fiancees                    128,396
Parents                                      64,764
Minor children                               42,324
Amerasians born in Vietnam                      17,253
Diversity transition (1)                        33,911
Dependents of legalized citizens                52,272
Certain people from Soviet Union/Indochina      13,661
Refugees                                       117,037
Other                                           11,696
Total admitted                                 481,314

1-- Immigrant from countries adversely affected by earlier laws Source:
Immigration and Naturalization Service

IMMIGRATION AND HAITI POLICY; See related story; 09A; See info boxes at end of
text.

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              70 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     June 2, 1994, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Federal suit filed against Paula Jones

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 358 words


In Tampa, two men filed a federal lawsuit against Paula Jones, alleging that her
sexual harassment lawsuit against President Clinton interferes with his contract
to serve the American people.

The complaint, filed Wednesday by Daniel Schramek of St. Petersburg and Thomas
Delor of Clearwater Beach, seeks $ 27 million in punitive damages to discourage
Jones from a "malicious act" that interferes in the business of the government.

"The welfare of the United States should not be endangered by the selfish
interests of one person using the court system as a tool to make money," the
lawsuit says.

Meanwhile, Jones plans to discuss her lawsuit against Clinton in TV appearances,
a supporter said in Washington.

"She's going to start speaking for herself," said Cindy Hays, a northern
Virginia businesswoman who says she spoke to Jones last week and is heading a
legal defense fund for the former Arkansas state employee.

IMMIGRATION FRAUD: Criminal immigrants are obtaining U.S. citizenship by using
fake fingerprints, Sen. Joseph Lieberman, D-Conn., said in urging the
Immigration and Naturalization Service to crack down on fraud. He said the INS
should do the fingerprinting, as it did until 10 years ago, or insist prints be
taken by a law enforcement agency or licensed fingerprinting business.

MINING FIRMS BLASTED: Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt said mining companies are
using lawsuits to try to force the government to give them ownership of federal
land where they have mining claims. He blasted the suits as a "blatant attempt
to exempt themselves from the environmental and royalty provisions that would
come out of mining-law reform." Congress is trying to overhaul the 1872 mining
law, which governs mining on federal land. Any new law will likely contain a
royalty fee companies must pay to mine on federal land.

COAST GUARD CHIEF: Vice Adm. Robert E. Kramek took office as the 20th commandant
of the U.S. Coast Guard. He was sworn in by Transportation Secretary Federico
Pena. He succeeds Adm. J. William Kime. Kramek has held a variety of commands
since graduating from the Coast Guard Academy in 1961.

LOAD-DATE: July 07, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Reuters

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD; IN WASHINGTON

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              71 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     June 16, 1994, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

U.S. anchored, ready for Haitian interviews

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 605 words


About 60 U.S. immigration officers are on a Navy hospital ship off Jamaica
today, ready to begin interviewing Haitian refugees under President Clinton's
new policy of allowing refugees a chance to make a case for asylum in the USA.

Since January, the Coast Guard has intercepted and turned back a total of 2,294
Haitians on the high seas, without benefit of hearings.

Advocates for Haitian refugees say that previous policy was racist, since Cuban
refugees, for example, are almost always given asylum in the USA by U.S.
officials.

Interviews will begin on the USNS Comfort, anchored in Kingston's harbor, as
soon as the first boatload of refugees is intercepted by the U.S. Coast Guard
patrolling off Haiti. The 1,000-bed ship can accommodate up to 2,000 people,
including refugees, immigration officials and medical personnel.

"The ship will become operational when the first migrants appear," says Lisa
Jacobs of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Meanwhile, Haitian advocates in the USA call the operation a sham designed to
provide political cover for Clinton, while ensuring that few if any Haitians
receive asylum.

Administration officials say only 5% of the refugees will qualify for asylum,
based on the rate of successful applications filed at the U.S. Embassy in
Port-au-Prince. The rest will be returned to Haiti.

"This is not a program for rescue and protection of Haitians, it's a program to
deter and return fleeing Haitians and mute the political criticism in the U.S.,"
says Lucas Guttentag, head of the immigrant rights project of the American Civil
Liberties Union.

Because the processing will take place off U.S. territory, U.S. officials do not
have to follow U.S. law. Refugees won't be entitled to have volunteer lawyers
advise them.

Clinton said five weeks ago that refugees will get formal hearings, but Jacobs
says they won't. "It's an interview, not a hearing," she says.

Under the procedure set up by the immigration service and the United Nations
High Commission on Refugees, refugees will be interviewed by a U.S. official for
about an hour, including time for translation. A refugee's only appeal will be
to an immigration service "quality control" supervisor who can decide whether
more interviewing is appropriate.

Refugees have to demonstrate a "well-founded fear of persecution," based on
race, religion, origin, membership in a social group or political views. Much
depends on how well the refugee tells his or her story and the experience of the
interviewer in eliciting information and detecting fraud.

Those accepted will be taken to the U.S. Navy base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba,
where they will go through a more formal asylum hearing.

Advocates argue that the refugees should have to meet only the lower legal
standard of "credible fear" of persecution, which is the standard used for other
groups of refugees.

"They're upping the ante without providing Haitians with any meaningful way of
making their case," says Cheryl Little of the Florida Rural Legal Services,
which represents many Haitian refugees.

Haiti's military government recently announced it will begin enforcing a law
against Haitians fleeing the island without proper exit papers. Advocates warn
this will mean greater danger for refugees who are sent back.

"No one should be forced to return to Haiti under these circumstances,"
Guttentag says.

Back in Haiti, the cutoff of air traffic, among sanctions imposed against the
military regime, may strand up to 1,000 Haitians who have already applied for
asylum. U.S. officials hope to fly out 250 of them before the June 24 cutoff
date.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1994June 22, 1994June 22, 1994June 22, 1994June 22, 1994

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, USA TODAY (Map, Caribbean); PHOTO, b/w, Anita Baca, AP

WORLD

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              72 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    July 13, 1994, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

National citizen I.D. is proposed

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 136 words


All U.S. citizens and legal immigrants would get the equivalent of a national
I.D. card under an expected proposal to Congress by the Commission on
Immigration Reform.

Similar proposals have been embraced by Congress but vehemently opposed by some
immigrant and privacy advocates as costly and prone to abuse.

The new Social Security-type cards, including photo and fingerprints, would
allow employers to verify work eligibility through a national data base.

"Workers would not have to carry them at all times but would have to present
them when applying for a job," says Susan Martin, CIR director.

The idea is to prevent illegal immigrants from getting jobs through fake
documents, and reduce discrimination against citizens and legal aliens.

The commission's first report is due in September.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              73 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      July 15, 1994, Friday, FINAL EDITION

National ID cards let Uncle Sam spy on you

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 454 words


Think the federal government already knows too much about your private life?
Hang on. The granddaddy of all privacy invasions - a national ID card - is
marching onto Capitol Hill.

Startling numbers of Democrats and Republicans, liberals and conservatives, are
embracing variations of the identity card - all in the name of immigration
reform. They contend the cards could keep illegal immigrants out of American
jobs by requiring potential bosses to use the cards and accompanying national
data base to verify citizenship.

Sound like a cheap and harmless fix? Wrong. The cards present gargantuan
potential for abuse with enormous costs.

Just ask Eddie Cortez about the possibilities. The mayor of Pomona, Calif., was
stopped and ordered to produce proof of citizenship by U.S. Border Patrol agents
more than 100 miles from the Mexican border last summer. What did Cortez do to
warrant such suspicion? The mayor was sitting in a pickup truck, wearing jeans
and looking like a Latino.

Civil rights organizations and advocates for Asians, Hispanics and other
minorities believe the national ID cards would mushroom such incidents of
harassment - by police, immigration officials, border guards and any xenophobic
authority figure who wants to hassle someone who looks or sounds "foreign."

Even if true, what's the harm if law-abiding citizens have a card to clear them
on the spot? Fear of constant harassment is the wrong. Having to carry a card to
guarantee your freedom is not what the Founding Fathers had in mind.

Then there's the price tag. Most plans on Capitol Hill - and there are dozens in
various bills - require all U.S. citizens, not just recent immigrants, to get
cards. Production costs for those plus a supporting computer data base are
estimated conservatively at $ 2.5 billion by the Social Security Administration.
More elaborate systems could top $ 6 billion or more.

Still, proponents believe the means justify the end - closing the jobs door to
illegals. They believe "tamper-proof" IDs, verifiable through the national data
base, will stop the use of fraudulent documents to get jobs for non-citizens.

Not likely, say technical experts. Right now, on street corners in California,
Texas and other states, fake Social Security cards, passports and driver's
licenses can be had for a price. Should a national ID card go into effect, these
same counterfeiters would merely turn their talent to producing fake IDs or to
producing the fraudulent documents necessary to obtain the national ID.

National ID cards are an old idea and a bad idea. The last thing the federal
government needs is another peephole on personal privacy that ends up costing
U.S. taxpayers more money than it saves.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; Today's debate; PROVING CITIZENSHIP; OUR VIEW; The idea is
hot in Washington and carries a heavy price both financially and in loss of
privacy.

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              74 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     August 5, 1994, Friday, FINAL EDITION

National ID system stirs fears / Immigration registry proposed

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 605 words


Fear is growing among immigration, privacy and civil-liberties advocates that
Americans may soon accept one idea they have resisted for decades: a national
identification system.

"It's so disheartening - it's going to be more than an uphill battle," says
Janlori Goldman of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, which champions privacy.

The Commission on Immigration Reform, headed by civil rights leader and former
Texas congresswoman Barbara Jordan, is calling for a national computer registry
containing the names of every citizen or legal alien with a Social Security
number or green card.

Employers would check all job applicants against the registry, to prevent
illegal immigrants from getting jobs. Jordan says President Clinton should order
a pilot program in five states to test the best way to access such a registry.

The plan, which Jordan unveiled this week, calls for a database containing
Social Security and Immigration and Naturalization Service records. If set up
for California, New York, Texas, Illinois and Florida, the experiment would
cover about 94 million people - 36% of the population.

Pointedly, Jordan cites her civil rights credentials in explaining that the
system would not include a national ID card. But many groups insist the plan
will inevitably lead to just that.

"A computer registry can't work without a card," says Lucas Guttentag of the
American Civil Liberties Union.

Despite the outcry, a broad spectrum of senators and House members have already
embraced the idea and introduced bills on it. That suggests the specter of Big
Brotherism may be losing its power to frighten Americans and politicians more
preoccupied with the real presence of millions of illegal immigrants and the
ease with which they use fake documents to get jobs.

"There's very little political momentum to oppose this because it's being done
in a back-door way in the name of stemming the tide of illegal immigration,"
says Goldman.

Opponents are hopeful they can stop the plan by citing the estimated billions of
dollars it will cost, the threat to privacy, the potential for discrimination
and the inability of the government to maintain accurate records.

"This looks really tempting, but there also have been howls of protest and there
may be more hesitation now," says Cecilia Munoz of the National Council of La
Raza, a Hispanic civil rights group.

One likely strategy by opponents: Force Congress to vote on the idea. Jordan
says the president has authority to unilaterally order a pilot program.

Opponents disagree. "There has to be an up or down vote before taking a step
with these far-reaching consequences," says Guttentag.

Jordan's commission is due to issue its first recommendations to Congress on
Sept. 30, which might encourage action on a pile of pending bills.

Rep. Xavier Becerra, D-Calif., a leading immigrant defender, says there's strong
sentiment to "do something" about illegal aliens. But in an election year "I
don't know if I want to put into the hands of Congress . . . something as
political as immigration," he says.

Other opponents cite more personal arguments. Raul Yzaguirre, president of La
Raza, remembers his early years in south Texas when he and other
Mexican-Americans carried special cards to prove their citizenship in case they
were stopped by the Border Patrol.

"As a 17th-generation Mexican-American, I had to carry a card to prove I was a
'real' American," Yzaguirre says. "No matter what clever names are invented to
describe a national identification system, Americans will recognize it for what
it is and respond with a resounding 'no.' "

LOAD-DATE: August 06, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, John Duricka, AP

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              75 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     August 8, 1994, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Registry violates privacy

BYLINE: Nadine Strossen; Laura Murphy Lee

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 335 words


The Commission on Immigration Reform has camouflaged a radical proposal for a
national identity card as an innocent-sounding work authorization card.

But a mandatory card for all citizens and residents, showing one's Social
Security number, fingerprints and photograph and linked to a government data
base, is a de facto national ID card, no matter what it's called.

Apparently, aware that Americans are loath to give government the power to track
our every move - the inevitable result of such a card - the commission has
circumvented Congress and asked the president to try out the idea in five of our
largest states.

The 90 million people in these states would become guinea pigs in an experiment
that, contrary to its stated purpose of ending discrimination against legal
immigrants, would actually increase harassment of anyone perceived to be
"foreign." The card would also sacrifice the privacy of everyone in the United
States.

Computer experts warn us that there is no such thing as a fail-safe system.
Government data bases have been accessed by hackers and misused by government
employees (remember the recent Internal Revenue Service snooping scandal). The
Immigration and Naturalization Service is notorious for mismanaging records.
Just last week, the American Civil Liberties Union sued the INS after it
admitted losing 60,000 files of green-card applicants in California.

Barbara Jordan, chair of the immigration commission, who has a well-earned
reputation for integrity, assured the Senate that she would not allow the system
to violate civil liberties. If only she could, in fact, guarantee this.

We received similar assurances in the past, when the Social Security system was
established and limitations on the use of the number were written into law.
Today, though, Social Security numbers can be used by virtually anyone to access
detailed personal information.

The massive new national ID system that has been proposed will lead us down an
even more frightening path.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; Today's debate; IMMIGRATION REFORM; OPPOSING VIEW; A
national ID system would increase harassment of anyone perceived as 'foreign.';
Nadine Strossen is president of the American Civil Liberties Union. Laura Murphy
Lee is director of the ACLU's Washington office.

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              76 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   November 2, 1994, Wednesday, FIRST EDITION

Serbs struggle against Croat-Muslim resolve

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 253 words


Faced with the toughest challenge of the 31-month war in the former Yugoslavia,
Bosnia-Herzegovina's Serbs are struggling to hold ground against heavy
government attacks.

U.N. officials said Bosnian Croat militiamen who had stayed out of recent
fighting are mobilizing to support the suddenly successful Muslim-led government
forces. The combined armed forces give the government a manpower advantage.

GORBACHEV FINED: A Moscow court slapped a $ 325 fine on former Soviet president
Mikhail Gorbachev for slandering a city official. Gorbachev called Vladimir
Resin, the head of the Moscow city government construction department, a
"shining example of a corrupt government official," in an interview with the
Komsomolskaya Pravda newspaper. Gorbachev plans to appeal the fine.

CANADIAN IMMIGRATION: Canada is reducing the number of immigrants it will
accept, giving preference to skilled workers and business people. Immigration
and Citizenship Minister Sergio Marchi said the immigration quota will be
reduced to between 190,000 and 215,000 in 1995, down from this year's 250,000
target.

AP CREW HELD: A crew working for The Associated Press TV service has been
detained by a military commander in northwest Rwanda. Producer Jarrod Harlow and
cameraman Graham Walsh were seized by Rwandan forces last week.

IRANIAN FLAG-BURNERS: Iranian radicals burned the U.S. flag and shouted "Death
to Clinton! Death to America!" during a protest rally outside the former U.S.
Embassy in Tehran Tuesday.

LOAD-DATE: November 03, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, AP

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD; WORLD ROUNDUP

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              77 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   November 17, 1994, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Group challenges U.S. on Cuban visas

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 201 words


A Clinton administration agreement to allow thousands more Cuban immigrants into
the USA is being challenged as illegal by a group seeking limits on immigration.

The Federation for American Immigration Reform filed suit Wednesday against
Attorney General Janet Reno and immigration Commissioner Doris Meissner. The
suit accuses them of abusing what U.S. immigration law calls "parole authority"
to allow more immigration than the limits set by Congress.

Under the September agreement, about 20,000 Cubans would be granted visas to
enter the USA each year - about twice the number allowed by immigration quotas.

In return, the Cuban government agreed to renew its effort to prevent Cubans
from fleeing the island in boats and rafts.

The deal ended the summer-long immigration crisis in which tens of thousands of
Cubans took to the seas. About 30,000 ended up in refugee camps, costing
millions of dollars.

"This suit raises critical questions about who makes immigration policy - the
Congress or the attorney general," says Dan Stein, federation director in
Washington.

The suit seeks an injunction barring issuance of visas to Cubans under the plan
and a ruling that the plan is illegal.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Mark Lennihan, AP

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              78 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    December 2, 1994, Friday, FINAL EDITION

For Salvadorans, concern is deportation

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 622 words


Panic has swept over the estimated 200,000 Salvadorans in the U.S. who await
President Clinton's expected Dec. 31 termination of their protected immigration
status.

"We're not ready to go back," says Francisco Roque, 35, who has been here five
years and lives in Adelphi, Md., with his wife and two daughters, one of them
U.S.-born.

"Everybody says there is peace but I don't believe it. The death squads (in El
Salvador) are still working. And we have roots here."

Central American Refugee Centers have been swamped with hundreds of queries. In
Los Angeles, CARECEN office manager Edwin Urbino, 28, tries to calm frantic
callers fearful of losing work permits and becoming instant illegal immigrants
in the new year.

"Our phones ring all day," Urbino says. "People are very afraid and part of it
is Proposition 187. They're afraid they would be vulnerable (under the
anti-illegal immigrant law) "

Urbino wants to help but inside he's fearful himself.

Salvadorans like Urbino and Roque say they were threatened by the civil war
violence of the 1980s and came illegally to the U.S. seeking asylum.

Most were turned down, along with about 40,000 Guatemalans. Reagan
administration policy at the time supported asylum only for anti-communist
Nicaraguans.

A federal court later ruled that policy discriminatory and since 1990, under a
law passed by Congress, undocumented Salvadorans have been temporarily protected
from deportation. They are allowed to work, but technically they are in
immigration limbo - neither legal nor illegal.

Now administration signals strongly suggest Clinton will terminate what is
officially known as the Deferred Enforced Departure program, on grounds that
conditions in El Salvador have improved and the program was intended to be
temporary.

Some activists suspect another motive. "They're caving in to anti-immigrant
sentiment," says Pat Young, legal director of Long Island's Central American
Refugee Center.

"They're worried about perceptions after 187 that they not look soft on illegal
immigrants," says Jim McGovern, aide to Rep. Joseph Moakley, D-Mass., co-author
of the law creating the program.

Clinton officials deny this, but haven't said what they plan to do. A press
conference is set for today.

Many Salvadorans fear mass layoffs and deportations. But Clinton administration
officials insist they are not planning either. They say there will be a
transition period for Salvadorans to continue working while they seek legal
status through asylum or some other provision of immigration law.

"I have been assured there will be a permanent solution, a just and humanitarian
solution," says Ambassador Ana Christina Sol of El Salvador.

Activists like Young say the cheapest and fairest solution is for Clinton to
unilaterally grant the Salvadorans permanent "suspension of deportation," even
though immigration law requires each case be considered by a judge.

"It will cost millions to have judicial review of every case and the applicants
can't afford lawyers," Young says.

Because of attrition over the last four years, Ambassador Sol says there may be
only 100,000 Salvadorans left in the DED program. If many were deported, the
country could not absorb them with its high unemployment rate, she said.

Plus, they send home 36% of the total $ 884 million a year in remittances sent
by Salvadorans in the U.S., Sol says. That's more than what El Salvador earns
from coffee, its biggest export.

With the recent 80% cut in U.S. aid to El Salvador, Sol says the economy can't
take a cut in its main source of income.

"We have to have a solution soon," Sol says.

Seeking asylum The number of Salvadorans filing asylum applications:
1993     14,616

LOAD-DATE: December 03, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, color, USA TODAY, Source: 1993 Statistical Yearbook of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service (Line graph); PHOTO, color, Matt
Mendelsohn, USA TODAY

IMMIGRATION; See related story; 06A; See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              79 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    December 5, 1994, Monday, FINAL EDITION

U.S. rewrites the rules of immigration

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 530 words


Depending on who was let in or kept out, reaction to this weekend's announcement
by the Clinton administration of new immigration rules ranged from fury to
relief.

The rules, announced Friday, grant deportable Salvadorans a temporary reprieve,
allow a few Cuban refugees to enter the USA, and deny automatic work permits to
new political asylum applicants.

-- Salvadorans had expected temporary protected status for an estimated 190,000
refugees to be terminated Dec. 31 by President Clinton. They were relieved that
no mass deportations are planned and that their work permits will be good for
nine months while they seek permanent legal status.

"Salvadorans can have a very happy Christmas with their families without having
to worry about losing their jobs on Jan. 1," says Ambassador Ana Cristina Sol.

-- Advocates for Cubans were furious that Clinton will continue to deny entry to
an estimated 32,000 Cuban refugees held at military bases in Panama and
Guantanamo Bay.

"It's an erroneous policy," says Fernando Rojas, spokesman for the Cuban
American National Foundation, a major Cuban exile group that has pushed to admit
all Cubans.

Immigration authorities will admit only some of the estimated 3,000 children and
their families who are too sick or disabled to remain in the refugee camps.

"(But) only families for whom there is full financial sponsorship in the U.S.
will be (allowed entry)" said Attorney General Janet Reno.

-- Advocates for asylum applicants expressed cautious approval of new rules to
speed up the asylum system, curb abuses and reduce the 425,000-case backlog.
They applauded the decision to drop a proposed $ 130 application fee.

But a new rule that would require applicants to wait six months to get a work
permit was called "heartless" by the American Immigration Lawyers Association.
The old rules issued permits after 90 days.

Doris Meissner, commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said
easy access to work permits was one of the reasons why the old system had been
paralyzed by a backlog of tens of thousands of spurious asylum claims.

"Asylum can't be an unofficial avenue for immigration or a back door to get
around immigration controls," she said.

Republican skeptics want even tougher rules: "Reform is long overdue, but there
seems to be a continuing gulf between the administration's words and its
actions," says Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, a leading candidate to chair the House
immigration subcommittee next year.

Meanwhile, Hispanic activists from 11 states met in Tucson Sunday to lay
groundwork for what they called "the next great civil rights movement" - against
anti-immigrant sentiment and laws like California's Proposition 187, which
denies government services to illegals. The group wants to boycott California
and businesses that support 187, and hopes to organize a 1996 march on
Washington, D.C.

"What 187 has done with a reactionary society is to galvanize people in other
states," said Kevin Alejandro de Leon, an organizer from east Los Angeles.

Seeking asylum Requests for asylum grew 39% from fiscal years 1992 to 1993.
Requests filed:
'93   144,166

LOAD-DATE: December 06, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Nick Galifianakis, USA TODAY, Source: 1993 Statistical
Yearbook of the Immigration and Naturalization Service (Line graph); PHOTO, b/w,
John Miller, AP

THE NATION; See info box at end of text.

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              80 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                 May 20, 1992, Wednesday, INTERNATIONAL EDITION

Poll: U.S. citizens say halt immigrants

BYLINE: Mary Benanti, Gannett News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 303 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Immigration into the United States should be halted for at least three years,
says the Federation for American Immigration Reform, basing its call on a Roper
poll released Tuesday.

With 55% of those polled responding in favor of a moratorium, the group wants a
temporary suspension of immigrant entries, a move immigration advocates say
would send ''the wrong message at the wrong time.''

The exceptions would be spouses and minor children of U.S. citizens, said FAIR,
a conservative group advocating reduced immigration.

''The American people are unhappy with the current direction of U.S. immigration
policy and they want changes,'' FAIR president Dan
Stein said. ''Immigration numbers are about to explode.    Warren

Leiden, speaking for the American Immigration Lawyers Association, said the
demand is divisive.

In the wake of the Los Angeles riots and troubles between Koreans and black
Americans, the FAIR demand is particularly egregious, Leiden said. ''There is a
gasoline line on the floor, and FAIR is throwing matches at it,'' Leiden said.

FAIR advocates an overall immigration cap of 300,000 a year, basing its
conclusions on a poll that showed:

- 85% of all Americans and nearly 90% of Californians believe immigration is an
important issue.

- 69% believe immigration should be reduced.

- 70% think national leadership on the issue is missing.

- 54% think the country admits too many immigrants.

- 52% believe the U.S. has population problems.

- 51% of Westerners and 69% of Californians believe the populations of their
states are too large.

- 66% of Westerners and 78% of Californians believe immigration is a financial
burden on their states.

- 80% of Californians believe something should be done to prevent further
increase in their state's population.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              81 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                 May 21, 1992, Thursday, INTERNATIONAL EDITION

Expats seek changes on citizenship

BYLINE: Marilyn Greene

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 180 words


In testimony prepared for a House subcommittee hearing on immigration Wednesday,
two groups representing U.S. citizens abroad endorsed changes to the Immigration
and Nationality Act to protect the rights of children of Americans living
overseas.

''We're an unsung group,'' said Michael Adler, who testified on behalf of the
World Federation of Americans Abroad. ''We're being penalized for living
abroad.''

The WFAA and the Federated League of Americans Around the Globe generally
endorse a bill that aims to solve problems of transmitting U.S. citizenship to
children. In testimony to the House Judiciary Committee WFAA's Adler and FLAAG's
Peter Alegi backed:

- Reducing to an aggregate of one year the prior U.S. physical presence
requirement for transmitting U.S. citizenship.

- Redefining birth abroad of a U.S. citizen as ''natural born.''

- Expeditious naturalization of children, adopted or otherwise, without
requiring U.S. parents to reside in the USA.

''When American business people go abroad they're asking for a series of
difficulties,'' said Alegi.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              82 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     June 23, 1992, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Pair denied bond in N.J. kidnap case

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 710 words


Arthur Seale, a former Exxon security officer, and wife Irene, both 45, Monday
were ordered held without bond on charges they kidnapped Exxon international
division chief Sidney Reso from his Morris Township, N.J., home April 29. Reso,
57, is still missing. Federal prosecutor Michael Chertoff said the Seales seemed
to be preparing to flee the USA when arrested Friday. Found in their Warren
County home: a new passport, information about Swiss and Pakistani banking
facilities, a Pakistani travel guide, and The Secret Money Market, a book about
tax evasion, money laundering and capital flight.

FARM WORKER STATUS: Immigration officials must reconsider 40,000 farm workers,
mostly Haitians, for temporary resident status on a case-by-case basis, a
federal judge in Miami ruled. District Judge Clyde Atkins approved the
settlement in a lawsuit against the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.
The U.S. Supreme Court last year ruled immigration laws required farm workers to
provide too stringent proof they had done seasonal work in the USA.

STATUE RIGHTS: The sculptor of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial statue in
Washington is entitled to copyright privileges, which means veterans groups may
not sell pictures of it without permission, a federal judge ruled. Sculptor
Frederick Hart had sued Homecoming II, a veterans group that raised money for
the memorial, claiming copyright infringement for the group's sale of T-shirts
depicting the statue. Homecoming president Ted Sampley says the statue, part of
the USA's most popular monument, belongs to everyone. U.S. District Judge
Charles Richey still must decide the amount of infringement damages. Also, the
House voted to construct a memorial in Washington to commemorate U.S. soldiers
in World War II.

ALSO MONDAY

- NORIEGA CASE: Daniel Miranda, 38, was sentenced by a Miami federal judge to
two years in prison for flying $ 800,000 in drug profits from Florida to Panama
City for Manuel Noriega. Miranda plea-bargained and testified against Noriega,
who will be sentenced July 10.

- COUNTDOWN: NASA started the countdown toward Columbia's launch at 12: 07 p.m.
ET Thursday from Cape Canaveral on a record 13-day scientific mission.

- SMELL TEST: Police in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., arrested Mark Thompson, 33, in 10
bank robberies by a man dubbed the ''stinky bandit'' because of strong body
odor.

- FOREST FIRES: At least 20 lightning-ignited fires were burning in Yosemite
National Park, Calif., and officials said continued drought could result in a
particularly destructive fire season throughout the West.

Crew checked for ice before crash

The flight crew of USAir Flight 405 looked at the wings for ice within six
minutes of the plane's crash during takeoff from New York's La Guardia Airport,
transcripts show. The March 22 crash killed 27, including pilot Wallace Majure.

The National Transportation Safety Board is focusing on ice-detection procedures
and ways to keep planes free of ice and snow.

Majure and co-pilot John Rachuba talked of a wing check once, and the tape shows
they used a light to detect ice three times, said Tom Kreamer of the Air Line
Pilots Association.

Others awaiting takeoff didn't see ice on the USAir plane.

The FAA plans new de-icing procedures.

Cockpit excerpts
9: 08 p.m.: Taxiing to runway.

- First officer Rachuba: You seen that car wash they have at Denver (for
de-icing airplanes near the runway) ... That's the ideal way of doing it.

- Capt. Majure: Yup.

- Rachuba: They ought to have something like that - this is New York you know.
... Zip, zip, zip ... Put it on the tab. Just cruise on out and take off.

- Majure: That's really the only sure-fire safe way to do it.
9: 10 p.m.: Following an MD-80.

- Rachuba: We pull up behind this 80 he might keep our wings clear for us.

- Majure: It can cause us to re-freeze, too. ... I don't want to get very close
to him.
9: 29 p.m.: Rachuba apparently looks out a window at the wing.

- Rachuba: Looks pretty good to me ... It pretty much stopped the
precip(itation).
9: 34: 51 p.m.: Cleared for takeoff; then stall warning sounds.
9: 35: 41 p.m.: Sound of impact.

Contributing: Sandra Sanchez, Lori Sharn, Keith Greenberg and Ron Prichard

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS; b/w, AP (2)

CUTLINE: SEALE: Seemed to be preparing to leave the USA CUTLINE: HART: Sculptor
with clay model of Vietnam veterans statue

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              83 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    June 24, 1992, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

L.A. Council weighs settlement with King

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 892 words


The Los Angeles City Council today considers a proposed settlement with police
beating victim Rodney King. KNBC-TV said the settlement would pay King $ 10
million to $ 15 million over several years. King contends he was permanently
disabled by the officers, whose acquittal in April touched off rioting. An
American Civil Liberties Union report Tuesday said police and court officials
violated the civil rights of many of the people arrested during the riots. The
ACLU charges that police broke force policy when they arrested illegal
immigrants not involved in the rioting and turned them over to immigration
authorities.

CRASH PROBE: John Rachuba, co-pilot USAir Flight 405 when it crashed on takeoff
from New York's La Guardia Airport in a March storm, testified takeoff was
normal until the Fokker 28 ''buffeted'' near the end of the runway.
Investigators are focusing on possible ice on the wing. Rachuba said checks
detected no ice. Flight attendant Debra Taylor wept as she described the final
moments, and the loss of a co-worker, among the 27 dead.

BORDER PATROL CRASH: An internal investigation by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service found no wrongdoing by employees in connection with a
June 2 auto accident that killed four high school students in Temecula, Calif.
The report said U.S. Border Patrol agents chasing a car ended the high- speed
pursuit nearly two miles before the suspect's car hit students.

VOLCANIC FALLOUT: Particles from Mount Pinatubo's eruption in the Philippines a
year ago have spread around the Earth's upper atmosphere, satellite photos show.
Scientists said the effects, which could include this week's cool weather in the
East, will decrease over the next few years.

FAULTY PACEMAKERS: More than 100 patients might have received faulty or used
pacemakers through Indiana businessman Michael Walton, 43, who has been charged
with selling used or altered devices, The Associated Press reported. He was
arrested Saturday after a federal grand jury indicted him and six former
employees.

'HATE' LAW REJECTED: The Wisconsin Supreme Court struck down the state's hate
crimes law. Cited: punishing offensive thought violates free-speech guarantees.
The court said the law is different from a St. Paul, Minn., ordinance overturned
Monday by the U.S. Supreme Court.

CORRECTION: An item Tuesday should have said drug defendant Daniel Miranda
agreed to testify against Manuel Noriega, but prosecutors at the Miami trial did
not use him.

DEPORTATIONS: Aliens who commit crimes in the USA could face swifter
deportation, under new policies announced by U.S. Attorney General William Barr.
Among the changes: names of some 10,000 criminal aliens on the streets, but
under deportation orders, will be added to the FBI's national crime computer,
making capture more likely in routine checks by state or local law officers. In
Los Angeles, where 11% of county jail inmates are criminal aliens, new hearings
will ensure deportation as soon as a jail term is completed. And plea agreements
will require a criminal alien be immediately deported upon completion of
sentence.

ALSO TUESDAY

- LYRICS LAWSUIT: Recording artists, record companies, retailers and others
asked a Seattle judge to overturn Washington state's new law that prohibits sale
to minors of sexually explicit recordings labeled ''adults only.''

- ABORTION FACE-OFF: One abortion protester was arrested as abortion foes and
abortion-rights demonstrators squared off outside Milwaukee clinics in the
second week of a protests. Dozens of children, many arrested last week, couldn't
get past clinic supporters helping patients enter.

- SHUTTLE COUNTDOWN: Technicians corrected minor glitches as the countdown
continued toward launch of Columbia from Cape Canaveral at 12: 07 p.m. ET
Thursday, on a record 13-day scientific mission.

- HAND SWAP: Houston surgeons transplanted 16-year-old Stephen ''Pee Wee''
O'Conner's left hand to his right arm in a rare operation. O'Conner, of Rising
Star, lost his right hand shortly after birth. The switch was made because a car
crash May 20 left his left arm useless.

More babies left in hospitals

Pregnant women abusing alcohol or other drugs are abandoning more infants in
hospitals. A survey of 72 hospitals this spring by the Child Welfare League of
America found 607 ''boarder babies'' a month were being cared for because they
had no other home. The babies are often born handicapped, ill or are later
abused. A 1989 survey of 92 hospitals found 304 boarder babies monthly.

The study estimated boarder babies cost hospitals about $ 805 daily. ''We're
losing a generation of children,'' said U.S. Rep. Charles Rangel, D- N.Y.,
sponsor of a bill to aid disabled children exposed to drugs and alcohol in the
womb. ''There is absolutely no excuse for having so many of our young children
falling by the wayside before they can even crawl,'' he said. Cited:

- 85% of boarder babies were exposed to drugs in the womb.

- 2% tested positive for the AIDS-causing HIV virus.

- 5% were physically abused.

- 90% stayed in hospitals up to a month past the time hospitals were ready to
discharge them.

- 79% of babies discharged went to live with relatives or in foster care; 21%
were returned to biological parents.

Contributing: Sandra Sanchez and Jim Orr

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS; b/w, AP (3)

CUTLINE: TAYLOR: USAir flight attendant testified about crash CUTLINE: BARR:
Announces tougher policies CUTLINE: RANGEL: 'Losing a generation'

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              84 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     July 1, 1992, Wednesday, FIRST EDITION

Immigration service calls NHL's Probert a danger

BYLINE: Fred Girard

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 11C

LENGTH: 296 words


Immigration and Naturalization Service officials and lawyers for Bob Probert
paint contrasting pictures of the Detroit Red Wings player.

Probert was convicted and served a prison sentence for bringing a small amount
of cocaine into the USA from Canada. He has been ordered deported by the INS.

INS officials call him a danger to the public whose ''rehabilitation must be
questioned.'' Probert's lawyers say he is a ''public figure ... similar to ...
Babe Ruth'' and ''a benefit to the country.''

Those differing pictures of Probert are found in documents filed with the Board
of Immigration Appeals in Falls Church, Va., obtained by The Detroit News under
the U.S. Freedom of Information Act. The documents were part of Probert's appeal
of a ruling by the INS denying his latest request to be allowed to travel to
Canada to play hockey.

Probert is barred from leaving the USA, unless he is willing to do so
permanently. He is appealing the deportation order to the Board of Immigration
Appeals.

The newspaper disclosed Probert had amassed more than a dozen tickets and
suspensions, half of them after his 1989 cocaine conviction, and received
repeated breaks from police, prosecutors and judges. In one instance, he was
clocked at 95 mph in a 55 mph zone but was allowed to plead guilty to doing 60.

Although Probert's driving record is of minimal importance compared to his
cocaine conviction, the government argued, his ''repeated brushes with the law
are indicative of his true attitude toward society and rehabilitation.''

His lawyers hope to show that Probert drank and used drugs because of a medical
condition, an attention deficit disorder, and was wrongfully judged to be an
alcoholic - thus removing one of the reasons for the deportation order.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Update

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              85 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      July 27, 1992, Monday, FIRST EDITION

Patient enters U.S. despite AIDS ban

BYLINE: Linda Kanamine

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 364 words


His T-shirt emblazoned the challenge: AIDS knows ''No Borders.''

But Spaniard Tomas Fabregas didn't know whether immigration officials in San
Francisco would heed the slogan.

As supporters looked on, the legal U.S. resident and AIDS patient entered
without a hitch Saturday - in apparent defiance of a Bush administration policy
banning AIDS-infected immigrants.

''The fact that they let me in, and it was so obvious they knew who I was, only
proves the hypocrisy of their position,'' Fabregas, of Oakland, said Sunday.

A U.S. resident for almost 13 years, Fabregas, 34, had been at the International
AIDS Conference in Amsterdam, Holland.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service's Karen Philis said Fabregas wasn't
questioned about his HIV status, and he ''didn't make it an issue of having
AIDS.'' No further action has been threatened.

His easy entry again questions the 5-year-old ban. ''This is one more example
that the government itself acknowledges no public health rationale'' for the
ban, says Judy Rabinovitz, a lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union
Immigrants Rights Project.

Public health experts say AIDS isn't transmitted by casual contact, so
immigrants aren't a significant threat. And they say the implied deportation
threat discourages people from getting tested for HIV.

Supporters of the ban say infected immigrants, particularly poor ones, pose an
economic threat, piling up health care costs.

Estimates of how many HIV-infected immigrants the policy affects each year vary
from fewer than 500 to up to 6,000.

Rabinovitz says Fabregas isn't likely to be deported now that he's back.
Fabregas, who recently earned a business administration master's degree from the
University of California-Berkeley and is unemployed, isn't so sure.

He'll be going to see his 76-year-old mother in Spain. ''International travel is
not a luxury; it's a necessity,'' he says. ''With a life- threatening illness,
it's important that I see my mother, and I will not let George Bush deprive
me.''

Banning infected immigrants ''gives a false sense of security, like you could
keep AIDS away,'' Fabregas says. ''Well, that is a lie. AIDS is here.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, Lou Damattais, Reuters

CUTLINE: ENTERS USA: Tomas Fabregas holds a proclamation from San Francisco
Mayor Frank Jordan declaring July 25 Tomas Fabregas Day.

TYPE: Newsmakers

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              86 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      July 27, 1992, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Patient's AIDS ban claim disputed

BYLINE: Linda Kanamine

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 365 words


His T-shirt emblazoned the challenge: AIDS knows ''No Borders.''

But Spanish citizen Tomas Fabregas said he didn't know whether immigration
officials in San Francisco would heed the slogan.

As supporters looked on, the legal U.S. resident and AIDS patient entered
without a hitch Saturday, claiming defiance of a Bush administration policy
banning AIDS-infected foreigners.

''The fact that they let me in, and it was so obvious they knew who I was, only
proves the hypocrisy of their position,'' Fabregas, of Oakland, said Sunday.

But Immigration and Naturalization Service officials said Fabregas, a legal U.S.
resident for almost 13 years, could re-enter the USA because his trip could be
considered ''a casual departure.''

Fabregas, 34, had been at the International AIDS Conference in Amsterdam,
Holland.

At any rate, INS spokesman Duke Austin says, Fabregas ''never declared himself
HIV-positive, and we don't test people. ... It just was not an issue.''

Fabregas warned that while officials say the ban is a method of stopping the
spread of the disease, it could have the opposite effect.

''Instead of seeking prevention and care support, thousands will choose to
remain underground to avoid deportation,'' he said.

Supporters of the ban say infected foreigners, particularly poor immigrants,
pose an economic threat, piling up health care costs.

Estimates of how many HIV-infected immigrants the policy affects each year vary
from fewer than 500 to up to 6,000.

Fabregas' attorney, Ignatius Bau, said his client's easy re-entry was an
indication that people with HIV do not pose a health threat.

''This policy has no basis in public health, and it should be abolished
immediately,'' Bau said.

Fabregas, who recently earned a business administration master's degree from the
University of California-Berkeley and is unemployed, says he'll travel again,
despite concern about the ban.

He'll be going to see his mother in Spain. ''With a life-threatening illness,
it's important that I see my mother, and I will not let George Bush deprive
me,'' he says. And banning infected foreigners ''gives a false sense of
security, like you could keep AIDS away.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, Lou Damattais, Reuters

CUTLINE: ENTERS USA: Tomas Fabregas holds a proclamation from San Francisco
Mayor Frank Jordan declaring July 25 Tomas Fabregas Day.

TYPE: Newsmakers

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              87 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

               November 4, 1992, Wednesday, INTERNATIONAL EDITION

TOURISTS RETURN HOME

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 254 words


Five members of a Malaysian tour group jailed by immigration officials since
their arrival in Boston were allowed to return home. The five were among 24
tourists, all ethnic Chinese led by Chee Kheong Choong, who were taken into
custody on Oct. 21 as potential witnesses against their tour leader. Chee, who
is charged with inducing and assisting aliens to enter the United States
illegally to gain employment, remains in jail pending a motion by his attorneys
that he be released.

TYPHOON ELSIE: Typhoon Elsie, Guam's third typhoon in 10 weeks, sideswiped the
U.S. territory with winds of 60 mph and gusts to 80 mph. Thirteen emergency
shelters opened and U.S. military ships sailed out to sea as the storm
approached. Schools were ordered closed Tuesday and non-emergency government
workers were told to stay home. Planes at Andersen Air Force Base were parked in
hangars or flown to Japan.

Appeals court bars abortion gag-rule

A U.S. Court of Appeals Tuesday barred enforcement of the Bush administration's
controversial ''gag rule'' restricting abortion counseling at federally funded
clinics across the USA. The rule, which went into effect last month, bars anyone
except doctors at family planning clinics from discussing abortions as an option
for pregnant women or referring them to abortion clinics. Its intent was to
discourage abortions. The appeals court, by a 3-0 vote, said the Department of
Health and Human Services must get public comment on the rule before it can go
into effect.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION, WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              88 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   November 17, 1992, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Immigrants may find more of a promised land // Advocates see better opportunity

BYLINE: Evelyn D. Tan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 683 words


People trying to immigrate to the United States will have better opportunities
under the Clinton administration, say many immigration advocates.

The big difference will be the new people at the White House and in the
Immigration and Naturalization Service and State and Justice departments, says
Jim Tom Haynes, INS chief appellate counsel in the Carter administration.

''They will not be as restrictive as the Bush people have been,'' Haynes says.

President-elect Clinton vowed in his campaign to make immigration a priority,
part of an effort to reunite families and attract skilled workers to the United
States.

Family reunification, which includes the right of U.S. citizens to obtain
residency status for the foreign-born members of their immediate families, has
been hampered by an enormous backlog of cases.

Clinton has promised to find ways of reducing the backlog.

Clinton's election ''creates a better climate for proponents in Congress,'' says
Bill Tamayo of the Asian Law Caucus in San Francisco. ''You won't have a
Congress that's fighting the president, and Democrats have been more favorable
to family reunification.''

The Reagan and Bush administrations have not been restrictive, says INS
spokesman Duke Austin.

''The 1980s was the largest decade for people legally immigrating, with 10
million,'' he says. ''In the 1990s, we'll have that many or more.''

Immigration laws revised in 1990 increased the number of immigrants, Austin
says. About 704,000 immigrated in 1991, about 750,000 this year.

''Legal immigration has been expanded. There's no question,'' says Austin.

Other issues:

- HAITI: Clinton vowed to stop the forced repatriation of Haitians without
hearings.

Bush has defended his ''fair policy,'' aimed at preventing hazardous, and
fruitless, boat trips from Haiti to Florida.

''I don't want a policy that acts as a magnet to risk people's lives,'' he has
said.

But Clinton has promised to re-examine that policy.

- SANCTIONS: The 1986 immigration law that gave amnesty to millions of illegal
immigrants also imposed sanctions on employers who knowingly hire them. Critics
say it leads to bias against U.S. citizens who ''look'' foreign.

''I think when everyone weighs in there will be a general consensus to repeal
employer sanctions because of the discrimination,'' Haynes says.

- CHINA: Clinton has vowed to condition favorable trade terms on China's human
rights record. Most likely, he'll be more sympathetic to political refugees and
those fleeing China's one-child policy.

- HIV-POSITIVE: Clinton pledged to loosen rules barring people who are
HIV-positive, those who carry the virus that causes AIDS, from entering the USA.
The Bush administration does not allow any HIV-positive person into the country.

- TRADE TREATY: Clinton backs the North American Free Trade Agreement, provided
labor and environmental laws are upheld.

Cecilia Munoz of the National Council of La Raza, an advocacy group for Hispanic
concerns, says her group hopes Clinton will back trade policies leading to more
jobs in Mexico and other countries, reducing the need to emigrate to the United
States.

''It is in our interests to help develop Mexico,'' she says.

- BORDER PATROL: Officers have been accused of rough treatment of illegal
immigrants trying to cross into the USA from Mexico.

Clinton has vowed to hold the Border Patrol accountable for all its actions.

Immigration groups vow to hold Clinton to his word.

''It gets back to the promises that Clinton made about seeing diversity in our
society as a positive resource,'' says Frank Newton of the National Hispanic
Leadership Agenda. ''Our responsibility is to remind him.''
Contributing: Betsy Miner

Where refugees come from

The United States plans to admit 122,000 immigrants as refugees in 1993. Where
they will come from:
Eastern Europe   1,500
Latin America/   3,500

Caribbean
Africa           7,000
Southeast Asia   7,000
Former Soviet   50,000

Union
East Asia       52,000
Unallocated      1,000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC; b/w, Julie Stacey, USA TODAY, Source: State Department
(Diagram); PHOTO; b/w, Wildredo Lee, AP; PHOTO; b/w, Peter Dejong, AP

CUTLINE: REFUGEE: A Haitian child peers out of a barbed wire encampment at
Guantanamo Bay Naval Base, Cuba. CUTLINE: WITHOUT A HOME: Members of a Bosnian
peasant family, forced to flee from their home northwest of Travnik after
Serbian shelling, look for safer shelter in central Bosnia.

THE WORLD'S DISPLACESD; See sidebar; 3,000 Somalis arrive in Yemen; See info box
at end of text

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              89 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                 July 3, 1993, Saturday, INTERNATIONAL EDITION

Sheik's lawyer says he'll surrender

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 474 words


Sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman's lawyer, Barbara Nelson, said Friday she has called the
INS in New Jersey to make arrangements for the Muslim fundamentalist cleric to
surrender after Sabbath prayers.

The Justice Department decided to take Abdel-Rahman into custody for violating
U.S. immigration laws but would not charge him in connection with an alleged
bombing conspiracy in New York, authorities said. Followers of the blind
Egyptian cleric, 55, who lives in self-imposed exile in Jersey City, N.J., have
been accused in the plot to blow up New York buildings and kill top political
officials and in the Feb. 26 bombing of the World Trade Center that killed six
people. U.S. officials let Rahman into the country in 1990 by mistake. He was
granted permanent residency in April 1992, but that was revoked in March 1993.
Also, followers of Rahman tricked the FBI and Immigration officers into thinking
they had apprehended the cleric at a Brooklyn mosque early Friday. But the man,
dressed in a red and white turban like the one Abdel-Rahman often wears, the
followers were leading away in a van was not him. Officials let them go after
holding the man for several tense minutes.

SWORN IN: Millionaire Richard Riordan, 63, was inaugurated as Los Angeles' first
new mayor in 20 years. "This is a challenge, an opportunity, to show that all of
us, of every race, gender and religion, can strive together to achieve a better
Los Angeles," he said. The Republican businessman promised to attract more
businesses and called on residents to help unite bitterly divided communities.

CUBAN FATALITIES: Three people were killed and one wounded when Cuban frontier
guards fired on a U.S.-registered launch north of the small fishing village of
Cojimar near Havana. Cuban authorities said the boat violated territorial waters
Thursday night to pick up a group of Cubans.

ALSO . . .

SOMALIA SHOOTING: Spc. James Mowris was convicted by a Fort Carson, Colo.,
court-martial of negligent homicide for the shooting death of a civilian in
Somalia. DEATHS . . .

BALTIMORE: Actor Fred Gwynne, whose Lincolnesque physique and dour face
delighted TV audiences Car 54, Where Are You? and The Munsters, died Friday. He
was 66. Gwynne, who most recently appeared as the Southern judge in the movie My
Cousin Vinny,, died at his home of complications of pancreatic cancer, said
attorney Roger Haber.

SYDNEY, Australia: The newborn son of film director Jane Campion, the first
woman to win the Gold Palm at the Cannes Film Festival with The Piano last
month, has died, her agent said. Jasper was 10 days old.

CORRECTIONS, CLARIFICATIONS . . .

Vatican Treasures: 2000 Years of Art and Culture in the Vatican and Italy will
be on exhibit July 3-Aug. 31 at the Colorado History Museum in Denver. The
museum was misidentified in Thursday's Lifeline.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, b/w (2)

TYPE: Nationline

FROM USA TODAY'S NATIONAL NEWS NETWORK

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              90 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    January 19, 1993, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Baird shows why Washington is so confused

BYLINE: Joe Urschel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 478 words


You can learn a lot watching the political establishment sweep this messy
business about Zoe Baird under the rug. It's almost like going to law school.

Today Baird appears before the Senate Judiciary Committee, where she's likely to
be recommended for confirmation as attorney general. As committee member Alan
Simpson says, ''She's obviously embarrassed. ... She feels contrition.''

What Baird and her husband did - hiring two illegal aliens to care for their son
and drive them around - is common practice in Washington. It won't stand in her
way. Here, to quote The Washington Post, ''housekeepers and live- in help seem
less a luxury than a necessity.''

Washington has the country's highest percentage of two-income households - in
part because many couples need the double pay to survive in this pricey
environment. Legal nannies and housekeepers are hard to find and harder to
afford. But there are many couples on modest salaries at places like the State
Department, the CIA, the FBI - not to mention the Immigration and Naturalization
Service - who assiduously avoid hiring an illegal.

They avoid it because sometime they might be up for a promotion, and they fear
someone might question why they willfully broke the law. How foolish. They must
be getting bad legal advice.

Baird didn't have that problem. When dealing with housekeepers and nannies, she
consulted an immigration lawyer. So, naturally, we can't hold her accountable.
Besides, she's embarrassed and she's sorry - an unassailable legal defense.

Is it axiomatic that the more legal schooling you get, the harder it becomes to
determine what is illegal? Maybe that's why things are so confused in
Washington, where one in 10 workers has a law degree.

Baird's husband probably wasn't much help in sorting out this family dilemma;
he's a Yale law professor.

Baird is probably a pretty good lawyer. She earned over $ 500,000 last year. But
her specialty was representing large insurance companies. We couldn't expect her
to know too much about immigration law.

However, Bill Clinton, another lawyer, seems to think she knows enough about it
to be responsible for enforcing the laws she broke. As attorney general, she'd
oversee the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Somehow, we can send the Coast Guard to prevent Haitians from illegally sailing
to our shores, but when a rich lawyer hires illegal immigrants from Peru, she
gets nominated for attorney general.

You see how confusing this can get.

Would it confuse things further to ask if this couple, with a combined net worth
of $ 2.3 million, could afford to live on one income for a while and raise their
own kid? If they can't, who can? Especially if the alternative is leaving him in
the care of criminals from Peru.

No, that would be an objectionable question. Besides, at least they didn't leave
him home alone.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; JOE URSCHEL; The more legal training you have, the harder it
is to tell what's legal

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              91 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    March 18, 1993, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Judge orders cleric deported;
his lawyer promises to appeal

BYLINE: Desda Moss

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 682 words


Federal authorities won a key battle Wednesday in their attempt to deport the
Muslim cleric whose followers included two men indicted in the World Trade
Center bombing.

An immigration judge ordered Sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman, 54, a blind fundamentalist
cleric who entered the United States from Sudan in 1990, deported.

Abdel-Rahman has until March 26 to appeal the decision, and his lawyer says he
will.

"We plan to file an appeal," lawyer Barbara Nelson said. "He's disappointed but
I don't think he's totally surprised." Abdel-Rahman's request for asylum also
was denied.

Some members of the Arab-American community have vowed to support the sheik, the
spiritual leader to some radical fundamentalists in Egypt. About 150
demonstrators appeared at the Jan. 20 hearing.

M.T. Mehdi, president of the American-Arab Relations Council, decried the order
as "politically motivated" and said it "violates the sheik's First Amendment
rights and our rights to hear his views."

Mehdi also scoffed at Immigration and Naturalization Service's claim that
Abdel-Rahman is excludable because he did not disclose in 1991 that he is a
polygamist and that he was convicted of falsifying a check in Egypt: "To say he
is a threat to this country's high moral standards is absurd," he said.
"Polygamy is practiced in Utah in broad daylight and dozens of members of
Congress passed checks worth thousands of dollars without sufficient funds."

Even though Abdel-Rahman denounced the bombing, his name surfaced early in the
investigation of the blast. He frequently spoke at two New York-area mosques
where suspects in the bombing worshiped.

A decade ago, the Jersey City resident was tried and acquitted in Cairo in the
1981 assassination of Egyptian president Anwar Sadat. He was placed on a State
Department "watch list" of foreigners ineligible to enter the United States.

Despite that, he was able to get a tourist visa from the U.S. Embassy in
Khartoum, Sudan, in 1990 because of a mix-up over his identity. His name and
birthdate were listed differently in various records.

Mohammed Salameh, the first man arrested in the Trade Center bombing, also beat
immigration odds when he entered the U.S. from Jordan in 1988. Despite his
assertions that his stay would be temporary, Salameh didn't leave the U.S.,
which only came to light when he was arrested March 4.

The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service admits it doesn't have the
resources to track the more than 21 million foreign nationals - mostly tourists
and business travelers - who enter the USA with visas annually.

"It's not feasible," says INS spokesman Duke Austin. "It's absolutely correct
there's no system to determine the whereabouts of someone who comes here for a
temporary stay."

Several European nations require foreigners to periodically register with the
police until they receive permanent residence status, says Rosemary Jenks of the
Center for Immigration Studies. But such measures run counter to the U.S.'s
democratic ideals. "It would create too many feelings of mistrust and government
oversight," she said.

Short-term foreign visitors

Nearly 21 million visitors on 6-month visas entered the USA during fiscal year
1992. Top 10 countries visitors came from:

(in millions)
Japan                     3.95
United Kingdom            2.98
Germany                   1.71
Mexico                    1.53
France                     .86
Italy                      .64
Brazil                     .49
China _1                   .48
Australia                  .47
Netherlands                .39

_1 Includes China and Taiwan

Reasons visitor visas are issued (in millions)
Tourism                   16.4
Business                   2.8
Students/family             .41
Exchange programs           .23
Temporary workers/family    .21
Foreign officials/media     .20
Other                       .63

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Marty Baumann, USA TODAY, Source: Immigration and
Naturalization Service (Bar graphs); PHOTO, b/w, ABC NEWS via AP

EXPLOSION AT THE WORLD TRADE CENTER; See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              92 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      April 9, 1993, Friday, FIRST EDITION

IMMIGRATION UP

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 202 words


Immigration requests jumped 16% last year over a year ago and likely will
continue at a high rate unless laws are changed, the Federation for American
Immigration Reform said. The private advocacy group, using State Department
figures, said there is a backlog of 3.4 million requests, more than the
population of many states. Many are families wanting to join relatives here, one
of the qualifications. Largest backlogs by nationality: Mexico, Philippines,
India, China, Korea, Vietnam, Dominican Republic, Haiti, Hong Kong, Pakistan and
Guatemala. FLORIDA ABORTION BATTLES: A Florida judge set new limits on abortion
protests at the Aware Women Clinic in Melbourne and at homes of clinic workers.
Eleanor Smeal, president of the Feminist Majority, praised the order of Judge
Robert McGregor as "a much more serious, get-tough policy." An Operation Rescue
spokeswoman said the decision will be appealed. It doesn't cover the Escambia
clinic where physician David Gunn was shot to death last month. A bond hearing
for Michael Griffin, charged with murder in Gunn's slaying, was continued in
Pensacola because Griffin is having difficulty getting a lawyer.

Contributing: Robert Davis, Carl Weiser

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION; FROM USA TODAY'S NATIONAL NEWS NETWORK

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              93 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     June 9, 1993, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Criminal immigrants find little mercy in U.S.

BYLINE: Dennis Cauchon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 707 words


Robert Levy served in the U.S. Navy, worked two jobs after he got out and raised
three children in Waukegan, Ill.

In 1990, he was arrested on a cocaine charge and given eight years in prison.

Now, Levy faces a punishment he considers worse than prison: deportation to
Jamaica, where he hasn't lived since 1969 when he was 13 years old.

Levy, 37, a legal resident of the USA, will be forever separated from his wife
of 20 years and his three children. "The government is trying to destroy my
family," cries Cindy Levy, his wife.

Under a 1990 law, Levy isn't entitled to exceptions that would let him stay, no
matter how compelling his case.

The United States is tough on non-citizens who commit crimes here. Even if
they're longtime legal residents of this country, the policy is clear: Commit a
crime, serve the time, get deported.

Duke Austin, spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, says
deporting criminal immigrants "is one of our highest priorities."

Since 1991, INS investigators have spent one-third of their time deporting
criminals who aren't citizens. Deportations under the program soared to 12,931
in 1991 from 1,849 in 1986.

Attorney General Janet Reno has complained about the cost of keeping
non-citizens in prison for the full sentence, before deportation. About 26% of
federal inmates are not citizens.

One possible solution: deporting criminal, non-citizen immigrants before they
finish their sentences.

Nationwide, about 100,000 inmates - 80% drug offenders - face deportation after
completing their sentences.

"It's a good way (for INS) to spend limited resources, and it's in the interest
of the country to do so," Austin says.

But immigrant advocates say the system is too inflexible and unfair.

"People get deported for crappy little stuff, like possession of marijuana,"
says New York lawyer Peter Hirsch.

The non-citizens have few legal rights in immigration court. They seldom have
lawyers and often get only quickie hearings inside a prison.

The law was designed to streamline the deportation process and prevent costly
delays caused by lawyers.

But the system reflects the plight of the people caught up in it, Hirsch says.
"This is an intersection of the powerless - criminal defendants and immigrants,"
he says.

Most people in the system are drug offenders and legal residents.

Robert and Cindy Levy emigrated legally from Jamaica in the 1960s. As
teen-agers, they met at a party and have been together since.

The Levy's boys - Michael, 10, Robert, 13, Recardo, 15 - are U.S.-born citizens.
Cindy Levy is a naturalized citizen. So are her parents and his parents and his
six brothers and sisters. His only relative in Jamaica is a distant cousin.

Robert Levy regrets that he was too busy to complete the citizenship papers he
left at home in a drawer. Before his arrest, he worked delivering The Chicago
Tribune from 2 to 5: 30 a.m., then went to his full-time job as a heavy
equipment operator, 7 a.m. to 4 p.m.

"I want a second chance to prove myself as a worthy resident," Levy says.

But the law says Levy can't get a break: Prison sentences of five years or more
result in automatic deportation.

"It's worse than if he was dead," Cindy Levy says. "If he was dead, I would have
packed his clothes and moved on. But I love my husband and will not abandon him.
The children need their father." When her husband's prison term ends in June
1998, Cindy Levy must choose between him in Jamaica and her family in the USA.

"The whole system is stacked against us," complains Baldemar Peralta, a Mexican
citizen facing deportation.

Peralta has lived in the USA since he was 2. He grew up a typical California
kid, earning an expert ranking in BMX freestyle bicycling. He was a student at
San Diego State when he was charged with selling methamphetamine. His sentence:
five years, nine months.

His brothers and sisters, who are citizens, live in the USA.

Peralta, 26, could have gotten his citizenship. 'It didn't matter at the time. I
was getting the benefits of citizenship, including Pell grants for school."

He is scheduled to be released in April 1996. "I'd rather serve another five
years and not be deported. That's how badly I want to stay," he says.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, David Pulliam, AP; PHOTO, b/w, John Zich

THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              94 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      June 21, 1993, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Clinton's INS pick aggressive enforcer

BYLINE: Desda Moss

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 439 words


President Clinton's choice of Doris Meissner to head the Immigration and
Naturalization Service coincides with signals that the administration intends to
move aggressively to contain the immigration crisis.

Attorney General Janet Reno called Meissner, a senior immigration official in
the late 1970s and early 1980s, "a strong choice for an area that is one of my
highest priorities."

Reno said she wants to give the agency a higher profile and improve its
management.

"When you see a backlog that exists of over 200,000 people in this country, not
in detention, awaiting asylum hearings, you understand the dimension of the
problem," Reno said on ABC's This Week with David Brinkley Sunday.

Meissner, 51, was born in Milwaukee, the daughter of German immigrants who
"taught me to cherish this country for the promise it represents and for the
opportunity it gives to strangers."

She is a founding member of the National Women's Political Caucus who served as
its executive director in 1971. Meissner has directed immigration and refugee
studies at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace since 1986.

"Clinton has done something novel by selecting somebody who actually knows
something about immigration," said Mario Moreno, of the Mexican American Legal
Defense and Educational Fund.

Ira Kurzban, a Miami immigration lawyer, praised Meissner's ability to combine
"toughness in enforcement and compassion."

Meissner's nomination must be confirmed by the Senate. Judging from the
bipartisan support she has received on Capitol Hill, that won't be a problem.

Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., chairman of a Senate Judiciary subcommittee on
immigration, praised her. Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., co-author of a major 1986
immigration law, backed her for INS chief early in the transition process.

Incidents like the grounding in New York of a smuggler's freighter carrying
scores of Chinese would-be immigrants and the court-ordered release of more than
140 HIV-infected Haitians and their families from a U.S. detention camp at
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, have highlighted the capriciousness of immigration policy.
Clinton also unveiled his immigration plan. It would:

Toughen penalties for smugglers by imposing sentences of up to 20 years and
allow smugglers to be prosecuted under tough federal racketeering laws.

Target the overburdened asylum program by streamlining it and permitting only
one appeal. Aliens now cannot be deported as long as their cases are being
litigated.

Establish a 12-agency task force to combat crime syndicates that smuggle aliens
into the U.S.

Require detention of smuggled aliens.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EAR PHOTO, color, AP; PHOTO, b/w, Dennis Cook, AP

TYPE: Newsmakers

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              95 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      July 6, 1993, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Terrorism talk swirls around 'Muslim pope' // Cleric, congregation move out of
obscurity

BYLINE: John Hanchette

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 689 words


Until four months ago, most Americans knew nothing of Sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman -
the blind, New Jersey-based Islamic cleric.

But following his imprisonment by federal authorities Friday, the sheik is in
line to become a household name and the focal point of a raging debate over U.S.
immigration policy and counterterrorism.

Abdel-Rahman surrendered to U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service
officials after the Justice Department reversed its stance and decided to detain
him while he appeals a deportation order.

On Monday, a radical Muslim group threatened to harm Americans if the United
States extradites the sheik. The threats were spray-painted on walls of U.N.
offices in Gaza City and were signed by Islamic Jihad, a militant Palestinian
group based in the Israeli-occupied territories.

The graffiti said the group would kidnap Americans or attack American targets if
Abdel-Rahman is handed over to Egypt or harmed in captivity.

On Sunday, Secretary of State Warren Christopher said Washington would soon act
on Egypt's request for the extradition of Abdel-Rahman, who faces charges in
Egypt of inciting anti-government violence. It would mark the first use of the
1870s extradition treaty.

The sheik is being held at a federal prison in upstate New York, where he has
been stripped of his traditional Muslim garb and surrounded by "insensitive"
guards, an associate said Monday.

The cleric, whose followers are blamed for a recent wave of terrorist acts in
New York City, also has been denied medication for his diabetes and "is in very
bad shape health-wise," said Mohammad Mehdi, secretary-general of the National
Council on Islamic Affairs.

Officer Matthew Barber, spokesman for the federal prison at Otisville, would not
comment on the sheik's treatment. But officials said Abdel-Rahman has been
getting his medication.

"They don't realize he is like the Muslim pope," said Mehdi, who says he has
talked to Abdel-Rahman by telephone. "The whole Muslim community takes this as
an insult."

Followers of the 55-year-old Egyptian cleric were arrested after the World Trade
Center bombing in February.

Last month, nine more of his congregation were accused of plotting to blow up
the U.N. building and other New York City targets. Police say the suspects had
targeted Sen. Alfonse D'Amato, R-N.Y., and others for assassination.

Materials seized in the arrests reportedly indicate Abdel-Rahman knew of the
plots, but he has not been charged.

Instead, officials will pursue deportation for two immigration violations -
failing to mention he is polygamous, and failing to mention a check forging
conviction in Egypt.

A decade ago, Abdel-Rahman was accused of complicity in the 1981 assassination
of Egyptian President Anwar Sadat. He was acquitted. He still faces charges that
he participated in an 1989 anti-government riot in Egypt, where he is being
tried in abstentia.

Born into poverty in the Nile delta, the sheik was blinded by diabetes at age 10
months. He took little interest in politics until the Arab world's humiliation
by Israel in the 1967 Six-Day War. Two years later, the sheik was imprisoned for
preaching outright rebellion against the Egyptian government.

The sheik remained free as long as he did for several reasons, including his
appeal of a deportation ruling, a process that takes an average of two years.
Attorney General Janet Reno also said the evidence was too fuzzy for successful
criminal prosecution.

Ex-CIA director Robert Gates - in office when the sheik entered the USA - denies
media reports that the sheik was being protected by the CIA because of his
support for anti-Soviet rebels in Afghanistan during the Cold War.

Allowing Abdel-Rahman to remain free until now may have had its advantages.

"Leaving him free is good police procedure," said Charles Lichenstein, former
U.S. ambassador to the United Nations and a counterterrorism expert. "Keeping an
eye on the people who go in and out of his mosque to talk with him and drive him
around has already led police to the people who are part of these plots." John
Hanchette writes for Gannett News Service.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Mike Albans, AP

TYPE: Newsmakers

John Hanchette writes for Gannett News Service.; See sidebar; 02

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              96 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    July 14, 1993, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Beware of overreaction to immigration problems

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 322 words


The history of U.S. immigration policy sure isn't pretty, tied as it is to
surges of nativism, nationalism and racism. But now, amid reviving
anti-immigration sentiment, Congress has an opportunity to snap that ignoble
link.

The latest trend is small but nevertheless telling. A USA TODAY/CNN/Gallup Poll
finds that:

65% say the United States should admit fewer newcomers;

55% believe immigrant diversity threatens American culture;

64% say immigrants hurt the economy by lowering wages.

Despite such opinions, 85% have no friends or relatives who are recent
immigrants; 81% admit they know no one who has lost a job to an immigrant.

Some of this is understandable. The economy is uncertain, a historic trigger of
anti-immigration feeling. Moreover, the current news is full of terrorist
plotters and boatloads of would-be immigrants trying to come ashore.

But it's more important to understand that this nation thrives on immigration
and has done so since its founding. Our slogan isn't E pluribus unum (one out of
many) for nothing.

Predictably, though, political will follows public mood. That means that now, as
in the past, anti-immigration feelings will energize anti-immigration action.
Among the proposals being heard: to shut off all immigration; to wall off the
Mexican border; to deploy the military against the flow of undocumented
immigrants; to allow border guards to judge asylum claims and summarily reject
the unconvincing ones.

Plainly, immigration policy needs work. Washington's asylum laws are mostly
based on bad ideas and impossible ambitions. But that's no reason to think the
entire process is valueless.

Indeed, when Emma Lazarus wrote, "Give me your tired, your poor . . .," she was
stating a faith in diversity that is one of this nation's founding principles.
So fix immigration policy, by all means. But let's be careful, in the process,
not to make the Statue of Liberty a liar.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; Today's debate is on IMMIGRATION and what direction our
national policy should take; OUR VIEW; Immigration reform is appropriate; the
natin's rising anti-immigration mood is not.

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              97 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     August 6, 1993, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Asylum 'first' is a forerunner of gay-rights cases

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 291 words


A Brazilian man is the first person to be granted political asylum in the USA on
the grounds he is a homosexual with a well-founded fear of persecution at home.

Marcelo Tenorio, 30, an illegal immigrant in San Francisco, was granted asylum
last week after he presented evidence that paramilitary groups in Brazil
routinely murder gays and that he had been attacked twice in Rio de Janeiro.

The ruling, by an immigration judge in San Francisco, will not be legally
binding on other judges, and could be overturned on appeal. The Immigration and
Naturalization Service decides next week whether to appeal.

But gay-rights groups and immigrant advocates predict the ruling will influence
other judges.

At least 24 similar cases are pending, according to the International Gay and
Lesbian Human Rights Commission.

"This is a carefully reasoned, scholarly opinion . . . based on international
law," said Lucas Guttentag of the American Civil Liberties Union.

Opponents say the case will encourage more gay foreigners, with real or bogus
claims of persecution, to seek asylum.

"Decisions like these are why our asylum system is in the (bad) shape it's in,"
said Ira Melhman of the Federation for American Immigration Reform.

Asylum-seekers must show well-founded fear of persecution because of race,
religion, nationality, political opinion or membership in a particular social
group.

Tenorio's lawyer, Tania Alvarez, argued that homosexuals are members of a
persecuted social group in Brazil. At least 12 anti-gay commando groups have
publicly said they will attack homosexuals, and about 1,200 homosexuals have
been murdered in the last decade, she said.

The Brazilian government denies gays are singled out for persecution.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Reuters

IMMIGRATION; See main story; 10A

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              98 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    August 12, 1993, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

How immigrants enter USA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 52 words


How the 973,977 legal immigrants entered the United States in 1992: Relatives of
U.S. citizens 24%
Sponsored by their family   22%
1986 amnesty legislation    17%
Employment-based            12%
Refugee, asylum status      12%
Other                       13%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, color, Elys A. McLean, USA TODAY, Source: Immigration and
Naturalization Service

TYPE: Snapshot

A look at statistics that shape the nation

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              99 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     August 27, 1993, Friday, FINAL EDITION

30-plus bills have taken aim at immigration

BYLINE: Mary Benanti, Gannett News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 130 words


Clinton administration officials aren't they only ones tackling the tricky issue
of immigration reform as the nation's lawmakers fight over U.S. policy.

More than 30 reform bills were introduced during this session of Congress. The
most recent calls for a two-thirds cut in legal admissions - from 900,000 each
year to 300,000 - and a massive increase of the U.S. Border Patrol from 4,500 to
9,900 officers.

Sponsored by Sen. Harry Reid, D-Nev., the bill also would refuse U.S.
citizenship to children born in this country to illegal aliens.

Critics say drastic proposals like Reid's are shaped by headlines they garner at
a time when immigration is a hot issue.

Supporters contend Reid's bill and others like it are the solutions to U.S.
immigration problems.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

POLITICS; See main story; 06A

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              100 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 18, 1993, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Overhaul of overloaded asylum system sought

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 493 words


Immigration officials propose streamlining the nation's overwhelmed political
asylum system, cracking down on abusers and cutting work permits for applicants.

Congressional lawmakers will be briefed on the proposals this week, and a House
subcommittee is expected to discuss them Wednesday.

The proposals are the second set of immigration initiatives from the Clinton
administration. Earlier, legislation was introduced that would make it easier to
exclude asylum seekers who arrive at U.S. airports without documents or with
fake documents.

The latest proposals cover asylum applicants who are already in the country,
legally or illegally. They would:

Double the number of asylum officers to about 300 and the number of immigration
judges to about 150.

Grant work permits only to those approved for asylum, and increase the time most
applicants have to wait for permits from 90 days to 180 days.

Immediately reject obvious "boilerplate" applications - those that are nearly
identical, come from the same ZIP code and are vague.

Crack down on untrained and unscrupulous "immigration consultants" who charge
applicants high fees to prepare fraudulent applications.

Warn applicants in writing that they can be deported if they don't show up for a
hearing. About 16% never show.

Deport those denied asylum. Now, few people denied asylum are ever deported.

Fingerprint all applicants so those denied can't return under a different name.

"It's a tough bill and I have to say I'm gulping about it, but you can see these
are serious (people) who want to do it right," says Warren Leiden, director of
the American Immigration Lawyers Association, which has criticized the asylum
system.

Political asylum is intended only for foreigners who can demonstrate a
well-founded fear of persecution based on race, religion, nationality,
membership in a social group or political opinion.

But the asylum system is barely functional. More than 70% of the applications -
147,000 last year alone - are never decided. Others are decided only after
years. Even the computer systems - there are six - are a mess: They can't all
talk to each other.

There's also a big loophole: Nearly every applicant gets a work permit within 90
days of filing - regardless of their asylum eligibility.

The INS has a huge case backlog - about 300,000 - that is growing by nearly a
third each year. Officials say there's no way to reduce it with the current
asylum corps.

Some argue that people in the backlog should be granted amnesty, but that may
not sit well with Congress.

"We're not calling for amnesty," said Gregg Beyer, head of the asylum corps.
"But if we get timely decisions and reduce the incentive to file abusive
applications, that will go a long way to resolving the inadequacies in the
system."

Asylum seekers A backlog of applications has clogged the asylum process.
        Filed       Accepted
'91    123,492      107,962

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Marty Baumann, USA TODAY, Source: U.S.  Department of
Justice (Line graph)

THE NATION; See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              101 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   October 20, 1993, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

House panel takes look at first of reform proposals

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 170 words


A House subcommittee today takes up bills proposing reforms to the nation's
overwhelmed political asylum system, in the first of what could be a series of
highly contested votes on immigration.

First up is a bill by Rep. Romano Mazzoli, D-Ky., chairman of the Subcommittee
on International Law, Immigration and Refugees. It would set a deadline for
applicants to file after entering the USA, make it easier to exclude applicants
who arrive at U.S. airports without documents or with fake documents, and assign
immigration officers to overseas airports to inspect documents before people
board U.S.-bound planes.

Immigration lawyers and advocates say the proposal would rob applicants of due
process and force immigrants to return to lands where they are persecuted.

The committee also may discuss proposals from the Justice Department and the
Immigration and Naturalization Service that would streamline the asylum process,
crack down on abusers and limit automatic granting of work permits to
applicants.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

IMMIGRATION; See main story; 02A

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              102 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   October 20, 1993, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Asylum system snowed under / Process is long and vulnerable to fraud, abuse

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 777 words


The former Ethiopian civil servant sits before a U.S. asylum officer telling a
story of arrests, beatings, executions, confiscations and fear - constant,
gnawing, debilitating fear in his native land.

Immigration officials hear similar stories every day from people afraid to have
their names made public. But in the nation's clogged asylum system the fact that
this man has gotten to tell his story at all is an exception to the rule.

Most applicants are never interviewed. Most cases are never officially decided.
Cases that are can take years. Paralysis makes the system vulnerable to fraud
and abuse. Most applicants are denied but few are ever deported. And nearly
everyone gets a work permit and permission to remain here, eligible for asylum
or not.

But the former Ethiopian civil servant, who fled to the USA on a student visa,
doesn't know any of this. After telling his story to an asylum officer in
Arlington, Va., the 46-year-old man breaks down and weeps.

Anyone can kill a person at any time in Ethiopia, he says, and he is deathly
afraid to return.

The asylum officer, Robert Bannister, 24, is not unsympathetic but he is
non-committal. He asks more questions, sifts details, checking for
inconsistencies or discrepancies.

The Ethiopian's story is frightening, but does it make him, his wife and four
children eligible for political asylum? Can he demonstrate a well-founded fear
of persecution based on race, religion, national origin, membership in a social
group or political opinion?

In the Miami asylum office, a 29-year-old Peruvian teacher describes to an
asylum officer how she was repeatedly threatened by terrorists because she
refused to teach their communist ideology.

Out in the waiting room, a young middle-class couple from Lima explain that they
fled to the USA not because they were personally persecuted, but because they
feared growing terrorist violence and the effect it was having on their two
children.

"People are scared. They ask, 'What more do you want?' But unfortunately some
cases may not meet the criteria," says Sandra Sanders, a lawyer and asylum
officer in Miami.

Back in the Arlington asylum office, Bannister tells the tearful Ethiopian that
he'll decide his case in a few months, maybe more.

"You can't be overwhelmed all the time by stories of persecution," says
Bannister. "But it's difficult to deny people, especially if they're emotional."

If the Ethiopian's application is denied, he can take his case to an immigration
judge, then to the Board of Immigration Appeals, a federal appeals court or even
the Supreme Court. The process can take years.

But more than 70% of applicants - there were 147,000 last year - never get an
interview and never get a decision, according to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Instead, their cases get dumped in the backlog - now about 300,000 strong and
growing every year. Because nearly all get coveted work permits, the system
attracts applicants, including many weak cases.

So the cycle continues: More people apply, more cases are added to the backlog,
the asylum officers fall further behind, more people apply.

"I've become more disillusioned and cynical about (apparent) fraud from some
applicants who are abusing the system by riding on the coattails of (others')
stories," says asylum officer Jeff Boyd.

The asylum corps - 150 specially trained officers - was started two years ago to
resolve complaints about poor asylum decisions. But there aren't enough to keep
up with an explosion in applications.

Asylum officers say morale is low, stress is high - exacerbated by the
requirement to balance compassion with detachment and the effort to coax a
coherent story out of frightened applicants.

"At that point, we're the best shot they have (to get asylum) and you always
wonder, do they realize now is the time to sing?" says Kathie McCleskey, a Miami
asylum officer.

A recent Harvard Law School study of the corps concluded that asylum officers
today are more professional and non-adversarial. But the study found that some
officers are too hostile in interviews, some make errors of law or analysis, and
many rely too much on State Department descriptions of country conditions that
may be outdated or tainted by U.S. foreign policy interests.

"I worked under the old system and believe me, we've come a long way," says Olga
Martinez, an asylum supervisor in Miami. "Give us a chance to prove it can work
. . . give us enough resources."

Congress is likely to pass some kind of reform package. The struggle will be
between those who want to preserve due process and those who want to reduce
incentives for abuse.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Andrew Itkoff

IMMIGRATION; SEEKING ASYLUM; See sidebar; 02A

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              103 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   October 21, 1993, Thursday, FIRST EDITION

Immediate check of 737s' brakes urged

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 525 words


Federal safety investigators Wednesday urgently recommended immediate inspection
of a braking system on the world's most widely used commercial aircraft. The
National Transportation Safety Board urged the FAA to order that Boeing 737 jets
be inspected to check the routing of cables involving wing spoiler panels used
to slow the plane during landing. In March, a USAir crew taxiing for takeoff in
Pittsburgh discovered the 737's air-brake panels were extended. Mechanics found
a cable had slipped from a pulley. The NTSB said there were similar problems in
1990 and 1986. Boeing spokesman Steve Smith said 737s are safe and "this
condition would not endanger a takeoff." He said the 737 is the most popular
model - more than 2,500 worldwide.

POLITICAL ASYLUM: A House panel approved political-asylum legislation that would
eliminate two of the three levels of review. Decisions of asylum officers could
be appealed directly to federal court, eliminating immigration judges and the
Board of Immigration Appeals. The bill also would double the number of asylum
officers, to 300, and make it easier to exclude asylum seekers who arrive at
airports without documents or with fake documents. The bill covers both new
arrivals and the far larger number of applicants already here, legally and
illegally.

DEADLY VIRUS: The number of cases of a rodent-borne viral infection in the
Southwest could soon rise as mice carrying the disease seek shelter from cold
weather, health officials warned. Also: Tests of 770 deer mice collected in
northern Arizona, New Mexico and Colorado showed that 31% carried the deadly
hantavirus. Officials say 42 people in 12 states have been infected, including
26 who died.

TORCH CASE: Jeffery Pellet, 18, was sentenced in Tampa to 6 1/2 years in federal
prison for his part in dousing a tourist from New York with gasoline and setting
the man afire. The victim, Christopher Wilson, recovered from the New Year's Day
attack and asked that Pellet get leniency. Pellet, who said he only watched the
attack, pleaded guilty to aiding an armed carjacking, cooperated with
prosecutors and testified against Charles Rourk, 33, and Mark Kohut, 27. They
could get life in prison when sentenced in state court Friday for attempted
murder, kidnapping and robbery.

Gay Marine returns to active duty

Marine Sgt. Justin Elzie - the first in his service to take advantage of a
federal judge's ban on discrimination against homosexuals in the military -
returned to active duty Wednesday at Camp Lejeune, N.C.

"People were just really good about it," Elzie said. "There were no negative
comments. I'm just ecstatic."

Elzie, 31, said he was homosexual Jan. 29, the day President Clinton said he
would lift the military's ban on homosexuals. Under Clinton's revised plan,
Elzie was put on reserve status.

But a Los Angeles federal judge banned any policy that discriminates against
homosexuals in the military. The government is appealing that ruling and
Congress is working on a policy expected to be more restrictive.
With: Maria Puente, Lori Sharn, Carrie Ferguson, Steve Marshall, Sandra Sanchez
and Gary Fields.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Rob Hammands, AP

THE NATION; FROM USA TODAY'S NATIONAL NEWS NETWORK

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              104 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

              November 24, 1993, Wednesday, INTERNATIONAL EDITION

DEFECTIONS

BYLINE: Mark Hayes; Beth Tuschak

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 191 words


A U.S. immigration official confirmed Tuesday that four Cuban athletes taking
part in the Central American and Caribbean Games have sought political asylum in
the USA. Two other Cuban athletes have also disappeared from training sites,
apparently to seek asylum. The latest was shooting team member Ana Zulrik
Santiago Diaz, 24, reported missing and removed from the list of competitors for
her events on Monday.

RUSSIAN SPORTS: President Boris Yeltsin has waived taxes on sporting
organizations to help Russia become a major force in world sport again. Funds
have dried up since the Soviet Union collapsed and sports officials have
complained that high taxes and custom duties were strangling the sports
movement.

POSITIVE AGAIN: A second German swimmer in two days has failed a dope test and
faces a possible two-year ban from the sport, the German Swimming Association
said Tuesday. Steffen Smollich, a member of the gold medal-winning breaststroke
and backstroke relay teams at this month's European Sprint Championships in
Gateshead, England, was found to have excessively high levels of the banned
stimulant caffeine.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Sportsline

A QUICK READ ON THE TOP SPORTS NEWS OF THE DAY

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              105 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    December 13, 1993, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Smuggled Chinese languish in U.S. jails / Cases clog courts, spur a
re-evaluation of policy

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 1089 words


When the freighter Golden Venture ran aground last summer, spilling its cargo of
smuggled Chinese on the New York shore, embarrassed immigration officials
promised they'd quickly be sent back.

But because of government red tape and legal efforts, not one has been deported.

Instead, most of the 284 Chinese immigrants sit in county jails in Pennsylvania,
Virginia and Louisiana, passing the time making intricate paper sculptures while
their asylum claims plod through the nation's choked asylum system.

"I am surprised - I came to a free country to be free but I lost my freedom,"
says Cheng Ping, a 35-year-old former construction worker who is now in a York,
Pa., jail.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service lacked detention space so it rented
cells in county jails. The tab: about $ 20,000 per refugee per year.

"(The INS) is using (the Chinese) to get at the smuggling problem and to send a
political message," says Elisa Massimino of the Lawyers Committee for Human
Rights. "They're not divorcing the merits of their individual cases from" the
manner of their arrival.

The manner in which they arrived was illegal, dangerous - six people drowned and
five escaped - and under the media spotlight. Faced with international bad
publicity, immigration officials jailed all but 10 children, scheduled hurry-up
asylum hearings for the rest, and hinted that their claims of persecution under
China's one-child-only policy were bogus.

Then pro bono lawyers, paid lawyers and immigrant advocates insisted on delays
to gather evidence, demanded new hearings, and filed a class-action suit
charging politically tainted asylum hearings.

So far, the lawyers have succeeded in winning asylum for 25. They vow to appeal
every case to federal court.

The refugees' predicament lays bare the contradictions in U.S. asylum laws.
Those who defect from communist Cuba often get a hero's welcome. But few
welcomed the Golden Venture refugees, even though China is the world's biggest
communist country, and some were dissidents persecuted for their political
opinions.

Most, however, got on the freighter to flee China's one-child-only policy, which
they say is enforced through forced abortions, forced sterilizations, arrests,
beatings, torture and staggering fines.

Zhu Lee, 30, a former tea factory supervisor from Fujian province in southern
China, says his wife became pregnant with their third child in 1990 so that his
childless cousin could adopt the baby.

But the local family-planning police found out and forced his wife to abort - in
her ninth month of pregnancy. Fearful of further persecution and arrest, Zhu
borrowed $ 10,000 to pay a smuggler and got on the Golden Venture.

"The baby was still alive (after the abortion)," says Zhu, speaking through a
translator at the York County Prison, where he is being held with 109 other
Golden Venture refugees. "My father wrote me a letter (saying) don't come back.
He said, 'I would rather see you die out of China than see you suffer in front
of me.' "

The refugees so fear deportation that most declined interviews. "If I go back I
will fall into the tiger's mouth," says Li Bin Wang, 24, a student democracy
leader from Fujian.

Though immigration judges found some of the refugees' stories to be credible,
many claims were still rejected because of a 1989 administrative law ruling that
found China's policy to be a legitimate part of its population control program.

In a move to please abortion opponents, President Bush ordered that Chinese
claiming family-planning persecution were entitled to "enhanced consideration"
of their asylum requests.

Now immigration advocates and lawyers - and even abortion-rights groups - are
urging Attorney General Janet Reno to keep the Bush policy and strengthen it.
Her decision, expected soon, could affect thousands of Chinese asylum cases.

"We abhor the pro-life origins of the policy but we support the notion that our
asylum laws should give careful consideration to claims of violation of
reproductive rights," says Rachel Pine of the Center for Reproductive Law and
Policy.

But Clinton wants to demonstrate his "new Democrat" bona fides by cracking down
on illegal immigration - especially smugglers. He also wants to discourage abuse
of asylum laws by people who are economic refugees.

If family-planning persecution becomes an explicit ground for political asylum,
administration officials fear that would encourage many more Chinese to head for
the USA.

But David Weinstein, a Philadelphia lawyer who filed the class-action suit for
the refugees, say Chinese find it difficult to leave home, both logistically and
emotionally.

"To have the gumption to do what they did (in leaving) something extreme must
have happened to them," he says.

For Zhu, leaving home was a bitter pill to swallow. Caressing his family photos,
he says he had a good life and a happy family.

"We are not criminals, we were not law-breakers in China and we won't be here,"
he says.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Michael Albans, AP

THE NATION; IMMIGRATION SEEKING ASYLUM

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              106 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   February 10, 1994, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

More agents, job cards among GOP provisions

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 136 words


House Republicans will introduce their own immigration control bill today.

Some provisions are similar to those proposed by President Clinton and
Democrats. Others go further.

Some key elements:

Add 6,000 Border Patrol agents over five years, compared with 1,010 over two
years sought by Clinton.

Issue all citizens and legal residents new tamper-resistant Social Security
cards to be presented when applying for jobs.

Charge a fee to people, vehicles arriving by land or sea; would be less than $
10 air travelers already pay.

Deny benefits to illegal immigrants, except emergency medical care and
education.

Enhance penalties for smuggling.

Speed up deportation of criminal aliens.

Speed up exclusion of people without valid documents.

30-day deadline to seek political asylum after entry.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

IMMIGRATION REFORM; See main story; 02A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              107 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   February 10, 1994, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

A tougher line on political asylum / New system will take aim at fraud

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 534 words


Clinton administration officials Wednesday unveiled regulations for a
long-promised change in the nation's overwhelmed political asylum system.

One priority will be pursuit and prosecution of people who charge unsuspecting
immigrants high prices to prepare fraudulent applications - known as
"boilerplate" - that clog the system.

"The American public does not want to close the door on people who have been
persecuted, but they don't want to be taken advantage of by those who don't need
(asylum)," said Commissioner Doris Meissner of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Meissner said she will add an eighth asylum office, in New York, and double the
number of asylum officers to 334 by the end of the year.

She said the rules, set to take effect the end of the month, will streamline the
system and allow for summary rejection of boilerplate applications - fraudulent
forms where almost all information is the same, except for a name. The changes
will also allow INS to keep up with applications running at more than 150,000
per year, and begin attacking the backlog of nearly 330,000 cases.

Meissner said it's unlikely Congress will grant amnesty to people in the
backlog.

Immigrant-rights groups were mostly pleased with the rules, but are worried
about plans to charge application fees and to double the time - up to 180 days -
applicants wait to get work permits.

Under current rules, almost every applicant gets a work permit within 90 days
regardless of whether they win asylum - boosting the incentive to apply.

"For those who don't deserve it, this is a good move, but what about the
legitimate refugee who has to wait longer?" said Warren Leiden, director of the
American Immigration Lawyers Association.

There was more enthusiasm for the promised crackdown on fraudulent consultants,
who may number in the hundreds in the Los Angeles area alone. Meissner said
special anti-fraud task forces will be set up to go after major offenders there
and in New York.
Asylum officers in those cities get up to 300 spurious applications per month,
prepared by self-styled "consultants."

"This kind of consumer fraud has been going on for many years . . . because
there is such a shortage of low-cost legal services for immigrants," said Lina
Avidan of the Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights and Services in San
Francisco. "They exploit people's desperation and fear and confusion."

Susan Alva of the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights in Los Angeles said
promises to prosecute abusers will be meaningless without cooperation from
immigrants.

"(INS) has to be willing to give witnesses guarantees they won't be put into
deportation proceedings," Alva said. "Or this may be a lot of hot air."

Asylum system backlogged

The Immigration and Naturalization Service was only able to process a tiny
fraction of the political asylum applications filed for fiscal year 1993:

Number of cases:
Carried over from 1992        213,944
New applications in 1993      150,386

Application status:
Granted         5,105
Denied         18,110
Other          11,298
  Cases carrying over to 1994    329,817

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Nick Galifianakis, USA TODAY, Source: Immigration and
Naturalization Service (Bar graph); PHOTO, b/w, AP

IMMIGRATION REFORM; See info box at end of text; See sidebar; 02A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              108 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 11, 1994, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Welcome tyranny's victims

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 286 words


Throughout its proud history, the United States has served as a refuge for those
who seek freedom. Immigrants have fled their native homelands, where human
rights were trampled, to come here in search of that liberty.

I know because I am one of those political refugees. And my native homeland is
still being ruled by one of the last remnants of totalitarian communism.

If the Cold War is over, someone forgot to tell the 11 million Cubans living
under an oppressive system which, according to the U.S. Department of State
human rights report released last week, "attempts to extend government and
Communist Party control over each citizen's daily activities at home, work and
school." Castro refuses to be influenced by the global movement toward freedom
and democracy.

The circumstances that led to the implementation of the Cuban Adjustment Act of
1966 still exist today. After 34 years in power, the Castro regime continues to
deny the Cuban people their rights, while running the world's most ruthless
police state, as documented by the U.N. Human Rights Commission.

The Cuban rafters who take to the ocean, risking their lives in desperate
attempts to reach these shores of freedom, are a testament to the declining
situation inside the island caused by the failed policies of Cuba's suppressive
regime.

We must recognize that this nation remains a beacon of freedom for the
politically oppressed people of the world. We should not turn our backs on those
who come from countries where totalitarian regimes subject their populations to
persecution.

This great nation will remain a beacon of hope because, as Walt Whitman said,
"The United States themselves are essentially the greatest poem."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; Today's debate; IMMIGRATION LAWS; OPPOSING VIEW; I am a
political refugee, and nothing has changed for oppressed Cubans, for example;
Rep.  Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, R-Fla., is a member of the House Foreign Affairs
Committee.

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              109 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 11, 1994, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Fix political asylum laws;
end special treatment

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 335 words


Here's news to make you twitch: Just as the Immigration and Naturalization
Service is trying to expedite its asylum process, Sen. Jesse Helms is working to
bollix it up a bit more.

His idea: Create a new immigration category for 2,000 illegal immigrants a year
who say they are fleeing China's strict family-planning laws.

This is a bad play all around. More than 14,000 Chinese filed asylum
applications last year. There's no let-up in sight. How will the INS choose
among the thousands of family-based claims?

The INS doesn't need the hassle. It already has a backlog of 330,000 asylum
claims, partly because, over the years, lawmakers have created special
categories for everyone from Tibetan monks to Russian evangelicals.

The results can be grotesquely unfair. A 1966 law permits permanent residence by
illegal Cuban immigrants almost without question. All Haitian refugees, however,
are subject to interception at sea and summary return to their homeland. So if a
boat containing both is discovered, the Cubans are welcomed while the Haitians,
arguably in greater need, are sent packing.

Such inequities poison the immigration debate, especially when they stem from
anachronisms like the 1966 Cuban Adjustment Act or oddities like the law that
offers special status to investment-minded millionaires. Repeal them all.

International convention and U.S. law broadly define refugees and set terms for
their treatment. So guidelines are in place, and no matter what you think of the
INS - and there's plenty of room for plenty of criticism - the service is bound
to be better at balancing delicate immigration priorities than Jesse Helms.

With the world awash in refugees, the INS is overloaded even without the
complications caused by congressional micromanagement.

The hundreds of thousands who seek asylum here from torture and oppression of
their homelands deserve better.

They deserve, at the very least, that unfair laws and the lawmakers who produced
them get out of their way.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; Today's debate; IMMIGRATION LAWS; OUR VIEW; The INS has
enough trouble without Congress continuing to intrude on and meddle with asylum
policy.

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              110 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    January 10, 1995, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Immigrant limits stir controversy

BYLINE: William M. Welch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 251 words


House Speaker Newt Gingrich on Monday backed off a controversial Republican plan
to bar legal immigrants from collecting welfare.

The proposal - part of the House Republicans' Contract with America - would
permit only immigrants over 75, or those admitted to the USA as refugees, to
collect benefits.

Close to 1 million legal immigrants now getting food stamps and other benefits
would have been affected.

"I think we've got to revisit the question of eliminating legal aliens from ever
getting any access to government services after some length of time of being
here and paying taxes," Gingrich said.

Currently, while illegal immigrants are barred from welfare except emergency
health care, legal immigrants become eligible in five years.

The prohibition had been attacked by Democrats and Republicans. Sen. Alan
Simpson, R-Wyo., called it too harsh, and Florida members with Cuban
constituents also were opposed.

Gingrich said sponsors should shoulder a "significant responsibility" for people
they bring to the country, but that obligation could end after three to five
years.

He also said he'd like to raise benefits for the disabled.

Few immigrants on welfare Working-age immigrants (15-64) are less likely to be
on welfare than U.S.-born residents. The percentage on welfare:
Refugees admitted 1980-1990     13.4%
U.S.-born people                 3.7%

Immigrants admitted before 1980 3.2%
Immigrants admitted 1980-1990      2%

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Nick Galifianakis, USA TODAY, Source: Urban Institute
(Bar graph); PHOTO, b/w, Tim Dillon, USA TODAY

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD; The new Congress is moving on several fronts, from
welfare to spending mandates and Medicare. An update; WELFARE; See info box at
end of text.

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              111 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     March 7, 1995, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Mexican asks U.S. for asylum

BYLINE: Juan J. Walte; Lee Michael Katz

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 412 words


Mario Ruiz Massieu, 44, former deputy attorney general of Mexico, is seeking
political asylum in the USA, says his lawyer, as Mexico seeks his extradition.

Ruiz was held in a Newark, N.J., jail Monday after his arrest for carrying more
than $ 40,000 in undeclared cash into the USA. Amounts over $ 10,000 must be
declared when entering and leaving the USA.

Mexican Attorney General Antonio Lozano said Ruiz is under investigation at home
for possible "irregularities" in his handling of the murder case last year of
his brother Jose Francisco.

Newspapers in Mexico speculate that Ruiz was paid off to cover up the
involvement in his brother's murder by Raul Salinas de Gortari, brother of
former President Carlos Salinas de Gortari. Conspiracy theories abound that the
assassination was ordered by old-liners in the party or drug kingpins concerned
about party reforms.

Ruiz may have a hard time winning asylum, based on immigration law.

"Whoever would apply for asylum would have to be demonstrate a reasonably
well-founded fear of persecution based on some evidence or past persecutions,"
says Immigration and Naturalization Service spokesman Greg Gagne. "The operative
word is 'persecution' as opposed to legal charges."

Ruiz's lawyer calls the currency charge "trumped up," saying his client is being
punished for criticizing the current Mexican government as corrupt.

"To suggest that Mario Ruiz would cover up the murder of his own brother is
illogical and stupid," says lawyer Michael Santangelo. "This incident is part of
a continuing political effort on the part of the government of Mexico to shift
the blame for the country's present economic collapse to the former
administration . . . of which Mr. Ruiz was an integral part."

Ruiz left Mexico on Friday with his wife and 5-year-old daughter.

"He was singled out," says family friend Roland Sainz, a New York art gallery
owner who attended the hearing.

"I have left this country hundreds of times and I have never filled out a form."

Whatever the truth, Mexicans are reeling from the latest developments.

"This is turning into a novel about power, full of suspense with improbable
turns," says Homero Aridjis, a Mexican writer and activist. "If this story was
written by a novelist, some would doubt its believability."

Normally, U.S. officials are reluctant to offer political asylum to individuals
fleeing friendly governments, because it could damage relations with those
countries.

LOAD-DATE: March 08, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Reuters

THE WORLD

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              112 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     March 13, 1995, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Expos find loophole for clearance on visas

BYLINE: Rod Beaton

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 281 words


The Montreal Expos say they have managed an end run around the ban on visas to
permit foreigners to play as replacement players in the USA.

Expos general manager Kevin Malone says the Expos researched immigration laws
and both Canadian teams - Toronto and Montreal - have received clearance for
willing non-U.S. players to play in replacement exhibition and regular-season
games.

Their B1 visa, a visitor's visa, will suffice.

"We finally catch a break," Malone says.

When the Players Association had the strike certified by the U.S. Department of
Labor, the Immigration and Naturalization Service stopped issuing the H2 and P1
visas required for non-native major and minor league players, respectively. That
effectively kept all non-nationals from playing in exhibitions or planning to
play in regular-season games until after a strike settlement. That is until now.

In anticipation of the clearance they say they have received, the Expos signed
seven Venezuelans and two Dominicans (see Expos notes, 7C).

"They could play this week," Malone says. "This does not make us the '27
Yankees, but it helps us out with experienced players."

The Toronto Blue Jays apparently have similar status, although they cannot play
any replacement players at their home in Toronto. They can use citizens from
outside the USA for their replacement games in Dunedin, Fla., their home until a
settlement is reached. Team spokesman Howie Starkman says they are still looking
into the situation and have yet to act upon it.

Says Bill Murray, director of operations of the commissioner's office, Sunday:
"I knew this was being researched, but I did not know how far it had
progressed."

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              113 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     March 20, 1995, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Voices: Should legal immigrants receive welfare benefits? issue.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 55 words


Republican welfare reform legislation, scheduled for a vote in the House this
week, bars legal immigrants from receiving non-emergency medical care, food
stamps, social services and cash assistance. Illegal immigrants already cannot
access most federal welfare benefits. USA TODAY asked readers their opinions
about the issue.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate; Voices

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; Complete text not available -- please see microfiche

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              114 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      June 6, 1995, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Panel to urge reductions in immigration

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 1310 words


The national Commission on Immigration Reform Wednesday will recommend
significantly reducing legal immigration to the USA, mainly by emphasizing
nuclear family reunification and shutting the door to other close relatives.

The proposed changes -- the most sweeping in about 30 years -- have set off
alarm bells among the throng of immigration interest groups, which know how much
influence the commission has with Congress and the White House.

"From what was supposed to be a thoughtful, blue-ribbon commission . . . (the
recommendations) are stunning," says Cecilia Munoz of the National Council of La
Raza, an immigrant rights group. "This is steeped in politics."

If the recommendations were to be adopted by Congress -- which is not assured --
a major effect would be to reduce "chain migration," in which extended family
members, their spouses and their children can immigrate because of their
relationship to someone already here.

Based on a USA TODAY analysis of 1993 legal immigration data, nearly a quarter
of that year's 880,000 legal immigrants couldn't have come under the
recommendations.

Although the recommendations maintain the basic framework of the current
immigration system -- which puts top priority on family-based immigration -- the
proposals will provoke nearly every faction:

-- Immigration of siblings, adult children age 21 and older, and some unskilled
workers would be eliminated, a move that would have kept out nearly 140,000
people in 1993.

-- Overall immigration would decrease to about 700,000 a year for a transition
period, then hold at 550,000 a year. In 1994, overall immigration was 800,000.

-- Parents of U.S. citizens could not immigrate until they or their children
first purchase health insurance for them. In 1993, 62,428 people immigrated in
the parents category.

-- Slots for skilled foreign workers would drop to 100,000 a year from 147,000.
Fees would be imposed to discourage hiring foreigners.

-- Refugee admissions would be reduced to 50,000 a year. In 1993, more than
115,000 refugees became legal immigrants.

"The commission . . . is recommending some major reallocation of priorities and
emphases," says Susan Martin, executive director of the nine-member, bipartisan
panel.

Refugee advocates, who already complain the USA doesn't accept enough displaced
people, will not be happy about the refugee reduction.

And powerful U.S. corporations that hire skilled foreign workers will balk at
paying a big fee to continue doing so.

"It takes out the flexibility needed to be responsive to the needs of the
economy," says Warren Leiden, director of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association and the commission's lone dissenter.

But the elimination of family categories sparks the most outrage. "Your children
don't stop being your children just because they turn 21," says Munoz, who also
notes the health insurance requirement for parents would reserve immigration for
the rich.

Others protest eliminating the sibling category -- even though the wait is now
about 30 years. The commission argues a category that makes people wait that
long ought to be axed.

Instead, the commission recommendations are aimed at speeding admission of
spouses and minor children of citizens and legal immigrants. Now, those
admissions take years because of an enormous backlog.

Still, some critics complain the commission has been unduly influenced by public
anger over illegal immigration.

What Congress will do is unclear. But the commission is expected to provide some
political cover for a tough issue.

"It's not a bad first step . . . given the difficulties in dealing with an issue
dominated by special interests," says Dan Stein of the Federation for American
Immigration Reform, a pro-restrictions group.

There is little consensus in Congress:

-- "The commission has great credibility," says Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas,
chairman of the House immigration subcommittee.

-- "People are fed up with all this nonsense of all these people coming," says
Rep. Bob Stump, R-Ariz.

"We don't have too many immigrants," House Speaker Newt Gingrich said recently.
"We can absorb the current numbers if we solve the illegal immigration problem."

Contributing: Peter Eisler

Who's what

-- U.S. citizen: Native-born or naturalized person. -- Legal permanent resident:
Immigrant legally entitled to live in U.S. -- Family-sponsored immigration:
Immigrant admitted on basis of kinship to citizen or legal permanent resident.
-- Employment-sponsored immigration: Immigrant is admitted for job after
employer certifies no Americans available. -- Refugee: Immigrant admitted based
on a well-founded fear of persecution -- Commission on Immigration Reform:
Bipartisan panel created by Congress in 1990

Plan eliminates preference for family

Recommendations by the Commission on Immigration Reform would cut back on legal
immigration to the United States. The proposal, which must be approved by
Congress, would limit the number of immigrants largely by eliminating
preferences for such family members as siblings and children over age 21. In
addition, it also would permanently stop immigration by some unskilled workers.
Using 1993 statistics, the most recent available, here is a USA TODAY analysis
of the number of legal immigrants who would not be able to get in if the
immigration proposals were to become law:
1993 immigrants        880,014
Excluded under         203,639

proposal

1 - Does not include immigrants granted amnesty under a 1986 law. Tab or bars

Excluded under the proposal
Immigrant siblings, their spouses and children                   62,264
Unmarried adult children of legal permanent residents            29,704
Married adult children of citizens and their spouses, children   23,385

Unmarried adult children of citizens and their spouses, children 12,819
Unskilled workers                                                 9,967

Countries most affected by change Number and percentage that would have been
excluded in 1993 if the proposals had been in effect:
                  Immigrants      Excluded           Percentage
Mexico               109,027        13,949               12.8%
Dominican Republic    44,886        13,716               30.6%
Philippines           63,189        13,710               21.7%
India                 40,021        11,707               29.3%
China                 65,552         8,858               13.5%
Poland                27,729         5,335               19.2%
Jamaica               16,969         5,203               30.7%
Vietnam               59,613         4,539                7.6%
El Salvador           25,517         4,471               17.5%
Hong Kong             14,026         4,421               31.5%

Decade on record pace The 3.7 million legal immigrants arriving from 1991
through 1993 has the USA on pace for a record high decade of immigration. Legal
immigration by decade:
Year           Immigrants
1821-1830        143,439
1831-1840        599,125
1841-1850      1,713,251
1851-1860      2,598,214
1861-1870      2,314,824
1871-1880      2,812,191
1881-1890      5,246,613
1891-1900      3,687,564
1901-1910      8,795,386
1911-1920      5,735,811
1921-1930      4,107,209
1931-1940        528,431
1941-1950      1,035,039
1951-1960      2,515,479
1961-1970      3,321,677
1971-1980      4,493,314
1981-1990      7,338,062
1991-1993      3,705,436

LOAD-DATE: June 07, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Kevin Rechin, USA TODAY, Source: Analysis of Immigration
and Naturalization Service data by Paul Overberg, USA TODAY (Pie chart, bar
graph)

THE NATION; See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              115 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     June 7, 1995, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Humanize immigration

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 412 words


A welcome recalibration of the nation's immigration policies could well begin
today in Washington when Barbara Jordan, who chairs the bipartisan Commission on
Immigration Reform, presents a wide-ranging plan to adjust the nation's
immigration priorities.

Of course, the chief concern outside Washington is illegal entries, not legal
ones. But legal immigration, long an asset, can indeed serve the nation better.

Generally speaking, the immigration system has three goals: to enhance social
stability by unifying families; to enhance competitiveness by permitting
employers to hire specialized foreign workers; and to help satisfy our
humanitarian interests through a refugee program.

The commission has no quarrel with any of that. But it rightly fears that,
within each of those areas, misplaced priorities are discrediting the system.

For instance, there is a category of visas reserved for the foreign-born
brothers and sisters of U.S. citizens. This is part of the system's established
emphasis on families.

Yet the category is so swamped with applications - at last count, 1.6 million -
that if you were to apply today you would, on average, have to wait 30 years for
entry. In the meantime, the category is consuming an allocation of visas that
could be used to reduce the 1.1 million backlog of visa applications by spouses
and children.

Similar problems can be found throughout the system. Why should we issue 10,000
visas to unskilled workers when Congress plans to force unskilled welfare
recipients onto the job market? And does it make sense for our refugee policy to
swirl in different directions, with some programs using an international
definition of refugees and others carving out more favorable definitions for
politically favored national groups?

Finding fault with others, the commission offers up a few blunders of its own.

It proposes a long-term reduction in legal immigration even though the overall
levels are not the system's problem and even though such cuts will inevitably
hurt deserving would-be immigrants.

More specifically, what interest is served by imposing new fees on businesses
that hire specialized foreign workers? That will reduce competitiveness, not
enhance it.

Still, there's much to be said for streamlining a system with 30-year backlogs
that keep families apart and in limbo. The Jordan Commission plainly hasn't
found all the right solutions, but it seems to be looking under all the right
rocks.

LOAD-DATE: June 08, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              116 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     June 8, 1995, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Clinton supports immigration limits

BYLINE: Bill Nichols; Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 264 words


President Clinton backed a proposal Wednesday to sharply curtail legal
immigration, saying the work of the national Commission on Immigration Reform is
"a road map for Congress to consider."

After a briefing by commission Chairwoman Barbara Jordan, Clinton said in a
statement the recommendations from the panel are consistent with his
"pro-family, pro-work, pro-naturalization" views.

Clinton also told Jordan he approves of the recommendation that closest family
members - spouses and minor children - ought to have priority for admittance,
and that American workers ought not be adversely affected by immigration, said
White House spokesman Mike McCurry.

The commission is recommending Congress reduce overall legal immigration by
one-third - to 550,000 people per year - by eliminating some categories of
immigrants and limiting others.

Admissions of spouses and minor children of citizens and legal permanent
residents would increase, but the door would be shut to siblings of citizens and
adult children of citizens and permanent residents.

Jordan dismissed an oft-voiced criticism of the plan, saying the commission does
not seek to alter the ethnic and racial diversity of the immigrant stream. The
civil rights leader and ex-congresswoman said the bipartisan panel believes
"religious and ethnic diversity are compatible with national civic unity."

"To answer some of the critics who are calling for a drastic reduction in
admissions: Cultural and religious diversity resulting from immigration does not
pose a threat to the national interest," Jordan said.

LOAD-DATE: June 09, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, color, AP; PHOTO, b/w, Wilfredo Lee, AP

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              117 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      June 30, 1995, Friday, FINAL EDITION

In New York's Flatbush, it's immigration central

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 1030 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


On Church Avenue in Flatbush, a young Jewish mother and her two small children
make their way down the street, past the Korean grocer, past the 300-year-old
Dutch graveyard, past the Caribbean restaurants where spicy fragrances mingle
with the traffic's exhaust fumes.

Thirty years ago, the mother and her yarmulke-clad sons would not have stood
out.

Today, they are conspicuous in a crowd of African, Caribbean and Asian faces -
the latest immigrants to arrive in one of the USA's most diverse communities.

"I used to have more (native New Yorkers) come in, but now I have more foreign
clients," says Shirley Walker, 50, a beauty salon owner who immigrated from
Jamaica by way of London.

Just call this part of Brooklyn the "United Nations ZIP code."

A USA TODAY analysis of data on 2.2 million people who became legal immigrants
in 1991-93 shows that Flatbush ZIP code 11226 has more immigrants from more
countries than just about any other community in the USA.

An average of 2,454 legal immigrants per year from 78 different countries moved
to the ZIP code in 1991-93, the data show. And given what is known about illegal
immigration, it's likely that hundreds of illegals trickled in as well.

By itself, this is nothing new: Flatbush 11226 has been welcoming immigrants for
some 350 years.

But as Congress mulls major changes in the nation's legal immigration system,
the 115,000 residents of 11226 show how the current system changed the country:

-- Nearly two-thirds of immigrants are admitted because of a close relationship
to a citizen or legal permanent resident; they in turn can bring in other
relatives. It is this "chain migration" that is the key to proposals before
Congress to limit family-based immigration.

A good example of chain migration is Walker, who was born in Jamaica and
immigrated to New York in 1971 with an aunt's help. She eventually brought her
sister, brother-in-law and their children.

Had the proposal to limit chain migration been in place, Walker would not have
been able to immigrate here, nor would her sister's family have been able to
come.

"As a taxpayer, I think that the more we open our arms, the more the taxpayers
will be feeling it," says Walker, who sympathizes both with the immigrants and
the desire to limit immigration. "Families don't think about the expense, they
just want to be with their children."

-- Most immigrants are laborers, service workers or homemakers.

In 1993, 38% of the working-age immigrants to 11226 described themselves as
laborers, clerical or service workers, and 19% were homemakers; about 9% had
professional-level job skills.

-- Seven in 10 immigrants are from Latin America, Asia and the Caribbean; many
are non-white.

In 1993, the top 10 birth countries of immigrants to 11226 included seven
Caribbean countries, one Latin American country, one Asian country and one Arab
country.

Nationwide, Mexicans are the largest group of legal immigrants, but few moved
here - one of the few examples where Flatbush 11226 differs from the USA.

-- Most immigrants cluster in a handful of communities.

Between 1991-93, Brooklyn's ZIP codes attracted an average of 40,000 new
immigrants per year - the highest in the USA.

This clustering gets noticed.

Although immigrants want to move where their family members are, their sheer
numbers can strain public services - and breed resentment by some natives, who
believe they are displaced from jobs and pushed out of unrecognizable
communities.

"Everything changed," says bookkeeper Rita Bellock, who moved out of Flatbush
11226 when immigrants and welfare families moved in. "Everyone is Arab or Indian
or Pakistani. In some ways, it makes me feel uncomfortable."

Yet Flatbush 11226 doesn't seem devastated by immigration.

Sandy Tishcoff, who lives in 11226 and has owned a bookstore there since 1977,
says he can gauge the economic vitality within a few blocks of his store:
There's the new Pakistani bakery; Natasha Pizza, owned by Russian immigrants, is
opening soon; Los Mariachis Mexican restaurant has just expanded.

"The melting pot is still with us," says Tishcoff, whose store carries five
kinds of New Year's cards - Jewish, secular, Russian Orthodox, Chinese and
Tibetan. "It just has a different slant and taste."

And so it has always been in Flatbush, where the first Dutch immigrants arrived
in the 17th century.

Next came British immigrants in the 18th century, Germans, Irish, Italians and
Eastern Europeans in the 19th century and European Jews after World War II. West
Indians arrived in the 1960s, Asians in the 1970s, Africans in the 1980s.

"It's always been extremely multicultural," says Miriam Kranis, a librarian at
the Brooklyn Historical Society. "For European Jews like my grandparents, this
was mecca."

By the 1990s, though, the strain was showing.

Five years ago, Flatbush 11226 was the center of a fierce clash of cultures,
between Korean immigrants, who own most of the groceries, and their mostly black
customers. There were boycotts, pickets on the sidewalks, angry exchanges.

Hoon Chung, 27, an immigrant from Korea, remembers the tensions of a few years
ago and the long hours of work his family put into their grocery, Cheap
Charlie's.

"It was a rough time," says Chung, a banker helping out recently at the grocery.
"But it's better now and we have gotten to know the customers" - well enough to
stock the grocery with the favorite foods of their Caribbean clients.

The local community planning board, in charge of most city services, also
adjusted: It tries not to pick up garbage on Saturdays in the Jewish
neighborhoods and Fridays in the Muslim neighborhoods, says Terry Rodie, the
district manager.

And, she notes, some expected culture clashes never materialize.

"There's a growing Pakistani community adjacent to a Jewish orthodox community
and they get along fine - they even use the same stores because their dietary
needs are similar," says Rodie. "Flatbush has accommodated."

That's just good business, says Jack Katz, director of the Flatbush Business
Improvement District. Merchants "need (customers) to survive, and if these are
the customers," he says, "so be it."

LOAD-DATE: July 02, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, USA TODAY (Map); PHOTOS, b/w, Matt Mendelsohn, USA TODAY
(3)

SPECIAL REPORT; IMMIGRATION

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              118 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      June 30, 1995, Friday, FINAL EDITION

THE NEW IMMIGRANTS / Is latest wave a drain or boon to society?

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2017 words


What once were private mutterings that immigrants are more a drain than a
benefit to society have become bold public pronouncements.

Many politicians and ordinary citizens now say legal immigrants should be
admitted only if they have good job skills, not because they happen to have a
sister living in New York.

Some even say immigrants, arriving at near-record levels, are radically changing
the ethnic and cultural balance of the country - and the country needs to change
back.

The question before Congress and the people has become: Are immigrants still
good for the country?

In a computer analysis of data on the 2.2 million people who became legal
immigrants in 1991-93, USA TODAY illustrates how newcomers have changed the
nation, bringing new colors and languages, a new vibrancy and vigor.

But the analysis also documents how densely immigrants from a few countries have
clustered in some cities, bringing strained public budgets, community tension
and, often, few marketable job skills.

Using current proposals to restrict immigration as its framework, the computer
analysis finds:

-- If job skills replaced kinship as the basis for immigration, it would greatly
alter who gets into the country. The immigrant stream would become more European
and Asian, less Hispanic and Caribbean.

In 1993, for example, 52% of immigrants from Mexico - by far the largest
immigrant group - identified themselves as laborers, excluding homemakers,
retirees and students. That compared to 7% from China and 1% from India.

By contrast, 0.3% of Mexicans identified themselves as engineers, compared to
25% of Indians.

Overall, more than half the 1993 immigrants of working age report low-skilled or
unskilled occupations.

-- If immigration of extended families had been restricted in 1993, 85% of the
880,014 people admitted to the USA would have gotten in.

Indeed, the analysis underscores the overwhelming family character of
immigration. In 1993, almost two-thirds of immigrants were admitted solely
because they were related - either closely or in an extended fashion - to
someone already here.

-- If a small but growing minority of restrictionists gets its way, future
immigrants would be far different from those who actually arrived.

In 1993, about 80% of legal immigrants were from Latino, Asian, African and
Caribbean countries, and just a few countries dominated the stream: People from
Mexico, China, the Philippines, Vietnam and the Dominican Republic made up
nearly 40% of all immigrants.

By comparison, 97% of immigrants who came 100 years ago were European or
Canadian.

-- If immigrants came for jobs instead of kinship, they likely would be
scattered across the USA.

Between 1991-93, however, the nation's immigrant clusters stood out. Selected
ZIP codes in New York City, Los Angeles, Chicago, Miami and Houston together
averaged 206,000 new immigrants a year.

The cumulative effect of all these trends, experts say, has pushed so many
social buttons that a nation of immigrants is wondering whether it should remain
one.

There is "uneasiness over the scale of immigration," Nathan Glazer, a Harvard
professor and immigration expert, says in a recent essay. "When this coincides
with bad economic conditions, a majority of Americans will say, 'There is too
much immigration.' "

Here is one fact: If immigration continues at the current rate of about 800,000
a year, more than 8 million newcomers will have arrived between 1990 and 2000 -
the highest decade-long number since 1900-1910.

59% favor 'blending in'

For 30 years, since the 1965 Immigration Act opened the nation's doors to
immigrants from around the world, the country's political and social culture has
assumed that immigration is a positive force.

Many Americans are not feeling so generous these days.

"Now we're coming at (immigration) from a new perspective - what's in the best
interest of American citizens," says Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, head of the
House subcommittee on immigration.

His counterpart in the Senate, Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., echoes that view: "The
national interest is the interest of the majority of Americans, not the
interests of those seeking to come here or (their) relatives."

Smith and Simpson argue the United States should reduce overall numbers and
admit only those "who will contribute to our economy and our society" - meaning
those who are educated, job-skilled, English-speaking and quickly naturalized.

A USA TODAY/CNN/Gallup Poll of immigrants - the first comprehensive, national
poll of its kind - finds many immigrants agree.

"If we are not selective on immigrants, it will expedite the deterioration of
this country," says David Chen, 30, an insurance adjuster in New York who came
from Taiwan. "They have to be self-supportive."

Immigrants and natives also are in agreement about the need for immigrants to
assimilate: 59% of both groups say "blending in" is better.

Luis Llanos, 25, a Colombian who immigrated in 1986 and now lives in New York,
says he's eager to fit in.

"Some (immigrants) say they don't like it here, but I say to them, 'Nobody
brought you here, you don't have to be here,' " Llanos says.

But there is a viable, vocal coalition of immigrant advocates led by Sen. Ted
Kennedy, D-Mass., who say they'll fight to preserve the traditional view of
immigrants.

"We live in a diverse world," says Kennedy, sponsor of the 1965 law. "The genius
of America has been to take different traditions and draw on them (to) enhance
the country."

'Sense of loss of control'

In part, the drive to change the immigration system is a consequence of public
resentment of unchecked illegal immigration, now estimated at about 300,000
people a year.

Few politicians can ignore the overwhelming passage last year of Proposition 187
in California, which denies illegal immigrants access to benefits, schools and
health services.

"There is this sense of loss of control," says Bill Ong Hing, an immigration
expert at Stanford University. "I don't think we have (lost control), but
there's a sense of that."

Add to that the uncertainty caused by the economic restructuring of the '90s,
both in high and low level jobs.

In Atlanta, for example, seeing sizeable immigration for the first time, an
undercurrent of tension has developed over fears about jobs.

Some "see immigrants as a threat to their job opportunities," says Jeffery
Tapia, director of the Latin American Association. "When you're looking to
survive, anyone who's a newcomer is seen as a threat."

But the impetus for change also may be based on a change in the immigrants
themselves.

Today, Europeans make up just 18% of the immigrant stream, with 54% of newcomers
from Asia, Africa and the Caribbean.

Most of these immigrants are not white, and some advocates say restrictionism
is, at base, racism.

"A lot of their (arguments) are code words for, 'We don't want Mexicans or
Asians,' " says Karen Narasaki of the National Asian Pacific American Legal
Consortium.

A few restrictionists are blunt.

"Why this many? Why these particular immigrants? These questions are never
addressed," says journalist Peter Brimelow, author of Alien Nation, a
controversial book about "America's immigration disaster."

But these questions are being addressed by the national Commission on
Immigration Reform, which this month called on Congress to cut immigration to
550,000 a year, largely by eliminating some categories of immigrants and
reducing others.

Many want a 'time out'

Even assuming some change in immigration is necessary, there's no consensus on
what kind. The various factions overlap on some important details but strongly
disagree on others. Conservatives and liberals can be found on the same side:

-- The Alien Nation faction argues there are too many immigrants and too many of
the "wrong kind" - instead of skilled, white Europeans. They want a "time out"
in immigration, and the highest priority to go to newcomers with skills.

Brimelow argues that immigration has changed the the country "in a radical and
rapid way unprecedented in history."

"Americans have the right to insist the government stop shifting the racial
balance," he says.

Republican presidential candidate Patrick Buchanan supports this view, as do
most restrictionist groups.

-- Another faction argues that the system is mostly working, and the number of
immigrants is acceptable, but that not enough is being done to "Americanize"
them.

House Speaker Newt Gingrich is in this camp, along with GOP leaders Bill Bennett
and Jack Kemp and many Democrats in Congress.

-- Yet another faction favors even more generous immigration policies. Kennedy
is a major voice here, along with a throng of advocacy groups. House Majority
Leader Dick Armey, R-Texas, also is a philosophical ally.

"I'm hard-pressed to think of a single problem that would be solved by shutting
off the supply of willing and eager new Americans," says Armey.

So far, President Clinton comes down somewhere in the middle, and backs the
commission's proposals.

'We have to discriminate'

The profusion of immigration issues is bewildering, but these are some of the
points of contention:

The numbers. Because the commission is so influential, its recommendation for a
relatively modest one-third reduction in the number of immigrants is likely to
be adopted.

"Between the total restrictionists and the total open-border people, that's
where we'll steer the boat," says Simpson.

Chain migration. The bulk of immigrants are spouses, children, grandchildren,
siblings and parents of citizens or legal permanent residents. And once
immigrants arrive, they may sponsor more relatives.

Wei Ming Wong, 41, an immigrant living in Los Angeles, can tick off 12 relatives
who came to the USA thanks to one sister. "There is no one left" in Hong Kong,
Wong says.

Cutting this chain migration is at the heart of the commission's proposals. It
recommended immigration priority go to nuclear families - spouses and minor
children - and that the door be shut to siblings, their families and adult
children.

These recommendations probably will be adopted by Congress.

Immigrant skills. Critics argue that immigration would best serve the nation if
admissions were weighted on the basis of skills.

"We have to discriminate among people who want to come," says George Borjas, an
economist at the University of California, San Diego, and a Cuban immigrant.
"Choosing high-skilled workers is better."

Accepting that, the commission wants to eliminate 10,000 immigration slots now
set aside for unskilled workers; Congress is likely to agree.

Immigrants and welfare. People cannot immigrate if they are likely to become a
public charge. But courts have ruled that sponsorship "contracts" aren't
enforceable.

Even advocates agree that's a huge loophole, and Congress is virtually certain
to plug it. "We're going to look at sponsorship, set additional
responsibilities," says Kennedy.

In addition, bills in Congress would cut off non-citizens from Supplemental
Security Income - a program that provides aid to the poor and disabled.
Non-citizens now make up about 30% of all SSI recipients.

The debate over all these aspects of immigration will begin in earnest this
summer, and most experts are betting that the nation's door will close somewhat
- but not entirely.

"The U.S. is largely what it is today because of our ability to draw and
assimilate new peoples," says Arthur Helton, immigration expert at the Open
Society Institute. "That has . . . resulted in displacement and conflict from
time to time, but without it, we would not be America."

Should immigration levels...
               All   Immigrants
Decrease        65%      30%
Stay the same   24%      44%
Increase         7%      15%

Should immigrants be encouraged to...
                             All   Immigrants
Blend into American culture   59%      59%
Maintain own culture more     32%      29%
Both equally                   4%      10%

LOAD-DATE: July 01, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, color, Cliff Vancura, USA TODAY, Source: USA TODAY/CNN/Gallup
Poll (Bar graph)

TYPE: Cover Story

3-DAY SPECIAL REPORT; THE NEW IMMIGRANTS; A changing nation now may close the
door; Critics want to focus more on skills, less on family ties; See related
stories; 02A, 10A; See info box at end of text.

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              119 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      July 3, 1995, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Fear, not facts, drives quest to bar legal immigrants

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 721 words


It's hard to imagine, on the cusp of the all-American July 4 holiday, anything
more inappropriate than the rising clamor for sharp reductions in immigration.
Our nation today is the product of centuries of welcome. There's no need to
change now.

Yet public fears of illegal immigration - fueled by the California experience
and anti-immigration cheerleaders who see danger in changing the nation's ethnic
mix - are giving nativism new life. Preserve us, they say, from those who do not
share our culture, from those who, in their numbers, would change our "racial
balance" and threaten our world.

Several proposals in Congress would curtail legal immigration or stop it
entirely. And polls show Americans believe immigrants take jobs and drain social
services.

Those are fears without a valid cause. A three-part series by staff writer Maria
Puente, the second installment of which appears today, shows the wall builders
are wrong. In many significant ways, immigrants are indistinguishable from
natives.

Indeed, a landmark USA TODAY/ CNN/Gallup Poll of immigrants, to be published in
detail Wednesday, shows that immigrants hold the same dreams and cherish the
same opportunities and freedoms as everyone else. In one telling statistic,
three in five immigrants agree that "blending in" is best. That's the same ratio
as among natives, and it speaks volumes about who our immigrants want to be.

New immigrants do indeed cluster in certain regions, cities and communities. And
that can produce localized difficulties.

But studies by the free-market-oriented Cato Institute find no negative
correlation between immigration and unemployment or wages. And numerous other
studies, including one done by the authoritative Urban Institute, show that,
excluding refugees, immigrants use social services at about the same rate as
natives.

So why the panic? Much of it comes from nativists who exploit public frustration
with illegal immigration (about 300,000 people a year) to build opposition to
legal immigration (about 800,000 people a year).

That's a dangerous mix-up, especially when it results in moratorium-talk.
Reason: Emma Lazarus got it slightly wrong.

We do not take just "huddled masses." We take the best the world can offer. One
study by the Brookings Institution found that between 1950 and 1970, immigrants
arrived with $ 8 billion worth of human capital - education and other skills -
each year. That "brain gain" has diminished since, but even a partial moratorium
would do more damage, by limiting the ability of immigration to offset the loss
of the 200,000 Americans who leave the country every year.

A complete halt to immigration would be even more harmful. It could not keep
illegal immigrants out - a sensible goal to pursue. Instead, it would keep out
hundreds of thousands of people who deserve a place here and contribute to the
nation: skilled workers, refugees and - the largest category of all - spouses
and children of our own citizens.

Do we let in too many immigrants? Hard to see how. About 8% of us today are
foreign born, compared to 15% between 1870 and 1920. And if 1 million people
arrive every year, what noticeable impact can that have on a nation of 260
million?

Of course, the new nativism isn't new at all. Germans, Jews, Italians, Chinese -
what race or ethnicity has not at one time been maligned as a threat to the
American identity? And who among them is not now an integral part of it?

Yes, much can be done to improve the immigration system. And much should be done
to confront illegal immigration. But a moratorium on legal immigration grossly
misunderstands and endangers the American experience. We are not a homogenous
nation; we never have been. We are a nation of change; we always should be.

Trends in immigration

Immigration peaked in the early years of the century and plunged in the 1920's.
Although rising, it remains far below historic levels. Rate of immigrants per
1,000 residents:
1820's                         2.1
1900's                        10.4
1990's(Projected)              4.7

Foreign-born population

Percentage of U.S. residents who were born in another country:
1870                          13.9
1990                           7.9

LOAD-DATE: July 04, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHICS, b/w, Genevieve Lynn, USA TODAY, Source: Immigration and
Naturalization Service (Line graph)

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; Today's debate; STOPPING IMMIGRATION; OUR VIEW; Research
finds immigrants want to fit in and usually do - just as citizens want them to;
See info box at end of text; See related stories; 08A, 10A

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              120 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     July 13, 1995, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Agencies, businesses enlist high-tech fraud-fighters

BYLINE: Cheryl Phillips

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 704 words


Voiceprints, hand geometry, bar codes, magnetic stripes and fingerprints -
they're all soldiers in the war on fake IDs.

"Big brother is here," says Jim Gaughrin, a fraud investigator for the U.S.
Secret Service. "If somebody gets your name and Social Security number and
applies for credit, you're screwed. Wouldn't it be better if nobody could get
credit unless they matched your fingerprint?"

That attitude is behind the push by government agencies, the credit and banking
industry and security businesses for counterfeit-proof IDs:

-- At Kennedy, Newark and Toronto airports some international travelers put
their hands on a Star Trek-like computer that scans various shapes and distances
- their hands' geometry - as part of an Immigration and Naturalization Service
test program.

-- The INS also is testing voiceprints for legal immigrant work cards. If the
process works, a worker could call a computer and say a phrase into the phone,
and the computer would verify that person's identity. Now, a person who is not
eligible to work can counterfeit a work card and get a job illegally.

-- Even fingerprinting's going high-tech. Banks are using barely visible inkless
methods to fingerprint non-customers who cash checks.

-- Driver's licenses now come with a credit-card look and holographic images to
make tampering difficult.

Vital statistics - name, height, weight, hair color - are printed over ghost
images of photos or state seals, making it tough to replace accurate information
with false. License bureaus are using digital photography so a picture can be
filed in a computer and called up on the screen with the touch of a button. Some
states require a thumbprint.

Increased security doesn't stop with driver's licenses.

Credit-card companies - which, depending on who is counting, lose between
millions and billions of dollars annually because of fake IDs - are stepping up
their efforts, too.

Visa has slowed fraud through a computer system that watches for the same
address or phone number used on multiple credit applications, often a sign of
fraud.

"Let's face it - if 350 applications are coming from a P.O. box in the Bronx,
we've got a problem," says Allan Trosclair, vice president of fraud control for
Visa USA. Trosclair credits the new computer system with helping Visa push its
rate of fraudulent credit cards from 6% to 3% since 1993.

Even the Social Security Administration, in the past extremely secretive with
its information, is verifying records for driver's license bureaus.

But crackdowns come at a price, privacy advocates say.

"New identification schemes create new opportunities for fraud that don't
already exist," says Marc Rotenberg, director of the Electronic Privacy
Information Center in Washington, D.C. "We think a lot of the proposals really
have to be looked at carefully because the fact is Americans really do value
their privacy."

Tell that to the people cashing checks at Bank of America branches in Las Vegas.
There, most people have responded positively to a fingerprinting program, says
Paul Stowell, a bank vice president.

"People are recognizing this is another way to protect their interests," Stowell
says.

Driver's licenses are changing Texas is among at least 30 states in the process
of changing their driver's licenses to crack down on fraud. The new Texas
license, made like a credit card, will be in full use by 2003.

State flag, state seal: Imprints make reproduction more difficult

Administrator's signature: The writing, partly over the photo, makes pasting
another photo on top more difficult.

Type: Red, blue and black, making reproduction more difficult.

Photo: People under 21 on the left; all others on the right.

Holographic image of the word 'Texas': Stretches across the front of the
license, including the photo. If someone were to paste a new photo on the top of
the license, the holographic image would be destroyed.

Thumb print: Taken when people apply for the license. Imposters applying for
license renewals will be caught if the prints don't match.

Bar code, magnetic stripe: Run across the back of the card. The police, or any
store with bar code scanning equipment, can verify identities.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Genevieve Lynn, USA TODAY, Source: USA TODAY research
(Illustration)

CRACKDOWN ON FAKE I.D.; See related story; 01A; See info box at end of text.

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              121 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 27, 1995, Friday, FIRST EDITION

DEPORTATIONS

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 322 words


Immigration officials deported 48,361 foreigners in the 12-month period ending
Sept. 30. The figure includes a record 31,244 criminal aliens, people convicted
of serious crimes, and 17,117 sent back for non-criminal causes such as
violating immigration laws. Officials attribute the increase to more hearings in
jail so an inmate is deported immediately when the sentence expires. Also,
hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants, mostly Mexicans, voluntarily leave
when caught. But officials say many return to the USA the same day.

O.J. SKIT: The Jaycees of Pasco, Wash., dropped an "O.J. Simpson crime scene"
skit from its haunted house Halloween fund-raiser. Irate residents protested the
proposed skit, which would have had an actor dressed like O.J. Simpson jump from
bushes, stab dummies of Nicole Brown Simpson and Ronald Goldman, sign an
autograph and drop a glove. "We had no intention of offending anyone," said
Jaycee Dan Stone. Not dropped: a Jeffrey Dahmer skit, in which an actor depicts
the Milwaukee serial killer and cannibal slicing and dicing a human forearm and
foot, burning a human head on a stove and sticking it into a microwave.

ALSO THURSDAY . . .

-- PEDOPHILE CAPTURED: Patrick Distaffen, 39, was arrested at a Lyndonville,
N.Y. hotel, 3 1/2 months after eluding two guards at his parents' home in
Greece, N.Y., on the day he was to be sentenced for sodomizing an 11-year-old
boy He's suspected of molesting 33 children.

-- TAP WATER ALERT: Environmental groups released a survey saying some U.S. tap
water has high levels of radon and possible toxic levels of arsenic. The groups
are urging tougher federal standards. A utilities association called the
criticism alarmist and said scientists remain uncertain if levels pose a
significant health risk. Contributing: M. David Goodwin, Patricia V. Rivera,
Steve Marshall, Carrie Dowling, Maria Puente, Gale Holland and Kevin Johnson

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              122 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   November 14, 1995, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Immigration is a negative for cities, study says

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 958 words


A study sponsored by an anti-immigration group finds that U.S. cities with a
high percentage of immigrants have a poorer quality of life than cities with a
low percentage.

The study out today by the Federation for American Immigration Reform is
provoking inflamed arguments about immigration. And the issue is likely to
become even hotter early next year when Congress takes up legislation that would
sharply curtail immigration for the first time in decades.

Advocates for immigrants say they hope to derail the bills or significantly
weaken them.

Those in favor of restricting immigration say they believe the current high
level of immigration is bad for the nation. Their report, "A Tale of Ten
Cities," compares 1970-90 Census Bureau data on five pairs of cities of similar
size.

In each pair, one city has a high percentage of immigrants and the other has a
low percentage. The study analyzes conditions such as education, income, housing
and crime.

Leon Bouvier, a demographer at Tulane University, conducted the study. His
findings: Long Beach, Oakland, Miami, Santa Ana and Stockton, Calif. - all with
high percentages of immigrants - have higher unemployment, longer commutes, and
more poor people, crowding, high school dropouts and violent crime.

"I was flabbergasted," says Bouvier. "I did not expect such radical
differences."

But some other researchers question Bouvier's methods and conclusions.

Michael Fix, a demographer at the Urban Institute, a liberal think tank, says
Bouvier compared busy port cities to inland cities and recession-wracked
California cities to heartland cities. Those differences could affect quality of
life even more than immigration, he says.

"By not taking into account anything but population, he stacks the deck in a way
that doesn't make analytic sense," says Fix.

Dowell Myers, an urban planner at the University of Southern California and an
expert on quality-of-life research, says Bouvier's choice of cities amounts to
"comparing apples to watermelons."

Dan Stein, director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, says
earlier studies have measured only national trends, not the effects of
immigration on specific cities.

"This is an innovative way to show how immigration affects daily life in
high-impact areas," says Stein.

But a 1994 study for the Alexis de Tocqueville Institution, a pro-business think
tank in Virginia, compared states with high and low percentages of immigrants.
It found unemployment rates were lower in states with a high percentage of
immigrants.

"Immigration did not lower job opportunity. In fact, the data suggested the
opposite," says Richard Vedder, author of the study and head of the Center for
the Study of American Business at Washington University in St. Louis.

In the Places Rated Almanac, which assesses hundreds of metropolitan areas on
quality-of-life issues, four of the five high-immigration cities examined by
Bouvier ranked higher in quality of life in 1993 than they did in 1985, says
John Berthoud, vice president of de Tocqueville. The four cities: Santa Ana,
Long Beach, Miami and Oakland.

Studies differ on immigration effects

Two independent studies came up with differing views on the effect of
immigration on cities and states. One report, which studied Census data from 10
U.S. cities, says immigration lowered quality of life. The other report,
focusing on employment in 20 states, says immigration did not increase
unemployment in states with high percentage of immigrants. Results of the
studies:

Negative effects The report, "A Tale of Ten Cities: Immigration's Effect on the
Family Environment in American Cities" compared quality of life in five cities
with low percentages of immigrants and five with high rates(1). Some findings:

Welfare dependency Average percentage of resident on welfare:
High immigration cities      15.4%
Low immigration cities        6.9%

Crowded housing rates Average percentage of people living in crowded(2) housing:
High immigration cities      22.1%
Low immigration cities          3%

Violent crime rates Average number of violent crimes per 100,000 population:
High immigration cities      8,077
Low immigration cities       3,553

Unemployment rate Average percentage of residents without jobs:
High immigration cities      9.4%
Low immigration cities       4.8%

High school dropouts Average percentage of high-school dropouts:
High immigration cities      19.4%
Low immigration cities       11.4%

Immigrants and unemployment The report "Immigration and Unemployment: New
Evidence" says that unemployment in 1960-1991 was lower in the 10 states with
the highest percentage of immigrants than in the 10 states with the lowest
percentage. Average unemployment rates for the two groups:
Highest immigration states     5.9%
Lowest immigration states      6.7%

1 - Five cities studied with high percentage of immigrants: Long Beach, Calif.;
Oakland, Calif.; Miami; Santa Ana, Calif. and Stockton, Calif. Five cities
studied with low percentage of immigrants: Oklahoma City, Okla.; Tulsa, Okla.;
Omaha; St. Paul, Minn. and Lexington, Mass. 2 - More than 1.01 persons per room
is the Census Bureau's definition of crowded housing 3 - Ten states studied with
highest percentage of immigrants: California, Connecticut, Florida, Hawaii,
Illinois , Massachusetts, Nevada, New Jersey, New York and Rhode Island. Ten
states studied with the lowest percentage of immigrants: Alabama, Arkansas,
Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina,
Tennessee and West Virginia.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Marcy E. Mullins, USA TODAY, Sources: The Federation for
American Immigration Reform; The Alexis De Tocqueville Institution (Bar graph)

THE NATION; See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              123 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  November 29, 1995, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

'This is my cause now' // Immigration law may force IRA men out of USA

BYLINE: Richard Willing

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1518 words

DATELINE: BLOOMFIELD, N.J.


Noel Mary Gaynor's first war was on the streets of Northern Ireland, and it
carried a high price. A policeman was shot dead, and Gaynor, an Irish Republican
Army soldier who helped set up the ambush, spent 13 1/2 years in prison.

To Gaynor, it all seems long ago. Today, he's retired from the IRA, working in
construction and living quietly in this New York suburb. His life no longer
turns on driving the British out of Northern Ireland but on avoiding being
deported there himself.

"This is my cause now," he says, sitting in his modest living room and gesturing
toward his American wife and their two small daughters. "To be a taxpayer, a
hard worker, an average American Joe. To keep my family together."

This week, as President Clinton visits Ireland and Northern Ireland to try and
help make the fragile peace permanent, the pending deportation cases of Gaynor
and 10 other former IRA men or supporters are an awkward distraction. When the
peace process took a sudden leap forward Tuesday night, that became especially
true.

Two of the wives plan to follow Clinton through Ireland this week to publicize
the deportations. A congressional delegation, including several lawmakers who
have urged Clinton to intervene, will meet the president there.

Meanwhile, family members and friends of the possible deportees plan a
demonstration Saturday at the New York headquarters of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. The 11 pending deportations, they say, are an all-time
high for former Irish republicans.

The INS insists it is following ordinary procedures and that the men have not
been singled out. They are being pursued, it says, because they did not disclose
their records for IRA-related crimes when they entered the United States,
usually on tourist visas, during the past 10 years.

The men say their IRA crimes, which range from arms possession to murder, were
"political offenses" and should not be held against them, given their steady
jobs and clean records here. Though most of them arrived in the country
illegally, they have since married Americans or legal residents and have
fathered 23 American children among them.

They want badly to stay. Were it not for their IRA records, almost certainly
they would be allowed to.

"These are hard-working men who, without exception, never cost the American
taxpayers a quarter," says Michael Dowd, a lawyer who represents one of them.
"The irony is that these are the kind of immigrants you'd want for neighbors."

But Clinton may be reluctant to intervene.

The president has cast himself as a conciliator in the conflict between warring
Catholics, many of whom want to unite the six counties of Northern Ireland with
the neighboring Irish republic, and Protestants who wish to remain part of Great
Britain. Helping the ex-IRA men now could harm his credibility.

"There are many who feel the forgotten victims are not the IRA, but the victims
of violence," says the Rev. John Dunlop, a Presbyterian minister in Belfast.

The greatest irony may be that no one outside the immigration bureaucracy seems
to want the men sent back.

Not the British authorities, who say the ex-IRA men have completed their
sentences and are free to go. Not the mostly Protestant Irish "loyalists," often
the targets of IRA violence.

The men, meanwhile, are permitted to work while they fight deportation. Similar
cases have taken 12 years to resolve.

In New York, Charlie Caulfield and Kevin Crossan work as carpenters while Robbie
McErlean rehabs floors. In nearby Pearl River, N.Y., Brian Pearson is a
carpenter, too.

In St. Louis, Francie Broderick, wife of potential deportee Matt Morrison,
supports the family as a social services administrator while her husband studies
nursing and minds the couple's two children. Morrison, a college student in
Northern Ireland, served 10 years after a companion fired from a car at a police
guardpost. His wife estimates that the family has spent $ 50,000 on his
immigration case.

"It's Kafkaesque," says Niall O'Dowd, publisher of the Irish Voice, a weekly
aimed at Irish immigrants in the USA. "The bureaucracy grinds on, seemingly
without reference to any other form of reality."

Gaynor's story is typical.

He was born in Lurgan, a town of about 9,000 Catholics and twice that many
Protestants, two days before Christmas 1953. His family, though Catholic, was
"completely not political," he remembers. A favorite uncle was a soldier in the
British army.

An apprentice carpenter, he had difficulty finding work. In 1969, Gaynor
attended "civil rights" rallies for improved housing and job opportunities for
Northern Ireland's Catholic minority. This, he says, caused security forces to
"kick in our door" and beat his father with a rifle butt. He joined the IRA "so
as not to have to just lie down and take it."

The next years were rough. Gaynor was repeatedly arrested by police and British
army patrols. He was often beaten, he says, once having seven teeth kicked out
by an officer's boot. Pieces of teeth still imbedded in the roof of Gaynor's
mouth sometimes cause a whistle when he pronounces "s" or "t."

In December 1973, IRA riflemen set up an ambush on a Lurgan street. Gaynor's
role, according to British government records, was to stand in the street and
alert the shooters "when he saw any potential security force targets." A passing
policeman was shot. An informer tipped off police, and Gaynor was arrested and
tried in a special anti-terrorist court. In 1977, he was convicted of murder and
sentenced to life in prison.

"I'm sorry a police constable had to die," Gaynor, 41, says today. "I'm also
sorry boys had to die who were my mates, boys from the other side, boys (who
were soldiers) from England and Scotland and Wales."

"That's guerrilla warfare. We didn't ask for it. The British gave us no choice."

In prison, Gaynor began to correspond with Colleen Connelly, an Irish-American
from Olean, N.Y. She visited him and they fell in love. When Gaynor was paroled
in early 1990, he came to the USA on a visitor's visa and the couple married.
When asked on his immigration form whether he had ever been convicted of a
crime, Gaynor answered "no."

The other IRA alumni, often using their British passports, pretty much did the
same thing when they entered the United States. Their reasoning: Convictions for
IRA activity were not crimes, but "political offenses."

"Right or wrong, that's quite understandable, given what the men had been
through," says Rep. Thomas Manton, D-N.Y., who is lobbying for the men. "They
had been considered political prisoners (in Northern Ireland) not criminals, and
this is how they think of themselves."

The INS, however, doesn't see it that way.

"To make false statements when you enter is to violate terms of your visa," says
Russ Bergeron, an INS spokesman.

The men, he said, never would have been admitted had they disclosed their
convictions because "terrorist activities" are not "political."'

Irish-American activists are outraged. They note that Gerry Adams, president of
Sinn Fein, the IRA's political wing, once was denied entry into the United
States because of his terrorist background. Now, Adams is among those scheduled
to greet Clinton in Northern Ireland Thursday.

"The Irish freedom struggle is recognized as political in the White House, in
Congress, and everywhere but at the INS," says Martin Galvin, a lawyer for three
of the men.

Adds the Rev. Sean McManus, a Catholic priest who heads the Irish National
Caucus in Washington: "This is a clearly stated effort to harass and hound Irish
people in this country. . . . Why is the government spending such time and
resources targeting people the British have a beef with?"

But INS, through spokesman Bergeron, insists that it is following 'the 'ordinary
procedures" the law requires. And the British dismiss claims of their
involvement as preposterous.

"There's no reason for us to do anything; the men have served their sentences,"
says Peter Bean, spokesman for the British Embassy in Washington.

Immigration law may be the highest hurdle. The 1990 Immigration Act bars
individuals who give "material aid" to illegal armed struggles. It was written
with the PLO in mind, but has been applied to IRA activity. Federal judges have
ruled that former IRA men can be denied political asylum because their group
persecutes Northern Irish Protestants.

"Absolutely, positively untrue," says Gabriel Megahey, a crane operator in the
Bronx and another potential deportee.

It is unclear how the cases will come out. In similar cases in the past two
years, U.S. courts have found that ex-IRA men or sympathizers would risk death
if they were returned to Northern Ireland. Both times, the INS then offered
residency.

But the cease-fire in Northern Ireland makes it harder for the men to claim that
they would be endangered if sent back.

While the dispute rages, the men keep a low profile.

"They say one man's freedom fighter is another man's terrorist," Gaynor says.
'Well, this man is a laborer and a husband and a father, and would hope to be
let stay that way."

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, color, Robert Deutsch, USA TODAY

TYPE: Cover Story

Family men -- ex-IRA soldiers -- face deportation; Failure to disclose criminal
background is the issue, say officials

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              124 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    December 15, 1995, Friday, FINAL EDITION

U.S. policy faces restrictions

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 177 words


Landmark legislation, calling for the most restrictive changes in immigration
policy in decades, will be voted on in Congress early next year.

Two bills, one each in the House and Senate, differ in important details. But
both aim to cut back legal immigration 25%-30%. In 1994, just over 800,000
people legally immigrated to the United States. And an estimated 300,000 people
entered illegally and stayed. The bills would:

-- Prevent citizens and legal immigrants from bringing in their siblings or
adult children, shutting the door to millions of would-be immigrants.

-- Make it more difficult and expensive for employers to import and hire foreign
workers.

-- Try to prevent illegal immigrants from getting jobs by requiring employers to
call a central computer database to check the validity of employees' Social
Security numbers. This change would affect every person seeking a job in the
United States.

The bills are opposed by an unlikely coalition of liberal Democrats,
conservative Republicans, immigrant advocates and business leaders.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

THE NATION; See main story; 03A

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              125 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   February 7, 1996, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Immigrants account for welfare program's growth

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 825 words


The number of legal immigrants on one federal welfare program has climbed more
than 14% each year since 1985, a Senate immigration-reform panel was told
Tuesday.

Deputy Social Security Commissioner Carolyn Colvin said nearly 12% of all
Supplemental Security Income recipients are immigrants. And the General
Accounting Office, Congress' investigative arm, said noncitizens account for 25%
of SSI's growth from 1986 to 1993.

SSI guarantees an income to needy people who are disabled, blind or over 65.

Colvin testified as the House and the Senate prepare to vote on two GOP plans
that would reduce the number of immigrants to the United States. Sen. Alan
Simpson, R-Wyo., a co-sponsor of the bill, said one goal is to cut abuse by
immigrants drawn to the USA because of welfare benefits.

He said rules should be tightened so immigrant sponsors are financially
responsible. Judges have said affidavits of support required of sponsors are not
enforceable. "This is not about the ragged, the wretched or the homeless,"
Simpson said. "People who have more are going to pay more."

JORDAN TRIAL: Daniel Green, accused of killing basketball star Michael Jordan's
father, wore some of the dead man's clothing in court, a co-defendant testified.
Larry Demery testified at the Lumberton, N.C., trial that Green kept James
Jordan's suit and wore the pants "last week right here in this courtroom."
Demery, 20, has pleaded guilty to murder and is assisting in the prosecution of
Green, 21.

JUDGE CRITICIZED: New York federal prosecutors filed papers repeatedly accusing
Judge Harold Baer of substituting his personal views for settled legal
principles when he tossed out evidence in a $ 4 million drug case. Prosecutors
asked Baer to reverse his ruling, in which he said police corruption in the
Washington Heights area was so rampant that it would be unusual if people didn't
run when they saw police. Baer has said prosecution efforts to get him to change
his mind are "a rather juvenile project." He ruled last month that the
defendant's confession and evidence can't be used because police had no right to
stop her.

CHILD ABUSE ARRESTS: Gerald Hill, 52, and his wife, Barbara, 41, of Chicago,
were ordered held on $ 100,000 bond on child abuse charges involving four of
their children. Authorities say the Hills injected the kids - a boy age 5 and
three girls ages 10, 11 and 12 - with cocaine, sexually abused them and fed them
cooked rats and roaches.

STANDOFF: Honolulu police sharpshooters fatally wounded a man who invaded his
former workplace and held a man at gunpoint on live TV. Police held off shooting
John Miranda, 28, for six hours because of the shotgun taped to his hand and to
hostage Tom McNeil's head. The end came when Miranda told officers he was
starting a 60-second countdown to shooting. At 15, McNeil attempted to break
away, and police fired at Miranda. Guy George, 39, a supervisor wounded in the
leg earlier by Miranda, was in guarded condition. Miranda was upset about being
laid off last year.

JUNK MAIL: A closely watched lawsuit seeking damages for having one's name sold
to mass marketers was dismissed on a technicality. The small-claims judge in
Arlington, Va., said a higher court should decide the matter. Ram Avrahami, 33,
sued U.S. News & World Report, saying it had no right to sell his name and
address to another company without his permission. He wants $ 1,100. Officials
of the direct-marketing industry say the lawsuit is unfounded, but they fear
devastating consequences if Avrahami wins in Circuit Court.

ALSO TUESDAY . . .

QUINTS: Three girls and two boys were in stable condition after being born 13
weeks prematurely on Monday to Pnina Klaver, 37, of New York. She was on
fertility drugs. Weights: 1 pound 9 ounces to 1 pound 14 ounces. "We expect good
outcomes," said physician Philip Lipsitz.

DU PONT CASE: John du Pont, charged with the Jan. 26 gunshot slaying of Olympic
wrestler David Schultz at du Pont's suburban Philadelphia mansion, will undergo
tests today for a possible brain disorder, his lawyer said.

TWA hijacking hero dies of cancer

John Testrake, the TWA pilot who gained worldwide fame during a 17-day hijacking
in 1985, died at a hospice in St. Joseph, Mo., after battling cancer since 1994.
He was 68.

The Boeing 727, with 145 passengers and eight crew members, was hijacked on June
14, 1985, by Islamic terrorists on a flight from Athens to Rome. With the jet
parked at Beirut airport, the hijackers often pointed a cocked pistol at
Testrake's neck while demanding that hundreds of Lebanese be released from
Israeli jails. A U.S. Navy diver was killed; the others were freed after 17
days.

Testrake often credited his religious faith for getting him through that ordeal
and his cancer fight. After retiring from TWA in 1987, Testrake flew for a
ministry, Mission Aviation Fellowship. He is survived by his wife, Phyllis.

Contributing: Claudine Kriss

LOAD-DATE: February 08, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO FIRST, b/w, Mark Wilson, AP; PHOTO, b/w, AP; PHOTO, b/w, Cory
Lum, Honolulu Advertiser via AP; PHOTO, b/w, ABC News via AP

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1996 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              126 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    November 11, 1994, Friday, FINAL EDITION

'Deep vein' of anger in California / Prop. 187 reinforcing divisions

BYLINE: Maria Puente; Gale Holland

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 984 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


The message left on Arturo Vargas' answering machine Wednesday was not the first
of its kind, but it was still chilling:

"Get out of town, bean dip, your time is up, go back to your homeland, this is a
white man's country, we don't want you anymore."

It continued in that vein, but Vargas turned it off.

"It's nothing new; we get these kinds of calls and letters often," says Vargas,
vice president of the Mexican-American Legal Defense and Education Fund in Los
Angeles. "People are just making a point of reinforcing their views in the wake
of what's happened."

What has happened here is Proposition 187, the bitterly contested ballot measure
overwhelmingly approved by California voters.

The law would deny most state services to illegal immigrants and require
teachers, doctors and other public workers to report them.

State and federal judges have put the law on hold while they examine the
constitutionality of major provisions.

But no matter how the courts rule, Proposition 187 has jarred California's
already uneasy racial relations, creating an angry fissure between Hispanics and
non-Hispanics.

"To a great extent, 187 mined into a deep vein of prejudice," says the Rev.
Gregory Coiro of the Catholic Archdiocese of Los Angeles.

"To ask why is to ask for rationality, and this is very emotional issue. People
are angry and frustrated at the federal government's failure to control illegal
immigration, and they wanted to strike out. They just lashed out at wrong people
- the immigrants."

The Proposition 187 victory makes California ground zero of the anti-illegal
immigration movement, which supporters hope will sweep the nation.

The measure is the harshest reflection thus far of national polls that have
shown a growing public backlash against illegal immigrants.

"I got into a car accident with a guy who didn't speak English, had no green
card, no driver's license, no form of ID, and he walks away. I'm left holding
the bag," says James Lee, 30, an immigrant from Taiwan. "It's those little
trivial everyday experiences that got enough people really angry to vote to do
something about it."

Says small-business owner Kim Dozier, 31: "I feel badly because little kids get
caught in it and it's not their fault. On the other hand, the trickle-down
effect on everybody else is pretty hard. I have friends who can't get into
college classes because they're overcrowded with illegals."

But the passage of Proposition 187 also has energized California's Hispanic
population, which has turned out in almost daily protests.

"You're seeing the emergence of a profound new kind of civil rights movement,"
says urban analyst and writer Mike Davis, author of an acclaimed book on Los
Angeles, City of Quartz.

California is also seeing the widespread emergence of anger and hostility.

"They want us Mexicans out of here," says high school student Jenny Perez, 15.
"Already, they follow me around the mall and make remarks. My dad is so mad he
told me if anybody gives me (a hard time) just to get them and he'll get me out
of jail."

Some analysts say the conflict was bound to happen given the rapid changes in
California's demographics.

The state's Hispanic population now stands at about 25% and is projected to grow
to 40% by the year 2040.

"It isn't the change itself that makes people afraid, it's the rapidity," says
Ira Mehlman, spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which
campaigned for Proposition 187.

Critics of Proposition 187 blame Republican Gov. Pete Wilson, who won
re-election by campaigning for the measure, for what they say is the poisonous
state of ethnic relations in the wake of 187.

"He created an environment where anti-Latino sentiment was winked at and allowed
to be expressed openly," Vargas says. "Latinos will never forget that."

Supporters of Proposition 187 say the law is aimed only at illegal immigrants,
not at any particular ethnic group or at immigrants in general.

"Legal immigrants tend to be good; illegal aliens tend to be bad," says Ron
Prince, the Orange County accountant who was a chief proponent of 187.

But Hispanics still feel they are being targeted.

Larry Peterson, a student teacher in Latino-dominated schools, described the
reaction of one seventh-grader.

"He said, all slump-shouldered, 'We lost.' It was just so sad. He took it as
such a personal thing against him and his race," Peterson says.

The Rev. Coiro is confident that the wounds can be healed gradually. "The
campaign is over and we still have to live together," he says.

Vargas is not so sure. The only benefits from 187, he says, are that it
galvanizes Hispanic voters - especially young Hispanics - encourages more
non-citizens to become naturalized, and might finally succeed in unifying
Hispanics both politically and economically.

"Eventually, Latinos will be the leaders in this state. It will happen," he
says. "Now we have to look at other ways Latinos can make their presence and
influence known, through our consumer base."

Contributing: Sally Ann Stewart

Who backed Prop 187 California's Proposition 187 passed 59%-41%. Exit polls show
how support split among groups:
                Yes       No

GENDER
Male             63%       37%
Female           56%       44%

RACE/ETHNICITY
White            64%       36%
Black            56%       44%
Hispanic         31%       69%
Asian            57%       43%

AGE GROUP
18-29            50%       50%
30-44            58%       42%
45-59            59%       41%
60+              66%       34%

PARTY INDENTIFICATION
Democrats        43%       57%
Republicans      74%       26%
Ind./others      59%       41%

Source: Voter News Service

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Eric Draper, AP; PHOTO, b/w, Nick Ut, AP; PHOTO, b/w,
Robert Hanashiro, USA TODAY

THE NATION; See info box at end of text; See related story; 08A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              127 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  November 16, 1994, Wednesday, FIRST EDITION

CALIFORNIA KO

BYLINE: Oscar Dixon

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 51 words


World Boxing Council President Jose Sulaiman said Tuesday no Mexican boxers
would be allowed to fight in California because of Proposition 187, which cuts
off benefits to the state's estimated 1.6 million illegal immigrants. The WBC
also will ban title fights in California until March 30, 1995.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Sportsline

A QUICK READ ON THE TOP SPORTS NEWS OF THE DAY

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              128 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    November 18, 1994, Friday, FINAL EDITION

States setting stage for their own Prop. 187s

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 594 words


A homemaker in Delray Beach, Fla.

An electronics salesman in New York.

A retired insurance executive in Tucson, Ariz.

They have at least one thing in common: determination to pass laws like
California's Proposition 187.

They are only in the talking stage, but they are talking big: Laws to deny
education and other services to illegal immigrants can sweep their states.

"I think we can pass it by an even bigger margin than in California," says JoAnn
Peart, 44, the homemaker pushing a campaign in Florida. "We are the
laughingstock of the world. . . . People want change."

In Arizona, retiree Don Barrington, 59, has formed a Save Our State/Arizona
committee, with plans to put a 187-like measure on the 1996 ballot.

"Arizona will pass it by 66% and California passed it by 59%," says Barrington.
"And it's not a racial issue. My friends have never heard a racist word out of
me. I just don't like wetbacks."

That kind of talk worries some Hispanics. "Arizona is fertile ground," says
Tucson civil rights lawyer Isabel Garcia, a fifth-generation Mexican-American.
"We're frightened and we're getting prepared."

In New York, Ron Laney, 38, the electronics salesman, is calling his committee
"Take Back America." He promises a "very sophisticated" campaign to force the
state Legislature to set a referendum.

The supporters are getting advice and instruction from Proposition 187
proponents in California.

In Florida and Arizona they may not need it: Thanks to successful "official
English" ballot campaigns in the 1980s, there are already established groups.

"The two issues are so related. Immigration is driving the language conflict,"
says Bob Park, a retired immigration agent in Prescott, Ariz., and a leader of
the movement that produced Arizona's official-English law, which narrowly passed
in 1988.

But passing more Proposition 187s may not be easy.

Economic conditions in other states are not the same as in recession-wracked
California. The governors of Florida, New York, Texas and Arizona oppose
187-like laws. California Gov. Pete Wilson won re-election advocating the
measure.

Wilson showed Thursday he's not abandoning the issue. He pledged to carry on the
court battle after a federal judge put Proposition 187 implementation on hold.
Another hearing is set Tuesday.

Advocates in other states have another hurdle: Getting an initiative on the
ballot isn't easy in New York or Texas, where legislatures control ballots and
Democrats control the legislatures.

But 187 supporters don't think any of that matters.

"This will be a people's initiative and whoever's against it will go down in
flames," says Enos Schera, 67, a retired electrician and head of an English-only
group in Florida's Dade County.

Floridians cite local polls showing high voter support for a 187-like measure.
And they even connect support for the measure to the defeat of Republican Jeb
Bush by Democratic Gov. Lawton Chiles in last week's election.

"Jeb Bush lost because he was too linked to the Cubans and because he spoke
Spanish at one of the (televised) debates," says Peart.

Bush's bilingual performance "was an utter insult to Americans," says Schera.

California's immigration tide

States with the largest illegal-immigrant populations:
California         1.6 million
New York           449,000
Texas              357,000
Florida            322,000
Illinois           176,000
New Jersey         116,000
Other states       518,000
Total              3.5 million

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Nick Galifianakis, USA TODAY, Source: Immigration and
Naturalization Service 1993 estimates (Pie chart)

THE NATION; See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              129 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   November 29, 1994, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

End tyranny of the courts over people's laws

BYLINE: James Delmont

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 497 words


The instant lawsuits now pending in various courts against California's
Proposition 187 prove once again that the wishes of the Founding Fathers - that
the Supreme Court should not have veto power over legislation - have been
forgotten.

In fact, long before the election, pundits and opponents were arguing that the
proposed law limiting services to illegal aliens would be "unconstitutional,"
demonstrating how customary it has become to refer to state and federal laws in
tentative terms - "until tested in the courts."

At the Constitutional Convention in 1787, the framers specifically rejected a
suggestion that the Constitution include language giving the federal courts
power to veto acts of Congress. They did give a veto to the president but gave
Congress the ability to override a veto by a two-thirds vote in both the House
and the Senate. Had the founders granted a veto power to the courts, it would
likely also have been limited by a similar check or balance.

But early in the last century, Chief Justice John Marshall led the Supreme Court
in two decisions that resulted in an absolute, unchecked power of the federal
courts to overthrow state and federal laws at random. In an 1803 case, the court
assumed the unconstitutional authority to overthrow federal laws, a judicial
power available in few other democracies and impossible in some. Eighteen years
later, the court gave itself the same power of veto over state and local laws.

The abuse of this privilege has led to a situation in which all laws in our
country are tentative. The law itself has lost its historic notion of authority
- that it comes from the power of the people, through their elected
representatives. Instead, it has to be cleared with the courts.

The initiative and referendum, the direct primary and the ability to recall
elected officials were great achievements of the progressive era in U.S.
politics a century ago. But today, as with California's Proposition 187, they
are routinely smothered by court rulings based on an unchecked veto power that
is being abused.

What recourse do we have?

If Americans are to restore both the original intent of the framers of the
Constitution and the vitality of majority-rule democracy, we should create,
either by law or by constitutional amendment, a separate Constitutional Court.
It alone would have the power of "judicial review," accepting cases on
recommendation from the Supreme Court. It would be subject to a check and
balance from the Congress, as the presidential veto is. Term limits for the
court's judges also would be a good idea.

At present, hundreds of federal judges promiscuously wield a veto power never
intended by the Founding Fathers - one that diminishes democracy while
institutionalizing an elite, unelected group of men and women appointed for life
who can nullify any law, ruling or regulation simply by declaring it
"unconstitutional."

This is folly, and the time has come to do something about it.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; Take back democracy; end federal judges' veto power over
what the public wants.; James Delmont is an adjunct professor in history at the
University of Nebraska at Omaha and a columnist/critic for the Omaha
World-Herald.

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              130 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   December 1, 1994, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Prop. 187: When the next desk is empty

BYLINE: Mas Masumoto

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 502 words


With passage of Proposition 187 here in California, my daughter's fourth-grade
class will never be the same. Her class - now five whites, three Asians, 16
Hispanics - will have a new classification: illegal.

As the vicious rhetoric of the campaign subsides, we have to grapple with the
everyday implications of a law denying public services to illegal aliens. I have
to prepare my answer to my daughter's question when one day she goes to school
and finds empty desks in her classroom. I will have to explain the problem
adults have with her 9-year-old friends and why they no longer can go to school.
For my daughter, all my answers will be ugly.

In the game of politics, Proposition 187 offers a political solution to a
problem. In the real world of elementary schools and fourth grades, the
solutions are never as simple and clear as politicians' speeches insinuate.
Children will grow up wondering what happened to classmates; friendships will be
destroyed by political acts.

At the school's open house, I silently read the surnames on the desks: Reyes,
Ruiz, Valdez, Soto, Lopez. Who will question these children? How will they
determine legal status? Will they be in school a year from now?

It may well take years for the courts to rule on Proposition 187. By then, many
of us will have conveniently forgotten our vote. We will rely on others to carry
out the act - school administrators to expel students, hospital admission
workers to deny care, government workers to expose criminals, even if they are
only in the fourth grade. We will welcome the hand of justice to enforce the law
as we stand distant. We won't focus on the cleansing of our schools and
hospitals of illegals or purging them from our social safety nets; we will have
moved on to the next crucible in our collective life.

It will be wrong to question only the Hispanic-looking faces in my daughter's
class. All the students should be tested. But it will be easier and cheaper to
screen by the color of one's skin. Our history says as much.

I am struck by a similarity of judgment against a group of people - and similar
ugliness of the public response. Just over 50 years ago, cries were sounded
concerning a threat to our nation. The welfare of our society was at stake; an
enemy lurked within that endangered all Americans.

Japanese-Americans were singled out and judged as threats to national security.
Yet not one documented case of espionage or sabotage was ever proved. More than
120,000 individuals, many U.S. citizens by birth, were uprooted and exiled to
relocation camps for years. This was the political solution to handle a
perceived problem.

My mother was not yet a teen-ager when this happened. But she and her family
were suddenly banished from their home. She left an empty desk behind at school,
and I know her friends asked what happened to their classmate. I do not know how
those parents explained her sudden absence. I cannot imagine the response to the
confused look in their children's eyes.

LOAD-DATE: December 02, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; How do I explain to my daughter about the threat of her
9-year-old friends?; Mas Masumoto is a Del Rey, Calif., farmer and writer whose
upcoming book is Epitaph for a Peach.

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              131 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    December 19, 1994, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Prop. 187 supporters cite the will of the people

BYLINE: Dan Whitcomb

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 519 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Supporters of California's Proposition 187, who celebrated a convincing win on
Election Day, are outraged by recent court action that they say blocks the will
of the people.

In the latest legal setback to implementation of Prop. 187, a federal judge last
week issued a preliminary injunction prohibiting enforcement of the measure,
saying it appears to conflict with federal authority over immigration.

The measure, described as unconstitutional by opponents, would deny illegal
immigrants access to most state services.

Prop. 187 supporters say a bevy of elected officials who oppose the measure are
the primary focus of their anger.

"They're going to find out that they better start listening to the voters, "
said Kay Garcia with United We Stand America. "I guess they think we're stupid,
that we're going to forget. Well, we didn't forget during the last election."

Already, the president of a San Fernando Valley group that supports Prop. 187
has filed a lawsuit charging that six members of the Los Angeles school board
are illegally using public money to block the measure in a separate state court
lawsuit.

The group also has launched a recall campaign against the board president.

During the last election, nearly 60% of California's voters approved Prop. 187.

Supporters like Glenn Spencer, who heads Voices of Citizens Together, say they
feel shut out by their own government and ignored by the media. But they insist
that average citizens are on their side.

"People are outraged," he said. "Especially right after the elections, when they
saw the Los Angeles school board using taxpayer money to halt (Prop. 187). We
have four phone lines and they were busy for four days."

Spencer says part of the frustration comes from what they say has been one-sided
reporting on television and in the newspapers.

"But we're going to solve this problem with the media or without the media. The
people are going to get organized and the media can just be spectators," he
says.

Harold Ezell, a former Immigration and Naturalization Service commissioner who
helped formulate the measure, agrees.

"It's my personal agenda to work on a national effort through the U.S. Congress
that would eliminate conflicts with state law," he says.

But opponents of Prop. 187 say they're doing what is right for the state and
claim new confidence from their court victory.

The American Civil Liberties Union argued in court that the measure cutting
public schools, welfare and most health care to illegal immigrants violates the
federal government's sole right to set immigration laws.

A preliminary injunction issued by U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer delayed
implementation until a hearing can be held on the merits of the case. The state
can appeal the judge's injunction, but that could take months to a year.

"I think we have turned the tide," says Mark Rosenbaum, a lawyer for the ACLU of
Southern California. "The proposition has been put on ice."

Rosenbaum says the court's decision to enjoin the law ensures that it will never
be enforced. "All that remains is the formal burial," he says.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w; PHOTO, b/w, Robert Hanashiro, USA TODAY

IMMIGRATION

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              132 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     March 1, 1994, Tuesday, FIRST EDITION

TOXIC PATIENT

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 264 words


Hospital officials downplayed similarities between the evacuation Saturday of a
Bakersfield, Calif., emergency room because of noxious fumes apparently from a
patient's body, and a similar event that knocked out medical personnel a week
earlier in Riverside. Three medical staffers at Mercy Hospital, Bakersfield,
were treated for eye irritation. The patient, a 44-year-old woman, had symptoms
consistent with poisoning and is responding to treatment, officials said.
Autopsy results on the Riverside patient are not expected for several weeks.

IMMIGRATION RAID: More than 300 illegal immigrants and smugglers were arrested
in weekend raids at Phoenix's airport after complaints the immigrants were
taking all the cheap seats on economy flights. Also seized: 26 vehicles used to
smuggle them to the airport from the border. Those arrested said they were
headed for major U.S. cities where friends or relatives had told them of job
opportunities.

Denver airport faces another delay

Denver officials continued talks with United and Continental airlines over
problems with a $ 186 million baggage system that could delay the new Denver
airport's scheduled March 9 opening. United officials last week said the
problems were good reason to delay the opening of the $ 4 billion Denver
International Airport. But city officials say they believe another delay would
tarnish the airport's image - the opening has been delayed twice already - and
would cost the city $ 500,000 a day.

Contributing: Steve Marshall, Anita Manning, Norm Brewer, Lori Sharn and Gary
Fields

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Joe Mahoney, AP

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              133 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    March 10, 1994, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Calif. crash victims said to be illegals

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 549 words


A pickup truck packed with 20 people who may have been illegally smuggled into
the country ran off a California freeway Wednesday, killing 12.

"It (was) a gruesome scene," said Bill Peters, a spokesman for the San Bernadino
County Fire Department, describing the roadside strewn with shoes, shreds of
clothing and bodies covered by bright yellow tarps.

A pregnant woman was among the dead.

One of the eight injured told The Associated Press that the passengers entered
the USA illegally on Tuesday.

Alejandro Henriquez, 24, said some were en route to Los Angeles International
Airport for flights to other destinations.

Interstate 15, where the predawn crash occurred, is a known smugglers' route,
but immigration authorities could not immediately confirm Henriquez's story. If
the victims are illegals, the accident would be one of the state's worst
involving immigrants and smugglers, known as coyotes.

"It would be another tragic example of how smugglers show virtually no concern
for human life and frequently put their charges in potentially deadly
situations," said Virginia Kice, a spokeswoman for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in Orange County.

Last summer, six Chinese illegal immigrants drowned when the smugglers' boat
Golden Venture ran aground off the coast of New York City.

And in a 1983 Coachella, Calif., crash, 11 men - most illegal immigrants from
Mexico - were killed while being pursued by the Border Patrol.

Some of Wednesday's victims may have been heading to jobs and families in Los
Angeles, home to about 500,000 Salvadorans - the largest community outside El
Salvador.

Tim Everett, legal director of an immigrant advocacy group called El Rescate
(The Rescue), said his staff was calling around "Little Central America" to find
any relatives or friends of the victims.

"There's some truth about the coyotes taking risks, but in some sense they're
filling a need," Everett said. "Given that (immigrants') resources are limited,
they're forced to go to unscrupulous people who take advantage of them."

Illegal immigrants typically pay smugglers $ 2,000 to $ 3,000 per person to
travel from El Salvador and Los Angeles. The price drops to $ 500 to $ 700 if
the immigrant can get to Tijuana or some other Mexican border city, said Marco
Ramirez, a Border Patrol agent in San Diego.

Over the years, he said, agents have frequently found trucks, cars and vans
packed with immigrants near death from lack of food, water or air.

'Most of the vehicles are totally unsafe and cheap, because (smugglers) know
they can be seized if they're caught and they don't want to lose an expensive
car," Ramirez said.

Wednesday's accident happened at 5: 30 a.m. on Interstate 15 south of Barstow, a
Mojave Desert town about 90 miles northeast of Los Angeles.

Police said the 1981 pickup drifted off the road after the driver apparently
fell asleep.

The truck continued about 190 feet over rocky sand and dirt, slamming into a
10-foot-deep drainage ditch.

Three of the dead were riding in the truck cab, and nine were in the truck bed,
which had a camper shell. The dead included eight men and four women. A boy, 11,
was critically injured.

The driver, reported to be Guatemalan, survived and was booked on 12 counts of
vehicular manslaughter.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, USA TODAY (Map, California); PHOTO, b/w, Jeffery L. Ford,
Victorville Daily Press via AP

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              134 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     April 7, 1994, Thursday, FIRST EDITION

Ransom scheme uncovered / 63 bewildered Chinese found crammed in Maryland house

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 353 words


When U-Haul trucks pulled up to the garage of a house in suburban Mitchellville,
Md., recently, neighbors assumed they were moving furniture.

In fact, says the FBI, the trucks held people - illegal Chinese immigrants
smuggled into the country and held for up to $ 30,000 in ransom.

Late Tuesday, FBI agents acting on a tip raided the house and found 63
bewildered Chinese men and women stuffed in the small rooms.

By Wednesday morning, 81 Chinese were being detained, including six found in
restaurants in nearby Upper Marlboro, Md., and 12 in New York.

Meanwhile, 34 Chinese were arrested by the Border Patrol after they landed by
boat in Puerto Rico, a U.S. territory. Investigators believe they traveled from
China to the Dominican Republic, where they boarded boats for the 80-mile
journey to Puerto Rico.

The arrests reflect the sharp increase in smuggling of Chinese into the USA
recently.

Last June, 285 Chinese were arrested after their smuggler's boat, the Golden
Venture, ran aground in New York Harbor. Several boatloads also were apprehended
on the West Coast.

Andy Manning, FBI spokesman, says those arrested Tuesday traveled by boat to
Virginia in mid-March.

Investigators say the Chinese were then taken to the Maryland house and held
until relatives produced ransom.

Some later may have been sent to New York's Chinatown.
"We think there were in excess of 100 people on that boat," Manning says.

He says that because of a shortage of translators, many detainees have not been
interviewed, and those who have aren't saying much.

So far, only one man has been charged with kidnapping, he said. The rest are
being held at INS detention centers.

"We don't know who are the good guys and who are the bad guys," Manning says.

Conditions at the Mitchellville house were "very crowded, very messy but at
least sanitary," he says.

"We expected worse," Manning says. The immigrants weren't abused and had been
given food and drink, but there didn't appear to be many guards. "These people
had no idea where they were and wouldn't have known where to go if they walked
out the door."

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, WUSA-TV

THE NATION; See related story; 03A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              135 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      June 8, 1993, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Reality dashes refugees' dreams // Many are forced into servitude

BYLINE: Bruce Frankel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 663 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Smuggling human cargo is a $ 3 billion dollar a year industry in which
gangsters, known in Chinatown as "snakeheads," use fear and intimidation to
exploit thousands of illegal immigrants.

Rarely do the clandestine journeys from impoverished Chinese provinces end as
tragically as that of the Golden Venture - crammed with nearly 300 Chinese
nationals - which ran aground off Rockaway Beach Sunday, killing eight.

But as authorities Monday began shipping survivors to detention centers, experts
said the fate of thousands who routinely enter the country undetected is filled
with misery.

"It's a modern slave trade," says Wing Lam of the Chinese Staff and Workers
Association, a labor rights organization.

Believing they will find easy work and rich relatives, the refugees agree to pay
$ 25,000 to $ 30,000 to get smuggled into New York and other U.S. cities.

But once here, they find little, and are forced to work low-paying jobs for
years to pay off their debt. And, increasingly, there are signs of women being
forced into prostitution.

The captain and 11 crew members of the Golden Venture were charged Monday in
federal court with conspiracy to commit alien smuggling. But Lam says to reduce
illegal Chinese immigration, U.S. authorities should crack down on illegal labor
practices that encourage the schemes.

"It won't be stopped by blaming the victims, but by enforcing labor laws," says
Lam.

Authorities say after building quietly for two decades, the practice of
smuggling people from China has exploded.

As on the Golden Venture, most are from the province of Fujian and choose New
York City, which has the nation's largest Fujian community - about 50,000.

"This pipeline took years to refine. But it has finally come to a very
sophisticated level," says Peter Kwong, director of Asian American Studies at
Hunter College.

A number of complex reasons have fueled the growing wave of illegal immigration.

The improving economy of southern China has led to "rising expectations and
large dislocations of rural people rushing to cities to find better jobs," says
Kwong.

But there hasn't been enough development yet to supply jobs to meet those
expectations. Many of those stranded in the cities "start to look elsewhere," he
says.
  Most can't speak English and have no marketable skills.   "They

come here thinking America's streets are paved with gold. They think that some
day they'll own a restaurant and make money," says Luke Rettler, who heads the
Asian Gang Unit of the Manhattan district attorney's office.

Friends or relatives may help scrape together a $ 2,500 to $ 3,000 downpayment
and with proof of a guarantor - a friend, relative or possible employer in the
USA - a smuggler agrees to take the refugee.

The story of what happens is familiar to many on Chinatown's streets, brightly
crammed with green grocers, fish stores, restaurants and novelty shops.

"They don't have a life. All they have is work, work and work," says Theresa
Lam, 22, a Baruch College student.

Many are virtually forced into indentured servitude, under threats from local
Chinese gangs used to collect their debt. Two gang members were recently
convicted of torturing a Fujianese man to extort a $ 50,000 payment from
relatives for smuggling him here.

And as more and more Fujian-run massage parlors spring up, experts believe some
women are forced into prostitution to pay their debt.

"Once they realize that it isn't easy money, they feel sorry for themselves. But
it's too late. They have to grab any job they can to pay," says Bill Tang, 26, a
novelty shop owner.

Most of what is known about the trade is learned accidentally, experts say.

In May, about 240 illegal immigrants were left by a freighter at the Golden Gate
Bridge in San Francisco. The same day, 57 refugees were found in a Jersey City
warehouse.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service says it has caught about 2,000
illegal Chinese immigrants this year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Robert Deutsch, USA TODAY; PHOTOS, b/w (2)

THE NATION; See related stories; 01A,03A,04A,12A

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              136 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      June 8, 1993, Tuesday, FIRST EDITION

Reality dashes refugees' dreams // Hopes end in 'work, work, work'

BYLINE: Bruce Frankel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 657 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Smuggling human cargo is a multimillion dollar business in bustling Chinatown,
where illegal immigrants are exploited by gangsters known as "snakeheads."

Rarely do the clandestine journeys from impoverished Chinese provinces end as
tragically as that of the Golden Venture - crammed with nearly 300 Chinese
nationals - which ran aground off Rockaway Beach Sunday, killing eight.

But as authorities Monday began shipping survivors to detention centers, experts
said the fate of thousands who routinely enter the country undetected is filled
with misery.

"It's a modern slave trade," says Wing Lam of the Chinese Staff and Workers
Association, a labor rights organization.

Believing they will find easy work and rich relatives, the refugees agree to pay
$ 25,000 to $ 30,000 to get smuggled into New York and other U.S. cities.

But once here, they find little, and are forced to work low-paying jobs for
years to pay off their debt. And, increasingly, there are signs of women being
forced into prostitution.

The captain and 11 crew members of the Golden Venture were charged Monday in
federal court with conspiracy to commit alien smuggling. But Lam says to reduce
illegal Chinese immigration, U.S. authorities should crack down on illegal labor
practices that encourage the schemes.

"It won't be stopped by blaming the victims, but by enforcing labor laws," says
Lam.

Authorities say after building quietly for two decades, the practice of
smuggling people from China has exploded.

As on the Golden Venture, most are from the province of Fujian and choose New
York City, which has the nation's largest Fujian community - about 50,000.

"This pipeline took years to refine. But it has finally come to a very
sophisticated level," says Peter Kwong, director of Asian American Studies at
Hunter College.

A number of complex reasons have fueled the growing wave of illegal immigration.

The improving economy of southern China has led to "rising expectations and
large dislocations of rural people rushing to cities to find better jobs," says
Kwong.

But there hasn't been enough development yet to supply jobs to meet those
expectations. Many of those stranded in the cities "start to look elsewhere," he
says.

Most can't speak English and have no marketable skills. "They come here thinking
America's streets are paved with gold. They think that some day they'll own a
restaurant and make money," says Luke Rettler, who heads the Asian Gang Unit of
the Manhattan district attorney's office.

Friends or relatives may help scrape together a $ 2,500 to $ 3,000 downpayment
and with proof of a guarantor - a friend, relative or possible employer in the
USA - a smuggler agrees to take the refugee.

The story of what happens is familiar to many on Chinatown's streets, brightly
crammed with green grocers, fish stores, restaurants and novelty shops.

"They don't have a life. All they have is work, work and work," says Theresa
Lam, 22, a Baruch College student.

Many are virtually forced into indentured servitude, under threats from local
Chinese gangs used to collect their debt. Two gang members were recently
convicted of torturing a Fujianese man to extort a $ 50,000 payment from
relatives for smuggling him here.

And as more and more Fujian-run massage parlors spring up, experts believe some
women are forced into prostitution to pay their debt.

"Once they realize that it isn't easy money, they feel sorry for themselves. But
it's too late. They have to grab any job they can to pay," says Bill Tang, 26, a
novelty shop owner.

Most of what is known about the trade is learned accidentally, experts say.

Last month, about 240 illegal immigrants were left by a freighter at the Golden
Gate Bridge in San Francisco. The same day, 57 refugees were found in a Jersey
City warehouse.

So, far this year the Immigration and Naturalization Service says it has caught
about 2,000 Chinese entering the country illegally.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Robert Deutsch, USA TODAY; PHOTOS, b/w (2)

THE NATION; See related stories; 01A,03A,12A

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              137 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   December 26, 1995, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Report: U.S. helps bust immigrant smuggling ring

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 499 words


Authorities in Latin America, using U.S.-provided information, have broken up a
major smuggling ring that sent thousands of Asians and Latin Americans to the
USA through Central America, The Washington Post reports.

The newspaper said today that the arrest in Ecuador this month of Gloria
Canales, 40, of Costa Rica, was regarded by U.S. officials as a victory against
international crime.

Canales used bribery and a network of airline officials, hotel owners and other
contacts from Peru and Mexico to India and China to smuggle at least 10,000
people a year into the USA, the Post reports. It says she charged up to $ 6,000
a head for the Indians and Chinese.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service began monitoring Canales a year and a
half ago, the Post says.

CLINTON'S JAPAN TRIP: U.S. and Japanese officials are working to reschedule the
trip to Japan that President Clinton canceled in November because of the budget
crisis, but a new date has not been set, said White House spokesman David
Johnson. The Japanese newspaper Sankei reported that the visit may come April
16-18.

GINGRICH PROBE: The ethics investigation of House Speaker Newt Gingrich is
moving to a more formal level. The House ethics committee has named former
Justice Department prosecutor James Cole as special counsel. He'll have the
authority to broaden his investigation beyond the issue of whether Gingrich,
R-Ga., improperly used the tax-exempt status of a college course he taught to
fund political activity. Gingrich spokesman Tony Blankley said, "We look forward
to working with (Cole) and are confident he will reach the same conclusion as
former (Internal Revenue Service) commissioner Donald Alexander, who previously
reviewed the complaint regarding the course and determined that the IRS
requirements were satisfied."

NOT GOING TO BOSNIA: Army Reserve Capt. Lynda Davis, wife of Gingrich's press
secretary, will not take part in the Bosnia peacekeeping mission after all.
Davis, 46, wife of Tony Blankley and mother of their two young sons, was
released from active duty for medical reasons. "I've been very sick for the last
three months," said Davis, a Washington public relations executive. She said she
was released from active duty because of heart and blood problems.

REAGAN BUILDING: President Clinton has signed an act naming a new federal
building after Ronald Reagan. The 1.9-million-square-foot Ronald Reagan Building
and International Trade Center will be the second-largest federal building in
the Washington area, second only to the Pentagon. It is the last part of the
Pennsylvania Avenue rejuvenation started by President Kennedy.

DOLE RECORD: Majority Leader Bob Dole got a standing ovation from his colleagues
Friday for becoming the longest-serving Republican leader in the history of the
Senate. Dole had broken by one day the Republican leadership record of Sen.
Charles McNary of Oregon, who served 10 years, 11 months and 18 days from
1933-1944.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD; WASHINGTON

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              138 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    December 29, 1995, Friday, FINAL EDITION

U.S. deports record number of illegal aliens

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 426 words


The United States deported a record number of illegal immigrants this year, the
Justice Department said Thursday in a report. But a separate report by a
government task force warned that smugglers of people are growing more
sophisticated and aggressive, creating a "growing trade in human cargo."

"As we have made it more difficult to come into this country, the degree of
sophistication of getting people into this country has increased as well," said
Deputy Attorney General Jamie Gorelick.

Gorelick and INS Commissioner Doris Meissner said deportations hit a record
51,600 in 1995. It represents a 15% increase over 1994. Gorelick said nearly
32,000 of the deportees were criminals.

The report, the result of a nine-month study by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, Coast Guard, CIA, FBI and the State and Justice
departments, called for increased resources to fight immigrant smuggling and to
strengthen U.S. enforcement capabilities. It also urged better training for law
enforcement officers so they can identify falsified documents.

"The report is being examined very closely here at the White House," said
presidential press secretary Mike McCurry. The report blamed "staggering levels
of official corruption" and lax law enforcement in several countries - from
China and Europe to Latin America - for allowing smuggling rings to operate.

DEFENSE BILL VETOED: President Clinton vetoed a $ 265 billion defense policy
bill Thursday, objecting to its demands for costly weapons systems he said are
unneeded. He also issued an executive order raising military pay by 2%. And he
asked Congress to quickly pass legislation bringing the total pay raise to 2.4%,
the amount contained in the vetoed bill. In his veto message, Clinton said he
objected to an attempt by Republican lawmakers to write into the bill a measure
to compel him to build and deploy a "star wars"-style missile defense system by
2003. He said it would be a violation of the 1972 Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty
with Russia and would harm arms-control efforts.

WHITEWATER SUBPOENAS: The Senate Whitewater Committee issued another round of
subpoenas Thursday, seeking documents related to the failed real estate venture.
Committee Chairman Alfonse D'Amato, R-N.Y., said 16 subpoenas were served on
four financial institutions and 12 individuals. The Whitewater committee says
the White House has withheld documents in the congressional probe, which is
seeking to determine the role of President Clinton and Hillary Rodham Clinton in
the failed venture.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Adam Nadel, AP

IN WASHINGTON

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              139 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    December 29, 1995, Friday, FIRST EDITION

USA deports record number of illegal aliens

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 447 words


The United States deported a record number of illegal immigrants this year, the
Justice Department said Thursday in a report. But a separate report by a
government task force warned that smugglers of people are growing more
sophisticated and aggressive, creating a "growing trade in human cargo."

"As we have made it more difficult to come into this country, the degree of
sophistication of getting people into this country has increased as well," said
Deputy Attorney General Jamie Gorelick.

Gorelick and INS Commissioner Doris Meissner said deportations hit a record
51,600 in 1995. That figure included deportations through November and an
estimate for December. It represented a 15% increase over 1994. Gorelick said
nearly 32,000 of the deportees were criminals.

The report, the result of a nine-month study by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, Coast Guard, CIA, FBI and the State and Justice
departments, called for increased resources to fight immigrant smuggling and to
strengthen U.S. enforcement capabilities. It also urged better training for
Border Patrol and other law enforcement officers so they can identify falsified
documents. It also said that some information on suspected smugglers and their
routes should be shared with other governments. "The report is being examined
very closely here at the White House," said presidential press secretary Mike
McCurry. The report blamed "staggering levels of official corruption" and lax
law enforcement in several countries - from China and Europe to Latin America -
for allowing smuggling rings to operate.

DEFENSE BILL VETOED: President Clinton vetoed a $ 265 billion defense policy
bill Thursday, objecting to its demands for costly weapons systems he said are
unneeded. He also issued an executive order raising military pay by 2%. And he
asked Congress to quickly pass legislation bringing the total pay raise to 2.4%,
the amount contained in the vetoed bill. In his veto message, Clinton said he
particularly objected to an attempt by Republican lawmakers to write into the
bill a measure to compel him to build and deploy a "star wars"-style missile
defense system by 2003. He said building such a missile defense system would
violate the 1972 Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty with Russia and harm arms control
efforts. Indications are that Clinton's veto may be sustained on Capitol Hill.
The Senate sent the fiscal 1996 defense bill to the White House on a 51-43 vote.
The House vote was 267-149. Neither vote mustered the two-thirds majorities
needed to override a veto. At $ 265 billion, the budget is slightly larger than
last year's. But it is $ 7 billion more than Clinton requested.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Adam Nadel, AP

IN WASHINGTON

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              140 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     July 15, 1993, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

High tide of immigration overwhelms USA // 'Anti' sentiment swells in haven of
California

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 1032 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


When a migrant worker rushes up to Terry Angel's pickup truck at a stoplight and
asks for work, Angel feels sadness, but little compassion.

"I look at him and all I can see are the faces of my employees that I had to lay
off," says Angel, a contractor who blames cheap immigrant labor for his
financial woes. "Just three years ago, American citizens were doing all the
work. . . . But they took over."

They are the estimated 1.3 million undocumented immigrants living in California,
flooding the state at a phenomenal rate of 100,000 a year.

Nowhere is the anti-immigrant sentiment more vocal than in California, home to
6.5 million immigrants, more than half of the nation's undocumented aliens and
more than 40% of refugees. Immigrants are at the center of debates on crime,
overcrowding, unemployment, cuts in services and a slew of economic problems.
Recent violence - including attacks on activists and the ransacking of refugee
rights offices in San Francisco - indicates a growing backlash.

"It's pandering to . . . fear," says immigrants' activist Richard Martinez of
the Southwest Voter Registration Education Project. "It's xenophobia,
misinformation."

Still, immigrants are testing the patience of the most tolerant of Californians.

"Everybody's just had it," says Angel, 47, on the verge of losing his home.

Across the street from Danielle Elliott's home, 30 immigrants live in a
windowless tool shed. A few blocks away, forgers churn out "green cards," which
permit aliens to live and work in the USA. "One day we woke up and there was no
room to park," says Elliott.

They line up daily for free health care in the financially strapped hospital
where nurses like Maureen Habel ask wrenching questions: "If we only have so
many resources, is it not ethical that we provide the care to citizens first?"

Many activists call this an attack on all immigrants. "They're using them to
whip up a current of public opinion against immigrants," says Nativo Lopez, with
Hermandad Mexicana Nacional in Orange County. Already, he says, employers ask
for proof of residency when someone looks or sounds foreign.

The cries for a stop to the flow is starting to come from Californians of all
races, walks of life and ideologies; they call for everything from a moratorium
on immigration to military patrols of the border.

Grass-roots organizations are sprouting up across the state and pressuring
politicians to enact tougher laws.

"This is not a liberal issue, and it's not a conservative issue," says Elliott.
"It has to do with quality of life."

Mounting frustration is fueled by an unprecedented population boom in California
- an average 2.2% a year since 1980, faster than China and India. By 2002, the
state will be the first with a minority-majority. If trends continue, Latinos
will be the majority by 2040.

Recent vivid images of boatloads of Chinese refugees landing ashore have added
to the frenzy - all at a time when the state, drowning in red ink, is slashing
services.

Elected officials and local governments are jumping on the bandwagon:

Gov. Pete Wilson is asking $ 1.5 billion from the federal government to cover
state and local costs of welfare services to new or illegal immigrants.

Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., proposes a $ 1 border fee to fund crackdowns on
drug and alien smuggling.

Immigrants' rights groups have identified more than 20 bills introduced in
Sacramento as "anti-immigrant."

In less than one year, three counties issued reports detailing the strain
immigrants are putting on their budgets - reports widely criticized by both
demographers and immigrant groups.

Los Angeles County says it spent $ 308 million last year to provide public
services to an estimated 700,000 illegal residents; $ 368 million to teach their
children.

San Diego County says providing services to its 200,000 illegal residents costs
the state and county $ 206 million. Tax revenues: $ 60.5 million.

An Orange County grand jury released by far the most controversial report,
calling for an immediate three-year moratorium on immigration.

"We're just going broke," says Tom Dalton, a former grand juror who worked on
the report. "Everybody who comes into your home, you treat royally, but I think
we're just doing too much of that." Most of the anger and frustration targets
federal policies, with groups like the Federation for American Immigration
Reform (FAIR) launching massive lobbying efforts.

Yvonne Lee, of the Chinese-American Citizens Alliance, says "people are using
every opportunity to promote a xenophobic atmosphere."

Replies Louisa Parker, with FAIR: "Xenophobia is the irrational fear of
foreigners. There is a very rational fear of the impact of immigration - legal
and illegal."

Immigrants counter that they also create jobs - an estimated two per person.

And they pick up low-paying jobs that nobody else wants.

Says Ed Vasquez, of the Latin Business Association: "Rarely do you see Latinos
begging for money. . . . I see people making an effort to make an honest
living."

People like street vendor Guillermo Lopez. He came here from Mexico 10 years ago
and doesn't see how he's taken jobs away from citizens - "only if a gringo wants
to work as a maid or wash dishes."

Lopez is a permanent resident now but often feels treated like an illegal.

"The police will usually hassle more," he says. "But I feel good. I'm happy.
It's a country that's progressive."

Says Angel: "If they don't stop, everyone in the U.S. is going to work for
minimum and poverty wages. . . . It has to be stopped."

 California and immigrants California has about 6.5 million foreign-born
residents. Where they are from: North America 50.3%
Asia           31.0%
Europe         10.4%

South America 2.5%
Other          5.8%

Asian Immigrants
Philippines    481,837
Vietnam        271,061
China          211,263
Korea          200,194
Other          836,246

North and Central Americans
Mexico         2,474,148
El Salvador    200,781
Canada         150,387
Guatamala      135,875
Other          205,619

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Marcey E. Mullins, USA TODAY, Source: Census Bureau (Pie
chart, chart); PHOTO, b/w, Bob Riha Jr., Gamma-Liaison

IMMIGRATION; IMMIGRATION BACKLASH IN THE LAND OF LIBERTY; An explosion in new
immigration - both legal and illegal - is sparking a growing backlash. The
opposition raises new questions about border policies, worrying those committed
to retaining the USA's diversity.; See info box at end of text; See sidebar; 08A

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              141 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   September 20, 1993, Monday, FIRST EDITION

UNDOCUMENTED WORKERS

BYLINE: Steve Marshall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 151 words


Californians are fed up with illegal immigration, says a Los Angeles Times
survey of 1,162 legal residents. Results: 69% say illegal entry is a major
problem; 73% want the National Guard to curtail illegal entry from Mexico. Also,
in a new effort to curb an increase in illegal border crossings, U.S. Border
Patrol agents lined a 20-mile stretch of the Rio Grande Sunday. Operation
Blockade will continue indefinitely, officials said.

COOPERATIVE EFFORT: The Saturday return of two cocaine-trafficking suspects from
Cuba to the USA is the first time Cubans have returned a boat and its crew for
prosecution on narcotics charges, DEA chief Robert Bonner said. Cuban immigrants
Jorge Roberto Lam Rojas, 33, and Jose Angel Clemente Alvarez, 31, are charged
with trafficking in 720 pounds of cocaine before fleeing into Cuban waters.
Contributing: Mark Downey, Carrie Ferguson and Robert Moore.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION; FROM USA TODAY'S NATIONAL NEWS NETWORK

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              142 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  February 22, 1995, Wednesday, FIRST EDITION

ILLEGAL WORKERS

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 450 words


A 10-month Immigration and Naturalization Service investigation found about 10%
of the 50,000 employment papers agents reviewed in Arizona were held by people
who illegally entered the USA and obtained bogus work permits. "Every one of
these unauthorized people represents a job that should be had by a U.S. citizen
or an authorized alien," said Tony Esposito of the INS. Officials said the rate
of fraud was significant and shows the need for a national registry of eligible
workers.

BAN LIFTED: After 10 hours of mediation, Union Point, Ga., officials and
merchants agreed to lift a ban that barred 21 blacks from downtown stores. The
officials and merchants, who said they were trying to reduce crime and
shoplifting, did not apologize. U.S. District Judge Duross Fitzpatrick, who was
overseeing a lawsuit by 12 of the 21 people banned, said the city and merchants
were not racially motivated. A proposed settlement had fallen apart last week
over a demand that the city and merchants apologize.

ALSO TUESDAY . . .

-- EXECUTION: Samuel Hawkins, dubbed "the traveling rapist" and linked to 40
attacks in Colorado, Oklahoma and Texas, was put to death by injection in Texas
for the 1977 slashing murder of a pregnant woman, Abbe Hamilton, 19, of Borger.
Hawkins, 51, also murdered an Amarillo girl, 12.

-- HOMELESS CAN STAY: Amtrak no longer can oust homeless people from New York's
Pennsylvania Station based solely on their appearance, a federal judge ruled.
Amtrak argued such a ruling would make it harder to provide a safe and
comfortable facility for passengers.

-- BODY PARTS: El Paso police charged James Patrick Bradley, 47, with murder in
the death of his wife, Suzy, whose body parts, some painted bright gold and
other colors, had been found in boxes at four sites in West Texas and New
Mexico. She had been shot five times in the chest.

-- CLINIC FIRE: Burning road flares were thrown onto the roof of the Choice
Medical Clinic in Soquel, Calif., in an arson attempt, but only singed the roof,
authorities said. Arson fires hit four other California clinics this month.

Foster thanks NAACP for its support

Embattled surgeon general nominee Henry Foster thanked the NAACP for supporting
him. His nomination became embroiled in abortion politics after it was disclosed
that he performed abortions during a 40-year career as an
obstetrician-gynecologist. Foster, at an NAACP legislative conference in
Washington, said his nomination fight is "a cakewalk" compared with his
experience as the only black student in his class at the University of Arkansas
Medical School. He graduated in 1958.

With: Shannon Tangonan, Carrie Dowling, Rae Tyson and K.V. Johnson

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, USA TODAY

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              143 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      June 13, 1994, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Three Cubans flee to USA in biplane

BYLINE: Gary Fields; Penny Bender

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 989 words


Three Cubans are seeking political asylum in the USA after they flew a 1940s-era
cropduster to a naval base in the Florida Keys. Navy officials said pilot Ariel
Correal Gonzales, 29, flew his sister Yenima Zabrana Gonzales, 23, and her
husband, Frank Alberto Beads, 23, in the fabric-winged biplane, which seats two.
Immigration officials planned to interview the trio. "It looked like a plane
that was going too slow to fly," says Navy spokesman Robert Lewis.

RADIATION TESTS: The Veterans Administration knew in 1947 that veterans exposed
to radiation tests might have valid medical claims, according to records
expected to be released today. Documents found by the Advisory Committee on
Human Radiation Experiments show the VA created a secret "Atomic Medicine
Division" after detonations in 1946. VA Secretary Jesse Brown discovered the
research group during a White House-ordered records search.

RAPE LAW: Pennsylvania no longer would require force or threat to prove rape,
under a bill expected to pass the state Senate this week. Instead, rape would be
defined as sex between two unmarried people when one of them does not consent.
The bill was prompted by outrage following a May 27 state Supreme Court ruling
that a defendant cannot be convicted solely on a victim's lack of consent.

BUFFALO SOLDIERS: The Atlanta Buffalo Soldiers, 10th Calvary Unit, leave
Washington Court House, Ohio, today on a 600-mile journey by horseback to
Arlington National Cemetery. The group is retracing the path that Col. Charles
Young took to prove he was medically fit after he was removed from duty due to
high blood pressure. Young commanded the unit during the Spanish-American War
and was the third black cadet to graduate from West Point.

RELIGION IN SCHOOL: Florida's Polk County School Board Tuesday considers whether
to appeal a Tampa federal judge's ruling that students have a First Amendment
right to hand out religious pamphlets. The judge said Amber Johnston-Loehner's
rights were violated in 1992 when her elementary school principal in Lakeland
confiscated religious tracts that Amber, 13, wanted to hand out. "Most of us
were under the impression that we can't allow religious materials on school
grounds. Now the courts feel that we're able to," says board member Rubie
Wilcox.

GULF ILLS THEORY: Chemicals used to protect U.S. soldiers during the gulf war
may be the cause of the mystery illness that's afflicted many veterans, the
Santa Cruz County Sentinel says. The newspaper says government researchers are
looking at how an anti-nerve gas pill, an insecticide in soldiers' uniforms and
an insect repellent - could mix together to cause symptoms similar to so-called
gulf war syndrome. Thousands of veterans of the 1991 war have complained of
fatigue, rashes, memory loss and stomach problems. Defense Department spokesman
Lt. Col. Doug Hart says it's "important to underline that this is a theory."

ENVIRONMENTAL POLL: Water quality is the nation's leading environmental problem,
says a Times Mirror Magazines poll of 1,005 people. It found 88% say they would
likely contribute to groups that address water pollution. Also, 29% favor
protecting endangered species regardless of cost; 66% say costs are a factor.
And 66% say environmental protection and economic development can co-exist.

DOMESTIC PARTNERS: Vermont is the first state to offer health benefits to
domestic partners of state workers. The pact with the employees' union provides
unmarried heterosexuals and homosexual partners benefits now offered to spouses.
Employees must swear they've had "an exclusive and enduring relationship" for at
least six months. "This was a matter that should have been negotiated with the
union, and now it has," said Gov. Howard Dean.

DAVIDIAN LAWSUITS: Robert Rodriguez, a Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms
agent who infiltrated the Branch Davidian sect near Waco, Texas, is suing a
newspaper and a TV station, claiming they alerted the Davidians and caused the
gun battle between agents and the cultists. Four ATF agents and six cult members
were killed in the Feb. 28, 1993, raid. A 51-day standoff ensued before a fire
consumed the compound on April 19; leader David Koresh and 78 others were
killed. The Waco Tribune-Herald and KWTX say they were not at fault.

ALSO . . .

EXPLOSION INVESTIGATION: Investigators in Allentown, Pa., have discovered a gap
in a natural gas pipe leading to a senior citizens' building where one man died
and 79 others were injured in an explosion that left 300 homeless last Thursday.


BEE ATTACK: A Placedo, Texas, man was in stable condition after being stung more
than 200 times by bees. Eliborio Hernandez, 96, was mowing his yard Saturday
when he disturbed a nest, officials say. Officials are trying to determine if
the bees are the Africanized "killer bees."

Study: Drug treatment cost-effective

Treating hard-core drug addicts is seven times more cost-effective in reducing
cocaine consumption than increasing arrests or stopping drugs at the border,
according to a report released today by the non-profit Rand Corp.

The study found that annual cocaine consumption could be reduced by 1% if the
federal government spent an additional $ 34 million on treatment. To achieve the
same effect, the government would need to spend an additional $ 246 million for
domestic enforcement, $ 366 million for border interdiction or $ 783 million to
control drugs in their source countries, the report indicated. The United States
spends $ 13 billion a year to eradicate cocaine. Only $ 1 billion of that is
spent on treatment, Rand reports. Earlier this year, drug czar Lee Brown said
the administration would spend an additional $ 355 million to increase drug
treatment. That will provide treatment for more than 140,000 chronic drug users.
- Penny Bender

With: Paul Leavitt, Rae Tyson, Steve Marshall, Gregory Townsend and Ken Miller.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1994June 14, 1994June 14, 1994June 14, 1994June 14, 1994June
14, 1994

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w; PHOTOS, b/w, AP (2)

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              144 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     June 11, 1992, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Asylum-seeker has POW/MIA photos

BYLINE: Carol J. Castaneda

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 268 words


An official photographer for the Vietnamese government is seeking political
asylum in the United States after smuggling out photographs of U.S. servicemen
captured and killed during the Vietnam War.

Some of the photographs could be important because they show, for the first
time, the bodies of servicemen at plane crash sites - evidence that could help
investigators learn what happened to some of the 2,266 U.S. servicemen still
listed as missing in the war.

A spokeswoman for Sen. Robert Smith, R-N.H., said Wednesday that Trung Hieu, a
photographer who works with the Ministry of Culture in Hanoi, had contacted the
senator Tuesday because he was afraid to return to Vietnam.

''We are ... making routine inquiries with the Immigration and Naturalization
Service to get him applications for a temporary visa or political asylum,'' said
Lisa Stocklan, Smith's spokeswoman.

Trung also has met with Ted Sampley, the head of a POW/
MIA group called Homecoming II, and showed Sampley some of the photographs.

''I saw bodies of American airmen ... in a crash,'' said Sampley. ''I saw their
faces.''

In addition, Sampley said some of the photographs showed a grave marked with
servicemen's names, as well as pilots being captured.

Trung has been in the U.S. for nearly two months; his visa expires Friday.

Trung was interviewed for ''quite a bit of time'' by investigators for the
Senate Select Committee on POW-MIA Affairs, said Committee spokeswoman Deborah
DeYoung.

The committee, which is trying to account for the missing men, is scheduled to
hold more hearings later this month.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              145 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

               September 17, 1993, Friday, INTERNATIONAL EDITION

Iran hijackers seek asylum in Norway

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 415 words


Three men who hijacked a Russian plane from Azerbaijan to Norway were Iranians
seeking political asylum because of human rights abuses in Iran, Norwegian
police said Thursday. Police will ask a court on Friday to hold the three men in
custody for eight weeks on suspicion of air piracy. All 50 passengers and crew
members were released unharmed after five hours of negotiations in Oslo.

SOUTH AFRICA TALKS: President F.W. de Klerk met in Cape Town with Inkatha
Freedom Party leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi in talks aimed at getting the Zulu
chief to end his boycott of political negotiations. Also, Parliament began
debating the first of four bills on the transition to multiracial rule, and an
aide to ANC leader Nelson Mandela said Mandela will ask the United Nations to
lift sanctions against South Africa in an address next week. Meanwhile, a man
armed with a rifle killed three commuters and injured five at a Johannesburg
train station.

ALSO . . .

SOMALIA CRITICISM: Italy's Defense minister called the U.N. operation in Somalia
"fruitless and wrong," a day after two Italian soldiers were killed.

CAMBODIA ARMY: More than 1,500 Khmer Rouge guerrillas have defected to the
government army in the last month, a U.N. spokesman said.

PRIEST SHOT: An outspoken anti-Mafia priest, Father Giuseppe Puglisi, 56, was
shot in the back of the head outside his home after returning from his church in
Palermo. He died in a hospital. Sicilian Church leaders vowed not to be
intimidated by the killing.

CANADA AIDS: All of Canada's provinces and territories but Nova Scotia agreed to
pay $ 30,000 a year to people who contracted the AIDS virus from contaminated
blood.

MOTHER TERESA OPERATION: Mother Teresa, 83, was in stable condition after
doctors cleared a blocked blood vessel in her heart.

WARSAW CRASH: Germany thanked Poland for its help in rescuing people from a
Lufthansa airliner that crashed on landing and burst into flames at Warsaw
airport. Two people were killed.

FOR TRAVELERS ...

BRITAIN TOURISTS: A record number of foreigners - 18.5 million - visited Britain
in 1992 and spent more money - $ 12.18 billion - than ever before, officials
said.

CHOLERA ALERT: Turkish officials are screening all travelers arriving from
Central Asia for cholera after outbreaks in Kazakhstan and Tajikistan.

INTERNATIONAL BABY: A baby weighing less than 2 pounds was in critical condition
after being born on an American Airlines flight from Brussels to Los Angeles.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Reuters

TYPE: Elsewhere in the World

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              146 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   September 20, 1993, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Most NYC schools plan to open today

BYLINE: Steve Marshall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 880 words


About 90% of New York City's 1,069 public schools will open today, 11 days after
an asbestos scare postponed opening of the nation's largest school system.

It was the city's longest school-opening delay since 1968 and the first since a
1975 teachers strike. Emergency re-inspections for asbestos were performed this
month after Mayor David Dinkins said the initial round was mishandled.

Schools Chancellor Ramon Cortines asked parents to take their children to class,
but if a parent decided not to send a child today, "I'm going to respect that."

And Dinkins outlined a plan to hire 1,200 more police officers and assign at
least one to every school.

UNDOCUMENTED WORKERS: Californians are fed up with illegal immigration, says a
Los Angeles Times survey of 1,162 legal residents. Results: 69% say illegal
entry is a major problem; 73% want the National Guard to curtail illegal entry
from Mexico. Also, in an effort to curb an increase in illegal border crossings,
U.S. Border Patrol agents near El Paso began lining a 20-mile stretch of the Rio
Grande. Operation Blockade will continue indefinitely, officials said.

LBJ's CALLS: Taped telephone talks of President Lyndon Johnson, recorded after
President John Kennedy's assassination, will be made public Wednesday. It's the
first release of LBJ's phone conversations, supposed to have been sealed 50
years. The 275 transcripts from November and December 1963 are in response to a
federal law requiring the release of all material relating to Kennedy's death.

UNIVERSITY SLAYINGS: The Alachua, Fla., sheriff's office Sunday charged Richard
Meissner, 27, with murder for the Saturday stabbing of University of Florida
student Gina Langevin, 26, after deputies say they found his bloody palm print
in the student's apartment. He also was charged with stabbing Jena Hull, who was
found clinging to a second story railing. Authorities don't believe there is any
connection to the 1990 slasher killings of five Gainesville students.

GOOD SNAG: Astronauts aboard shuttle Discovery used a 50-foot robot arm, right,
to snare an orbiting ultraviolet telescope. It will return to Earth aboard the
shuttle, set to land early Tuesday on Kennedy Space Center's runway.

CORRECTION: An item Thursday should have said the government's cost for
1994-1999 wool subsidies is expected to be $ 923 million.

ALSO . . .

BAPTIST STUDY: A county-by-county breakdown by the Southern Baptist Convention
of how many Alabama residents may be bound for hell has aroused a furor in that
state. The Baptists say the demographic findings show them where to open new
churches to reach the unsaved.

CUSTODY FIGHT: An Orcas Island, Wash., woman who gave up her 3-year-old son for
adoption a year ago is trying to regain custody. But the state, which is
considering allowing a gay couple to adopt the boy, says Megan Lucas, 22, missed
by one day the deadline for changing her mind.

COOPERATIVE EFFORT: The Saturday return of cocaine-trafficking suspects Jorge
Roberto Lam Rojas, 33, and Jose Angel Clemente Alvarez, 31, from Cuba to the USA
is the first time Cubans have returned a boat and its crew for prosecution on
narcotics charges, drug officials said.

AIDS LAW VOID: A Utah law that invalidated the marriages of people with AIDS was
voided Friday by a federal judge after two families filed suit. The plaintiffs,
who have AIDS, feared insurance companies wouldn't pay their family's health and
retirement benefit claims.

DEATH SENTENCE: Self-proclaimed serial killer Donald Leroy Evans was sentenced
to death Saturday in Gulfport, Miss., for raping, strangling Beatrice Routh, 10,
in 1991. Investigators dismissed his claims of killing 72 people.

MAYS ADOPTION: Kimberly Mays, the 14-year-old switched at birth, was legally
adopted Friday by her stepmother, Darlena Mays. "Thank you!" the Florida girl
cried. Biological parents Ernest and Regina Twigg are fighting last month's
ruling denying them custody.

Good education, better retirement

Educated baby boomers in two-income families will be better off financially in
retirement than their parents, but the less-educated boomers could wind up on
public assistance after retirement, according to a Congressional Budget Office
study. But as long as real wages keep growing, and assuming Social Security and
pensions remain intact, most college-educated boomers will enjoy higher
retirement incomes than their parents, the CBO says. A critic of the report says
researchers failed to address a key point: How much will those in the workforce
be taxed to provide for boomer retirement benefits?
Boomers better off
Baby boomers, people born between 1946 and 1964, have more income

and savings than their parents did at the same age, a report shows.

Median income
                 Age 25-34    Age 35-44
Baby boomers    $ 30,000      $ 38,400
Parents         $ 22,300      $ 25,100

Median savings
                 Age 25-34    Age 35-44
Baby boomers     $ 9,000      $ 54,200
Parents          $ 6,100      $ 29,300

All figures adjusted to 1989 dollars

Contributing: Mark Downey, Carrie Ferguson and Robert Moore.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Stephen Conley, USA TODAY, Source: Congressional Budget
Office (Bar graph); PHOTO, b/w, AP; PHOTO, b/w, NASA via AP

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION; FROM USA TODAY'S NATIONAL NEWS NETWORK; See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              147 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    June 28, 1995, Wednesday, FIRST EDITION

MALL BEATING

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 304 words


A Dallas grand jury decided not to indict five Nation of Islam members accused
of whipping four burglary suspects at a Texas mall. The five were working as
guards at Westcliff Mall June 12 when the suspects, ages 12 to 16, said they
were taken into a room by the men and beaten with belts and bamboo canes. The
youths are accused of breaking into a store and stealing $ 300. The men say they
were disciplining the youths and meant no harm.

IMMIGRATION PROPOSAL: Undocumented immigrants caught in the USA would be
permanently barred from getting legal residency under legislation proposed by
Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison, R-Texas. That's a major change from other immigration
proposals in Congress. The National Council of La Raza called Hutchison's plan
"stunningly outrageous." Like others, her bill would beef up the Border Patrol
and finance construction of physical barriers along the border with Mexico.

PARENTS FOUND: Wolfgang and Lisa Von Nester Sr. abandoned their 3-year-old son
in a California shopping mall because they had no money to feed him, the couple
says. They were picked up by Washington County, Md., police Monday, and are
awaiting extradition to California on charges of endangerment and abandonment.
Wolfgang Von Nester Jr. is in a San Bernardino foster home, more than three
weeks after his parents left him. Both sets of grandparents are seeking custody
of the boy.

ALSO TUESDAY . . .

-- TRANSIT STRIKE BARRED: A Newark, N.J., federal judge ordered NJ Transit
engineers not to strike Friday. Judge Maryanne Trump Barry warned that those who
defy her order "best have their toothbrush ready" for a jail sentence. The rail
line carries 81,000 passengers weekdays. Engineers have been without a contract
for three years.

Contributing: Gary Fields, Jeannine Lee and Ken Miller

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              148 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     March 11, 1994, Friday, FIRST EDITION

IMMIGRATION BILL

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 53 words


The legal immigration limit would be cut to 325,000 from 810,000 under a bill
introduced by Sen. Harry Reid, D-Nev. The measure also would deny federal
benefits, except emergency medical care, to people unlawfully in the USA, and
would increase border security.

Contributing: Jack Williams and Jane Schmucker

TYPE: Nationline

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              149 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     March 18, 1994, Friday, FINAL EDITION

States bemoan costs of illegal immigration

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 228 words


California Gov. Pete Wilson was on Capitol Hill Thursday leading a chorus of
state politicians who pressed Congress to reimburse states for the costs of
illegal immigration.

Along with other states with large populations of illegal immigrants - Florida,
Texas, New York and Illinois - California is forced to absorb up to $ 3.5
billion a year in services to illegals, including medical care, education and
prison incarceration, Wilson said.

"It's simply not fair for the federal government to force a state to bear the
costs of educating someone or providing health care to someone who is in the
country because of federal failure to control the border," said Wilson.

Wilson, a Republican facing a tough re-election bid, is using illegal
immigration as a key campaign issue. He's been in Washington several times in
the last few months to lobby Congress.

Republicans and Democrats disagree about the causes of and solutions to illegal
immigration, but there is bipartisan agreement in the five states attracting the
most illegal immigrants that the federal government should pay more of the
bills.

Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., also appeared at the conference to promote a new report
by Florida Gov. Lawton Chiles that claims illegal immigrants cost the state $
884 million a year.

Florida is planning to sue the federal government to get reimbursement.

IMMIGRATION

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              150 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    March 30, 1994, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Arizona: Immigrants' detour / Latest hole in the sieve of the border

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 900 words

DATELINE: NOGALES, Ariz.


The U.S.-Mexico border is like a sieve: Plug a couple of holes and a new one
quickly opens.

Today, Arizona is the hole.

Since California and Texas beefed up patrols on their borders to stem the tide
of illegal immigrants, the Grand Canyon State has been drowned by the unwelcome
overflow.

"People will take the path of least resistance and right now, Arizona is it,"
says Steve McDonald, with the Tucson sector of the U.S. Border Patrol.

"In a nutshell, we have no border," says Jay Heiler of Arizona Gov. Fife
Symington's office. Outrage over illegal immigration stretches far beyond
Arizona's 281-mile border with Mexico, however.

From the White House to congressional districts where most are native-born,
immigration has joined crime and the budget deficit as the hottest of hot-button
issues.

President Clinton says he'll weigh benefit cuts to legal immigrants to help fund
welfare reform. The Justice Department is studying immigration's impact on state
finances and prison overcrowding. And Congress has tacked on bill amendments to
cut aid to illegal immigrants on school funding and earthquake relief.

These are the newest tools to curb immigration.

But here at the border the battle is being waged - and lost - the old-fashioned
way.

Rickety fences dividing the two countries gape wide. Easy-to-spot escape trails
wind through desert chaparral. Experienced guides ply their trade unhindered.

That's because the border patrol is understaffed: fewer than 100 agents on any
given shift; no permanent checkpoint on Interstate 19, the freeway leading north
to Tucson.

As of Sunday, the number of illegal immigrants busted here this month hit a
record 11,425, an 81% increase over all of last March. So far this fiscal year,
apprehensions are up 45% from 36,169 to 52,320.

A jump in arrests may seem like good news, but it's not.

When more are caught, more are getting in. McDonald estimates four of five come
across undetected.
"And those people we arrest, you think they're going to give up?" he says. "No.
They'll come right back in."

Southeastern Arizona's border - with only 296 agents on patrol - wasn't always
under siege. Texas and neighboring California - the busiest borders for both
legal and illegal immigration - used to be the entry points of choice.

Not anymore.

San Diego reported a 5% drop in apprehensions last year - partly because of a
14-mile steel fence and 4 1/2 miles of lights that make night crossings easier
to detect.

In Texas, Operation Hold-the-Line's 400 agents blanket a 20-mile corridor
feeding into the El Paso area. They've cut arrests from 1,300 a day during last
year's peak to just 200 now.

"The word has gotten out in the interior of Mexico that El Paso is no longer an
open door," says Doug Mosier of El Paso's border patrol.

U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno says she'll add 1,010 agents in those two
states next year. After Arizona officials clamored for more backup, she agreed
to add 33 more.

"We need some more enforcement . . . (and) financial help," Heiler says. "The
problems of California are bigger just because California is bigger. But
California today is Arizona's future."

Heiler says illegal immigrants cost Arizona more than $ 100 million a year and,
like California and Florida, the state believes the federal government should
chip in.

Michael Fix of the Urban Institute, a think tank, says the USA must strike a
balance between enforcement and other measures - such as sanctions against
employers who hire illegals - to stop the influx.

"The political temptation is to overemphasize border patrol," Fix says. "But if
you dam the stream, the flow goes someplace else."

Someplace like Arizona, where organized smugglers charge up to $ 1,000 a person
to ferry illegals.

Once across, they often just "give them a gallon of water to cover the desert on
foot," says McDonald. Nine died last year. Despite it all, many savvy immigrants
go 400 miles out of their way to enter through Arizona "where the agents
aren't," says Summers of the U.S. Border Patrol in San Diego.

In Nogales, "Smugglers' Gulch" is used for drug trafficking by night and
illegals trafficking by day.

Last month, Mexican gunmen fired shots across the border at four agents and five
handcuffed illegal immigrants - an apparent random act. Yet, the border patrol
says snipers target agents.

One agent standing near Interstate-19 was recently injured by sniper fire from
Mexico - the seventh such incident since December. Since Feb. 12, there have
been about 15 rock attacks against agents guarding holes in border fences.

"It's back to basics now," says Joseph Harris, patrol agent in charge of the
Nogales station - the busiest of nine in the Tucson sector. "Just patrol . . .
Because if they beat us at the border, they won."

Shifts in illegal immigration

Because of beefed-up U.S. Border Patrol enforcement, arrests of illegal
immigrants are down this year in San Diego and El Paso sectors because fewer are
trying to cross. Arrests are up 45% in the Tucson, Ariz., sector where more
immigrants are trying to cross. Illegal immigrant arrests compared to the same
time periods last year:

Tuscon sector (Oct. 1 - Mar. 27) FY '93 36,169 FY '94 52,320

San Diego sector (Oct. 1 - Dec. 31)
FY '93   84,589
FY '94   82,155

El Paso sector (Oct. 1 - Feb. 28) FY '93 101,105
FY '94   27,247

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, J.L. Albert, USA TODAY, Source: U.S. Border Patrol (Bar
graph); PHOTO, b/w, Robert Hanashiro, USA TODAY

THE NATION; See info box at end of text; See related story; 04A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              151 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      April 4, 1994, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Illegal immigration: An 'ignitable' issue / Republican campaign theme is 'a
grenade without a pin'

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 877 words


Polls show illegal immigration is a hot-button issue with voters, yet few
candidates are pushing that button this year - except in California.

On one side, you have some Republicans insisting the GOP can win by running
against illegal immigrants in the five states with big illegal populations -
California, Florida, Texas, New York and Illinois.

"It's dry tinder waiting to be ignited," says Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, head of
a GOP task force on immigration. "It's a dangerous position to be in if you're
perceived as being more interested in protecting . . . illegals than citizens."

But there are no Republican candidates using the issue - except in California.

"People who play with the immigration issue do so at great risk - it's like
playing with a grenade without a pin," says Mark McKinnon, a Texas Democratic
consultant.

But in California, where the recession still lingers, history shows that
anti-immigrant sentiment goes hand in hand with hardship.

Also, there are more illegal immigrants in California than anywhere else -
nearly half the estimated 3.2 million in the country, says the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Consequently, California candidates try to outdo each other in talking tough.
And Republican Gov. Pete Wilson, on the ropes in a rough re-election campaign,
is talking toughest: Cut off their health care, remove kids from schools, and
deny citizenship to their U.S.-born babies, he says.

Even his Democratic rivals are scrambling to respond to pervasive public
hostility.

State Treasurer Kathleen Brown, the Democratic front-runner to take on Wilson,
lost support among immigrant-advocate groups because she favors using military
troops at the border and wants to issue tamper-resistant Social Security cards
to make it harder for illegal workers to get jobs.

"Wilson is framing the debate, and, unfortunately, Brown is tagging along," says
Los Angeles County Supervisor Gloria Molina, who's backing Brown's Democratic
rival, Insurance Commissioner John Garamendi.

Democratic U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein, also running for re-election, enraged
some supporters by implying illegal workers cause unemployment and drain welfare
services.

"The day when America could be the welfare system for Mexico is gone," Feinstein
said at the border last August.

Immigrant advocates are still upset about that one.

The Latino Civil Rights Network, a coalition of 17 groups, attacks politicians
who attack immigrants. "They're following public sentiment - even though it's
wrong," says Mario Salgado, network chairman.

In sharp contrast to California, debate over immigration is much less fevered
elsewhere - and almost non-existent in states like New York and Illinois. The
reasons depend on the political circumstances of each state:

-- In Florida, immigrants - mostly Cuban-Americans - make up a huge and powerful
voting bloc.

Democratic Gov. Lawton Chiles, facing stiff re-election opposition, steers clear
of criticizing immigrants but beats up on the federal government for not paying
for them.

"That's the politically safe approach," says Miami political consultant Phil
Hamersmith. "He's not blaming (immigrants) for the mess. He's saying compensate
us for the mess - just give us money."

Republican Jeb Bush, son of the former president and a leading GOP rival to
Chiles, hasn't said a word about immigration - perhaps in part because he's
married to a Mexican immigrant.

"Not one of the candidates for governor will go near it," Hamersmith says. "If
you've got 40% of the vote either for or against, it's better to stay away from
the issue."

-- In Texas, anti-immigrant sentiment was much higher 10 years ago - when
falling oil prices sent the state economy down the drain.

"Now, with home building booming, real estate prices on the rise (and) the need
for bus boys, maids and gardeners soaring, lo and behold, no big anti-immigrant
sentiment here. Amazing, huh?" wrote columnist Molly Ivins in the Fort Worth
Star-Telegram.

Democrat Jim Mattox called for military troops on the border - and promptly lost
Mexican-American South Texas in last month's primary election for the U.S.
Senate. Now he can't count on those Democratic votes in his runoff race next
week with Richard Fisher.

George W. Bush, another son of the former president and the likely GOP nominee
to take on Democratic Gov. Ann Richards, also is mum on the issue.

-- In New York, the Empire State Survey last September found that 63% of New
Yorkers are fed up with immigration - legal or illegal.

But gubernatorial candidates aren't talking about it - except Democratic Gov.
Mario Cuomo, who talks about his affection for immigrants while worrying about
their cost.

Douglas Muzzio, co-author of the Empire State Survey, says Cuomo encapsulates
New Yorkers' ambivalence about immigration - ambivalence born of proximity,
familiarity and identity:

"New Yorkers' immigrant roots go back only one or two generations, while
Californians' immigrant roots are mostly in the Midwest."

Top illegal immigration states

There are an estimated 3.2 million illegal immigrants in the U.S. The top five:
California 1.2 million
New York   485,000
Florida    345,000
Texas      320,000
Illinois   170,000

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Stephen Conley, USA TODAY, Source: Immigration and
Naturalization Service (Bar graph); PHOTO, b/w; PHOTOS, b/w, AP (2)

POLITICS; See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              152 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     April 12, 1994, Tuesday, FIRST EDITION

SEA CHASE

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 363 words


U.S. Coast Guard cutters 240 miles west-southwest of San Diego are chasing a
180-foot ship suspected of smuggling Chinese illegal immigrants. The Jin Yinn
No. 1, discovered Sunday, is headed back to open sea and not answering radio
calls as the cutters Tybee and the Active give chase, authorities say. In July,
three ships carrying 650 undocumented Chinese were intercepted in the area.

POOR CHILDREN: Poverty among infants and toddlers increased 26% during the 1980s
- to 2.3 million from 1.8 million - a congressional study found. The General
Accounting Office said 20% were living in poverty in 1990. Seven cities had
poverty rates of at least 45% among infants and toddlers: Detroit; Gary, Ind.;
Flint, Mich.; Hartford, Conn.; New Orleans; Atlanta; and Miami.

ALSO MONDAY . . .

-- ABORTION PROTESTS: Massachusetts' highest court upheld a 1991 injunction that
bars Operation Rescue from blocking abortion clinics. The justices said the
protesters engaged in physical confrontations and threatened harm.

With heavy rain, a fear of flooding

Heavy rains hit the Midwest for a third day, raising rivers and the anxiety of
residents with vivid memories of last year's disastrous floods. More rain is
expected today.

The Missouri River at Jefferson City, Mo., rose 7 feet in 24 hours and is
expected to crest 7 feet above flood stage Wednesday. The Mississippi River also
is expected to crest above flood stage Wednesday at St. Louis and Chester.
Smaller rivers and streams inundated Prairie Du Rocher, Ill., and New Franklin,
Mo. The Wabash and White rivers in Indiana were out of their banks. Elsewhere:

-- The Kansas National Guard was deployed in Pittsburg to help with evacuations
and deliver supplies. Hardest hit: the same areas of Crawford and Neosho
counties that were inundated in last summer's flooding.

-- Families were evacuated from Miami, Okla., as the Neosho River spilled out of
its banks. It was expected to crest Wednesday 9 feet above flood stage.

-- A late winter-like storm dumped heavy snow across eastern Colorado and
western sections of Kansas and Nebraska. Air traffic was snarled in Denver.

Contributing: Jane Schmucker

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Sean Meyers, Columbia Daily Tribune via AP

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              153 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    April 21, 1994, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Compensation for jail costs OK'd

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 123 words


The House voted 402-22 on a series of amendments to the crime bill, including
one that requires the federal government to either reimburse states the cost of
jailing illegal immigrant felons, or take custody of the inmates in federal
prisons.

Under the amendment, Congress and the administration could immediately
appropriate extra money for jail costs of the states. The requirement would be
automatic beginning in 1998.

There are an estimated 23,000 to 35,000 illegal immigrants in state prisons,
costing up to $ 615 million yearly.

Florida has already filed suits - and California and New York are preparing to
do so - that seek compensation from the federal government for costs associated
with illegal immigrants.

WASHINGTON; See main story; 06A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              154 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     May 18, 1994, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Californians may try to 'save state' from illegal entries

BYLINE: Sally Ann Stewart

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 647 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Ezola Foster is fed up with the steady stream of illegal immigrants who've been
pouring into the Golden State.

"Illegal immigration will destroy us if it continues," says Foster, 55,
president of Black Americans for Family Values.

A teacher for 30 years, Foster is among the supporters of "Save Our State," a
likely November ballot initiative aimed at denying state services - including
prenatal care and education - to undocumented immigrants.

Initiative sponsors this week turned in petition signatures to county registrars
throughout the state. They need 384,974 signatures to put the measure before
voters.

"We submitted close to 600,000" signatures, says political strategist Robert
Kiley, who's heading the initiative campaign. He'll know within a month if the
measure earns a spot on the ballot.

A Los Angeles Times poll in March showed 62% favor the initiative, including a
majority of Democrats.

But that doesn't guarantee the initiative will pass.

"A vote for the status quo, the 'No' side, has the upper hand," says pollster
Mark DiCamillo. "It's such a broad and complex initiative that the 'No' campaign
can focus in on the weakest link."

Already, Hispanic and Asian groups are jointly raising money for anti-S.O.S.
ads.

Kiley is confident anyway. "We got signatures from every one of the 58
counties," he says. "I think the people have spoken."

Indeed, just about everybody here is talking about immigration, one of the
hottest political issues in the state.

Last weekend, Gov. Pete Wilson, a Republican who has hinted he'll likely
campaign for the initiative, unveiled a new election-year TV spot, in which he
talks tough about illegal immigration while standing in San Diego near the
Mexico border.

Democrats immediately began faxing statements accusing Wilson of race-baiting.

"Pete Wilson is using immigration the same way George Bush used Willie Horton,"
says state Democratic Party Chairman Bill Press. "Every time he wants his poll
numbers to go up, he starts immigrant-bashing."

Wilson has joined Florida Gov. Lawton Chiles and Arizona Gov. Fife Symington in
filing lawsuits to force the federal government to reimburse states for costs of
illegal immigrants.

There are an estimated 3.2 million illegal immigrants nationwide, according to
the federal government, and nearly half are in California.

The S.O.S. initiative - co-written by former Immigration and Naturalization
Service officials Alan Nelson and Harold Ezell - would exclude illegal
immigrants from collecting welfare benefits or receiving medical care - except
for emergency aid.

Illegal immigrants can't get welfare now, but the state does provide emergency
medical assistance. And pregnant illegal immigrants get prenatal care.

But the initiative also would require schools to check students' citizenship
status and exclude illegal immigrant children. Police and schools also would be
required to report children and parents suspected of being here illegally.

The initiative is likely to end up in the courts. The U.S. Supreme Court has
said that illegal immigrant children cannot be denied education. And civil
rights lawyer Leo Terrell says the initiative could violate the constitutional
right to be free from unreasonable searches.

"In California, the tradition is that an initiative will be voted on, and then,
if there's a court challenge, it'll be decided afterward," says Daniel Rabovsky,
of the state's Legislative Analyst Office.

Educating illegal immigrants About 392,260 of California's 5.3 million children
in public schools in the 1994-95 school year will be illegal immigrants. The
cost of education the children of illegal immigrants and the number of such
children in California:

State/local school costs
'88     $ 1.1 billion
'94    $ 1.65 billion

Illegal-immigrant pupils
'88    288,028
'94    392,260

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Stephen Conley, USA TODAY, Source: California Department
of Finance (Line graph)

THE NATION; See info box at end of text.

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              155 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     June 1, 1994, Wednesday, FIRST EDITION

BLUE FLU

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 271 words


A sick-out by Los Angeles police officers entered its second day with nearly
half the day-shift staying home. Many officers worked double shifts. "We
actually have more working today than usual," said Cmdr. David Gascon. The city
and its 7,600-officer police force are in the second year of an acrimonious
battle over a new contract. Officers last week rejected a 6% pay raise over two
years. A judge in November barred union-organized walkouts.

ENDLESS ALARM: Jeffrey Klein, the psychologist whose burglar alarm blared for
six days while he was on vacation, returned Monday to face irritated neighbors
in Randallstown, Md. Police shut it off Thursday after a Klein friend gave
permission to dismantle it. Klein, who's still apologizing to neighbors, faces a
possible $ 100 fine. A state law requires alarms to automatically shut off after
30 minutes.

IMMIGRATION LAWSUIT: California filed a second lawsuit seeking reimbursement
from the federal government for state costs of illegal immigration. The suit
seeks $ 370 million for medical expenditures. Last month, $ 400 million was
sought to jail illegal immigrants. "The federal government has failed in its
basic responsibility to secure the border," said Gov. Pete Wilson. "It is time
the federal government starts to enforce the nation's immigration laws."

ALSO TUESDAY . . .

-- ALASKA POLITICS: Gov. Walter Hickel said he won't enter the Republican
primary race, but might make a late independent run for re-election. Hickel, 74,
was U.S. interior secretary under President Richard Nixon.

With: Gregory Townsend, Steve Marshall and Tony Mauro

LOAD-DATE: June 02, 1994June 02, 1994June 02, 1994June 02, 1994June 02, 1994

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              156 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     June 23, 1994, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Clinton: No apologies for fund-raising dinner

BYLINE: Charmagne Helton; Judy Keen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 695 words


President Clinton is unrepentant about his attendance Wednesday at a Democratic
Party dinner that's expected to rake in $ 2 million in "soft money," the kind of
fund-raising Clinton once vowed to ban.

Common Cause, an open-government group, demonstrated near the Washington hotel
where Clinton dined with 1,800 Democrats: "My campaign commitment is to seek
campaign-finance reform legislation which will put both parties on an equal
footing. In the meanwhile, I don't believe in unilateral disarmament."

Clinton says the Democratic National Committee needs the money to rebut
criticism of his administration. Common Cause says the DNC has raised $ 40.5
million of the "soft money" since July 1992, while the Republican National
Committee collected $ 21.5 million.

Soft money, unlike donations to candidates, are made to political parties and
aren't limited by the Federal Election Commission. Common Cause President Fred
Wertheimer dubs Clinton "the new soft-money king."

Both chambers of the Democrat-controlled Congress last year passed
campaign-finance reforms called for by Clinton, but a final bill has not passed.
- Judy Keen

IMMIGRATION COSTS: Governors of three border states told a Senate committee the
federal government should stop illegal immigrants from crossing the border and
repay states for education, medical and prison costs.

"Our system has become so twisted that we now have illegal immigrants being
guaranteed services by federal mandate that our poor legal residents can't
afford," California Gov. Pete Wilson said.

Govs. Lawton Chiles of Florida and Fife Symington of Arizona backed Wilson's
call, but committee Chairman Robert Byrd, D-W.Va., balked. He called Wilson's
plea "overblown rhetoric" and said states must be responsible for their actions.
Byrd cited 1991 and 1993 California Medi-Cal pamphlets that insured pregnant
illegals' health coverage as incentive for them to cross the border into the
USA.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service estimates that about 4 million
illegals live in the USA. Florida, California, Arizona, New York, Texas,
Illinois and New Mexico are suing Washington for compensation on spending for
illegals.

FINANCIAL UPDATE: Rep. James Leach, R-Iowa, who has criticized President
Clinton's Whitewater dealings, has amended his personal financial disclosure
statement to include $ 100,001 to $ 1 million he earned from a trust. The
combined earnings from his holdings and trusts in several family companies total
$ 120,003 to $ 1,065,000. Leach says there was full reporting in his initial
disclosure, but the forms are "convoluted" ways of reporting. Leach has demanded
that the Clintons fully disclose their Whitewater investments and sued to obtain
Whitewater documents.

BOSNIA ARMS: British Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd urged the United States not
to unilaterally lift the international arms embargo against Bosnia-Herzegovina.
The war in the former Yugoslav republic is "an allied interest, not just an
American one," says Hurd, in Washington for meetings with U.S. officials. He
said nations eager to sell weapons to Iraq would take the U.S. action as a
signal that they could ignore a United Nations trade ban, undermining the whole
system of international sanctions.

FATAL CRASH: An air traffic controller misdirected a military plane, causing the
March 23 deaths of 23 Army paratroopers, The Air Force Times reported. The
newspaper says a C-130 transport and an F-16 fighter were returning to Pope Air
Force Base, N.C., from training flights when the base's control tower gave
landing instructions intended for the transport to another C-130 that already
was on the ground. The F-16 pilot, unware that he was virtually on top of the
other plane, collided with it in midair.

CONSTRUCTION WASTE: The Pentagon's inspector general pointed to $ 1.4 billion in
questionable spending on building projects and urged an immediate slowdown in
military construction. Derek Vander Schaaf told a Senate panel that the
justifications for the projects are often "incomplete, poorly documented or
otherwise flawed." Cited: construction funding for bases scheduled to be closed.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1994June 25, 1994June 25, 1994June 25, 1994June 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, AP

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD; WASHINGTON

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              157 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    August 25, 1994, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

CRAZY QUILT POLICY / Refugee law 'very, very complicated'

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1884 words


If people here and abroad are confused about the state of U.S. refugee policy,
no one should blame them.

-- Item: One day, Cuban boat people are anti-communist heroes welcomed to
Florida. The next day, they're illegal aliens dragged off to a naval base.

-- Item: One day, Haitian boat people are illegal aliens intercepted at sea and
dragged back to Haiti. The next, they're human-rights refugees shipped off to a
naval base.

-- Item: One day, Chinese boat people are illegal aliens washing up off New York
and dragged off to jail. The next, they're refugees fleeing forced abortion
policies in China and possibly eligible for "humanitarian" release.

At best it's a muddle, and many people are deeply angry. But in a world overrun
with literally millions of displaced and desperate people, the USA's refugee
policies are now in dramatic - and some would say necessary - flux.

President Clinton's recent actions, experts say, are a tacit recognition of the
need to replace the ideologically driven policies of the Cold War era, which
accorded automatic welcome to people fleeing communist regimes.

"It's always been true of our refugee policy, and to an extent our immigration
law, that they've (refugees) been jerked around by a combination of our foreign
policy and domestic political interests," says Lawrence Fuchs, a historian of
immigration at Brandeis University.

Now, "our policies aren't so much confused as they're very, very complicated,
because when you're talking about refugees you're talking about emergencies,
which you can't always plan for," he says.

At the moment, the most pressing emergency is the continuing, relentless flood
of boat people and rafters from Cuba. On Wednesday, administration officials
redoubled their efforts to convince Cubans that - despite three decades of open
arms - they're no longer welcome and that they'll be taken to the U.S. Naval
Base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

"They will absolutely, in no way, have any way of coming to the United States,"
said White House press secretary Dee Dee Myers.

"I want to speak directly to Cuban families in Miami who may be talking to their
loved ones in Cuba," implored Attorney General Janet Reno.  "You should urge
your family not to make trips" to Florida.

So far, there are few signs that Cubans are listening.

Idalberto Cepero, a 26-year-old Cuban picked up with five friends in a small
rowboat off Key West by the Coast Guard, says he knows he will end up at
Guantanamo.

"It doesn't matter," says Cepero, sunburned and soaked with salt water and
gasoline. "I want to work. I need to work." In shortage-plagued Cuba, "I can't
buy nothing."

What happens if the exodus continues? "We are preparing to maintain that base
indefinitely," says Defense Secretary William Perry.

U.S. officials are trying to arrange "safe havens" in third countries, but they
hope they won't have to face a long-term problem.

After all, detention at Guantanamo abruptly halted the flood of Haitian boat
people that bedeviled the administration a few months ago.

But so far, Cubans aren't responding as the Haitians did - an ironic turn of
events considering the pressure Clinton has been under to treat Cubans and
Haitians the same.

Few deny that Clinton's refugee policy on Cubans and Haitians today is more
equitable than his predecessors'. But many refugee advocates still condemn him
for sending both groups into refugee limbo.

"It's equal mistreatment for all," complains Arthur Helton, head of migration
programs for the Open Society Institute.

Dennis Gallagher, head of the Refugee Policy Group, a Washington research
organization, says Clinton has opted for "foolish consistency."

"It's the idea that since we weren't generous to one group, we can't be generous
to others," says Gallagher.

But other experts say more time is needed to draw conclusions - and that Clinton
is in the middle of a messy, evolving process of searching for a new refugee
policy.

In the past, foreign policy considerations were paramount in dictating refugee
rules. Now, domestic politics is taking a top priority.

Clinton "is responding to a growing anti-immigrant climate and at the same time
he's trying assuage right-wing Cuban-Americans by tightening the economic screws
on Castro," says Deborah Anker, immigration and refugee coordinator at Harvard
Law School.

The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees is alarmed that once-welcoming
countries like the USA are now closing their doors - at the same time there's a
growing refugee problem around the world.

"A decade ago, there were 13 million refugees," says commissioner spokeswoman
Barbara Francis.  "Now there are 23 million."

Rep. Robert Torricelli, D-N.J., who represents a heavily Cuban-American district
and is a leading advocate for get-tough policies against Cuba's Fidel Castro,
says the current crisis is "probably a harbinger of an intense debate" to come.

"Americans have a romanticized notion of what our our past policy was," he says.
"American immigration policy was never as open and inviting as commonly
believed."

But what should drive refugee policies in the '90s? Refugee advocates urge
generosity, individual assessment of each applicant and increased efforts to
change the conditions that prompt people to become refugees. They oppose
indefinite detention and repatriation.

"We support the idea that any effective policy needs to balance control and
generosity," says Gallagher. "In the absence of compelling circumstances like a
Cold War, you can't expect a country to open its doors . . . without asking
questions."

On the other side are people who want to discourage all newcomers.

"We're moving towards a system of treating people the same regardless of where
they come from and that's good, but we still have to rethink our whole concept,"
says Ira Mehlman, spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
which wants to cut back on all newcomers. "We have to repatriate those who don't
meet the criteria."

But for the moment, Cuban boat people and their families aren't paying attention
to the debate; their interests are more immediate.

"The Cubans are political refugees and those who have family here should be
processed," into the USA, says Georgina Marrero, whose cousin Gilberto Leo
Garcia is being detained at Guantanamo. "There's a lot of space here. . . . We
have a lot of states - they're not overpopulated."

Contributing: Lee Michael Katz, Kirk Spitzer

U.S. immigration's change course

Cubans are only the latest refugees wishing to enter the USA who are finding
muddled rules. But that's not stopping them. Immigration is once again peaking
as the century ends:
Decade       Admissions
1901-1910    8,795,386
1981-1990    7,338,062

-----

Cuban, Haitian immigration tide

The surge in the number of Cubans rescued by the Coast Guard in recent weeks,
and earlier the exodus of Haitians, has turned the spotlight on U.S. immigration
policies. The flow of immigrants to the USA:

Cubans rescued by the Coast Guard
Aug. 10     101
Aug. 23   3,253

Annual rescues of Cubans
1989           391
1994        16,350(1)

(1) - Through Aug. 23

Annual rescues of Haitians
1989         3,368
1994        24,591(1)

(1) - Through Aug. 23

Illegal immigrants apprehended, expelled
       Apprehensions     Expulsions
1989       954,243          860,936
1993     1,327,259        1,278,855

Where legal immigrants come from Top 10 places of birth for immigrants granted
legal status in 1993:
Mexico                   109,027
China                     65,552
Philippines               63,189
Vietnam                   59,613
Former Soviet Union       58,568
Dominican Republic        44,886
India                     40,021
Poland                    27,729
El Salvador               25,517
United Kingdom            18,543

Few Haitians granted legal status Number of immigrants in 1993 applying for
permanent refugee status out of fear of persecution and the percentage of
applications approved:
               Applications           Approved
1. Soviet Union   53,735                96.0%
2. Vietnam        36,137                86.7%
3. Haiti           7,421                16.8%
4. Laos            7,004                98.9%
5. Somalia         6,940                72.2%
6. Iraq            4,381                64.2%
7. Cuba            3,493                78.4%
8. Iran            2,175                49.7%
9. Ethiopia        1,384                82.9%
10. Liberia         1,504                51.6%
Others          3,502                67.0%
Total         127,676                83.9%

-----

Refugee rules vary

Some groups or nationalities have been given special immigration status for
political, social, economic or humanitarian reasons:

CUBANS: President Clinton's new policies displace a 1966 law, which had
benefited Cuban refugees: They could become permanent legal residents, and
eventually citizens, just one year after reaching the United States. Now, Cubans
intercepted at sea are taken to the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay. They
can't come to the USA.

HAITIANS: The Coast Guard is intercepting boats of fleeing Haitians. Nearly
15,000 have been taken to Guantanamo. The exodus from Haiti has virtually
stopped.

CHINESE: Those who can prove persecution under China's one-child-only policy may
receive "humanitarian consideration" allowing them to remain in the USA at the
discretion of immigration officials.

IRISH: The 1990 Immigration Act established an annual lottery for 1990-93 to
distribute 40,000 immigrant visas per year to mostly European countries.
Congress set aside 40% in the first three years for the Irish, who had lobbied
heavily for the quota.

MEXICANS: Since a special immigration law took effect in 1987, about 3 million
illegal immigrants, mostly Mexicans, were granted amnesty. Mexicans are also the
largest single group of undocumented immigrants, making up about 70% of the
USA's estimated 3.8 million illegal residents.

SOVIET JEWS/EVANGELICAL CHRISTIANS: A 1990 law granted special refugee status
for Jews and Christians from the former Soviet Union, who were presumed to be
fleeing oppression.

SOVIET SCIENTISTS: A 1992 law allows up to 750 former Soviet scientists who
worked in a nuclear facility or scientific program to be admitted each year
through 1996 to head off U.S. enemies from employing the scientists.

VIETNAMESE AND SOUTHEAST ASIANS: Vietnamese children born between 1962-76 and
fathered by a U.S. citizen may immigrate. So may children of U.S. citizens born
in Cambodia, Korea, Laos, Thailand or Vietnam after 1950 and before Oct. 22,
1982. Vietnamese "boatpeople" are admitted as refugees under special
humanitarian rules because of U.S. obligations arising from the Vietnam War and
because of reported persecution by the communist government.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, color, Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service (Line
graph); GRAPHIC, b/w, Stephen Conley, USA TODAY, Source:U.S. Coast Guard;
Immigration and Naturalization Service (Line graphs, Bar graph, Chart); PHOTO,
color, A. Enrique Valentin, Miami Herald

TYPE: Cover Story

Critics are claiming that U.S. actions are 'equal mistreatment for all'; See
info boxes at end of text; See related stories; 01A, 04A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              158 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   August 31, 1994, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

A step closer to era of ID cards

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 446 words


A $ 300 million computer software contract, which some critics worry is taking
the United States closer to an era of Big Brother, was announced Tuesday by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service

The INS touted the contract, its biggest ever, as a model of Clinton
administration efforts to "reinvent government" and as a way to reduce
paperwork.

But the technology could also dovetail with controversial proposals to create a
national ID database in the USA to fight illegal immigration.

National ID cards, common in some other countries where police can routinely
demand they be shown, have been vigorously opposed in the USA.

Critics say such a computer database would cost too much, invade privacy and
foster discrimination against people who look or sound foreign.

"The history of the INS is the trumpeting of one new computer system after
another, with each one bringing additional confusion and errors," says Lucas
Guttentag, immigration specialist at the American Civil Liberties Union, which
opposes national ID cards.

The new system brings online sophistication to the INS, which still relies on
labor-intensive paperwork and stores much of its data in "millions of manila
folders," says Deputy Commissioner Chris Sale.

Sale says the initial goal is to reduce paperwork burdens so Border Patrol
agents have more time to arrest and deport illegal immigrants.

"We have separate (data) systems for arrests, detentions and deportations, but
no way to cross-reference," Sale says.

Chaotic immigration problems, such as the recent flood of Haitians and Cubans,
have brought pressures on the administration, Sale says.

By the time the system is operational in three years, it could link the INS with
the FBI and the State Department, as well as with private employers trying to
check whether job applicants are citizens or legal residents eligible to work.

The bipartisan U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform, which issues its first
report Sept. 30, is expected to recommend creation of a national database to
prevent illegal immigrants from getting jobs.

"The lack of automation has contributed to persons being able to commit fraud
against the U.S.," says Ron Collison, INS associate commissioner.

Guttentag says improving efficiency is a fine goal. "But the existing databases
have to be cleaned up. If you link a dozen flawed systems, all you get is a
giant flawed system."

The contract went to Electronic Data Systems Corp., of Plano, Texas, a General
Motors computer subsidiary.

Immigrants allowed in USA

More than 60 million immigrants have been admitted to the USA since 1820. The
past 10 years:
'93     880,014

LOAD-DATE: September 01, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, USA TODAY, Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service
(Line graph)

THE NATION; See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              159 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  September 15, 1994, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Study puts high price tag on costs of illegal immigration to states

BYLINE: Margaret L. Usdansky; Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 615 words


A study suggesting illegal immigrants are nearly a $ 2 billion drain on state
treasuries is likely to add fuel to a fierce political and legal debate over
whether the federal government should compensate states for their costs.

The study, by the Urban Institute, a Washington think tank, found that in seven
states, illegal immigrants:

-- Pay about $ 1.9 billion in taxes annually.

-- Require spending of more than $ 3.8 billion for education, imprisonment and
health care.

The study, commissioned by the White House Office of Management and Budget,
analyzes some taxes and services for illegals in California, Florida, Texas, New
York, New Jersey, Illinois and Arizona.

Six of the seven states have sued the federal government, seeking billions.
Illinois did not file suit.

Governors running for re-election this fall, including Florida Democrat Lawton
Chiles and California Republican Pete Wilson, have made illegal immigration a
central campaign issue.

Wilson says the report validates his point that "federal failure at the border
creates a multibillion-dollar problem for California taxpayers." "It's time to
stop the footdragging, stonewalling and stalling," says Wilson. "With only three
weeks left in the (congressional) session, the administration should insist on a
supplemental appropriations bill" to help the states.

The Clinton administration has asked that the suits be dismissed. California is
seeking $ 2.4 billion; Texas, $ 5 billion.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service estimates 3.4 million illegal
immigrants were in the USA in October 1992. That number grows by about 299,000
annually.

The institute found that educating an estimated 641,000 illegal immigrant
children accounted for more than 80% of the $ 3.7 billion total costs studied.
Incarcerating roughly 21,395 illegal immigrants cost $ 471 million, or 12%;
providing emergency medical services cost $ 276 million, or 7%.

Still, illegal immigrants may not be the only state residents who don't pay
"their share" of taxes, says study co-author Jeffrey Passel. Studies in Los
Angeles County and in New Jersey have found that costs exceeded taxes for
natives as well as for immigrants.

"There's an assumption illegals don't pay enough in taxes to offset their
services, and we do, whoever we may be," Passel says. "It's not that clear."

Net cost: Almost $ 2 billion

A study by the Urban Institute examining the seven states where 86% of the USA's
3.4 million illegal immigrants lived in 1992 shows those states paid almost $ 2
billion more to provide services for illegals than they collected in taxes from
them. The cost of services for, and taxes paid by, illegals:
                Number       Taxes     Cost of     Net cost
         of illegal   paid(1)  services(2)   to state
         immigrants       (in millions of dollars)
Ariz.              57,000       $ 29       $ 72.5        $ 43.5
Calif.          1,441,000      $ 732    $ 1,823.2     $ 1,091.2
Fla.              322,000      $ 277      $ 458.2       $ 181.2
Ill.              176,000       $ 94      $ 135.6        $ 41.6
N.J.              116,000      $ 130      $ 153.1        $ 23.1
N.Y.              449,000      $ 422      $ 729.8       $ 307.8
Texas             357,000      $ 202      $ 454.1       $ 252.1
Total           2,918,000    $ 1,886    $ 3,826.5     $ 1,940.5

1 - Property, income and sales taxes 2 - Public education, incarceration and
emergency medical services Source: Urban Institute

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

THE NATION; See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              160 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     October 3, 1994, Monday, FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

Beefed up Border Patrol cuts flow of illegals / Success of blockade has other
cities drawing a line

BYLINE: Sandra Sanchez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 729 words

DATELINE: EL PASO


The morning rush hour in this border town is not what it used to be.

No longer are hordes of illegal immigrants scrambling across the muddy Rio
Grande from Mexico in the early morning darkness to get to their day jobs. In
the old days, that stealthy parade forced U.S. Border Patrol agents into a
dangerous game of chase.

Now, a human wall of agents lines a 20-mile stretch of the dusty shore as part
of Operation Hold the Line, a year-old blockade that is credited with
drastically reducing illegal entries - and local crime.

The blockade began with 400 agents spread in a 20-mile, high-traffic stretch,
virtually shutting down the daily illegal cross-border traffic. Even now, with
only 50 agents on duty, the flow has slowed markedly.

The concept has been so successful it's being replicated.

On Saturday, San Diego border patrol agents began Operation Gatekeeper. During
the next three months, it will:

-- Deploy 220 new agents.

-- Add lighting and underground sensors in canyons where illegal immigrants
hide.

-- Computerize data on all those arrested, allowing the tracking of returnees.

Other cities follow later.

Agents in the El Paso sector, some on horseback, straddle the border all the way
to Anapra, N.M. Fifteen sensitive cameras atop city buildings film other hot
spots.

"It's prevention through deterrence," says Immigration and Naturalization
Service spokesman Doug Mosier.

The Border Patrol is tallying its success. By the blockade's first anniversary
on Sept. 19:

-- Border arrests have dropped from 23,743 in October 1993 to 8,692 in August
1994.

-- Car thefts in El Paso fell from nearly 2,000 in fiscal 1993 to 1,100 in
fiscal 1994.

-- Burglaries decreased by nearly 50% in fiscal year 1994.

-- The value of confiscated drugs rose 553% to $ 628.6 million from $ 96.3
million.

In Las Cruces, N.M., 30 miles west of El Paso, auto thefts have fallen 27% in
1994; burglaries are down 16%.

"Crime as a whole is down," says Steve Pena of the Border Patrol in El Paso.
"Our mere presence on the border seems to be working in deterring illegals from
trying to cross."

But success comes at a price.

The tactics have "taken a lot of excitement out of the job," laments supervisor
Albert Hibbert Jr., a 17-year veteran. But "if this works we should do it."

To some extent the blockade may be moving the problem, forcing immigrants who
want to live permanently in the USA to enter the country elsewhere.

Nogales, Ariz., has had a 66% increase in arrests of illegal immigrants, to
137,408 in fiscal year 1994 from 91,514 in fiscal year 1993.

"We are seeing people who normally would have crossed in El Paso come here,"
says Steve McDonald of the Border Patrol in Tucson.

Immigrant smuggling also is on the rise around Nogales. Many immigrants are left
to trek the 70 miles north, through desert, to Tucson with little food or water.
Nine have died this year.

Construction is to begin in 1995 on a solid-steel fence, 4 miles long, 10 feet
high, around Nogales, like one built in May in Naco, Ariz., 60 miles east.

The new crime law provides $ 236 million to add 700 Border Patrol agents. At
least 250 agents will be sent to El Paso; San Diego gets 220.

"It makes more sense to deter people from coming, rather than chasing them - and
rounding them up once they get here,"says Cecilia Munoz of the Hispanic advocacy
group National Council of La Raza. "Our primary concern is that this be done
professionally."

A border blockade would be more difficult to sustain in California or Arizona
because of the rugged terrain there.

"It's not the kind of place where we can line agents shoulder to shoulder and be
effective," says Virginia Kice of the Border Patrol in San Diego. "Some canyons
are so steep you can barely get up on foot."

But Jose Luis Perales, 26, of Juarez, Mexico, says it's wrong - and pointless -
for the United States to go to such lengths to keep Mexicans out.

"The police have made it very difficult for us to cross now. They are
everywhere," says Perales as he cast a homemade net into the Rio Grande's brown
waters. But "no matter what the United States does, (the illegal immigrants)
will still come."

Border arrests drop way off

A U.S. Border patrol crackdown at El Paso has drastically reduced the number of
arrests of illegal immigrants.
Oct. 1993    23,743
April 1994    8,692

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: October 12, 1994

CORRECTION: CORRECTION RAN 10/4/94:A report Monday on stopping illegal
immigrants at the border should have said there were 23,743 arrests in October
1992.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Marty Baumann, USA TODAY, Source: U.S. Border Patrol
(Line graph); PHOTOS, b/w, Joel Salcido (2)

IMMIGRATION; See related story; 11A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              161 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   October 12, 1994, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Keep illegals out of state

BYLINE: Barbara Coe

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 361 words


Our borders are out of control!

Daily, in violation of federal law, 4,000 to 5,000 illegal aliens from over 85
countries cross the border into California, many of whom will soon appear on our
welfare, education and criminal justice roles - all funded by our tax dollars.

Our government has betrayed us.

Law-abiding, legal Californians are victims of "selective law enforcement."
While legitimate taxpayers who contributed to our system all of their lives and
war veterans who served their country are denied welfare and medical benefits,
over 2 billion of our tax dollars are used annually to "reward" lawbreakers who
have contributed nothing.

Our education system is in shambles. California, once an academic leader, is now
rated in the bottom 10 in our nation. Teachers are no more than baby sitters,
deluged with illegal-alien students demanding that their country's history be
taught in their language.

Pro-illegal activists use our classrooms to convince our children that our laws,
language, history and culture are to be held in contempt. The $ 3 billion-plus
used to fund our educational system clearly illustrates we are forced to
subsidize the demise of the sovereignty of our state.

Violent crime is rampant.

Illegal-alien gangs roam our streets, dealing drugs and searching for innocent
victims to rob, rape and, in many cases, murder those who dare violate their
"turf."

Per the Immigration and Naturalization Service, nearly 90% of all illicit drugs
are brought here by illegals who openly hawk their wares on our streets,
alongside the fraudulent-document vendors who enable illegals to take the jobs
that rightfully belong to citizens.

This is a nation of laws, rights and freedom which our forefathers, sons and
daughters fought and died to protect. We will do no less.

Proposition 187 asks only for the enforcement of our laws and protection of our
people from the illegal-alien invasion. Those who oppose it clearly illustrate
that greed and power have replaced their loyalty to our country. Proposition 187
is the first step in a clear message to Sacramento and Washington: "We will no
longer tolerate the intolerable!"

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; Today's debate; ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS; OPPOSING VIEW;
Californians won't tolerate the drain that illegal immigration has placed on our
state.; Barbara Coe is chairperson of the California Coalition for Immigration
Reform, Huntington Beach, Calif.

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              162 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   October 12, 1994, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

California's mean-spirited proposal deserves to fail

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 465 words


In a season of ugly electoral moods, few are as ugly as one found in California,
where three of every five voters support a proposal to deny illegal immigrants
basic human services and to turn thousands of citizens into de facto federal
agents.

Say hello to Proposition 187, the most self-destructive initiative to hit
California since the 1978 tax revolt hobbled the state.

Prop. 187 would strip illegal immigrants of access to non-emergency health care
and public education, and require health workers, educators and police officers
to report people whose citizenship is suspect to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Prop. 187's champions, sometimes stoking irrational, race-based fears and
sounding downright paranoid, say that making California inhospitable will deter
illegal immigration and ease pressure on legal residents. Actually, the opposite
is more likely.

Illegal immigration is a genuine problem for California. It contains more than
40% of the nation's 3.4 million illegal immigrants. An Urban Institute study
says the state spends $ 368 million a year to imprison illegal immigrant
criminals; $ 1.3 billion educating the children of illegal immigrants; probably
between $ 113 million and $ 166 million for emergency medical care.

But denying 1.3 million people essential human services is apt to hurt, not
help.

Let's suppose Prop. 187 is enacted and withstands the inevitable legal
challenges. Denying schooling and health care to illegal immigrants and their
children will only help create an underclass of sickly, uneducated fugitives
from a group who came here as job seekers. Rates of infectious diseases -
tuberculosis, AIDS, measles and so on - will rise, along with the crime rate.

How long before those problems leak into the rest of the state? How long before
Californians feel the pinch of losing as much as $ 15 billion in federal aid
because Prop. 187 violates federal privacy and nondiscrimination requirements?
And how long before the requirement to report "suspicious" people worsens the
state's already frayed race relations?

Prop. 187 isn't just anti-illegal immigrant. At heart, it's anti-immigrant and
anti-ethnic. Which makes Gov. Pete Wilson's endorsement even more dismaying.

Wilson has restored his flagging political fortunes in part by directing public
dissatisfaction onto illegal immigration and the federal government's failure to
control it.

But that problem already is getting attention. The U.S. Commission on
Immigration Reform has responded with ideas ranging from a national work
registry to expedited deportation.

Ideally, illegal immigrants should be identified and deported. But cutting them
off from the services they need is just self-destructive. California voters
might as well cut off their noses.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; Today's debate; ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS; OUR VIEW; Denying 1
million illegal immigrants basic human services would only backfire on society.

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              163 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 17, 1994, Monday, FINAL EDITION

70,000 in L.A. denounce immigration ballot measure

BYLINE: Leo Mullen; Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 370 words


A peaceful march of a few thousand protesters spontaneously swelled to an
estimated crowd of 70,000 people Sunday opposing California's controversial
"Save our State" measure, a ballot proposal that would cut off most public
services to illegal immigrants.

The day-long march in mainly Hispanic East Los Angeles consisted mostly of
Hispanic demonstrators chanting slogans and waving signs as they proceeded
peacefully to City Hall.

Police equipped with riot gear stood by and a number of streets were cordoned
off from traffic, but authorities said there were no signs of serious trouble.

"For such a large crowd, it was incredibly quiet," said Officer Arthur Holmes, a
spokesman for the Los Angeles Police Department.

The protest was large even for Los Angeles, said officer Sandra Costello, a
police spokeswoman. She did not know whether more demonstrations would follow in
the final three weeks before the Nov. 8 election.

It was the largest demonstration yet of strong opposition in the city's
sprawling Mexican immigrant community to Proposition 187, which would bar
illegal immigrants from public schools, non-emergency medical services and
welfare rolls. It also would call on teachers, doctors and police to report
those suspected of being illegal aliens to immigration officials.

Many marchers appeared resigned to the measure's passage but held out hope that
it would be struck down by a legal challenge. "I can see it passing very
easily," said protester Richard Ayala.

Proposition 187 is favored by 59% of likely voters and opposed by 33%, according
to a Los Angeles Times poll published Saturday. Among all registered voters,
support is higher: 61% to 32%. The poll was of 1,641 adults statewide; margin of
error, 3-4 points.

Republican Gov. Pete Wilson has made his support for the measure the cornerstone
of his re-election bid, catapulting himself into a solid lead in the polls after
being behind more than 20 points. His Democratic challenger, state treasurer
Kathleen Brown, opposes Proposition 187 and accuses him of demagoguery.

Many of the protesters carried banners calling for Wilson's defeat while others
waved Mexican flags and handwritten placards reading "No to 187."

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Chris Martinez, AP

THE NATION; See related story; 08A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              164 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 18, 1994, Tuesday, FIRST EDITION

UNWELCOME MAT / Act expected to pass, but fail court test

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1241 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


California is gripped by the politics of rage.

Soured, cynical and just plain "fed up," voters here are poised to
overwhelmingly pass a ballot measure that targets illegal immigrants and their
children - even though both sides agree the measure is unconstitutional.

Proposition 187 is harsher than any measure in recent memory. It would deny all
social and health services except emergency care to illegal immigrants, kick
their kids out of public schools and require teachers, doctors and others to
report "suspected" illegals to immigration authorities.

The Nov. 8 ballot measure, favored by a near 2-to-1 margin in the latest polls,
may not hold up in court. But it's certain to send a nationwide signal about the
potency of anti-immigrant politics specifically - and about the anger of many
voters in general.

The tone here is provocative. "You are the posse and (Prop 187) is the rope,"
the measure's principal backer, Orange County accountant Ron Prince, has told
supporters.

"People know it's unconstitutional but they don't care - all they care about is
sending a message," says California political analyst Sherry Bebich Jeffe.

Proposition 187 has sparked rancorous debate on radio and TV talk shows, in
opinion columns and letters to the editor, where opponents denounce the measure
as mean-spirited and racist, while supporters fume about illegal immigrants
living off welfare and costing billions of dollars annually.

Feelings are running so high that on Sunday, anti-187 protesters took to the
street. By the time the demonstration was over, what had been a march of a few
thousand mostly Hispanic protesters had swelled to nearly 70,000 - one of the
largest mass demonstrations in city history.

The signs they carried reflected their dismay: "Stop Immigrant Bashing Now,"
"These Hands Care for Your Children."

The animosity could be contagious. Like the tax-reform Proposition 13 of 1978,
Proposition 187 could become a model for other states if it passes.

"We've been contacted by people in nine other states who want copies of the
measure and information about how we got it on the ballot," says Robert Kiley, a
pro-187 spokesman.

But political, economic and social circumstances in California are unique: a
deep, lingering recession and the USA's highest number of illegal immigrants -
an estimated 1.8 million.

To all this add Republican Gov. Pete Wilson, who's campaigning for re-election
largely on the issue. Result: He's gone from a 20-point deficit in the polls to
a 13-point lead over Democratic rival Kathleen Brown, who opposes 187.

"Prop 187 is . . . two carefully orchestrated campaigns - by anti-immigrant
groups, who want to turn this into a national issue, and by Wilson, who's trying
to get re-elected," says Lucas Guttentag of the American Civil Liberties Union.

A similar confluence of circumstances isn't present elsewhere, even in other
states with high illegal immigrant populations. But more ballot measures could
whip up latent anger.

"The biggest fear is that it will become acceptable for public institutions to
turn into immigration checkpoints," says Robert Rubin of the Lawyers Committee
for Civil Rights.

All sides acknowledge 187 is unconstitutional. The Supreme Court ruled in 1982
that states cannot bar children, even illegal immigrants' children, from public
schools.

The authors of 187 say their measure is designed to force a legal challenge, in
hopes the high court will reverse itself.

But legal experts say it's rare for the court to take a 180-degree turn so soon,
even with new members. Besides, even the court dissenters in the 1982 ruling
warned against excluding illegal immigrant children likely to remain in the
country.

"It would be folly and wrong to tolerate creation of a segment of society made
up of illiterate persons," wrote then-Chief Justice Warren Burger for
dissenters.

Meanwhile, polls continue to show overwhelming voter support for 187, even among
Hispanic and liberal voters. A surprising number of people who say they'll vote
for the measure refuse to be quoted by name, and many others say they'll vote
for it even though they think it may be wrong.

Dora Hernandez, a longtime Democrat and Los Angeles-area legal secretary, told
the Los Angeles Times she senses "racial bashing" in 187. But she may vote for
it because "I abhor what (illegal immigrants) have done to my neighborhood."

Says Jim Giardina, an American history teacher at Morse High School in San
Diego, who opposes the measure: "Some teachers are so concerned about illegal
immigration they're going to vote for it, even if it means they have to be
agents" for immigration authorities.

Opponents predict support will drop as voters learn more about the consequences
- such as the threatened loss of $ 15 billion in federal education funds if the
measure passes. Some also warn that throwing an estimated 300,000 illegal
immigrant schoolchildren into the streets could increase crime.

Well-funded opponents include groups as powerful as the Chamber of Commerce, the
teachers unions and the California Medical Association, as well as Hispanic and
Asian groups and a broad coalition of church groups.

Yet underfunded supporters remain confident.

"We didn't even need Wilson," says 187 spokesman Kiley. "We have the rank and
file, the biggest voting block of all - the taxpayers."

The pro-187 forces make some staggering predictions.

If the measure does not pass, ultimately, "a Mexico-controlled California could
vote to establish Spanish as the sole language of California, 10 million more
English-speaking Californians could flee, and there could be a statewide vote to
leave the Union and annex California to Mexico."

At least that's what San Diego resident Linda R. Hayes, a media director for the
pro-187 forces, says in a recent letter to The New York Times.

The anti-187 groups have a more immediate set of concerns.

Doctors say 187 conflicts with their Hippocratic oath by forcing them to act as
immigration agents before giving care.

"It's the most despicable aspect of this. There's going to be a tremendous
backlash among physicians," says Dr. Jim Dunford, a supervising emergency room
physician at the University of California, San Diego Medical Center.

Doctors also warn that the public health implications of 187 are chilling if
children are not immunized, women receive no prenatal care and people have to
wait until their health problems become acute - and more expensive - to treat.

"If they can't get health care, they're going to come into emergency rooms in
increasing numbers," says Dunford. "It's hard enough finding out which HMO a
patient belongs to without having to figure out which country they come from."

Cost to the taxpayer An Urban Institute study of 1.44 million illegal immigrants
in California in 1992 -- one of many on the subject -- found that after
deducting the taxes they pay, illegals cost the state more than $ 1 billion in
such services as education, health care and justice. The breakdown:
Total cost of services   $ 1.8 billion
Taxes paid               $ 732 million
Net cost                $ 1.09 billion

More apprehended The number of illegal immigrants apprehended nationally has
climbed over the last four years, with the largest number caught in the San
Diego area. Illegal immigrants apprehended annually:
Year        Number
1993     1,327,259

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, color, Stephen Conley, USA TODAY, Source: Immigration and
Naturalization Service (Line graph); PHOTO, color, Ben Margot, AP; PHOTO, color,
Eric Draper, AP

TYPE: Cover Story

Calif. set to send illegal immigrants a signal; See info box at end of text; See
related story; 02A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              165 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 24, 1994, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Foes unlikely to stop immigration measure

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 338 words


Several high-profile political leaders - including President Clinton - have
condemned a California ballot proposition that targets illegal immigrants and
their children. But that may not be enough to slow the measure's momentum.

Proposition 187, which is leading nearly 2-to-1 in the polls, would deny social
and health services to illegal immigrants, kick their children out of public
schools and require teachers, doctors and other public workers to turn in
suspected illegals to authorities.

Coming out against the popular measure could be risky for U.S. Sen. Dianne
Feinstein, the California Democrat who holds a slim lead over Republican Rep.
Michael Huffington.

"I will not support 187," Feinstein said Friday. "I know this could cost me
votes, quite possibly even the election, but I do not believe it will work."

The measure is unconstitutional under a 1982 Supreme Court ruling and could be
hung up for years - at taxpayers' expense, Feinstein said.

Her opposition came one day after Huffington announced support for 187.

"The color's yellow for this career incumbent, who once again caved in to her
liberal special interest buddies," Huffington said.

Earlier, Clinton said he has "concerns" about the measure:

"If you don't give children health care, you can create health risks for
society," he said. "If you don't give children education . . . they'll be on the
street and then the increased risks of crime and other antisocial behavior will
go up."

National conservative Republican leaders Jack Kemp and Bill Bennett also
condemned the measure last week, calling it unconstitutional, contrary to
conservative principles and likely to encourage discrimination.

Kemp and Bennett both took heat from other Republicans, some of whom said Kemp
had hurt his chances to get the 1996 GOP presidential nomination.

The pro-187 forces aren't worried. "It won't make any difference," says chief
proponent Ron Prince. "Most people have already made up their minds. . . . We
have the votes of the people."

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              166 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 28, 1994, Friday, FIRST EDITION

A nanny is suddenly focus of Senate race

BYLINE: Bob Minzesheimer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 385 words


Throughout California, tens of thousands of wealthy and middle-class persons
employ illegal immigrants as nannies, gardeners and housekeepers.

But only one is running for the Senate and calling for tough measures against
illegal immigrants.

Republican Michael Huffington was on the defensive Thursday after first denying,
then acknowledging he employed an illegal immigrant from 1989 to 1993 to care
for his two daughters at his home near Santa Barbara.

Huffington's campaign accused Democratic Sen. Dianne Feinstein of also hiring
illegals, but offered no evidence.

"That is false," Feinstein says. "I have never illegally employed anyone."

Huffington's admission - after the Los Angeles Times talked to former workers at
Huffington's $ 4-million home - revived the issue that sank President Clinton's
first two choices to be attorney general.

Huffington released documents showing his wife, Arianna, tried unsuccessfully to
obtain a green card for their $ 35,000-a-year nanny.

She says that when she hired the Mexican woman "asking for the proper
documentation was the last thing on my mind. I was wrong . . . I thought I was
doing what was right for my child."

Political analysts see it as a turning point in the campaign:

"This is a serious setback," says Sherry Bebitch Jeffe of KCAL-TV. "Someone
running on the politics of virtue ignored two of them: responsibility and
honesty. Most damaging, it makes him look like just another politician."

The damage "depends on if Huffington can counter-attack in the days ahead, and
how much Feinstein skillfully exploits it," says Claremont McKenna College
political scientist John Pitney Jr., a former GOP congressional aide.

Asked if she plans ads based on the issue, Feinstein's campaign manager Kam
Kuwata said: "Stay tuned."

Huffington supporters minimized the damage:

"Didn't we go through all that with those Clinton appointees?" asks Sonny Bono,
the former entertainer and a GOP congressional candidate in Palm Springs. "A lot
of people did a little of that. I don't think it will hurt him among the market
he's targetting - Republicans and conservatives."

But Jeffe says it "dilutes" Huffington's support for the proposition on illegal
immigration. "That was his litmus test among conservatives who are very nervous
about him."

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Mark J. Terrill, AP

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              167 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 28, 1994, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Calif. races veer a bit on immigration

BYLINE: Bob Minzesheimer; Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 312 words


Sentiment may be shifting slightly against Republicans in California over the
emotional issue of illegal immigration.

With less than two weeks until Election Day, developments Thursday are shaking
the campaign landscape in this politically influential state:

-- New polls show opposition growing to a proposition that would deny most
government benefits to illegal immigrants.

A majority of voters still support the measure, dubbed "Save Our State" by
backers. But for the first time, pollsters say the outcome is in doubt.

-- Senate GOP candidate Michael Huffington, who backs the proposition and calls
for tough measures against illegal immigrants, admitted employing an illegal
immigrant as a $ 35,000-a-year nanny.

-- Polls show Democrat Kathleen Brown narrowing the lead of GOP Gov. Pete
Wilson, who's on the defensive after suggesting residents will need ID cards to
prove they are legal if the proposition passes.

Huffington, Wilson and the California GOP support the immigrant proposition.
Brown and Democratic Sen. Dianne Feinstein - being challenged by Huffington -
oppose it.

As for the illegal worker, Huffington says his wife Arianna did the hiring.

She says that, "overwhelmed with my new responsibilities" as a new mother, she
failed to establish the nanny's immigration status until after she "had become a
part of the family."

A new Los Angeles Times poll shows likely voters:

-- Support the immigrant proposition 51%-41%, down from a 26-point margin.

"As people pay more attention to this thing, they seem to like it less and
less," says pollster John Bennan.

-- Favor Wilson 52%-43%, down from a 13-point edge.

Says Democratic consultant Paul Maslin: "If the final music in this campaign is
about an initiative that's losing and involving a governor that people already
view cynically for his use of the issue - watch out."

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

See related stories; 02A, 03A, 04A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              168 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    November 4, 1994, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Prop. 187 heightens black-Hispanic tensions / Groups are frequently in
competition

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 779 words


The rancorous debate over a California ballot measure that targets illegal
immigrants has exposed growing tensions between the state's black and Hispanic
populations.

In cities like Compton and neighborhoods like south central Los Angeles, blacks
and Hispanics - especially newly arrived immigrants - eye each other across a
chasm of suspicion: They are divided by language, culture and the competition
for jobs, political power and social services.

Now many in the two groups find themselves on opposite sides of Proposition 187.

The Nov. 8 ballot measure would deny social and health services to illegal
immigrants, kick their kids out of public schools and require teachers, doctors
and other public workers to report suspected illegals.

"Illegal immigration has placed the African-American in the position of having
to compete for resources that are few and far between. Animosity and friction
are the natural product," says 187 supporter Omar Bradley, mayor of the once
largely black city of Compton, south of Los Angeles.

"The mayor is in favor of anything that's against Latinos," retorts Pedro
Pallan, 60-year-old bakery owner, 34-year-resident of Compton and advocate for
Hispanics, who now make up nearly half of Compton's population.

Citizens of Hispanic descent, like Pallan, fear they, too, will be swept up in
the anti-illegal fervor. "Blacks have a long history of (experiencing)
discrimination and now they're taking their frustration out on us," Pallan says.

Polls show Hispanic voters have turned against 187 in recent weeks, but a narrow
majority of white and black voters continue to support it.

"They've bought into the big lie - that immigrants are the cause of all of
California's economic problems," says Arturo Vargas, vice president of the
Mexican-American Legal Defense and Education Fund.

But debate over the measure reflects just one aspect of recent black-Hispanic
tensions in the state:

-- In Compton, longstanding Hispanic resentment of lack of representation in the
city workforce boiled over after a black police officer was videotaped beating
up an Hispanic teen-ager in August.

-- In south central Los Angeles, blacks reacted angrily to a proposal by
Hispanics to rename Martin Luther King Hospital for the late Farmworkers Union
leader Cesar Chavez.

-- In both areas, black and Hispanic gangs have clashed repeatedly in high
schools.

-- Blacks were outraged after Hispanic leaders complained about alleged racism
at the U.S. Postal Service, charging that blacks get jobs at the expense of
Hispanics.

John Mack, president of the Los Angeles Urban League and leading 187 opponent,
says it's understandable blacks feel vulnerable in a recession.

"The tendency is to resist newcomers, no matter where they come from," Mack
says. "But beating up on each other is cutting off our noses to spite our
faces."

Yet Proposition 187 has revealed a disconnection between many blacks and
community leaders on this issue.

Mayor Bradley is virtually alone among black elected officials in favoring 187.
Jesse Jackson denounced it, ministers preach against it and political groups
hold seminars. Still, many are not listening.

"It's an uphill battle and time is not our ally," Mack says. "The leadership's
credibility is on the line."

In a column in the Los Angeles Times last week, Kevin Ross, a black deputy
district attorney and radio talk show co-host, argued that support for 187 among
blacks is the result of longstanding indifference to black-Hispanic frictions.

"Should (187) be defeated? Absolutely! Will large numbers of African-Americans
vote for it? Absolutely!" says Ross.

He says many blacks perceive a lack of respect from Hispanics, and hotly resent
accusations of racism. "There's a perception that we're being displaced, that
what little we have is being taken away."
Resentment also was stoked when the Mexican government, in an unprecedented
move, took a stand against 187, even setting up telephone hot lines at the 10
consulates in California to register opposition.

"Where do foreign nationals get off telling us how to vote?" demands Ezola
Foster, a black school teacher and founder of an ultaconservative group called
Black Americans for Family Values.

Mack, among other leaders, holds out hope that win or lose, 187 will have some
beneficial effects. "It's opened up lines of communication that weren't there
before," Mack says.

But others worry that passage of 187 will only exacerbate tensions.

"One thing is for sure - it's not going to make things better," says the Rev.
William Johnson Jr., pastor of Curry Temple Christian Methodist Episcopal Church
in Compton and an opponent of 187.

LOAD-DATE: November 05, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, b/w, y Bob Riha Jr., Gamma-Liaison (2)

IMMIGRATION; See sidebar; 07A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              169 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    November 7, 1994, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Prop. 187 firing up the voters / Immigration issue the talk of Calif.

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 408 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


As California voters prepare to go to the polls, a ballot measure that targets
illegal immigrants dominates the state's gubernatorial and Senate campaigns.

At a rally Sunday, Democratic gubernatorial candidate Kathleen Brown spoke out
against Proposition 187, which would cut off welfare, public schooling and
non-emergency health care to California's 1.6 million illegal immigrants.

"Proposition 187 is about discrimination," Brown said.

She cited a third-generation Mexican-American who told Brown she already feels
as if people look at her as an illegal.

"And that is the evil of 187," said Brown, who has made her opposition of the
measure the recent focus of her bid to unseat Republican Gov. Pete Wilson, a
staunch 187 supporter.

Without mentioning Wilson by name, she denounced politicians of "narrow vision
and mean spirit" who try "to use 187 to hold onto power."

Immigration also has been a central issue in the U.S. Senate race between
incumbent Democrat Dianne Feinstein and GOP challenger Michael Huffington, a 187
supporter.

President Clinton, campaigning for Democratic candidates this weekend, jumped in
with his strongest attack yet on Proposition 187, calling it an appeal to anger,
not reason.

Recent polls show support for 187 has dropped from a high of nearly 2-to-1 in
favor, to a statistical dead heat.

The measure is expected to bring out voters on both sides, and officials are
predicting a 60% turnout, a slight increase over four years ago, in part because
of Proposition 187.

Wilson has used his support of the measure to help turn a 20-point deficit in
the polls into a comfortable lead over Brown, the state treasurer.

But Brown, who mildly opposed 187 initially, has ratcheted up her rhetoric
against the measure in an effort to get Democratic voters to the polls.

Brown's position also has netted her publicity at a time when her campaign
reportedly lacks advertising funds.

Student walkouts to protest Proposition 187 - some featuring Mexican flags,
minor disturbances and a few arrests - have helped raise awareness of the
measure among Hispanic voters, but may alienate some undecided voters.

"The critical voter base is going to be . . . the undecided, and they can be
pushed in either direction," said Los Angeles County Sheriff Sherman Block, who
opposes 187 because, he says, barring 300,000 illegal immigrants from school
will increase crime.

More student protests are scheduled today.

LOAD-DATE: November 08, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Jose Luis Magana, AP

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              170 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    November 8, 1994, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Movement leader sees 'mix' of support

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 186 words

DATELINE: FULLERTON, Calif.


A chief proponent of Proposition 187, the ballot measure that targets illegal
immigrants in California, remains confident of victory today, despite polls
showing voters evenly split.

"It's been a mix over the last few days because I speak to many kinds of
groups," said Ron Prince, the Orange County accountant who started the movement.
"But there's been more groups where the majority . . . are in favor" of the
measure.

Monday he made his case at a Kiwanis Club forum where members were sharply
divided over 187, which would deny public education and social and non-emergency
health services to illegals and their children.

"Where are you going to find the money for all the sewing machines to sew all
the (Nazi) stars on the people you accuse (of being illegal)?" asked Deacon Jay
Miland.

But Ken Lullo, a financial counselor, said, "Everyone would like to provide all
services to all people, but we just can't afford it."

Meanwhile, police began preparing for possible violent protests if 187 passes.
Los Angeles Police Chief Willie Williams said authorities "are prepared if
anything should arise."

LOAD-DATE: November 09, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

POLITICS; See main story; 02A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              171 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    November 8, 1994, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

School's future tied to Prop. 187

BYLINE: Gale Holland

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 421 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Beneath the dull buzz of low-flying jets from nearby Los Angeles International
Airport, Buford Elementary School awaits today's vote on Proposition 187 with
particular loathing and dread.

Buford, located in the most densely populated square mile in California, may be
decimated by the measure, which would cut off education, health and social
services to California's 1.6 million illegal immigrants. Up to half of the
school's students are the children of illegal immigrants, officials say.

Buford Principal Tom Johnston says he will enforce the law if it passes, but
calls it a "crisis of conscience."

"In one fell swoop, they're asking us to betray the trust it took years to
develop," says Johnston.

Buford's parent school district, Lennox, has been heaped with state and national
honors for its achievements in helping immigrant students.

While more than 90% of the students in the Lennox district speak no English when
they enter kindergarten, more than 80% are fully bilingual when they leave
eighth grade. Their fourth-grade test results start among the lowest in the
state, but by graduation students are scoring only 8% below state averages in
reading and 6% in mathematics.

"In many ways, it's an extraordinary accomplishment they're working there," says
William Dawson, California's acting state superintendent of public instruction.
Teachers already are balking at the ballot measure's provision that they turn in
students suspected of being illegals.

"It's so easy for people to talk about the faceless masses, but I look at my
children, working so hard, and wonder which one will it be?" says fifth-grade
teacher Rhoda Coleman, one of five state teachers of the year. "I don't know any
teachers who are going to turn in their children. They're like family."

Monday a group of mothers said their children now ask them questions they can't
answer.

"My son watches the news and he asks me why do they want to take the doctors and
medicine from some? Why isn't it the same for all children?" Maria Escalante
said with tears in her eyes.

Students call the measure ethnically discriminatory. They worry about violence
if students are forced out of school. And they worry about saying goodbye to
friends, maybe even their parents.

Coleman says a school project on immigration this year turned from pride to fear
because of 187. The project asked children to interview their parents about
their arrival in the USA. "There was so much fear on the part of parents, I
almost had to cancel it," she says.

LOAD-DATE: November 09, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Bob Riha Jr., Gamma-Liaison

POLITICS; See sidebar; 02A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              172 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   November 9, 1994, Wednesday, FIRST EDITION

Bitter battle over Prop. 187 down to wire

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 664 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


California's brawl over illegal immigration was at a standoff Tuesday night as
voters awaited final returns on Proposition 187 - a ballot measure that
dominated campaigns and sparked an emotional firestorm statewide.

Early exit polls showed voters evenly split on 187, which would deny the state's
1.6 million illegal immigrants public education, non-emergency health care and
social services. Only a few weeks ago polls showed voters 2-to-1 in favor.

Votes on the measure were driven largely by race, age and party. Hispanics
overwhelmingly opposed the proposition, and younger voters were more likely to
oppose it.

Republicans continued to strongly support the measure. Black voters appeared
evenly divided.

"Win or lose, it polarized the electorate," says Harry Pachon, president of
Tomas Rivera Center, a non-partisan think tank on Hispanic issues at the
Claremont Colleges in Los Angeles County.

The debate degenerated into a furious exchange of name-calling, with supporters
accused of racism and Latino-bashing and opponents charged with protecting
illegal immigrants who boost costs of schools, hospitals and welfare rolls.

The measure prompted a series of angry protest marches in southern California in
recent weeks, and Los Angeles police were on maximum deployment Tuesday.

Enmity spread as far as Mexico, where virtually all segments of society bitterly
oppose 187. Tuesday, dozens of masked assailants attacked a McDonald's
restaurant in Mexico City, breaking windows and scrawling anti-U.S. grafitti.

Democratic gubernatorial candidate Kathleen Brown made her opposition of Prop.
187 a central focus of her campaign to unseat incumbent Republican Gov. Pete
Wilson, a staunch 187 supporter.

Opponents also included several national conservative leaders, among them former
drug czar Bill Bennett and former HUD secretary Jack Kemp, a likely 1996
Republican presidential candidate.

They came out against the measure when it still appeared likely to pass easily.

"If it loses, the turning point in the dynamics of the campaign was the
statement of opposition by Kemp and Bennett, because that gave Republicans,
conservatives, and even Democrats political cover," says political analyst
Sherry Bebitch Jeffe.

If Prop. 187 passes, several lawsuits challenging the measure on constitutional
grounds are expected to be filed today. Under a 1982 Supreme Court decision,
children cannot be denied public education, even if they are illegal immigrants.

Proponents of 187 say the law is necessary because California can no longer
afford to pay billions a year in services for illegal residents.

"Never in the history of the state has the Latino community been so disrespected
- it's been nothing but pure hate-speech," says Juan Jose' Gutierrez, head of
One Stop Immigration & Educational Center here.

Others dismiss that argument. "It has nothing to do with discrimination. It has
to do with providing documents proving you are here legally, and there's nothing
wrong with that," says Ernest Dynda, president of the United Organization of Tax
Payers.

Still, some fear trouble if 187 passes. "There is an explosive situation across
the state and the anxieties and fears of millions have been aroused," says
Gutierrez. "The potential (for violence) is very real."

Some analysts predict trouble for Republicans. "We've seen gradual inroads by
the GOP into the Latino vote in the past few years, but the spillover from the
187 campaign is that Latinos are likely to turn away from Republicans," says
Pachon.

Proponents aren't worried. "Win, lose or draw, this campaign has exposed all the
problems we have with illegal immigration, allocation of services and
accountability in government," says Dynda.

Proposition 187 vote in California How racial/ethnic groups voted on banning
services to illegals.
            Yes   No
White        56%  44%
Black        51%  49%

Hispanic(1) 20% 80% 1 -- Hispanics can be of any race.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Stephen Conley, USA TODAY, Source: Voter News Service
exit polls (Bar graph)

ELECTION '94; See info box at end of text.

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              173 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   November 9, 1994, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Calif. voters favoring immigration limits

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 405 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


California's hotly contested ballot measure targeting illegal immigrants was
leading in the polls Tuesday night.

Exit polls showed voters giving a slight lead to Proposition 187, which would
deny the state's 1.6 million illegal immigrants public education, non-emergency
health care and social services.

Democratic Rep. Xavier Becerra said passage of Prop. 187 would politically
energize Hispanics. "It's going to be a watershed year for Latinos," he said.
"It's awakened young leaders and it's certainly clear after this that legal
immigrants are going to want to become citizens" so they can vote.

Votes on the measure were driven largely by race, age and party. Hispanics
overwhelmingly opposed the proposition, and younger voters were more likely to
oppose it.

Republicans continued to strongly support the measure. Black voters appeared
evenly divided.

"Win or lose, it polarized the electorate," says Harry Pachon, president of
Tomas Rivera Center, a non-partisan think tank on Hispanic issues at the
Claremont Colleges in Los Angeles County.

The debate over the measure degenerated into a furious exchange of name-calling,
with supporters accused of racism and Latino-bashing and opponents charged with
protecting illegal immigrants who boost costs of schools, hospitals and welfare
rolls.

Enmity spread as far as Mexico, where virtually all segments of society bitterly
oppose 187.

Democratic gubernatorial candidate Kathleen Brown made her opposition of Prop.
187 a central focus of her failed bid to unseat incumbent Republican Gov. Pete
Wilson, a staunch 187 supporter.

Opponents included several national conservative leaders, among them former drug
czar Bill Bennett and former HUD secretary Jack Kemp, a likely 1996 Republican
presidential candidate.

If Prop. 187 passes, several lawsuits challenging the measure on constitutional
grounds are expected to be filed today. Under a 1982 Supreme Court decision,
children cannot be denied public education, even if they are illegal immigrants.

Proponents of 187 say the law is necessary because California can no longer
afford to pay billions a year in services for illegal residents.

Some fear trouble if 187 passes. "There is an explosive situation across the
state and the anxieties and fears of millions have been aroused," said Juan Jose
Gutierrez, head of One Stop Immigration & Educational Center. "The potential
(for violence) is very real."

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ELECTION '94; See sidebar; 02A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              174 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    November 21, 1994, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Prop. 187's effects ripple across Calif.

BYLINE: Gale Holland

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 692 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Private storefront clinics in Hispanic neighborhoods are nearly empty. They're
seeing half as many patients as before the passage of Proposition 187.

But big hospitals say Hispanic immigrants are back.

The two opposite effects, which experts can't explain, continue to ripple across
the state nearly two weeks since voters approved Proposition 187's ban on
illegal immigrants receiving public medical and educational services. The
measure also requires teachers, doctors, police and state workers to turn in
illegals.

Even though two courts blocked implementation of the measure, turmoil is
growing.

To 187 supporters, that's just fine. They say they are achieving their goal
making illegal immigrants feel not welcome.

"We are getting word a lot of people have quit their jobs, pulled kids out of
school and are in the process of leaving," said Ron Prince, head of the
Proposition 187 campaign.

Republican Gov. Pete Wilson repeated his support Friday in a Washington speech,
as 50 people protested the measure many decry as bigotry.

"It's very wrong and unfair to reward people with public benefits for breaking
our immigration laws, and especially to do so at the expense of needy legal
residents," he said.

Those working with immigrants say life is inching back.

Patient calls to public clinics fell by as much as 40% right after the vote,
officials say. Patients began trickling back after the courts acted.

"The word was out: Even if 187 was passed, we would continue business as usual,"
said Los Angeles County Department of Health Services spokeswoman Toby Staheli.

Still missing: some expectant mothers, even though the federal government pays
for pre-natal care. The county's pre-natal clinics show a 4.2% decline over last
year, Staheli said. Private obstetrics clinics recorded a similar dip.

In the neighborhood clinics, patient counts are down, but no one knows how many
immigrants get care there.

"It's just guesswork," said Robert Tranquada, University of Southern California
health-administration professor.

Patients are also shying away from the hospital serving poor in Orange County,
the cradle of the Proposition 187 movement, said David Langness, spokesman for
the 250-member Hospital Council of Southern California.

To reassure patients, hospital and clinic officials are insisting they would not
blow the whistle, at least while the court orders remain in place.

"The hospital has been providing quality health care to the community for more
than 100 years, and this care has been given to our patients regardless of
financial or immigration status," reads signs in English and Spanish on the
glass doors of the giant California Hospital Medical Center in downtown Los
Angeles.

A fiery letter, blaming 187 on bigotry and discrimination, went out from the
Clinica Medica La Fe in Hawthorne, a growing immigrant neighborhood where cases
are down to as few as one a day. "Before this started, we used to get 15 to 20
patients a day," said office manager Verna Martinez.

The nearby San Jose Dental Group is offering cut-rate extractions to people too
scared to visit public dental clinics.

"You cannot let them go when they have pain," said office manager Toni Gordillo.

Bang Vu Pham, a physician at St. Paul Clinica Medica in Hawthorne, said his
patient load is in freefall despite his impassioned opposition to 187.

"In South Vietnam, we fight the Vietnamese communists, if they're shot and
wounded, I treat them," he said. "If I know I have to go to jail, still I give
treatment to these people."

The Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles says it had fielded up
to 150 reports of hospitals demanding immigrant documentation.

"We've gotten calls from people who've been asked for their documentation in
pharmacies, in banks and then refused service," says the coalition's David Paz
Solden.

Says county health official Staheli: "These are the same numbers (of complaints)
the county supervisors get."

Cost of illegals' medical care How California says the cost of providing
emergency and pregnancy-related services to illegal immigrants has risen:
'92   $ 400 million

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Stephen Conley, USA TODAY, Source: California Department
of Health Services (Line graph); PHOTO, b/w, Joe Marquette, AP; PHOTO, b/w, USA
TODAY

THE NATION; See related story; 01A; See info box at end of text.

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              175 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   December 1, 1994, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

GAO: Calif. due funds for immigrants

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 214 words


The federal government will owe California at least $ 1.4 billion next year to
offset the cost of illegal immigration, according to a new study.

The General Accounting Office report supports California's longstanding
complaint that its taxpayers bear an unfair burden for federal failure to
control illegal immigration.

"It is morally right we be reimbursed," says Sen. Barbara Boxer, D-Calif., who
requested the study.

The GAO estimates the cost of illegal immigration next year will total $ 2.3
billion.

Illegal immigrants pay about $ 900 million in state taxes, leaving $ 1.4 billion
uncovered.

But California says that's not enough.

"They don't begin to cover state costs, let alone federally mandated costs,"
says Leslie Goodman, spokeswoman for Gov. Pete Wilson.

The report also could be useful to states, including California, if they decide
to sue for compensation for the cost of illegal immigrants.

"It endorses the argument . . . the feds are getting a big chunk of money off of
undocumented aliens and they're not giving back anything," says lawyer Parker
Thomson, representing Florida.

Boxer is asking the new Republican-controlled Congress to approve compensation.

"Early indications from (GOP leaders) are that they support us," says Goodman.

LOAD-DATE: December 02, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              176 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    December 2, 1994, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Families face ultimate fear: Being split up / For many California residents
there's a mix of legal statuses

BYLINE: Gale Holland

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 1171 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Like many teens, Estela M. wears oversized jeans and idolizes pop diva Whitney
Houston. Her 11-year-old sister spends hours dressing a Barbie doll. Her
5-year-old brother is addicted to TV's Power Rangers.

In fact, this close-knit immigrant family is typically American in almost every
way. Of the seven children, only 16-year-old Estela even remembers Mexico - a
dim recollection of home on a bare, dirt floor.

But California's newly passed Proposition 187 has hit the family with a
devastating reminder that they're not really an all-American family. Because
only five are citizens - mother Raquel and three kids still await papers - the
family faces the threat of separation, dislocation or forced repatriation.

"Right now, I don't know whether I'm going to stay or go," said Estela (her
family asked that their last name be withheld).

Her family is among tens of thousands dealing with the same problem. Supporters
of Proposition 187, which would cut off most medical service and education to
illegal immigrants and require doctors and teachers to turn them in, sold voters
on a simple message: Illegals are feeding at the public trough. Send them home.

But few illegals exist in a vacuum. Most families are a mix; some members are
citizens, some are on the way to citizenship, and some are clearly illegal.

"Rarely do you find a pure undocumented family," said Leo Chavez, associate
professor of anthropology at University of California, Irvine.

Immigration is an odyssey in and out of the shadows, Chavez says. The
legalization wait for qualified Mexicans is as long as 11 years. In the
meantime, they start out here typically tilling the fields, then move on to
illegal urban jobs. Through all that, they keep bringing more family members
from Mexico.

Family reunification long has been a guiding principle of American immigration
policy. Of the 1 million immigrants legalized in 1993, 650,000, or more than
two-thirds, were family-sponsored.

But supporters of 187 want children of illegals stripped of citizenship. They
say parents should have considered the implications for their children before
they turned outlaw.

"Nobody is no more of a kid person than I am," said Barbara Coe, one of the
pro-187 leaders. "But we cannot continue to pay for the parents'
irresponsibility. Certainly, they have the option of leaving their children in
the care of another citizen or legal guardian, or of going back to their own
country."

That attitude has panicked many immigrant families. But experts don't expect
their fear to produce a mass exodus. Many are taking steps to keep their lives
here.

While 187 remains stalled in court, lines of immigrant children are queuing up
at parochial schools. New applications for residency and citizenship are
unusually brisk.

"The economic drive is so strong," explains Chavez.

In the end, the measure's true legacy may not be an end to illegal immigrants
but a period of added anxiety and more scrambling to survive.

Those affected include:

-- Julio Martinez, 27, and Edith Hernandez, 28, who fled army butchery in El
Salvador a decade ago.

The family's three children have nothing to fear themselves; they're U.S.
citizens. But they are frightened for their father, who is undocumented, and
even for their mother, who cleaned houses in the tony suburbs of Encino and
Pasadena for 10 years getting her green card.

Mario, 12, refused to return to school for days after the election because he
was scared his parents would be "disappeared" by immigration agents while he was
gone.

"Sometimes I feel guilty about us being Latins and having the kids here," Edith
Hernandez said one recent Saturday afternoon in her crumbling cottage near the
Hollywood Freeway. The brightly painted room was papered with her sons' math and
soccer awards. "The only problems they have is because we are their parents."

-- H. Ramos, 19, a state university student. After joining his family in Baldwin
Park five years ago, he racked up a series of national art awards and dreamed of
a promising future as a studio animator.

But he's the only one in his family here without citizenship or legal residency.
He applied more than a year ago but has been told to expect a wait of 2 1/2 more
years.

So now his college career is threatened, a Disney Studios internship is on hold
and one of his proudest achievements has taken on an ironic cast: first-place
honors in a national poster contest celebrating the 200th birthday of the Bill
of Rights.

"I had a Caucasian woman in an American flag dress holding four babies of all
the different races," Ramos recalled. "It's sad now, because lots of kids who
are citizens are not going to get their rights just because they are Latino."

-- Ysidro Sandoval, 30, and his wife, Leonor, 28, whose oldest daughter, 6, now
realizes she's different from her 3-year-old sister.

The 6-year-old "is talking about people being taken back to Mexico. She knows
she doesn't have papers," Leonor says. "We explain the fact that just because
her sister has papers doesn't mean we are going to be separated. But I'm not
sure what we're going to do."

Money is one of the keys for many of these families. That includes Raquel M. and
her three older children. They expect papers soon but say the immigration fee -
$ 650 each - is a major obstacle.

Raquel's husband, Oscar, gives gospel music lessons - an occupation that
provides a hand-to-mouth living. They don't take welfare.

A bunk bed and two mattresses take up a wall in the living room, where the
family congregates after school. At bedtime, the mattresses drop to cover the
bare floorboards.

"It's not crowded for us," says Ana, 13. "The great thing about a family like
ours, if you have a problem with one person, you can talk to another."

The family finds it difficult to imagine moving back to Mexico, where few
relatives remain. Some 40 family members live here legally, holding jobs ranging
from an automotive shop owner to landscaper.

Among them is Oscar's sister, Celia Montalvo, a data entry clerk at a customs
house who relies on Raquel and the kids to baby-sit her toddler son. "It's so
sad," Montalvo says. "They're just people struggling to make a better life for
their children."

Calif. illegal-immigrant costs

A General Accounting Office study of the cost of illegal immigrants to
California found the state facing more than $ 1.4 billion in shortfalls after
subtracting the state and local taxes illegals pay. The study found that the
immigrants pay an estimated $ 1.3 billion in federal taxes. The state is suing
the federal government to recover the shortfall. The effect of illegals on the
state for the current fiscal year:
Cost of state services     $ 2.351 billion
State/local taxes paid      $ .878 billion
Net cost to state          $ 1.473 billion

Breakdown of state costs (in billions)
Education                $ 1.596
Medical services          $ .395
Prison costs              $ .360

LOAD-DATE: December 03, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, color, Cliff Vancura, USA TODAY, Source: General Accounting
Office (Pie chart); PHOTO, color, Brennan B.  Linsley, AP

IMMIGRATION; See info box at end of text; See related story; 06A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              177 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  December 21, 1994, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Border Patrol foes change their tactics

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 502 words


Immigrant advocates and civil rights groups, once vocal critics of federal
crackdowns on illegal border crossings, have muted their opposition in the face
of a new political dynamic.

"People have had a dose of 'reality therapy,' " says Carol Wolchok, head of the
American Bar Association's Center for Immigration Law and Representation.

"Most immigrant advocates, if they didn't agree before, they agree now that
deterring unlawful entries is preferable to having Draconian kinds of internal
intrusions into Americans' lives."

Advocates are still against "militarizing" the border, but many accept the need
for more Border Patrol agents, lights and fences if that's what it takes to head
off alternatives such as California's Proposition 187 - which would deny illegal
immigrants and their children most social services.

"The reason for the shift is that the alternative is so much more of a violation
of civil rights and breaks up the fabric of society in a way that interdiction
at the border does not," says Tom Saenz, attorney at the Mexican-American Legal
Defense and Education Fund.

Even the Border Patrol's recent efforts to blockade the border at El Paso and
San Diego have gone unchallenged by most groups.

"Operation Gatekeeper (at San Diego) and Operation Hold-The-Line (at El Paso)
appear to be more legitimate police tactics than military tactics, there seems
to be due respect for civil rights, (without) indiscriminate arrests, beatings
and depredations of human rights," says John Swenson, head of migration and
refugee services for the American Catholic bishops.

But the American Friends Service Committee, a Quaker group that works with
illegal border-crossers, continues to reject expansion of border enforcement,
arguing that Border Patrol agents routinely abuse border-crossers. The Border
Patrol denies this.

"The difference between me and the people who say sealing off the border is the
answer is that they're at a desk 3,000 miles away and don't see what I see at
the detention centers, the tortured people, the faces swollen from beatings,"
says Roberto Martinez, who heads the committee's Border Project in San Diego.

He says the only way to curb illegal immigration is to improve economies of
sending countries. But Washington-based advocates say they must adjust to
changed political realities - a Republican-controlled Congress and rising public
frustration displayed in the strong vote for Prop. 187.

"The first step is to get Prop. 187 off the agenda so we can begin to focus
debate on other options, whether those are employment-based or border-based,"
says Saenz.

Margie McHugh, head of the New York Immigration Coalition, says advocates will
also be preoccupied with protecting legal immigrants. Some in Congress want to
sharply reduce legal immigration and cut public benefits to legal immigrants as
part of welfare reform.

"The sort of brush fires burning over undocumented immigration are now burning
in the area of legal immigration," she says.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

IMMIGRATION; See main story; 06A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              178 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  December 21, 1994, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Traffic slows at popular border-cross sites / But immigrants simply move to new
point of entry

BYLINE: Sandra Sanchez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 720 words

DATELINE: NOGALES, Ariz.


Miguel Aguilar-Lopez stood with no money, no identification and nothing but the
dusty sweatshirt and jeans he wore - the victim of bandits who robbed him at the
Mexican border.

Lopez, 23, is among a growing number of illegal immigrants and drug smugglers
who've migrated here after running headlong into the U.S. Border Patrols massive
crackdown along the border in San Diego and El Paso.

"I usually cross through Tijuana but now it is very hard there because of the
border agents," he said. "There are so many and they keep coming."

More than 150 agents have been assigned this fall to patrol the border near San
Diego and 179 newly-trained recruits will join them in late January, said Ramon
Ortega, patrol agent in charge of the sector's Chula Vista station.

More movement-detection sensors, infrared night scopes and all-terrain vehicles
have been bought. The result: Apprehensions near San Diego declined from 27,113
in November 1993 to 16,241 in November 1994, according to Immigration and
Naturalization Service records.

"This is part of a national strategic plan in which we're going to secure the
Southwest border," said Ortega, a 19-year veteran.

"In the time I've been here I've seen the traffic pour through here," he added.
"I call it the silent invasion. It was crisis management down here and the
community was getting tired of being overrun. They're glad we're trying to get
control of the border."

The situation is much the same in El Paso, where 250 new agents patrol the
border.

That doesn't mean fewer people are trying to enter the country. Instead hundreds
if not thousands of illegal immigrants stymied by Operation Gatekeeper in San
Diego and Operation Hold The Line in El Paso, are trying to enter through places
like Nogales - one of the remaining holes along the Southwest border.

"This is like a bottleneck because we're right smack in the middle of San Diego
and El Paso," says Border Patrol spokesman Rob Daniels.

Thousands daily hop steel fences and crawl through sewage-infested tunnels. For
every illegal immigrant caught, officials say, about 10 get through.

"All we are doing is holding them at bay," says Border Patrol Supervisor Ronald
Colburn. "We get what we can. We just don't have the manpower."

Agents patrol crooked streets and alleys in cars and on bicycles. Easily
spotted, they are often targets for disgruntled drug smugglers and "mules," who
charge up to $ 500 to lead immigrants across the canyon on foot.

Last week, agents were fired on three times here. In one incident, agents nabbed
an 18-year-old driving 80 pounds of marijuana through a break in the border
fence.

With relatively few resources compared to San Diego and El Paso, agents here
wage a daily struggle:

-- Some of the 14 low-light cameras positioned on hilltops have been shot down.

-- Before a steel wall was erected, the windshields of more than 120 patrol cars
were shattered by rocks thrown from the Mexican side.

-- Each day, welders repair the 4-mile long steel fence. But each morning, new
holes have been blowtorched open.

"I'm amazed we don't have more agents hurt," says Colburn, who'll soon get help.

Another 100 agents will join the 281-mile-long border sector, from the New
Mexico line to Yuma, Ariz., by June.

Still, the job is daunting. More non-Mexicans than ever are crossing - including
Chinese, Bulgarians, Salvadorans and Guatemalans. In November, arrests of
non-Mexicans were up more than 620% from last year.

Drug trafficking is also up. So far this month, 11,800 pounds of marijuana have
been seized, topping the 9,100 pounds in all of last December.

Once out of the city, the risk of capture is low. There are no permanent road
checkpoints.

Even if stopped, most know they won't be punished.

This week, Maria Gonzales begged agents to let her and her two children return
to Mexico without arrest.

"I'll go back, let me go back," she pleaded.

"Mommy are they taking us again?" Gonzales' frightened daughter asked.

"Yes, darling. Now be quiet," Gonzales scolded.

It was her second arrest in two hours.

Contributing: Bob Ross in San Diego

Border Patrol cuts crossings How Operation Gatekeeper has cut attempted illegal
crossings in the San Diego area Border Patrol sector: Apprehensions
Nov. '93   27,113
Nov. '94   16,241

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Gary Visgaitis, USA TODAY, Source: Border Patrol (Bar
graph); PHOTOS, b/w, John Miller, AP; PHOTO, b/w, Bob Riha, AP

IMMIGRATION; See sidebar; 06A; See info box at end of text.

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              179 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   December 27, 1994, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Initiative process proceeding to the courts

BYLINE: Kevin Johnson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 723 words


From curbing illegal immigrants to approving doctor-assisted suicides, voters
have recently approved a number of controversial ballot measures.

But the final word on these citizen-driven initiatives will likely come from the
courts - not the people.

-- Outraged over the state's porous Mexican border, California overwhelmingly
approved Proposition 187, denying illegal immigrants access to most public
services.

But the measure has been effectively postponed until the courts determine
whether it meets constitutional standards.

-- Oregon voters passed a doctor-assisted-suicide law. But Measure 16 faces
protracted legal challenges from some doctors and pro-life advocates.

-- Also in California, a San Francisco judge has refused to enforce part of the
state's "three-strikes law," which promises harsher sentences for repeat
criminals.

For some, these and other challenges are contributing to a growing voter
frustration.

"The courts have to realize that the real power in this country rests with the
people," says Ron Prince, a Tustin, Calif., accountant who helped engineer the
successful Proposition 187 movement.

"When the people speak, the judiciary should listen. The (court system) is a
ridiculous comedy," says Prince.

Last month, there were more citizen-generated initiatives on ballots nationwide
than at any time since 1932, says Joan Ponessa of the Public Affairs Research
Institute in New Jersey.

Prince, in many ways, has come to represent an angry electorate that is turning
to the ballot box for change when elected officials won't take action.

"People see the initiative process as a way of getting around their public
officials," say Ponessa.

But, the process "does not allow you to go around the critical step that makes
sure we abide by people's constitutional rights," says Elliot Mincberg, legal
director of People for the American Way.

While the vast majority of successful ballot measures are rarely challenged in
court, those generating the most voter passion are usually destined for the
courtroom, says Tom Jipping, director of the Center For Law and Democracy at the
Free Congress Foundation.

"There is a certain element in this society that does not trust the American
people to make decisions for themselves," says Jipping. "Their agenda includes
sidestepping and that includes the courts."

Norman Leahy of the U.S. Term Limits Foundation - a group fighting challenges to
voter-approved term limits - says: "There definitely is a frustration level out
there. People see (the legal challenges) as sour grapes."

But if Prince has come to symbolize a national frustration, there are people
like 32-year-old Jeffrey Dean Missamore of San Francisco who are happy to have
the courts as a forum for post-election review.

Found with a marijuana cigarette while serving time on a jail honor farm,
Missamore, a non-violent, second-time felon, faced a minimum of four years in
prison under the state's new three-strikes law.

But Sonoma County Superior Court Judge Lawrence Antolini refused to enforce the
law, citing a state ban on cruel and unusual punishment.

Antolini's decision was recently upheld by a state appeals court.

"I sympathize with the voters' frustration," says Missamore's lawyer, H. Bruce
Kinnison. "But whether the laws come through the legislature or by initiative,
it is up to the courts to measure them against constitutional framework. I don't
think the country could function if the courts abandoned their job."

Past controversial ballot measures have also been tested in the courts:

-- Opponents went to court in 1992, for example, when Colorado voters approved a
constitutional amendment barring local governments from passing laws that would
protect the rights of homosexuals.

In October, the state Supreme Court said the amendment was unconstitutional
because it "fences out an identifiable group of people from participating in the
political process."

Colorado's attorney general has appealed the decision to the U.S. Supreme Court.

-- A 1992 Arkansas law limiting the terms of U.S. House and Senate leaders is
now before the U.S. Supreme Court.

"Challenges through the judiciary are an equally important part of the process,"
says Mincberg. "The whole idea of the Constitution is based on the fact that
certain rights are above majority rule."

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Chris Pizzello, AP; PHOTO, b/w, USA TODAY

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              180 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    January 15, 1993, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Baird questioned over illegal aliens

BYLINE: Sam Vincent Meddis

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 296 words


Zoe Baird's bid to be attorney general was embroiled in a new controversy
Thursday, involving her hiring of two illegal immigrants as family servants.

Baird, who would become the nation's first female attorney general, should have
little problem being confirmed, however. President-elect Clinton knew about the
immigrants' employment by Baird when he nominated her.

''He considered it and did not think that it was a problem,'' said Clinton
spokeswoman Dee Dee Myers.

But Baird still finds herself in an embarrassing spot. Congressional insiders
say Baird, while seeking to become the nation's top lawyer, explains her problem
by saying that she was merely following another lawyer's apparently faulty
advice in hiring the immigrants.

Hearings on the nomination will be held next week by the Senate Judiciary
Committee. The latest flap follows consumer advocates' criticisms about Baird's
corporate work for General Electric and Aetna Life & Casualty. Baird says she'll
avoid involvement in cases involving her former companies.

Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, the Judiciary Committee's ranking GOP member, said
he's satisfied with her explanation and will support her nomination. ''He thinks
she'll make a fine attorney general,'' Hatch spokesman Paul Smith said.

Baird voluntarily told the Clinton transition team, the FBI and congressional
officials that she hired a Peruvian married couple living illegally in the USA
for child care and chauffeuring. They no longer work for her. There are civil
penalties for those who knowingly hire illegal immigrants.

Baird also initially didn't pay Social Security taxes on the couple's wages. As
attorney general, Baird would head the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
responsible for enforcing immigration laws.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, AP

CUTLINE: BAIRD: Another embarrassment

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD; TRANSITION

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              181 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    January 22, 1993, Friday, FIRST EDITION

Clinton in a tough spot // Key question: What did he know, when did he know it?

BYLINE: Adam Nagourney

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 967 words


President Clinton's chief spokesman couldn't confirm Thursday whether Clinton
knew that Attorney General-designate Zoe Baird had hired illegal immigrants
before he nominated her.

Communications director George Stephanopoulos, deflecting questions about the
troubled Baird nomination, repeatedly declined to say whether Clinton would have
gone ahead with the nomination had he known all the details. ''I can't answer
that hypothetical,'' he said.

Clinton ignored reporters' questions.

Stephanopoulos' statements came amid signs of increased concern in the Clinton
White House about the nomination, including calls by Clinton to senators on the
Judiciary Committee about the nomination, and the assignment of a senior aide to
work full time on the issue.

Clinton is in a ticklish position. During the campaign he repeatedly said he was
running on behalf of people who ''played by the rules.''

Asked how Clinton squared that sentiment with his support of Baird,
Stephanopoulos replied: ''He continues to believe she'll make an excellent
attorney general.''

Stephanopoulos appeared to back off initial claims that Clinton was from the
start aware Baird had hired two illegal immigrants.

Initially, Clinton aides said she had acknowledged the mistake and moved to
rectify it, and Clinton did not believe it was a problem.

But Stephanopoulos said Thursday that he did not know whether Clinton was in
fact told all the details. Stephanopoulos said Baird talked about it with
transition officials, ''and I assume there was some communications between the
transition officials and him.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, H. Darr Beiser, USA TODAY

CUTLINE: ON DEFENSIVE: George Stephanopoulos attempts to deflect questions about
Zoe Baird.

CLINTON TAKES OVER

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              182 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    January 22, 1993, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Clinton in a dilemma // Key question: What did he know, when did he know it?

BYLINE: Adam Nagourney

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 264 words


Hours before Zoe Baird withdrew her bid to become attorney general, President
Clinton's chief spokesman couldn't confirm Thursday whether Clinton knew she had
hired illegal immigrants before he nominated her.

Communications director George Stephanopoulos, deflected questions about the
doomed Baird nomination, repeatedly declining to say whether Clinton would have
gone ahead with the nomination had he known all the details. ''I can't answer
that hypothetical,'' he said.

Clinton ignored reporters' questions.

Stephanopoulos' statements came amid increased concern in the Clinton White
House about the nomination, and included calls by Clinton to Judiciary Committee
senators about his selection.

But Friday Clinton took full blame for Baird's failed bid. During the campaign
he repeatedly said he was running on behalf of people who ''played by the
rules.''

Asked how Clinton squared that sentiment with his support of Baird,
Stephanopoulos replied then: ''He continues to believe she'll make an excellent
attorney general.''

Stephanopoulos appeared to back off initial claims that Clinton was aware Baird
had hired two illegal immigrants from the start.
#   Initially, Clinton aides said she had acknowledged the mistake and

Clinton did not believe it was a problem.
#   But Stephanopoulos said Thursday he didn't know if Clinton was

told all the details. Stephanopoulos said Baird talked about it with transition
officials, ''and I assume there was some communications between the transition
officials and him.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, H. Darr Beiser, USA TODAY

CUTLINE: ON DEFENSIVE: George Stephanopoulos attempts to deflect questions about
Attorney General nominee Zoe Baird.

CLINTON TAKES OVER

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              183 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   January 27, 1993, Wednesday, FIRST EDITION

Disabled oil freighter is N.C. cape's fear

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 909 words


The crew of a disabled freighter worked Tuesday to drop its stuck anchors before
the ship, carrying 340,000 gallons of heavy fuel oil, runs aground in a
sensitive fishing area off Cape Fear, N.C. The unoccupied freighter Lyra was
being towed when it broke from the tugboat in an Atlantic storm with 20- foot
seas. A Marine helicopter put the ship's crew aboard late Tuesday. The captain
is Debbie Dempsey, whose trips as master of the Lyra since 1989 included a
Desert Storm mission. ''She's excellent. She knows her business,'' said Ardley
Hanemann, spokesman for the owner.
EX-BAIRD WORKER: Victor Cordero, the illegal immigrant who was Zoe Baird's
chauffeur before her nomination as U.S. attorney general, is en route to Peru
because he doesn't want to be questioned by immigration officials, his lawyer
said. Cordero, 26, came to the USA at age 18. He said he felt like ''a hunted
animal'' when caught in the furor over Baird's hiring of illegal immigrants, the
disclosure which sank her nomination. Immigration officials still want to
interview Cordero's estranged wife, Lillian, 32, who Baird also hired as a nanny
in her New Haven, Conn., home.
BAD BURGERS: A food poisoning outbreak blamed on bad hamburgers, which has
stricken 200 in the Northwest, has spread to Las Vegas. Seven people have been
hospitalized and 100 have complained of cramps and diarrhea after eating at Jack
in the Box restaurants. The hamburger was contaminated with E. coli 0157: H7
bacterium. Infection can lead to kidney failure. A Tacoma, Wash., boy died.
'RASCALS' ABUSE: An Edenton, N.C., jury convicted former Little Rascals Day Care
Center cook Dawn Wilson of sexually abusing four children. Wilson, 27, was
sentenced to life in prison. Co-owner Robert Kelly Jr., is serving 12
consecutive life prison terms for 99 counts of child abuse. Four other
defendants are awaiting trial.
RIGHT TO DIE: Missouri's Supreme Court granted the state's request to dismiss
the Christine Busalacchi case, allowing the 22-year-old brain-damaged woman's
father to decide her fate. She has been in a vegetative state since a 1987 car
accident. Her father plans to leave her in a St. Louis hospital ''for the
foreseeable future,'' his lawyer said.
CIA SHOOTINGS: Authorities continued searching for a lone gunman who opened fire
Monday outside CIA headquarters in suburban Washington, killing two people and
wounding three. Suspect: a swarthy, possibly curly-haired man with an AK-47-type
automatic rifle. One possibility is that the gunman is seeking revenge against
the CIA. In recent weeks, graffiti spray-painted on roads in nearby Vienna, Va.,
has linked the ''CIA ... Vienna police ... crime.''
'HOME ALONE': It will be at least another two weeks before David and Sharon
Schoo get to see their 9- and 4-year-old children, who they are accused of
abandoning by leaving the kids home alone in St. Charles, Ill., while they
vacationed in Mexico over Christmas. A hearing on the Schoos' request to dismiss
the case was continued until Feb. 11. It's been five weeks since they've seen
their children, now in foster care.
MONKEY BUSINESS: A Miami federal agent in a gorilla outfit helped catch Mexican
zoo officials suspected of smuggling primates from Miami zoos to ones in Mexico.
Authorities said the agent was in a cage stamped ''Live Animal'' while Victor
Bernal, zoos and parks director for the interior state of Mexico, was arranging
a $ 92,500 deal. Said Miami MetroZoo's Ron Magill: ''They fell for it. It just
goes to show money doesn't equate with intelligence.''
ALSO TUESDAY ...

- FATAL FIRE: Security bars on a window trapped eight members of a family in an
apartment in Bruce, Miss. Dead: Minnie Hall, 53, six of her grandchildren and a
great-grandchild. The cause wasn't immediately known.

- EXPELLED: Andrew Martinez, known as ''The Naked Guy'' because he goes to class
nude, was expelled from the University of California-Berkeley.

- NEGLECT CASE: Douglas Rupe, 44, was sentenced in West Union, W.Va., to three
years in prison for neglecting his son Douglas, 11, whose frostbitten legs were
amputated after the two were found living in an unheated bus. ''I didn't mean
for it to happen,'' he said. Douglas is in foster care.

- PACKWOOD PROTESTS: Demonstrations increased against Sen. Bob Packwood, R-Ore.,
in the third day of his first trip home since accusations in November that he
sexually harassed 10 women. ''Hey Bob, find a new job,'' some shouted. Others
pounded on windows at his hotel.

NAACP close to tapping new leader

The committee searching for a new head of the NAACP apparently is narrowing its
list of candidates.

The Rev. Benjamin Chavis of the United Church of Christ's Commission for Racial
Justice in Cleveland said he's one those in the running for the $ 132,450-a-year
post being vacated by Benjamin Hooks.

Others believed to be on a short list of finalists to head the 84-year-old civil
rights group:

- Jesse Jackson, Washington D.C.'s ''shadow senator.'' Jackson wouldn't say if
he was interested.

- Harvey Gantt, a Charlotte, N.C., architect who lost a 1990 bid for the U.S.
Senate. Gantt said he's ''categorically not interested.''

- Randall Robinson of Washington-based TransAfrica, which lobbies for African
and Caribbean interests. He said he would consider an offer.

Contributing: Sandra Sanchez, Tom Squitieri, Jim Greenhill, Florestine Purnell,
Carl Weiser, Kevin Johnson and James Harney

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Pater Casolino, AP; PHOTO, b/w, Mark Elias, AP; PHOTO, b/w,
USA TODAY

CUTLINE: CORDERO: Heading back to Peru CUTLINE: THE SCHOOS: Couple leaves court
on Tuesday CUTLINE: CHAVIS: In running for top post

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION; FROM USA TODAY'S NATIONAL NEWS NETWORK

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              184 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 8, 1993, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Stop the cheap-labor flow

BYLINE: Daniel A. Stein

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 296 words


In the wake of the Zoe Baird/Kimba Wood ''nannygate,'' we hear renewed cries of
a labor shortage. With 9 million Americans out of work, how can this be? The
answer is simple: 20 years of sustained illegal immigration has distorted key
labor markets.

Illegal immigrants stream in, take jobs and set market forces in motion that
lower the prevailing wage below what it would be if these workers weren't
available. As the Baird case demonstrated, the artificially depressed wages
destroy the dignity of these jobs and discourage Americans from pursuing them.
The solution is to halt the flow and raise wages, not import immigrants. (Just
imagine the outcry if we started to import foreign journalists and lawyers.)

Ponder this:

- A country should do its own work. We should rely on our own human resource
pool for less-skilled jobs. With rising international competition in
export-competing sectors, jobs that are anchored to our domestic economy - like
hotel, restaurant and domestic work - need to pay better to ensure the stability
of the American middle class.

- There's no such thing as a ''job an American won't do.'' Go to any area of the
Rust Belt. You'll see Americans doing every conceivable kind of work. In these
areas, housing costs are still low enough to attract Americans. The key is fair
pay for a fair day's work.

- Guest-worker programs do not work. Not only are they exploitative, but they
never work as planned. The Exodus is the story of a failed ''guest- worker''
program; South Africa is another. Employers want immigrant labor because it's
cheaper for them. But for the rest of us, it's more people who need education,
housing, health care and social programs. The employers get a subsidy; the
taxpayer picks up the tab. What a deal!

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; Today's debate is on IMMIGRATION LAWS and whether they
should be changed for household workers; OPPOSING VIEW; The solution to a
supposed 'labor shortage' is to raise wages, not import immigrants; Daniel A.
Stein is executive director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              185 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 8, 1993, Monday, FIRST EDITION

Clinton missteps again: A public, bitter dispute

BYLINE: Adam Nagourney

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 528 words


By federal judge Kimba Wood's account, she never misled President Clinton or
"anyone at any point" about her hiring of an illegal immigrant.

But by the White House account, Wood failed to disclose the situation on three
occasions _ and did so only after lawyers discovered the problem while reviewing
her papers.

Whatever the case, the disagreement has mushroomed into a strangely public and
bitter dispute between a Democratic judge and the Democratic president who
wanted to make her the nation's first female attorney general.

It embarrassed Clinton yet again, leaving him without an attorney general three
weeks into his term and leaving aides to explain how he twice could have made
similar mistakes.

It also raised questions about whether the initial experience with Zoe Baird,
forced to withdraw for attorney general after acknowledging she hired two
illegal immigrants, has set a new benchmark for Clinton appointees. Wood's case
was different because, unlike Baird, she never broke the law.

Asked if there was any chance the administration held Wood to too high a
standard, spokesman George Stephanopoulos responded: "None."

There are few major differences in Wood's and White House accounts. Both suggest
the White House was not initially aggressive enough in questioning her, and her
responses were extremely narrow.

In three White House meetings, including one with Clinton, Wood was asked if she
had "a Zoe Baird problem."

"I said I did not, and said that I have paid all required taxes for 20 years and
that I complied fully with the laws relating to household help," Wood said in a
letter sent to The New York Times Sunday.

When White House lawyers reviewed her papers _ for the first time Thursday,
although she had them with her in her first interview a week earlier _ they
discovered the problem. She said she "did not communicate this orally" because
"I did not view this as a Zoe Baird problem."

In another context, this might have passed relatively quietly; aides might have
discovered the problem and Clinton would have quietly selected someone else.

But on Friday, several newspapers reported that Clinton had actually offered
Wood the job. Clinton aides said Thursday night that he had not, in fact, and
had only begun the background check.

Clinton aides feared the legal distinctions between Wood's and Baird's
situations would have been lost in the post-Baird climate. In addition, Clinton
aides argued that the president was put off by the sense that Wood gave an
incomplete response.

"As I understand it, intentionally or not, she misled the president," political
adviser Paul Begala said. "Once you've done that, the particulars of the issue
become less important than the fact of the misrepresentation."

All of this produced a decidedly sour environment as Wood scrambled to keep the
job. Things got so tense that Clinton advisers were unable to persuade Wood to
withhold the announcement that she was withdrawing until after Friday's TV
network news.

That was the day Clinton signed the Family Leave Act _ a ceremony that was
supposed to be the political high point of his week, but was quickly
overshadowed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Agence France-Presse

TYPE: Newsmakers

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              186 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 9, 1993, Tuesday, FIRST EDITION

Fallout continues in and out of White House // Wood, Baird cases different, most
say

BYLINE: Richard Benedetto

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 385 words


President Clinton and Kimba Wood may have jumped the gun withdrawing her name
from consideration as attorney general.

It may have been possible to secure her confirmation if the case was taken to
the American people, a new USA TODAY/CNN/Gallup Poll Monday found.

Most adults _ 65% _ say Wood shouldn't have pulled out when it was revealed she
hired an illegal immigrant to care for her child at a time when such hirings
were within the law.

And nearly three of four _ 74% _ said it shouldn't be a disqualifying factor for
serving in high federal office.

However, an equally overwhelming 75% say hiring illegal immigrants when it was
against the law is a disqualifying factor. That was the case in the withdrawal
of Zoe Baird, Clinton's first attorney general nominee, who got caught in a
firestorm of public protest.

Yet, 54% said they didn't know enough about the circumstances to say there were
real differences between the situations of Baird and Wood.

But while Americans draw distinctions on hiring illegal immigrants as a
qualification for top federal jobs, they're split on whether hiring illegal
immigrants is justified, against the law or not:

47% say it is justified; 45% say it's wrong.

Yet, 49% say Commerce Secretary Ron Brown should not resign after admitting he
hired a part-time household worker and didn't pay her Social Security taxes, as
required by law; 40% say he should quit.

Clinton made it no secret he wanted to fill the attorney general post with a
woman, and it wasn't missed by the public. Nearly half _ 45% _ say he was
considering Wood primarily because she is a woman, while 38% say it was because
she was the best qualified person for the job.
But men were more likely than women to say he was considering her
mainly because she's a woman _ 51% to 39%.   Yet, the vast majority

_ 66% _ say selecting a woman for the post is not too important or not important
at all. Only about one in three women _ 37% _ said it was very or somewhat
important, compared with 28% for men.

There also has been widespread speculation that the flap surrounding Clinton's
handling of the attorney general appointments is causing him political damage
The poll, however, finds 73% say it hasn't had much affect on their confidence
in Clinton's ability.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Barry Thumma, AP; PHOTO, b/w, Agence France-Presse

WASHINGTON; HIRING OF ILLEGALS

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              187 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      May 25, 1993, Tuesday, FIRST EDITION

'Nervy' ship unloads illegals, skedaddles

BYLINE: Steve Marshall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 248 words


In a "pretty nervy operation" a 250-foot freighter Monday slipped under the
Golden Gate Bridge, tied up at a Coast Guard dock and unloaded scores of illegal
Chinese immigrants, officials say.

The Honduran-registered ship then ignored Coast Guard radio messages as it fled
into international waters, where two cutters caught it about 70 miles offshore.

A third armed cutter joined the convoy. The Pai Chang, with a crew of 10, was
boarded and headed back to San Francisco without incident.

"Who the hell knows how they managed to do it?" says David Ilchert of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Authorities rounded up 169 people, Ilchert says. Officials think about 200 were
dropped off about 1: 15 a.m. PT.

Some were arrested in parked cars, others at nearby Baker's Beach, in
residential neighborhoods and at a golf course.

"It's a pretty nervy operation for a ship that size to sail under the Gate, tie
up, unload and steam out within an hour," Ilchert says.

Jason Wu of the U.S. Park Police said the group left China about March 30. Most
are in good health, but weary and frightened.

Chinese pay $ 20,000 to $ 30,000 to be smuggled to the USA.

U.S. officials detained only 20 illegal Chinese immigrants in 1991. That number
rose to 613 in 1992 and 1,210 by May 12, 1993.

Earlier this month, 198 immigrants were detained in San Diego. Last December,
180 Chinese were held after being found in filthy conditions crammed aboard a
boat off San Francisco.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, color, Court Mast, AP

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              188 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     June 3, 1993, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Refugee 'mother ships' sought // U.S. sees tie in surge of Chinese

BYLINE: Laura Goldberg

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 380 words


U.S. officials are pressing the search for up to three "mother" ships suspected
of carrying Chinese refugees after capturing almost 300 landing in California
Wednesday.

The Coast Guard believes the larger ships are bringing hundreds of illegal
immigrants across the Pacific, then parceling them to smaller boats.

Wednesday's incidents involving two fishing boats were the latest of recent
attempts to land illegal Chinese immigrants on California's coast.

On May 24 a freighter dumped more than 200 illegal Chinese immigrants near the
Golden Gate Bridge.

"With present staffing levels, we're hard-pressed to stay up," says U.S. Border
Patrol Agent Chris Wells.

"I'm convinced this is just the tip of the iceberg. Those ships are out there
and they're coming," says David Ilchert, director of Immigration and
Naturalization Service's San Franciso office.

If the trend continues there will be space and funding problems, Ilchert says.
Those detained Wednesday are being held in sheriff's facilities.

Coast Guard Capt. Dick Clark, chief of law enforcement for California, Arizona,
Nevada and Utah, says he's working with other federal agencies to learn the
scope of the problem and what's behind the upsurge in illegal immigrants in the
last 18 months.

The Coast Guard says 613 Chinese were interdicted in 1992. Through May 12 this
year, 1,210 have been detained. In some years - 1988 and 1990 - there were none.

Last Friday, Clark says officials received information about three possible
mother ships sailing off California. An investigation led to reports of the two
fishing vessels.

Wednesday, according to Coast Guard officials:

The 65-foot Angel docked at its home port of Moss Landing. More than 180 Chinese
were on board.

Coast Guard Petty Officer Gary Openshaw said he arrived when 48 were left.

"With 48 people on board they were elbow-to-elbow. I don't see where the others
would fit."

The 46-foot Pelican was seized as it tried to leave Pillar Point Harbor near
Half Moon Bay. About 100 refugees were crammed inside an 8-foot-deep hold that
was 10 feet by 13 feet. The temperature inside: more than 100.

Ilchert say officials believe four crewmen and a captain were on each ship. He
says they could face charges of aiding and abetting smuggling.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, USA TODAY (Map, California); EAR PHOTO, color, Richard
Green, The Californian; PHOTO, b/w, Richard Green, Californian via AP

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              189 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      June 8, 1993, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Refugee dilemma: Can we be both efficient and fair?

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 283 words


The federal process for judging asylum claims is just plain out of control, and
if you don't believe it, consider one possible future of nearly 300 illegal
immigrants found on a grounded freighter in New York last weekend.

If they have been properly coached by their smuggler leaders, the Chinese
castaways will ask for asylum. That will put them at the end of a very long line
- to their advantage.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has a backlog of 250,000 requests.
Because it can't hold every applicant until the request is judged, it issues
asylum-seekers hearing dates and work permits and cuts them loose. Many are
never heard from again.

Some critics of this feckless system say that if an application is plainly
bogus, as many seem to be, deportation should begin right away, without a
hearing. That's a dangerous course. What about due process?

The INS is trapped between the desire to be efficient and the obligation to be
fair. And it gets little help from political leaders, who have often imposed
irrelevant political agendas on asylum policy.

The Chinese immigrants can cite birth control policies in seeking asylum because
the Bush administration opposed China's population controls. Cubans are
instantly granted political protections that are denied to Haitians.

Adding to the chaos, the Clinton administration has yet to nominate an INS chief
- even after nearly five months. That delay only compounds the government's
haphazard approach to asylum.

The result is that a smart illegal immigrant can live here freely while a
legitimate refugee may wait years without haven or hope.

If that leaves a sour taste in your mouth, imagine how they must feel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; Facing a new flood tide of illegal immigration, the INS
lacks a credible method for granting asylum.

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              190 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      June 8, 1993, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Human tide endangering Calif. refuge

BYLINE: Bob Ross; Linda Kanamine

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 652 words

DATELINE: IMPERIAL BEACH, Calif.


In the Tijuana National Wildlife Refuge, dusk transforms this peaceful, delicate
salt marsh into a human freeway as hundreds of immigrants sneak into the USA.

Managers fear the unending human traffic poses a new kind of environmental
threat for all border refuges. Here, the threat is potentially catastrophic to
endangered birds and plants, whose numbers already are dwindling.

Timing is especially critical now as rare birds - California least terns,
light-footed clapper rails and least bell vireo - are in peak nesting season.

"The refuge is almost in anarchy," wildlife biologist Mari Hoffmann-Nelson says.

And there's no sign of letup in the human tide, as Mexicans, Central Americans
and even Chinese have learned: What's refuge for endangered species is also
ideal temporary sanctuary for the immigrants.

Many slip across in the shadow of Tijuana's Bullring-by-the-Sea, where the
border fence ends in the crashing ocean waves. Others cross the sewage-laden
Tijuana River, hike a mile of patrolled area and rush into the refuge. Once
there, they hide in thick underbrush until it's clear to walk out.

En route, they tromp on the nests - some are just depressions in the sand - and
crush eggs. They dump garbage. And hack trails with machetes.

"A lot of vegetation has been destroyed; in some areas the damage is permanent,"
Hoffmann-Nelson says.

Plants are in spring bloom now. Swallows swirl through the air - one of more
than 300 bird species using the refuge, which is one of the last undisturbed
tidal wetlands in southern California.

To the west are sand dunes and blue ocean. To the south, dusty hills of Tijuana,
a city of 1 million poor less than five miles away.

"Circumstances that drive people from Mexico and Central America north, are the
same that drive people everywhere to leave for more affluent places: poverty,
civil war, human rights abuses," says Roberto Martinez of the American Friends
Service Committee in San Diego.

In the refuge, traffic has gotten so heavy that managers have stopped using
special sticks to mark the nests because they attract the immigrants, some of
whom take the eggs to eat.

Nature trails are strewn with empty liquor bottles, cans, shoes, discarded
underwear and wet clothes. "It ticks me off incredibly," says refuge officer
Nathan Caldwell.

Even as pressure rises to stop the immigrant flow, the U.S. Border Patrol is
caught in a sticky dilemma. Agents had to stop chasing illegal crossers with
four-wheel-drive all-terrain vehicles in the refuge because the vehicles harmed
wildlife.

"It's quite an untenable job," says William Pink, Imperial Beach agent in
charge.

So, agents in vehicles patrol the area near the beach, along the dark brown
border fence, and the mile between the fence and refuge. They resort to foot and
bicycles inside the refuge.

Few immigrants attempt the crossing in daylight. But at nightfall, there is
little to stop the flood, though agents have enhanced night-vision goggles,
infrared scopes and high-intensity lighting near the fence.

"They use the estuary to their advantage. Because it's a protected sanctuary for
wildlife, the same sanctuary exists for the people," Pink says.

Sometimes, the intruders are even bolder. One late afternoon recently, 10
well-dressed men and women, each carrying a satchel, walked briskly down a
nature trail in plain view. The group disappeared under long branches of
tent-shaped bushes - dubbed "hotel bushes" because people can hide in them.

"They have ingenious, inventive ways of getting across," Hoffmann-Nelson says.

What's the answer?

Hoffmann-Nelson wrote President Clinton shortly after his inauguration pleading
for help. She hasn't heard back.

"Either open the border completely and end all this illegal activity so people
go through the normal routes, or close it down (and) militarize it," she says.
"The way it is now, it's not helping anyone."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Julie Stacey, USA TODAY (Map:Calif., Mex.  border);
PHOTO, b/w, Brian Phelps, AP

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              191 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      June 8, 1993, Tuesday, FIRST EDITION

Smugglers work 'loophole' in law

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 400 words


A growing number of illegal immigrants - like those who ran aground near New
York Sunday - have found "political asylum" are the magic words that gain entry.

Under the 1980 Refugee Act, anyone reaching U.S. borders is entitled to
political asylum if he has been persecuted or has a reasonable fear of
persecution based on race, religion, nationality, membership in a social group
or political opinion.

"It's a tremendous loophole, and (alien) smugglers know how to get through it,"
said John Wolf, spokesman for Rep. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., who sponsored a bill
to address the problem.

Unless illegal immigrants are wanted for crimes, federal authorities generally
do not hold them because detention space is limited.

Most are released pending hearings on their asylum requests and never reappear.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service says:

Over the past five years, 80,000 to 100,000 immigrants per year have applied for
asylum. Prior to 1980, less than 2,000 a year applied.

There's room to detain only 5,000 at any time.

70% of those released never show up for hearings.

Only 20,000 to 30,000 cases are processed each year. Backlog: 260,000 cases.

Only 30% are granted asylum. Those denied can appeal, which can take years. Few
are ever deported.

Duke Austin, INS spokesman, said most of those seeking asylum are Central
Americans (from Guatemala, Nicaragua and El Salvador), Southeast Asians (from
Bangladesh, Pakistan and Sri Lanka), Filipinos, Cubans and mainland Chinese.

One bill pending in Congress - opposed by immigrant advocates - would allow
"summary exclusions."

INS agents could decide which asylum applications are legitimate and could
deport those denied.

The Clinton administration has not taken a position. Officials from departments
of Justice and State, and the INS, Coast Guard and intelligence offices are
meeting to increase diplomatic efforts to halt smuggling, coordinate increased
surveillance of vessels and improve ability to detain new arrivals except
minors.

114 days on high seas The route taken by 250 Chinese nationals as they sailed
from Thailand and Kenya to the USA, where their ship ran aground Sunday:

February: 90 Chinese nationals board off Bangkok. March 28: Nearly 200 more
Chinese nationals board at Mombasa. May 17: A rendevous in Atlantic with smaller
vessels is missed June 6: Ship runs aground near New York City.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Nick Galifianakis, USA TODAY, Source: USA TODAY research
(Map:world)

THE NATION; See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              192 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     June 17, 1993, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

A new wave of 'expendables' // Factories feeding off immigrants

BYLINE: Bruce Frankel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 811 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Lorena Ruiz, who is trimming loose threads from a dress in a Manhattan garment
district "sweatshop," drops her scissors at the sight of state labor
investigators.

As the frightened teen-ager from Puebla, Mexico, hides behind a cardboard box,
the faces of two dozen other workers go waxen. Their eyes fix on the material
they're pushing through sewing machines.

They don't look up. Not when investigators spot Ruiz. Not when they question
Ruiz, then ask her boss about a host of violations - locked fire exit, cluttered
aisles, racks of clothing too close to electrical wiring - and issue a summons.

Ruiz, who says she is 18 but was told by investigators to bring in proof, is
part of a multibillion-dollar underground economy feeding off a growing wave of
illegal immigrants, their children, and their dreams in cities like New York,
Chicago, Miami, Dallas and Los Angeles.

"We see cases like this all the time," says Angelo Valdevitt, one of the
inspectors on the nation's only state task force investigating labor-law
violations in garment industry sweatshops. "We find minors working 15-16 hours a
day for less than $ 3 an hour."

In the middle of a factory in Queens, inspectors recently found a 9-year-old
Chinese immigrant. The boy was using a stick to invert sleeves for his mother to
sew.

"What we've got is a whole new generation of expendables," says Joseph Kenney,
of the National Safe Workplace Institute. "In the 1800s, it was the Irish. Now,
we've got Mexicans, Indochinese, Fukianese. What we've seen so far is just the
tip of the iceberg."

From the sweatshops of New York City to the farm fields of Ohio, Texas and
California, illegal immigrants again are trapped in a Dickensian world: long
hours, grueling conditions and pitiable wages.

This was the grim destiny awaiting almost 300 Chinese illegal immigrants who
spilled onto a New York beach when the freighter Golden Venture ran aground June
6.

They would have joined hundreds of thousands of other illegal immigrants - with
few skills, little English, and no legal status - competing for scarce jobs.

During the 1980s, most of the nation's major apparel manufacturers moved abroad
for cheap Third World labor. To remain competitive, smaller U.S. operators
created a $ 1 billion illegal industrial homework industry.

"People think it's OK when they see the label 'Made in USA,' " says Linda
Golodner of the National Consumer League. "But maybe the dress or shirt . . .
was made in a sweatshop by children."

The motivation, says Tom Glubiak, head of New York's apparel industry task
force, remains unchanged from the turn of the century: "Greed."

"Third World practices are right here in our midst - child labor, piece rates,
slave wages," he says. About a third of the city's 6,000 garment factories
operate illegally, he says.

In 1,500 surprise inspections in 1992, the task force found 101 minors working
in 80 firms. The youngest was age 7.

The greatest obstacle to investigators is getting workers - who view officials
as corrupt, hostile and ready to deport them - to report abuses.

Silw Ng, 48, a Malaysian who entered the USA on a tourist visa and then stayed
illegally, says until she "won" a green card in an INS amnesty lottery she had
no choice but to work 14-hour days for $ 175 a week.

The factory operator, now in prison, coerced workers with warnings of
retribution by the Ghost Shadows, a Chinatown gang.

The Immigration Control Act of 1986 - which imposes criminal penalties on
employers who knowingly hire illegal immigrants - briefly stemmed the tide of
illegals.

But its deterrent effect quickly wore off, as the law became a means of
segregating the labor market. Legal immigrant workers got hired by fairer
employers; undocumented by the unscrupulous ready to extort labor for silence
about immigration status.

"If you have the dual problem of continued illegal immigration and increased
exploitation . . . you have a recipe for the resurgence of sweatshops," says
Muzaffar Chishti of the International Ladies Garment Workers Union.

Workers rights groups say the best way to slow illegal immigration is to stop
abusive labor practices - not workers.

"If we made a deep commitment to workplace enforcement, the price of immigrant
labor would approximate native labor," says Columbia University professor Saskia
Sassen. "The fact of nationality would matter, and that would be a deterrent to
excessive immigration."
"The situation," says Jefferey Newman, of the National Child Labor Committee,
"is clearly worse now than at any time since the 1930s."

More illegal immigrants caught The number of illegal Chinese immigrants
apprehended by the U.S. Coast Guard has jumped from 20 in 1991 to 1,666 already
this year. Total illegal immigrant apprehensions over the past 5 years:
Apprehensions
1988    1,008,145
1992    1,258,482

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Marty Baumann, USA TODAY, Source: U.S. Coast Guard;
Immigration and Naturalization Service (Line graph); PHOTOS, b/w, Chrystyna
Czajkowsky (2)

THE NATION; See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              193 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    July 14, 1993, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

USA Cool To Huddled Masses // Sentiment sours as rate of arrival rises

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2010 words


America - a nation of immigrants - is turning its back on its newest arrivals,
with anti-immigration sentiment now as high as it's been at anytime since World
War II.

A USA TODAY/CNN/Gallup Poll shows the blacklash against the record number of
immigrants running broad and deep, stoked by anxiety over the stagnant economy,
the failure to curb illegal immigration and, immigration advocates charge,
nothing short of racism.

Although relatively few Americans say they have much contact with new
immigrants, nearly two-thirds of those polled want immigration decreased - the
highest percentage since the mid-1940s.

In addition, 56% believe immigrants cost taxpayers money and 55% say the racial
and ethnic diversity of immigrants threatens American culture.

"My nightmare is an image of the Statue of Liberty dissolving, replaced by an
image of the bombed World Trade Center and the association of immigrants with
smuggling, drugs and terrorism," says Arthur Helton, immigration expert for the
Lawyers Committee for Human Rights.

Conjuring the images may be the sheer numbers - a historic and massive movement
to this country led by Hispanic and Asian immigrants. About 9.5 million legal
and illegal immigrants came to the USA between 1980-90 - the largest number in
any decade since the nation's founding.

"In my district, no issue compares to illegal aliens - people just go berserk,"
says Rep. Tony Beilenson, D-Calif., who represents Los Angeles, where immigrants
make up a major proportion of the population.

Those who favor curbs - Congress is considering several - say the Emma Lazarus
poem on the Statue of Liberty is irrelevant. The last thing needed today, the
argument goes, is "huddled masses."

"It's a poem, not policy," says Rosemary Jenks, senior analyst at the Center for
Immigration Studies, a Washington think-tank that advocates reducing
immigration. "It never was policy and we never said we wanted to open our arms."

Historians take the uproar with a grain of salt. Fifty-four million immigrants
have come to the USA since 1820, and the public's response has been at best
ambivalent - and at worst racist and violent.

The latest round of recriminations over immigrants has been prompted, at least
in part, by recent headlines: boatloads of Chinese peasants trying to sneak into
U.S. ports; Haitians with the AIDS virus ordered let in; immigrants arrested in
connection with New York bomb plots; an Egyptian cleric who somehow got in and
now can't be immediately kicked out.

It is a debate punctuated with apocalyptic rhetoric.

One side says the United States - especially California, Texas, Florida and New
York - is being invaded by immigrants who crowd neighborhoods, take jobs, cost
money and change the culture.

"We're at the floodstage and we have been for the past six years," says Robert
Goldsborough, president of Americans for Immigration Control, a group that backs
a temporary moratorium on immigration.

Even President Clinton has adopted the vocabulary of immigration opponents,
saying the chief goal of his nominee to head the Immigration and Naturalization
Service would be to ensure the USA doesn't "lose control of our borders."

Immigrant advocates, on the other hand, use words like racism and xenophobia to
describe feelings of their opponents. They say immigrants create jobs, pay their
taxes, build communities and add vitality to the culture.

"There's this image being created of a white minority encircled by Hispanics,
Africans and Asians coming to take something we have, rather than contributing
to make us all better," says Frank Sharry, head of the National Immigration
Forum, a coalition of advocate groups in Washington.

Fierce and emotional, the debate has reached Congress, where many members have
concluded that the 1986 law meant to fix the immigration problem failed
miserably.

Proposals being debated:

Tightening up the political asylum system to allow immigration officers to
immediately turn away people with suspected fraudulent claims.

Denying citizenship to babies born to illegal immigrants.

Deploying the military along the southern border.

Charging a $ 1 toll for every person entering the USA on foot, ferry, ship or by
automobile, to raise $ 403 million for more Border Patrol agents.

Requiring a fraud-proof national ID card for every citizen to prevent illegal
immigrants from getting jobs.

Even the advocates for immigrants want to repeal the 1986 law, which, among
other things, bans hiring of illegal immigrants. The advocates argue that
employer sanctions have caused widespread discrimination against citizens and
legal residents who seem "foreign."

But advocates fear a get-tough attitude will prevail.

"We're right on the verge of a new era of anti-immigrant hysteria that could
push us in the direction of policies based on misperceptions," says Lucas
Guttentag, of the Immigrant Rights Project of the American Civil Liberties
Union.

The USA TODAY/CNN/ Gallup Poll reflects some of those attitudes:

Two-thirds say immigrants take low-paying jobs that most Americans don't want.
At the same time, 64% say immigrants hurt the economy by driving down wages.

Many are uncomfortable with the rising numbers of blacks and Hispanics arriving.

About two-thirds believe too many immigrants are coming from Latin America,
Asian and Mideast countries, while only 33% say too many are coming from
European countries.

Many are willing to embrace some controversial remedies. Fifty-seven percent
back the idea of a national ID; 40% would deny illegal immigrants use of
hospitals and schools.

Some critics say the current mood could lead to immigrant-targeted violence of
the kind now prevalent in Germany and other European countries.

"If leaders do not address the public's legitimate concerns, that leaves the
door open for demagogues to take over," warns Ira Mehlman, of the Federation for
American Immigration Reform, a leading anti-immigration group.

But Lawrence Fuchs, acting chairman of the U.S. Commission on Immigration
Reform, thinks that's unlikely.

Today, he argues, mainstream politicians no longer warn of "inferior"
immigrants, as generations did before.

Foreign-born residents now make up 7.9% of the population, compared with about
15% at the end of the 19th century.

And today, most new immigrants come here under family reunification laws.

Says Fuchs: "People will say on surveys they're against more immigration, but
when their neighbor calls them up and says, 'I've petitioned for my spouse and
little children to come here,' the next thing out of the neighbor's mouth will
be 'What can I do to help?' "

Adds immigration expert Helton: "That poem on the Statue of Liberty is more
persuasive than some people think."

Immigrants' effect on American culture
 Improve                  35%
Threaten                 55%

Immigration should...
 stay at present level    27%
be increased              6%
be decreased             65%

There are too many immigrants from countries in...
                          Now    1992     1984
European                 33%     36       26
Latin American           62%     69       53
African                  44%     47       31
Asian                    62%     58       49
Mideast                  64%

Anti-immigrant feeling running high A USA TODAY/CNN/GALLUP poll shows many
Americans don't think immigrants are taking away jobs, but feel immigrants are
hurting the economy by holding down wages and using government services, such as
public schools and hospitals. Many of those surveyed want restricted immigration
and tougher immigration laws. A look at how Americans view immigration and
immigrants:

IMMIGRATION
Many want reduced immigration until economy improves
Those who think immigration should:
   Stop                                   27%
Slow                                   49%

Most think government can do more to stop illegal immigration
   Can do more                            69%
Doing all it can                       28%

Immigrants less likely than their children to favor restricting
immigration
   Immigrants                             42%
1st generation                         54%
2nd generation                         61%

Patrolling borders a popular option
Percentage favoring the following to stop illegal immigration:
   Stricter patrol of borders                                     90%
National ID card                                               57%
Bar illegal immigrants from American schools, hospitals        40%
Erect wall on Mexican border                                   27%

Job skills important
Important criteria in admitting immigrants:
   Job skills                             78%
Religious persecution                  65%
Political persecution                  64%
American relatives                     56%
Money to invest                        50%
Economic hardship                      47%

THE NEW IMMIGRANT
Perception of immigrants worsens
Percentage saying these nationalities generally benefit the country
or create problems:
                       Benefit country          Create problems
                  1993    1985             1993     1985
Irish                 75%     78%             11%        5%
Poles                 65%     72%             15%        7%
Chinese               59%     69%             31%       13%
Koreans               53%     52%             33%       23%
Vietnamese            41%     47%             46%       30%
Mexicans              29%     44%             59%       37%
Haitians              19%     31%             65%       35%
Iranians              20%     32%             68%       40%
Cubans                24%     29%             64%       55%

Asian, Hispanic sterotypes
Percentage saying these apply:
                                  Asian        Latin American
                          immigrants       immigrants
Work very hard                   74%              65%
Often end up on welfare          38%              60%
Do very well in school           74%              42%
Significantly increase crime     43%              62%
Have strong family values        77%              72%
Are too competitive              40%              26%

Comparing new, older immigrants
Many say new immigrants less likely to make good citizens than
earlier immigrants
   More likely                       9%
Less likely                      42%
Same                             46%

ECONOMIC IMPACT
Most say immigrants take more than they give
Percentage who say that, in the long run:

Immigrants productive citizens, pay fair
   share of taxes                                                37%
Immigrants cost taxpayers by using government services        56%

Most say immigrants hurt economy
Those saying immigrants:
   Help economy by providing low cost labor                      28%
Hurt economy by holding down wages                            64%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, color, Source: USA TODAY/CNN/GALLUP Poll, July 9-11. Margin of
error: plus/minus 3% (Bar graph); GRAPHIC, b/w, J.L. Albert, USA TODAY,
Source:USA TODAY/CNN/GALLUP national telephone poll of 1,002 adults conducted
July 9-11. Margin of sampling error is plus/minus 3 percentage points. Some
answers don't total 100% because of rounding or because "don't know" and "other"
answers are not included. (Bar graph, chart); PHOTO, color, Hines Collection;
PHOTO, color, David McNew, AP; PHOTO, color, Ricardo Mazalan, AP; PHOTO, b/w,
Kathy Willens, AP

TYPE: Cover Story

IMMIGRATION BACKLASH IN THE LAND OF LIBERTY; FIRST IN AN OCCASIONAL SERIES; See
info boxes at end of text; See related stories; 06A

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              194 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     July 20, 1993, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Turning the USA into the Walled-off Astoria

BYLINE: Joe Urschel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 477 words


One of every four Americans favors "building a wall along the Mexican border" as
a means of controlling the flow of illegal immigrants, according to a USA
TODAY/CNN/Gallup Poll.

Pundits argue that this shows a failing in our national character. Forget about
that for a moment. What it really shows is that we've failed geography.

The largest "landscape feature" in the world is the 1,500-mile Great Wall of
China, notes Kit Salter, professor of geography at the University of Missouri.
If we built the Great Wall of the U.S.-Mexican Border, it would be 433 miles
longer.

The Chinese built their wall for essentially the same reason Americans want to
build ours - to keep people out - but it didn't work.

"Mexicans have tunneled under the walls that do exist," says Salter. "A wall
would be a definite statement, but it would do very little."

On the other hand, it would cost a lot. The cheapest kind of wall possible,
simple concrete blocks, would cost a minimum of $ 100 per running foot for a
wall one block deep and 12 feet high. That adds up to well over $ 500,000 per
mile, or over a billion dollars for the whole thing. But you can drive a Ford
pickup through a wall like that without even scratching the bumper. So, you'd
probably want one three or four times as thick (and expensive).

Building in sand? That requires extra foundation work. Throw in some razor wire,
river crossings, gates, doors, observation towers, searchlights, etc. Pretty
soon you're talking about real money.

"It can cost the government $ 1 million to $ 10 million for a mile of interstate
highway," notes Salter. "To build this wall, you'd really be talking about
another space program."

Governments just don't work as efficiently as they did when Emperor Chin built
the Great Wall 4,000 years ago.  He got the entire job done in just 18 years.
Today, the environmental impact study alone would take longer than that.

Chin was also considerably more powerful than our gridlocked Democrats. He could
simply conscript laborers.

But if this is the way President Clinton chooses to put America back to work,
half our costs would be in union labor.

But forget all those bothersome details. This is the land of opportunity, where
anything is possible. That's why everybody wants to come here in the first
place.

Our poll suggests there are about 50 million pro-wall adults in the USA. If they
want a wall so much, all they have to do is get in their cars and drive (south)
to the border. Instant wall! And it wouldn't be one of those flimsy cinder-block
jobs. You'd have enough immigration-fearing Americans to stand
shoulder-to-shoulder along the entire border - nine deep.

Here's a bonus: There'd be an extra 2.5 million people left over to confront the
next territorial challenge:

Driving (north) to start the Even Greater Wall of the U.S.-Canadian Border.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; JOE URSCHEL; Fencing off the country - and putting millions
to work to do the job; Joe Urschel's column appears on Tuesdays and Thursdays.

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              195 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     August 2, 1993, Monday, FIRST EDITION

POOR LEGAL SERVICES

BYLINE: Steve Marshall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 245 words



Most poor U.S. citizens don't have adequate access to legal services, Attorney
General Janet Reno told the annual gathering of the Association of Trial Lawyers
in San Francisco. Reno said 80% of poor and working poor "don't have access to
legal services that give them the ability to deal with the day-to-day problems."
IMMIGRATION STING: Sixty people were arrested and 42 deported in an Immigration
and Naturalization Service sting. The service sent out more than 600 letters
promising work permits to illegal aliens in an operation that angered immigrant
advocates. INS spokesman Rudy Murillo said the operation targeted people who
already had been ordered deported. "All we did was enforce the judges' orders,"
he said. In the sting, when people arrived at INS offices to claim the promised
permits, agents arrested them. WHEELCHAIR CASE: Ruth Sergel faces 15 years in
prison for trying to borrow a beach wheelchair for her disabled sister in Ocean
City, Md. The saga began June 21, when Sergel, of Washington, D.C., took her
sister to the popular seaside resort because chamber of commerce officials
touted their new wheelchairs. But it took her more than an hour to find a chair.
Then, Sergel says, the beach patrol told her the chairs weren't allowed more
than one block from where they were stored. Her sister was 12 blocks away. After
offering her credit card as security, Sergel took the chair - and was arrested
by police. Court date is Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION; FROM USA TODAY'S NATIONAL NEWS NETWORK

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              196 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     August 6, 1993, Friday, FINAL EDITION

INS getting cagey in cat-and-mouse game / Vise tightens at the source --
airports overseas

BYLINE: Bruce Frankel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 1074 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Each year thousands of undocumented foreigners, bearing little more than
desperate pleas for asylum, flood John F. Kennedy International Airport - a main
entry point for illegal immigrants.

Illegal immigrants claiming asylum rose 900%, to 9,178, between 1990 and 1992.
But on this day, the glass-enclosed room used for questioning undocumented
asylum seekers stands empty - a welcome and increasingly common occurrence,
officials say.

The number of illegal immigrants - mostly Chinese, Indians and Pakistanis -
arriving at JFK has dropped 45% since February.

The suspected reason: a year-long collaboration among the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, U.S. consulates overseas and airlines - badly hit by INS
fines - that has intensified scrutiny of passengers at key airports abroad.

But there are signs the problem hasn't gone away - merely moved somewhere else.
While JFK's numbers are down, nationwide the total number of arrivals seeking
asylum remains high. INS officials say organized crime has shifted its sights to
other cities, like Miami, San Juan and San Francisco.

"Right now, they're shopping" for the weakest links in the system, says Marie
Schroeder, assistant chief INS inspector.

Still, the agency is encouraged by the results here. "We hope we're discouraging
a trend," says Schroeder, who heads the INS Carrier Consultant Project.

This month, 30 INS agents fan out around the world to train airline agents to
spot fraudulent documents, counterfeit tickets, and "document flushers" who will
try to gain entry into the USA by claiming asylum.

When the program started last year, Tokyo's Narita International Airport was the
most frequent point of origin of inadmissible passengers arriving in the USA.
But following INS training of hundreds of airline agents there, Narita isn't
even in the top 10 this year.

Charles Akalski, INS assistant port director at JFK, is pleased with the
decline, but cautious. Far too many immigrants still arrive without documents,
claim asylum and - because there isn't enough space to detain them - are
released into the nation's largest city without the INS having any real idea of
who they are or why they came.

"To have 300 or 400 people a month still walking out the door - is that
acceptable?" Akalski asks. "They could be terrorists."

Revelations that several suspects in the World Trade Center bombing evaded U.S.
immigration laws has prompted new proposals to fight illegal immigration,
including a $ 172 million plan by President Clinton.

One World Trade Center suspect, Ramzi Yousef, sought asylum when he arrived at
JFK last year, then disappeared while his case was pending.

The INS has space to hold only 100 at a privately run jail in Queens, at an
annual cost of $ 5 million. Virtually everyone who arrives here without proper
entry documents, such as a visa, is allowed into the country after being
detained briefly and given an immigration hearing date - three months later.

"We've had cases where people tried to run out," Akalski says. "We tackle them,
bring them back and say, 'You can't run out of here. First, you need these
documents. Then you can walk out.' "

Most of the illegals board planes using fraudulent documents, which they destroy
en route, immigration officials say.

Los Angeles International Airport saw an explosion of cases in 1990. But the
number of illegal immigrants arriving there fell from 1,000 a month to 250
shortly after a new INS detention center opened in 1991.

Almost immediately, JFK got hit. During the 1992 federal fiscal year, 14,866
immigrants without proper papers arrived.

Airlines, fined $ 3,000 for each passenger without proper papers, then got
serious, says Akalski: "Cost is the key."

After Air France was fined $ 300,000 in October 1992, it asked the INS for help.

Investigators discovered that unmonitored lounges at international airports were
being used to sneak undocumented aliens on flights to the United States without
scrutiny of documents. On the INS' recommendation, the airline began inspecting
documents immediately before boarding. It also began turning suspects over to
French authorities.

Last month, Air France had no fines for undocumented asylum seekers.

"The airlines realized that if they don't become hard targets, their profits
would be a minus," says James Carlin, security manager for Air France. Besides,
"you don't want people that desperate on an aircraft."

To avoid detection, smugglers often route illegals through several cities. Asian
organized crime now favors smuggling passengers, many destined to lives of
indentured servitude in the USA, through Latin America and the Caribbean.

The costly cat-and-mouse game is far from over, says American Airline's Jim
Holden, head of a group of 17 domestic and foreign carriers sharing methods and
information: "The Chinese are still nailing us to the wall. We're spending
millions of dollars, but we're pledged to stop this."

Asylum claims down at JFK airport The number of immigrants entering the USA by
claiming asylum at New York's John F. Kennedy International Airport has dropped
this year.
Number entering by month:
    July '92    780
June '93    484

Most violations at JFK Airlines are fined $ 3,000 for each improperly documented
passenger they fly to the USA. Those fines may be cancelled on appeal. Most
violations and fines occur at JFK airport. Monthly violations and air carrier
fines at all U.S. airports compared to JFK:

Improper documentation violations
             JFK           All
     airport       airports
June '93      119 (1)       248 (1)

(1) - June totals are likely to lower as cases are adjudicated.

Improper documentation fines (2)
                 JFK          All
         airport      airports
May '93         $ 87,000      $ 102,000

(2) - June fines were not available.

 Most-fined carriers at JFK
Air France                $ 912,000
British Airways           $ 462,000
Lufthansa                 $ 297,000
Pakistan International    $ 291,000
Aeroflot                  $ 258,000
Alitalia                  $ 225,000
Nigeria Airways           $ 222,000
Iberia Airlines           $ 216,000
Japan Airlines            $ 213,000
KLM Royal Dutch           $ 198,000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Elys E. McLean, USA TODAY, Source: Immigration and
Naturalization Service (Line graph, bar graph); PHOTO, b/w, Bob Strong

IMMIGRATION; IMMIGRATION; BACKLASH IN THE LAND OF LIBERTY; See info box at end
of text; See sidebar; 10A; Complete text of graphic not available -- Please see
microfiche

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              197 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    August 10, 1993, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Border toll a bad idea

BYLINE: Elton Gallegly

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 298 words


Sen. Dianne Feinstein is to be commended for helping to focus attention on the
growing national crisis of illegal immigration. A recent study by Donald Huddle
of Rice University estimated there are 4.8 million illegal aliens in the USA.
Another 6,000 slip across our porous borders every day. The net cost to
hard-pressed taxpayers for their welfare, criminal justice, health care and
other benefits: almost $ 12 billion a year.

Clearly, something has to be done, and quickly. But is imposing a fee on
law-abiding Americans returning home from Canada and Mexico fair?

Three years ago, when I was drafting comprehensive legislation to strengthen the
Border Patrol, tighten up on document fraud and reform our citizenship laws, I
decided not to pursue a border-entry fee and instead to concentrate on efforts
to solve the problem. A re-entry fee is just another tax on the overtaxed
American people, one that would be paid only by Americans and foreign citizens
who enter our country legally. Illegal immigrants would pay nothing.

Instead, we should target the welfare and benefit giveaways that are one of the
major incentives for illegal immigration in the first place. While a $ 1
border-entry fee could raise some $ 400 million a year, the National Taxpayers
Union estimates that we could save over $ 700 million a year simply by enacting
my bill to prohibit direct federal financial benefits and unemployment benefits
to illegal aliens. This money could then be used to strengthen the Border Patrol
and increase enforcement of our laws that prohibit hiring illegal aliens.

We must regain control over our borders, but instead of new taxes, let's work to
save taxpayers' dollars by shutting off the benefits that draw so many illegal
aliens here in the first place.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; Today's debate is on ENTERING THE USA and whether a
border-crossing fee should be charged; OPPOSING VIEW; Why one more tax on
Americans returning home and legal aliens? Hit illegals instead; Rep. Elton
Gallegly, R-Calif., is a member of the House immigration subcommittee.

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              198 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     August 20, 1993, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Avoid knee-jerk responses to immigration problems

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 360 words


No wonder Gov. Pete Wilson of California is lashing out at illegal immigrants.
His approval rating is 15%. Polls show he would lose to either of his most
likely opponents in next year's election.

Luckily for him, two scapegoats are near at hand: illegal immigrants, who can't
bite back, and Washington, which everybody loves to hate and which actually
deserves some pretty stout criticism for imposing costly immigration-related
mandates and then not paying for them.

Although possessed of many dubious parts, Wilson's proposals are most notable
for a wild howl over the 14th Amendment, which allows everyone born on U.S. soil
to claim U.S. citizenship - even the children of illegals.

That principle has been part of our Constitution since 1868. Yet Wilson wants an
amendment to abridge the right. Reason: It seems to reward illegal immigration
while draining state coffers.

The drain on state coffers has less to do with the 14th Amendment than with the
federal government's inclination to require that health services be provided to
illegal aliens while conveniently leaving the bill for others to pay.

Yet for many Americans, the amendment argument rings true more easily than the
argument over mandates. Rather than examining why states are paying for the
urgent medical care required by often destitute, often terrified young women,
voters find it simpler to cheer on what amounts to an exclusionist and
ultimately trivial amendment to the nation's charter.

There's no question that Washington is remiss regarding the cost of its
mandates. States are owed billions, and Congress should cough it up.

Likewise, there's no question that Wilson is one among many seeking controls.
Both California senators also have produced ideas to curb immigration.

Many of those ideas are thoughtful ones. Wilson, for instance, supports the free
trade agreement with Mexico as a way of easing immigration pressures.

But his anti-citizenship rocket misdirects the debate and tarnishes the hope
that California, the nation's greatest crucible, can help forge sensible
solutions to the dilemmas posed by our national instinct to embrace all who join
us.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; Today's debate is on IMMIGRATION and the effect of illegal
immigrants on U.S. society; OUR VIEW; What's wrong with California Gov. Pete
Wilson's immigration package? Almost everything

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              199 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 5, 1993, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

California toughens laws on immigrants

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 991 words


California Gov. Pete Wilson, saying the state faces "a crisis in illegal
immigration," signed bills Monday that:

Require first-time applicants for a driver's license to prove they are U.S.
citizens or otherwise legally in the USA.

Deny job placement and training aid to illegal immigrants and increase penalties
for medical benefits fraud.

Overturn local sanctuary laws that bar law officers from telling immigration
officials of illegal immigrants.

In El Paso, the U.S. Border Patrol juggled work shifts to continue its 20-mile
blockade of the Rio Grande border. The operation, begun Sept. 19, is credited
with cutting illegal border crossings by more than 70%.

CHURCH SEX: In one of the worst cases of sexual abuse by a clergyman, James
Porter, 58, pleaded guilty to molesting 28 children - boys and girls - while he
was a Roman Catholic priest in three Massachusetts parishes in the 1960s. He
admitted to acts of sodomy and indecent exposure. Sentencing is Dec. 6 in New
Bedford. Porter has acknowledged molesting nearly 100 children while a priest in
Massachusetts, New Mexico, Minnesota and Nevada.

L.A. COP LOSES: Former Los Angeles police officer Laurence Powell lost his
Supreme Court bid to delay his 2 1/2-year prison term while he appeals his
conviction of violating the civil rights of Rodney King. The U.S. Supreme Court
rejected the request without comment. Powell and former sergeant Stacey Koon,
also sentenced to 2 1/2 years, were ordered to surrender Oct. 12. Koon's appeal
still is pending.

DENNY TRIAL: Jurors in the Reginald Denny beating case in Los Angeles chose a
black woman in her 30s to lead them and learned how to operate video gear so
they can analyze videotapes of the attack. The forewoman was an alternate who
replaced a white female juror who became ill Sept. 9. Damian Williams, 20, and
Henry Keith Watson, 29, are accused of attempted murder and other felonies.

KILLER GATORS: At least four alligators attacked Grace Eberhart, 70, whose
dismembered body was found Sunday in Lake Serenity at the Continental Country
Club retirement home where she lived in Wildwood, Fla. Wildlife officials killed
four gators Monday and were seeking a fifth. Seven people have been killed by
alligators in Florida since 1973.

AIDS LAWSUITS: The U.S. Justice Department accused two dental offices of
violating the Americans with Disabilities Act by withholding treatment from
patients who have the AIDS virus. The civil suits, the first to accuse dentists
of bias against AIDS patients, named Castle Dental Center in Houston and dentist
Drew Morvant of New Orleans.

'TRUTH OR DARE' SLAYING: Detroit police charged two young men in the slayings of
two people who refused a dare in a game of "Truth or Dare" Sept. 10. Eric Simms,
17, was charged with murder, and Todd Thomas, 22, as an accessory, in the deaths
of Tharon Carden, 14, and Timothy Davis, 20. Each was shot in the head, beheaded
and dismembered. Their heads, hands and feet weren't found until Saturday. A
third suspect, Paul Kinchloe, 26, is being sought on a murder charge. Truth or
Dare is a popular game among teens and was depicted in the Madonna movie of the
same name.

TAMMY TIES KNOT: Tammy Faye Bakker sang Jesus Loves Me during her wedding Sunday
in Rancho Mirage, Calif., to Roe Messner. He's a Kansas developer who built much
of the PTL ministries complex in Fort Mill, S.C., once run by Bakker's first
husband, televangelist Jim Bakker. The Bakkers' 30-year marriage ended in
divorce last year. He is serving an eight-year prison term in Jesup, Ga., for
bilking PTL followers of more than $ 150 million.

AIR INCIDENTS: Several passengers were hurt sliding down emergency chutes after
Delta Air Lines Flight 1975 to Dallas-Fort Worth aborted its takeoff in Denver
because an engine on the twin-engine MD-80 failed. In Miami, officials said a
malfunctioning water tank for a coffee pot caused an explosion that forced
British West Indies Airways Flight 431, carrying 78 passengers to Barbados, to
return Sunday. Four flight attendants were hurt, two seriously.

ALSO MONDAY . . .

CHICAGO SCHOOLS: A federal judge extended an order to allow classes to continue
at least through Friday for Chicago's 411,000 students. State law requires
schools to have a balanced budget. School officials and teachers resume talks
today on how to close a $ 298 million deficit.

CALIFORNIA FIRE: A 9-day-old blaze that has charred 40,500 acres of Los Padres
National Forest should be contained late today, officials said. More than 3,350
firefighters battled the blaze, which officials said was started by a hunter's
dropped cigarette. Ten firefighters were hurt.

WOLF SHOOT: Alaska's rules authorizing the shooting of up to 150 gray wolves
took effect Saturday, but the first shoot is still at least a month away, state
officials said. Animal-protection activists oppose the plan, intended to thin
wolf packs so the caribou population can increase.

ARSON MOM: Tonya Lucas, 29, was sentenced in Baltimore to six consecutive life
prison terms for setting a row house fire that killed six of her seven children.

Report: Buttafuoco to plead guilty

Joey Buttafuoco is set to plead guilty today in Nassau County, N.Y., to one
count of statutory rape of "Long Island Lolita" Amy Fisher, The Associated Press
said. Buttafuoco, 37, of Massepequa, has steadfastly denied having sex with
Fisher, then 16. She's 19 now and serving a 5- to 15-year prison term for
shooting Buttafuoco's wife, Mary Jo, in May 1992. The plea agreement calls for
charges of sodomy and endangering a child's welfare to be dropped. He would
serve up to six months in prison. A judge had ordered Buttafuoco to undergo a
physical exam to corroborate Fisher's identity of characteristics of his private
parts, such as an inner-thigh mole. The case has been depicted in three TV
movies. Contributing: Steve Marshall, Gary Fields, Carrie Ferguson.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, b/w, AP (3)

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION; FROM USA TODAY'S NATIONAL NEWS NETWORK

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              200 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  November 10, 1993, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Immigration card considered as fix for failing system

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 770 words


Rep. Elton Gallegly's favorite prop is his fake "immigration" card, which he
likes to show off at public appearances.

"You can pick up one of these for $ 35 or $ 40 on many street corners in Los
Angeles," says the California Republican.

Immigration officials say thousands of illegal immigrants are doing just that.
And they're using those fake IDs to get jobs - subverting the 1986 law against
hiring illegal immigrants.

Now Congress is preparing for an emotional debate over proposals for a national
identification system. Such a system could help employers distinguish citizens
and legal residents from illegal residents, but must overcome longstanding
concerns about potential abuse and privacy invasions.

It won't be the first time Congress has visited this issue, but supporters and
opponents say 1994 could be the year it passes - thanks partly to mounting
anti-immigration sentiment.

"Never have the stars been so correct in the heavens," says Sen. Alan Simpson,
R-Wyo., co-author of the 1986 law.

Under the law, job applicants can present to an employer any one of 17 different
ID cards to prove they are eligible to work in the United States. But employers
have no way of checking cards - and the counterfeit industry is booming.

"Everyone knew (in 1986) there was a serious flaw in the law and it has been an
unresolved question ever since," says Doris Meissner, new commissioner of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Sensing a potent political issue, Republicans in the House are calling loudly
for a crackdown. And Democrats in control of key committees also support change.

"We need to fight off attempts to eliminate employer sanctions but we also need
to strengthen them and in a balanced way," says Rep. Romano Mazzoli, D-Ky,
another author of the 1986 law. Among the possibilities:

Issuing every citizen and legal resident a new "counterfeit-proof" Social
Security card with photo to be used when applying for a job. Estimated cost: up
to $ 6 billion.

But even if new cards are hard to counterfeit: "How good is the card if the
documents used to get it are (fake)?" asked Jana Mason of the American Council
for Nationalities Service, an immigrant support group.

Creating a new "worker authorization" card with photo, to use only when applying
for a job.

Piggybacking on President Clinton's proposed "Health Security" card, to be
issued only to citizens and legal residents. Clinton is opposed to this idea.

Civil libertarians tag any kind of card as a "national ID card," playing off
fears they will lead to a police state.

"It will become the ID you have to carry everywhere to get anything done,"
predicts Lucas Guttentag, immigration specialist at the American Civil Liberties
Union.

But card phobia may be diminishing in an era when a Social Security number is
also a driver's license number and most people already carry wallets stuffed
with identification cards.

"You have your Social Security card, your passport, your credit cards, your
driver's license - what the hell, you're not a virgin anymore," says Robert
Kuttner, syndicated columnist and editor of the policy journal American
Prospect. "The issue is how you regulate cards - because we already have them."

But Hispanic leaders say discrimination is an inevitable consequence of worker
ID cards. Studies already have documented discrimination by employers as a
result of sanctions.

"The practical effect is that anyone who looks foreign will have to carry it
around or be subject to harassment," says Raul Yzaguirre, head of the National
Council of La Raza.

Meanwhile, employer lobbyists are curiously silent on the issue - in contrast to
their furious opposition to sanctions back in 1986, when they were denounced as
an unbearable burden.

Tom Youngblood, spokesman for the American Hotel and Motel Association, says few
people complain now, partly because sanctions have turned out to be a paper
tiger.

"Illegal aliens get documents that look good enough so employers are off the
hook," says Youngblood.

Report: Crime easy for illegals

Leading a life of crime is easier if you're an illegal immigrant, says a Senate
report today.

"If you are an alien . . . and you commit a crime, chances are you can outwit
and outrun the American justice system," says Sen. William Roth Jr., R-Del., of
the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations.

The study found the swamped U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service is
unable to identify and deport repeat offenders who are illegal immigrants
because records are based on names, not fingerprints, and they often assume a
number of aliases.

LOAD-DATE: September 01, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

IMMIGRATION; See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              201 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    November 22, 1993, Monday, FINAL EDITION

'Racial politics' spur San Diego boycott

BYLINE: Carol J. Castaneda; Gary Fields

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 343 words


Worried about anti-immigrant sentiment in California, Mexicans protested this
weekend by boycotting San Diego area stores.

Immigrant-rights activists called for the boycott to protest the California
Legislature's efforts to pass laws that would curtail illegal immigration.

Activists say laws that would deny citizenship to the newborns of undocumented
immigrants or set up border crossing fees are being pushed only because some
Californians want to blame the state's economic ills on immigrants.

So Mexicans were urged to stay home to emphasize their effect on the state's
economy.

Charles Nathanson, head of the public policy group San Diego Dialogue, says
Mexicans buy $ 1.5 billion of the $ 15 billion in taxable retail goods sold
annually in San Diego County.

"People thought what Ross Perot thought, that people in Mexico don't have enough
money to buy anything," Nathanson says, but that's wrong.

"We are committed to fighting racial politics," says Roberto Martinez of
American Friends Service Committee, a boycott organizer.

It's unclear how much effect the boycott had on shops.

Some shop owners said they were hard hit. "Business is terrible," said Jack
Wong, who complained sales at his border shoe store were off 80%.

Parking lots at many border shopping malls were half full, said San Ysidro tow
truck driver John Akiki: "Normally, on a Sunday, they're packed because everyone
comes across to do their shopping."

But others said the boycott was having little effect.

"We have clients right now," says Rosa Castillo, a cashier at Baja Mex currency
exchange. "There's not much difference."

At the San Ysidro U.S. Port of Entry, U.S. Customs agents said traffic appeared
lighter.

Several dozen protesters marched in San Diego. Protester Maria Arandura, 50, who
moved from Mazatlan, Mexico, 27 years ago, was angry at Gov. Pete Wilson's
proposal to cut aid to illegal immigrants.

"We're protesting against that Pete Wilson because he doesn't like Mexicans,"
Arandura said. "He wants to take Mexicans out of the country."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Nick Galifianakis, USA TODAY (Map, California)

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              202 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 4, 1994, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Quake aid for illegal immigrants is newest fault line

BYLINE: Andrea Stone; Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 284 words


The California earthquake has produced new political shudders in Washington over
the issue of disaster aid to illegal immigrants.

Anti-immigrant resentment is at an all-time high in California, and Congress
this week was forced to respond. "There is no taste for even the appearance of
providing scarce federal resources for people with no legal right to be here,"
says Dan Stein, head of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which
wants to reduce immigration.

Thursday, the House approved a $ 8.6 billion aid bill that denies such benefits
as free housing, cash grants and low-interest loans to undocumented immigrants -
the first time a disaster-relief bill has been so restricted. They can receive
emergency medical aid, food and temporary shelter.

The restriction was offered by conservative California Republicans. Democrats -
pressed by fed-up constituents at home - revised and reluctantly voted for the
amendment out of fear something more onerous would pass.

A similar restriction was offered for the flood-aid bill last year but failed.

"It's an easy political message," says Republican consultant Eddie Mahe. "This
gives (politicians) the opportunity to be tough. And, in these days, toughness
is in and simpatico is out."

Raul Yzaguirre of the National Council of La Raza said the aid restriction was
made easier because so many victims are Hispanics.

"Immigrants are good scapegoats . . . because they're powerless, voiceless,"
says Mario Moreno of the Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund.

Rep. Dana Rohrabacher, R-Calif., and other conservatives vow to attempt to
attach an anti-illegals amendment to every appropriations bill that comes up.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              203 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 8, 1994, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Immigration now an abortion issue

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 583 words


Abortion politics is creeping into immigration policymaking, with Congress set
to approve a measure that would grant haven to thousands of illegal immigrants
fleeing China's one-child-only policy.

In effect, the measure would establish another "special status" category in U.S.
immigration policy, which has been criticized for having too many confusing
special categories.

The provision would apply to up to 2,000 Chinese illegal immigrants per year for
the next three years who can demonstrate they were or will be subjected to
forcible abortion or sterilization in China.

These immigrants would be protected from deportation to China, and could be
granted political asylum here.

The measure, in an amendment to the State Department reauthorization bill, was
offered by Sen. Jesse Helms, R-N.C. The fierce abortion opponent says China is
"killing innocent babies" through coercive population control.

"I am not one to believe in opening the floodgates to anyone who wants to come
live in the U.S. for any reason, but there are some things Americans just will
not (accept)," Helms said as the Senate approved the measure last week.

Opponents say abuses in China's population program are isolated incidents, not
government policy. They predict the measure will encourage more illegal
immigration.

Last year, hundreds of Chinese sought asylum after being arrested on smugglers'
boats attempting to enter illegally.

"This is an ideological attack by pro-life Republicans on China's family
planning program and small-family goal," says Dan Stein of the Federation for
American Immigration Reform, which favors reducing immigration. "It offers a
sidecar benefit to 2,000, but arguably hundreds of millions of Chinese might be
eligible."

The lobbyists most pleased about Helms' measure are liberal pro-immigrant groups
and abortion-rights advocates. They say forced abortion is as much a human
rights violation as forced pregnancy - and thus should be grounds for political
asylum.

They acknowledge discomfort about being on the same side as Helms, who is
extremely conservative, "but he's right in this," says Elisa Massimino of the
Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, which defends Chinese asylum-seekers.

"This will not lead to vast numbers of Chinese jumping on boats because the fact
is (persecution) is not easy to prove," Massimino said.

But the measure would further cloud already murky U.S. policy on Chinese
asylum-seekers. The Justice Department says persecution under coercive
family-planning policy is not grounds for asylum, but a federal judge recently
ruled that it can be. Justice lawyers have not yet decided whether to appeal.

Helms' original measure was broader, but it was watered down after bipartisan
negotiations. Final approval is expected later this month.

Rise in Chinese immigration to USA
'93     38,907(1)

1 - As of Sept. 30 of each year

Who the Chinese immigrants are More are women, older
                   Men       Women
From China          45%        55%
All immigrants      51%        49%

Average age
From China          36.8 years
All immigrants      28.5 years

... and settle in California. Top 5 states of intended residency for 1993
Chinese immigrants:
Calif.               30%
N.Y.               28.2%
Texas               4.7%
Mass.               3.7%
Ill.                3.1%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Nick Galifianakis, USA TODAY, Source: Immigration and
Naturalization Service (Line graph, bar graph)

THE NATION; See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              204 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    January 10, 1995, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Southwest border being reinforced

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 510 words


The Clinton administration is touting what it calls the most resolute and
best-funded effort ever to seal the nation's Southwest border.

"We're putting the proposition on the table that we can regulate the borders,"
said Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner Doris Meissner in an
interview Monday with the USA TODAY Editorial Board.

Armed with a 25% increase in its $ 2.1 billion budget, the largest increase in
agency history, Meissner says the INS this year will spend up to $ 236 million
more on strengthening border control.

That includes adding 1,265 border patrol agents, inspectors and support
personnel, bringing the total to 6,200.

The INS also plans to:

-- Begin blockades along the Arizona border, similar to those at El Paso and San
Diego.

-- Spend up to $ 87 million more on deporting criminal aliens, streamlining the
asylum system and enforcing laws against hiring illegals.

-- Spend half the budget increase - about $ 157 million - on updating equipment
to modernize the agency.

Said Meissner: "If we are successful, we will win public confidence in a way
that leads to sensible and workable solutions to the problems of illegal
immigration and, I hope, avoid some of the more radical and extremist solutions
out there."

One of those: Proposition 187, the anti-illegal immigrant ballot measure
Californians passed in November. Courts have since placed it on hold.

"The administration originally wanted to cut the Border Patrol, but now they're
trying to respond to politically sensitive areas along the border," says Dan
Stein of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which supports enhanced
border control.

In fact, California was the first place Attorney General Janet Reno headed last
week during a four-day tour of border communities in four states, to publicize
the INS's enhanced border efforts. She said the administration deserves the
credit for the dramatic reduction in illegal crossings - 32% to 72% - since
border blockades began at San Diego and El Paso.

Stein and other critics of Clinton immigration policies, say the new effort
isn't enough.

"It's an improvement, but in the absence of a more comprehensive program, just
stacking agents at the border is never going to stop illegal immigration," Stein
says.

Contributing: Maria Goodavage

Stopping illegals at the border The Immigration and Naturalization Service gets
a big budget bump this year, primarily to strengthen border-control efforts.
Budget gets boost (in billions)
'92   $ 1.4
'95   $ 2.1

Where the increase goes About three-quarters of the budget's $ 325.5 million
increase goes to strengthening the borders.
Technology (1)   48.7%
Construction     15.5%
Personnel        35.8%

More on the border The INS has money for 810 new border patrol positions in
1995:
Texas        348
California   224
Arizona      116
Other (2)    104
New Mexico    18

1 -- Includes asylum revision, education, promotion 2 -- Positions held in
reserve

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Stephen Conley, USA TODAY, Source: Immigration and
Naturalization Service (Line graph, Pie chart); PHOTO, color, USA TODAY; PHOTO,
b/w, Tim Dillon, USA TODAY

THE NATION; See info box at end of text.

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              205 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    January 31, 1995, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Many visitors just don't bother to go home / Immigration not solely a border
issue

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 798 words


The image of illegal immigrants scurrying over the Mexican border is familiar to
most Americans, but it's only a partial picture of illegal immigration in the
USA, officials say.

Indeed, more than half the estimated 4 million illegal immigrants are "visa
overstays" - people who enter the country legally on a tourist, student or
business visa but don't go home - says the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

But visa overstays are not a part of the current immigration debate - which has
seen more INS resources shifting to a blockade of border states.

The irony is not lost on immigration activists.

"The border is the hot issue - you can take pictures of people clambering over
the border," says Cecilia Munoz, senior analyst at the Hispanic immigrant-rights
group National Council of La Raza. "Visa overstayers don't make good 30-second
sound bites."

One reason: Overstayers are perceived to "blend in" better than even native
Hispanics. In New York and New Jersey, for instance, the largest groups of
overstayers are from Poland, Italy and Portugal.

"One of the great ironies is that an Italian who arrived yesterday is perceived
as 'more American' than a fifth-generation Mexican-American - and that drives
our community crazy," Munoz says.

Last year Congress made it even easier for Irish and Portuguese to come to the
USA, by adding Ireland and Portugal to the "visa waiver list."

"As long as you didn't get into trouble with the law, you were fine," says Sean
Murphy, 33, an Irish overstayer who eventually got a green card and now is a
contractor. "You could go to a bar, find out about work, even cash your paycheck
with the bartender."

Visitors from the 22 countries on the list don't have to get visas for short
visits because the countries don't have a history of visa fraud or large numbers
of illegal immigrants in the USA.

"That's a huge, Mack truck hole in our ability to stop illegal immigration,"
says Dan Stein of the Federation for American
Immigration Reform.    Visas are issued by the State Department,

which is supposed to reject applicants believed to be potential overstayers. The
INS estimates only 150,000 a year overstay of a total of 22 million visitors.

But the INS has no way to track down and deport overstayers. Only 658
overstayers were deported in 1993 of 36,700 immigrants expelled.

INS Commissioner Doris Meissner says the way to discourage overstayers is to
reduce access to jobs by beefing up enforcement of employer sanctions.

And immigration lawyers and leaders of the nation's $ 77 billion tourism
industry worry about increased attention to visa overstays.

Warren Leiden, head of the American Immigration Lawyers Association, says it's
already extremely difficult for visitors from Third World countries to get
visitor visas.

"We caution against Draconian measures that penalize all visa visitors for sins
of a few," says William Norman, president of the Travel Industry Association of
America.

But Draconian measures may not be necessary. "Make it clear that people have to
leave and then enforce departure - and the U.S. has never done that," says the
American Bar Association's Carol Wolchok.

More than half of illegals overstay visas

In 1994, about 4 million illegal immigrants resided in the USA. Just under half
of them entered the country by illegally crossing borders. The rest overstayed
legally obtained visas.

How they entered
Crossed border     48%
Overstayed visa    52%

Where they came from

Illegal immigrants entering in 1988-1992: (in thousands)

Overstayed visa Crossed border
Mexico             236              360
El Salvador         18               76
Poland              57                1
Philippines         53                *
Haiti               45                1

* - Fewer than 500

States they went to

Illegals entering these states in 1988-1992, by top 3 countries of origin
Texas        357,000
  Mexico       227,000
El Salvador   58,000
Honduras      10,000

California 1,441,000
Mexico       786,000

El Salvador 205,000
Guatemala     88,000
  Illinois     176,000
  Mexico        77,000
Poland        48,000
Guatemala      6,000
  New York     449,000
  Italy         26,000
Poland        23,000
Dominican     20,000

Republic
New Jersey   116,000
  Portugal      14,000
Poland         9,000
Italy          8,000
  Florida      322,000
  Bahamas       56,000
Haiti         54,000
Mexico        32,000

LOAD-DATE: February 02, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Julie Stacey, USA TODAY, Source: Immigration and
Naturalization Service (Pie chart, bar graph, map); PHOTO, b/w, AP; PHOTO, b/w,
Bob Riha Jr., Gamma-Liaison

IMMIGRATION; See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              206 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   February 14, 1995, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Illegal immigrant suit is dismissed in Calif.

BYLINE: Gary Fields; Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 933 words


California's lawsuit seeking $ 10 billion from the federal government for
education, imprisonment and medical costs of illegal immigrants was dismissed
Monday by a San Diego federal judge who said such disputes must be settled by
Congress and the White House, not by the courts.

States with large illegal-immigrant populations say they have suffered because
the federal government has failed in its duty to control the borders.

Judge Judith Keep said she sympathized with the state's financial burden caused
by illegal immigration, and said she is convinced Gov. Pete Wilson and state
officials are motivated solely by financial considerations, not racism as some
critics have charged.

Wilson vowed to appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court and said, "Californians should
not give up hope."

A similar suit by Florida was dismissed late last year, and the federal judge
considering a Texas lawsuit has said he intends to dismiss it. Similar suits by
Arizona, New Jersey and New York are pending. -- Maria Puente

TO TESTIFY: Colin Ferguson, who has pleaded innocent to the 1993 shooting
rampage on a Long Island Rail Road commuter train that left six dead and 19
injured, testifies today at his murder trial in Mineola, N.Y. A dozen survivors
named Ferguson, a black Jamaican immigrant, as the gunman. Ferguson, who is his
own attorney, says a white man stole his gun and is responsible for the Dec. 7
shootings.

AVALANCHE DANGER: A severe winter storm dumped up to 5 feet of snow in the
Rockies, triggering avalanches that killed one skier in Colorado and one in
Utah. A third skier who was missing since Saturday was found dead in Winter
Park, Colo. New storm warnings are in effect for parts of Colorado. Also, heavy
snow along lakes Erie and Ontario stranded motorists in western New York state.

RAIL TROUBLES: A projected loss of $ 1 billion by 2001 will hurt Amtrak's
ability to continue its 25,000-mile nationwide system without "significant
increases in passenger revenues or subsidies," the Government Accounting Office
said at a House hearing. Amtrak spokesman Cliff Black said the rail service will
be about $ 200 million short this year, but is implementing a program to save $
350 million annually.

NEW SMOG SOURCE: Urban smog is a complex problem that may be caused in part by
trees and other natural vegetation, government scientists said. They have found
that chemicals emitted by vegetation react with sunlight and other compounds to
form ozone, a key component of urban smog. Scientists began to suspect natural
sources because tree-covered cities such as Atlanta and Nashville were having
difficulty meeting federal air quality standards even after instituting
stringent new pollution regulations.

NO LOVING: Ivan the gorilla won't be getting any Valentines today. Zoo Atlanta
officials placed the 30-year-old primate in a "howdy cage" where he beat his
chest, grunted and strutted, trying to woo his designated mate, Molly, 26. She
acted as if she couldn't care less. "It's sort of like people; it's chemistry
for them, too," says zoo spokeswoman Carol Flammer. Ivan spent 27 of his 30
years in a cage at the B&I shopping mall in Tacoma, Wash.

CAR SEAT SAFETY: The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration appointed a
panel to address the problem of incorrectly installed child-safety seats.
Officials say redesigned seat belts that more easily fit around adults and older
children are too loose for the child seat. It's estimated that 3% of the 70,000
auto-related injuries to children ages 1-4 in 1993 resulted from improperly
installed child seats. About 5 million child car seats are sold each year.

ALSO TUESDAY . . .

-- MOVING ON: Former Texas governor Ann Richards joined the Washington law firm
of Verner, Liipfert, Bernhard, McPherson and Hand, which last week hired former
Treasury secretary Lloyd Bentsen, a fellow Texan. Richards was defeated in
November by George W. Bush, a son of former president George Bush.

-- COURT CAMERAS: Federal judges should resurrect an experiment that allowed
television coverage of civil cases in federal court, the American Bar
Association said. In September, the Judicial Conference of the United States
voted to end the experiment.

-- STRONG WIND: A windstorm with gusts up to 61 mph damaged five jetliners
parked at gates at Miami International Airport. No one was injured. A Tower Air
747 was spun 90 degrees and pushed into a jetway, damaging two engines. Eight
gates also were damaged.

Court denies Baby Richard appeal

The adoptive parents of Baby Richard lost what could be their final appeal when
the Supreme Court voted 7-2 not to block an Illinois ruling that the boy, now
nearly 4, must be given to his biological father, whom he has never seen.

Justices Sandra Day O'Connor and Stephen Breyer voted to grant the stay.

The adoptive parents, identified only as John and Jane Doe, are "very
disappointed that the highest court in this country refused to help this child,
but they are still hopeful," said their lawyer, Richard Lifshitz.

The couple have had Richard since he was 4 days old. The Illinois Supreme Court
voided the adoption in June, saying his biological father, Otakar Kirchner, had
been denied his parental rights.

The state's top court last month ordered that Richard be turned over to
Kirchner. He and the mother, Daniela Janikova, were unmarried and estranged when
Richard was born. She put the baby up for adoption and told Kirchner the boy was
dead. He first sought custody 57 days later.

Contributing: Steve Timko, Shannon Tangonan and Jack Williams.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, b/w, AP (3)

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              207 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     March 28, 1995, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Border Patrol fighting pitfalls of success

BYLINE: Sandra Sanchez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 786 words

DATELINE: SUNLAND PARK, N.M.


When he came to the Border Patrol 13 years ago, agent Samuel Montana thought
pursuit of illegal immigrants was like a mild game of cat-and-mouse.

No longer.

Violence against agents is on the rise as would-be illegal immigrants, driven by
a deteriorating Mexican economy and a devaluated peso, use guns and crude
homemade weapons to improve their chances of crossing into the USA.

"(Immigrants) are more desperate to get over here now, so they're rougher, and
it's made life more dangerous for us now. Before, we patrolled in two-man units,
but now we're alone," says Montana, 46. "Anything can happen."

He also worries about his son, Samuel, 26, who patrols in Harlingen, Texas, and
has been in two shootouts in the past seven months.

But it is in the El Paso District, where the elder Montana patrols, that there's
been the greatest surge in violence.

More than half the attacks on agents reported nationwide since Oct. 1 have
occurred in this sector, says Immigration and Naturalization Service spokesman
Don Mueller.

Six agents have been hurt -- injuries ranging from lacerations to the head to
separated shoulders.

INS officials say the Border Patrol is in part a victim of its own success.
Operation Hold the Line, the agency's 18-month-old border blockade, has
discouraged crossings and led to more arrests -- but also caused immigrants to
fight back with greater intensity.

At the same time, agents now appear to be more vulnerable because they are
patrolling one to a unit.

Agents say crossers are also less likely to come alone. They travel in groups,
escorted by armed guides, known as mules or coyotes, who are paid to keep them
safe -- and steer them clear of border guards.

Almost nightly, agents' vehicles are damaged as they drive dusty trails that
have been converted to virtual minefields, booby-trapped with boards studded
with protruding nails and three-inch metal spikes.

More and more agents report sniper fire or rocks thrown near them.

"Since September of 1993 when Operation Hold the Line was initiated, there's
been a lot of time for those coming in illegally to develop new tactics," says
El Paso Border Patrol spokesman Doug Mosier. "We're starting to see the fruits
of their labor now."

At El Paso headquarters, agents display a cache of recently seized weapons:
shanks of whittled steel with taped handles; crude shotguns made from plumbing
tubes with trigger devices taken from other weapons; a wooden
bedpost-turned-club; a 20-inch ice pick hidden inside a multicolored leather
riding crop.

An agent even videotaped an illegal immigrant walking with a pointed gun just
yards away.

More than 650 agents are part of Hold the Line, the USA's first massive border
blockade.

It has been followed by Operation Gatekeeper in San Diego and in Nogales, Ariz.,
with 1,281 agents, including 45 newly trained ones who were added on Monday.

That operation includes heavy use of infrared scopes, lighting and underground
sensors to track illegal crossers.

About 70% of the 175 daily arrests in El Paso now happen in hard-to-patrol
canyons rather than more traditional downtown crossing spots.

Although agents are aided by night-vision periscopes positioned on hilltops, and
by underground sensors that warn central command of crossers, they still say
they are are outnumbered and vulnerable.

"When you start lining agents up right on the border with high visible presence,
they're most likely to be targets," says Mueller.

Agent Fred Guillen says that night after night he feels "like a target" during
his 10-hour shift alone in the desert.

"The backfire of an engine even will make you jump," says Guillen, a five-year
veteran. "You never know what can happen out there. Right now we're right on the
line."

Violence at the border Illegal immigrants are using more formidable weapons
against Border Patrol agents. Weapons used in the 71 attacks on agents
nationwide during the first five months of this fiscal year, compared to 1994:
                  1994         1995
Rocks               58%          42%

Fists, knives
and clubs           23%          29%
Firearms            14%          24%
Other                5%           5%

Arrests of illegals rise More than 40 of the reported attacks have been in the
El Paso Border Patrol sector, which includes New Mexico. That sector has been
the center of 'Operation Hold The Line,' a Border Patrol crackdown on illegal
crossings. Arrests have jumped as a result of the operation:
Month        Arrests
Jan. '94      6,800
Jan. '95      8,519
Feb. '94      6,643
Feb. '95      8,395

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Cliff Vancura, USA TODAY, Source: Immigration and
Naturalization Service (Bar graph, map); PHOTO, b/w, Bruce Berman

THE NATION; See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              208 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      June 5, 1995, Monday, FIRST EDITION

DENNY BEATING

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 163 words


A Los Angeles jury today will recommend a sentence for Antoine Miller, 23,
already on probation for crimes against trucker Reginald Denny and others at the
start of the 1992 Los Angeles riot. Miller was convicted Friday of violating
probation and being a felon in possession of a firearm in connection with an
Aug. 21 incident. In addition to the new charges, he might have to serve the
27-month suspended sentence imposed for his riot crimes.

BORDER SHOOTING: Roberto Sanchez Garcia, 37, of Naranja, Fla., is due in Miami
federal court Tuesday in the 1984 shooting of Border Patrol agent Inez Sanchez.
He was shot in the hand while guarding suspected illegal immigrants near Sarita,
Texas. The gunman escaped but agents found immigration papers about Garcia in
the vehicle. Garcia was arrested May 26 after he wrote to immigration officials
seeking all documents they had on him in their files.

Contributing: Gary Fields, Carol J. Castaneda and Jay Tokasz

LOAD-DATE: June 06, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              209 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   September 29, 1995, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Heat being turned up on illegal immigrants // Some believe politics behind
increased raids

BYLINE: Sandra Sanchez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 1441 words

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Texas


The panic almost overwhelmed Nevi Gaitan-Romero as she was handcuffed and put
into the back of a van after her arrest as an illegal immigrant.

She cried, thinking she might never see her two daughters again.

Gaitain-Romero, picked up with 637 other illegal immigrants in a recent federal
raid on businesses here, had no idea where she was going. She couldn't
understand the English chatter of agents driving the van.

As the ride dragged on for an hour, her fear mounted, says Gaitan-Romero, 22.

"I thought they were taking me all the way to El Salvador," her former home, she
says.

Gaitan-Romero was charged with using counterfeit documents to get her job at a
Luby's restaurant.

Her arrest Sept. 11 came at the beginning of a week-long series of raids here
that were part of a continuing nationwide crackdown on illegal-immigrant
workers. And in cities like Austin, the sweeps are causing fear and paranoia and
affecting businesses, churches and the community.

Raids have been routine for a long time in California. But this new effort is
being mounted at a time when Republican presidential candidates promise to use
illegal immigration as a political cudgel against President Clinton's
re-election hopes.

The sweeps and a push to publicize them are meant to demonstrate that the
Clinton administration has done more to attack illegal immigration than
Republican administrations, despite current GOP criticism.

This week, Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner Doris Meissner
touted the arrests of 4,044 illegal workers during June and September raids on
businesses in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Mississippi and Tennessee.

And, for the first time, the INS is emphasizing the monetary value of the jobs
taken away from illegal workers, as well as INS efforts to help employers fill
those jobs with legal workers. More than half the positions already have been
filled, Meissner says, with a total of $ 55.7 million in gross salaries going to
citizens and other legal residents hired to replace illegal workers.

Leaders of the six-state crackdown, called Operation SouthPAW (Protect America's
Workers) sweeps, the program is committed to protecting jobs and workers. But
immigration advocates, many of whom have supported Clinton, are growing
increasingly bitter, convinced he's been influenced by public resentment of
illegal immigrants.

"It smacks of a kind of a police state approach," says Frank Sharry, executive
director of the National Immigration Forum in Washington. "It's the most
heavy-handed and terrorizing approach available."

But immigration-control supporters are pleased, saying enforcement of
immigration laws is meaningless without raids.

"We applaud the willingness of the administration to reassert the importance of
raids as a legitimate tool in its enforcement arsenal," says Dan Stein, head of
the Federation for Immigration Reform.

He says the INS should put more emphasis on tracking down employers who hire
illegal workers.

Ten employers in Alabama and Georgia have been cited for violating immigration
hiring laws and fined.

In Austin, none of 11 businesses searched have been fined. But many have been
sent notices warning of possible illegal hiring. And more arrests could come
this week as agents seek as many as 152 warrants to search other businesses.
That has paralyzed east Austin, a heavily Mexican-American part of the city.

Streets are empty because immigrants are too afraid to venture to market or
church. Many people quit their jobs, fearing la migra - the INS - would find
them. Some people won't even play their radios, fearing the sound might attract
the INS.

Most of those arrested in Austin worked at Luby's restaurants, dry cleaners, a
food processing plant and construction companies.

At Luby's, 67 workers were arrested at seven area restaurants. Managers
scrambled to keep things running and eventually filled all the jobs. But it cost
money to retrain workers.

Merced Benitez, owner of Los Comales Taqueria restaurant, says he hasn't seen
many of his regular customers, most of whom are Hispanics, since the raids. A
fruit vendor, Moses Guerrero, says he's working longer days to make up for lost
sales, and as a service to customers who now want to shop after dark.

Nearly everyone in this close-knit community knows a family with a relative
arrested in the raids.

All but seven in the recent raid waived their rights to deportation hearings and
were bused to the border, charged $ 29 for the ride and handed over to Mexican
authorities. Gaitan-Romero asked for a hearing.

Most illegal immigrants deny they have relatives - to protect them from
immigration agents.

"The community, once they find out what is happening, they will help how ever
they can," says Guerrero, who donates food and diapers to children whose parents
were picked in the raids.

Often it's easier for adults to cross back into the USA alone. Many return
within days by paying escorts, called coyotes, as much as $ 500.

What many illegal immigrants don't realize is that, if they waive a deportation
hearing and decline to contest false-document charges, they give up their right
to immigrate legally in the future, even if they are otherwise eligible.

"Many times the immigrants do not understand that they do not have to return to
Mexico," says Austin immigration lawyer Barbara Hines.

Many people, fearful of being caught without papers in future raids, have sought
legal help in filing for citizenship and legal-resident status. The Immigration
Counseling and Outreach Services of the Catholic Diocese of Austin is getting
many calls from people seeking legal advice or help locating relatives.

At a day-labor site downtown, only about 100 of the 300-500 regulars now show up
looking for jobs.

Carlos Eberardo Colmenares, 24, an illegal immigrant from Mexico, was among the
brave few who turned up last Saturday. He says he needs money to feed his three
children and wife.

"I'm afraid to be here because of la migra, but I have no choice," he says.
"Workers earn about $ 5 an hour, much better than weekly wages of $ 10 in
Mexico. Despite la migra, here we can raise our families in comfort."

Mexican immigrant Paula Garcia, 42, isn't taking any chances.

She lives like a mouse in east Austin, afraid to turn on the radio or TV. Every
time the phone rings she jumps, fearing one of her three adult children has been
caught.

"I want to work in a restaurant, but I don't have papers and I am afraid that if
I apply the managers will turn me in," Garcia says.

She had been baby-sitting to earn $ 75 a week, but quit after the raids. She's
too scared to visit the surgeon who performed a hysterectomy on her two months
ago.

As for Gaitan-Romero, she doubts she will be allowed to stay following her
upcoming deportation hearing.

She worries about what would happen to her infant daughters, both U.S. citizens,
if she was sent back to El Salvador. "Life would be better here for them," she
says.

Illegal-immigrant workers arrested Operation SouthPAW (Protect America's
Workers) is a nationwide push by Immigration and Naturalization Service agents
to arrest illegal-immigrant workers. Under the program, 4,044 illegal immigrants
from 45 countries have been arrested in six states. Arrests, by state:
Georgia     1,351
Arkansas    1,000
Florida       592
Alabama       528
Mississippi   303
Tennessee     270

SouthPAW at a glance -- More than 3,400 illegal workers deported to their
countries of origin -- $ 55.8 million in gross salaries redirected to legal
workers -- More than 300 businesses surveyed and inspected -- More than 2,400
jobs filled with legal workers -- More than 20 criminal
prosecutions/investigations initiated

Arrests of illegal workers Fiscal year
1993   11,989
1994   10,273
1995   13,436(1)

1 -- Fiscal year 1995 ends Sept. 30. Data from California was not available, so
the total is projected to go higher.

Other major crackdowns Operation Gulf Sweep -- 113 arrested in July in Corpus
Christi and Victoria, Texas, sweep. INS is investigating nine firms involved.
Operation CEN-TEX -- 204 arrested in August in central Texas cities of Waco,
Temple, Belton and Killeen. Operation July Jobs -- 757 arrested in July 1994 in
Houston. Operation Jobs -- 1,314 arrested in October 1994-August 1995 in sweep
in Dallas. Meat plant crackdowns -- 90 arrested this month at Monfort Beef
Packing Plant in Garden City, Kan. -- 125 arrested in March at Excel Beef
Processing Plant in Schuyler, Neb. -- 125 arrested in December 1994 at Robzen's
Meat Packing Plant in Philadelphia.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Genevieve Lynn, USA TODAY, Source: Immigration and
Naturalization Service (Bar graph); PHOTO, b/w, Michelle Bridwell, AP

THE NATION; See info box at end of text.

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              210 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   January 3, 1996, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Variety of measures can cut illegal immigration

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 476 words


The number of illegal visitors deported from the United States last year rose by
15% over 1994, a fact trumpeted by the Clinton administration as proof that it
is serious about fighting illegal immigration.

Few really doubt the White House is serious about illegal immigration. The
subject has even emerged as a prominent foreign policy issue, figuring in our
diplomatic relations with Mexico and other nations from which illegal immigrants
come. And the 15% jump, caused by the expedited deportation of criminals and an
increase in enforcement spending, is encouraging.

But more is required. Each year, 300,000 illegals join the 2 million to 4
million already here. In that context, the 51,600 deportations of 1995 seem
trivial, especially since most of the deportees were prison inmates. If you
can't deport an illegal who's also a criminal, you can't deport anyone.

The real difficulty is not deporting illegals who also are criminals. Nor is it
confined to people crossing the Mexican border. It is figuring out how to track
and deport visitors who enter legally and then overstay their visas, a group
that accounts for as many as half of all illegals.

While enforcing visa deadlines is difficult, several new strategies show
promise.

The main one is to create a national worker registry to help employers verify
the status of new employees. Unfortunately, this is stalled in Congress, where
some members have tried to shanghai the idea into a full-fledged national ID
system, an idea loaded with privacy problems.

Other ideas are common sense. Washington can stiffen penalties for those who
repeatedly hire illegals. And it can do better at targeting law enforcement
resources on industries known to use and abuse illegals: agriculture, for
instance, and food service.

Another intriguing idea is to create a database of visitors who overstay their
visas. Embassies could then check visa applicants for past violations before
issuing new visas. Or how about requiring employers or schools that sponsor
visitors on temporary work or student visas to pay a bond if those visitors
don't leave on time?

Some of these are big ideas, some are little and some are better than others.
But none is as bad as the competing idea that the best way to fight the illegal
flood is to dramatically relax immigration laws.

There's little popular support for any version of an open-borders policy, and
with good reason. Even heavily modified, the policy would swamp some states.
Some social services that are now stretched thin would be strained to the
breaking point. And the distinction between legal and illegal would vanish,
exposing millions of legitimate immigrants to a backlash.

There's a strong case to be made for a generous approach to legal immigration.
But the best way to make room for legal immigrants is to send illegal visitors
home.

LOAD-DATE: January 04, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; Today's debate; CURBING ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION; OUR VIEW;
Deportations rose in '95 but barely made a dent. There are many things the U.S.
can do. Here are a few.

                      Copyright 1996 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              211 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   January 24, 1996, Wednesday, FIRST EDITION

PRAY FOR BOSNIA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 273 words


National religious leaders are calling for a moment of prayer at noon Thursday
in support of the Bosnian peace mission. "Bosnia is a particularly tortured and
torn land," says the Rev. William Swing, Episcopal Bishop of California. "We all
want to help the peacekeepers bear the risks of mines, military accidents and
hostile fire." The pause for prayer has been endorsed by several religious
groups, including the National Council of Churches, the Union of American Hebrew
Congregations, and Catholic Relief Services.

ALSO . . . PRESIDENT CLINTON is preparing an order to prohibit companies that
knowingly hire illegal immigrants from getting federal contracts. The upcoming
directive will instruct the Labor Department's Office of Federal Contract
Compliance and the Immigration and Naturalization Service to work together to
effectively alienate contractors who have hired illegal immigrants, an official
said. . . . A COALITION of politically influential Christian groups is urging
President Clinton to confront what they consider pervasive persecution of
Christians around the world. The National Association of Evangelicals cited
numerous countries including China, Cuba, Laos and North Korea. . . . THE UNITED
STATES expects a "thorough investigation" in Colombia to resolve allegations
that President Ernesto Samper accepted drug-related campaign contributions, the
State Department said Tuesday. U.S. officials are "very concerned" by the latest
accusations from former defense minister Fernando Botero that Samper covered up
the payment by drug traffickers of millions of dollars into his 1994 election
campaign.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD; IN WASHINGTON

                      Copyright 1996 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              212 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 9, 1996, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Increased patroling in Calif. aggravates Texas' problem

BYLINE: Sandra Sanchez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 287 words

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Texas


A rise in illegal immigrants and drug trafficking is bringing dangerous
confrontations on the Texas border.

One Border Patrol agent was killed last month, the first agent slain in this
area in about 18 years.

Pushed to south and west Texas by increased border patrolling in California and
Arizona, more illegal immigrants and drug smugglers are crossing at remote areas
such as Eagle Pass, Del Rio, Laredo, Marfa and McAllen, border agents say.

They make their way over rocky terrain and poor roads to reach the scarcely
populated towns.

The trend is expected to continue as more agents, including 89 sent from Texas
last month, head to California and Arizona in a temporary crackdown there.

"If you tighten up the flow in Arizona and California, you expect to see a
redirection of flow into Texas," says Mario Ortiz of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in Dallas.

Some of those changes may be reflected in an increase in violence.

"All along the Texas border, it's getting a little intense. It's getting scary
out here," says Del Rio Border Patrol spokesman Tomas Zuniga.

The night of Jan. 19, agent Jefferson Barr, 33, was killed in a gunfight with
drug smugglers on an isolated bluff near the Rio Grande. Barr was the first
agent killed in this area since 1978. On Jan. 30 another agent was shot at but
not wounded.

U.S. Rep. Henry Bonilla, R-Texas, says that sending agents to other states
jeopardizes the safety of Texas agents. "I am dismayed by the fact that Texas
must carry such a large share of the burden," Bonilla said in a January letter
to the INS.

INS says it is monitoring violence in south Texas and will bring in more agents
in the next phase of the Southwest border cleanup.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Sandy Huffaker, Jr., AP

THE NATION; See related story; 12A

                      Copyright 1996 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              213 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 9, 1996, Friday, FINAL EDITION

A losing battle against illegal immigration // Calif.  agents say crackdown on
border futile

BYLINE: Gale Holland

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 878 words

DATELINE: CALEXICO, Calif.


It's another breezy night on the border, and a new government crackdown on
illegal immigrants is in full swing.

Suddenly, dust stirs on the American side of the ratty metal fence that divides
this town into two nations.

A boy rolls through the dirt like a bowling ball, trying to keep low. U.S.
Border Patrol Agent Bleu Siders guns his white Chevy Cheyenne across a parking
lot.

The agent recognizes the boy. He's busted him before. Tossing jovial curses at
the agent, the youth climbs back over the fence into Mexico.

The agent slumps in his seat.

"It's all just a game," Siders says wearily. "We could stand shoulder to
shoulder from San Diego to El Paso, (and) they'd just swim around us or fly over
us."

Siders is a soldier in the latest offensive against illegal migrants: a 90-day
clampdown at notorious border trouble spots. Launched Jan. 16, the program
reinforces the notoriously porous borders in California and Arizona with 300
additional agents from elsewhere, 250 military personnel and 135 local cops.

Siders doesn't expect the temporary crackdown to accomplish much. But so it
goes. Tonight he patrols the border with a new partner, sheriff's deputy Henry
Proo.

Proo gets paid an overtime rate, having worked a regular police shift during the
day. Over three months, the federal government will spend $ 5 million paying
local cops.

Proo says the money going into his pocket would be better spent on new
nightscopes, infrared sensors or permanent agents. "But equipment doesn't bring
votes," he says.

Driving into Calexico for his evening patrol, Siders stops at a popular crossing
spot near the historic 1,600-acre Bravo Ranch. Immigrants hide in the ranch's
abandoned mansion, then sneak through a working-class neighborhood into
downtown. The journey takes less than 10 minutes.

A dirt track along the border fence is illuminated by stadium lights. Agents
drag tires mounted on a pipe to smooth the dirt path and make it easy to see
footprints.

"When I first got here, there were no streetlights," Siders says. "We're doing
better now, but our trucks are falling apart and our people are leaving. It's
the working conditions" - 124 degrees one day last summer.

The two officers drive east to the New River, another popular crossing and a
notorious toxic dump site.

The river is covered with white suds and filled with raw sewage from homes in
Mexico and industrial waste from U.S.-owned factories across the border. DDT
pesticide runoff flows into the river, too. "It's one of the most polluted
rivers in the world," Siders says. "Aliens go in this river; we have to go after
them."

The next stop is a field where agents don't go. Too dangerous, Siders says. On
the other side of the field is one of Mexicali's most notorious neighborhoods or
colonias, Baja California. Mexican police won't enter the crime-ridden streets
without backup, Siders says.

A few hundred yards west is a stretch of brush that's slowly returning to
desert. "In 1987, this used to be a real nice golf course," Siders says.

No longer. "They were climbing over, robbing golfers and beating them with their
own clubs." In the distance, several boys swing an old discarded golf club.

Across the road, near the airport, is Rosa's Plane Food restaurant. It's been
burglarized eight times in three years by migrants, Siders say. The last time,
the burglars refused to come out. They danced for an hour to the jukebox while
the cops waited outside. When they were finally arrested, they laughed and sang
all the way to the jail, Siders says.

"It's hard for people to comprehend, but when you grew up in a hut with a dirt
floor, watched your mother die of tuberculosis, life takes on a different
meaning," he says.

The agents drive west of town to the All-American Canal, part of the giant
California State Water Project that transforms desert into farmland. Siders
points to a Mexican home on the other side of the fence. It's a hodge-podge of
adobe clay, cardboard, farm pallets, and a bedspring. "See the poverty?" he
says.

The night has been slow. Siders and Proo drive to the supermarket.

At the supermarket, Proo looks through tank binoculars at a Mexican guide
assembling migrants at the fence. They climb over, then dash across a bridge
over the New River.

The group runs stooped, low in the shadows, along the parking lot wall. Shoppers
walk in and out of the brightly lit Von's grocery store but pay no attention to
the migrants.

Siders shouts at them in Spanish. The 10 Mexicans obediently line up by the
Chevy. "We conned 'em into walking over here," he says. They're driven to the
border and sent home.

Back at the station, the meager belongings of other migrants sit in rows of
metal baskets. One holds a toothbrush and a few coins; another, a holy card and
religious literature.

"The unfortunate part of this job is you encounter so much human misery," Siders
says. "Everybody has a right to work, to make a living, for his dignity. I
assure you if the roles were reversed, I'd be in Mexico."

Border apprehensions on the rise The number of illegal immigrants detained at
the U.S.-Mexico border rose to 169,457 in January, up 66% from a year earlier.
In 1995, apprehensions along the border totaled 1,271,401 - up from 980,272 in
1994.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Gary Visgaitis, USA TODAY, Source: Immigration and
Naturalization Service (Bar graph, Map); PHOTOS, b/w, Sandy Huffaker, AP

THE NATION; See related story; 12A; Complete text of graphic not available --
please see microfiche; See related story; 12A

                      Copyright 1996 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              214 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 4, 1994, Tuesday, FIRST EDITION

Border Patrol Day 2: 725 illegals stopped

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 207 words


On Day 2 of Operation Gatekeeper, the U.S. Border Patrol in San Diego caught 725
people illegally entering the USA, nearly triple the usual number. U.S. Attorney
General Janet Reno phoned Monday to congratulate agents for a "marvelous job."
Agents apprehended 825 the first day, Saturday. Those caught are fingerprinted,
photographed and returned to Mexico. The enforcement along a five-mile border
area was prompted by success of a similar operation begun a year ago in El Paso.

FARM FRAUD: Senate Agriculture Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., says
he'll expand a probe into claims of fraud in an Agriculture Department program
that gives billions of dollars to farmers who lose crops in weather disasters.
He said audits that showed abuses in nine states could top $ 92.5 million are
"the tip of the iceberg." Officials put the figure in the range of $ 20 million
to $ 30 million.

ALSO MONDAY . . .

-- SNAKE BITE: Jason Boucher, 19, of Hallandale, Fla., was hospitalized in fair
condition after being bitten Sunday by a rattlesnake at a Kmart garden center in
Davie. It is the fourth incident in seven years at Florida garden centers.

Contributing: Carrie Dowling, Gary Fields, Leo Mullen and Deborah Sharp

LOAD-DATE: October 05, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, USA TODAY

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              215 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     October 7, 1994, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Illegal alien crime: Calif. getting $ 33M

BYLINE: Carrie Dowling; Paul Hoversten

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 924 words


California, which jails 70% of the nation's illegal immigrants convicted of
crimes, will get $ 33,460,700 in federal funds to help cover costs of
imprisoning non-citizen criminals. Gov. Pete Wilson called the amount - part of
a $ 42 million first allocation from the federal government - "insane,"
considering the state spends $ 475 million annually to jail illegal immigrants.
Other allocations: Arizona, $ 991,900; Florida, $ 1,073,800; Illinois, $
564,200; New Jersey, $ 600,600; New York, $ 4,085,900; and Texas, $ 2,120,300.

RACIAL FUROR: Illinois politicians and civil rights leaders denounced state
Senate President James Philip for saying some minority government employees "do
not have the work ethics we have."

The white, suburban lawmaker cited the case of 19 children in a roach-infested
Chicago apartment despite two visits by a caseworker. "Of course, she was a
minority," Philip said. "Her boss was a minority. They don't tend to squeal on
their fellow minorities."

Thursday, Democratic gubernatorial candidate Dawn Clark Netsch called the
comments outrageous, racist, deplorable, not accurate and offensive. Even fellow
Republican Gov. Jim Edgar said he was in "total disagreement" with Philip's
remarks. And a government workers union called for Philip to resign.

Philip hasn't commented since his original remarks Wednesday to the Daily Herald
in Arlington Heights. But he said then: "I'm not politically correct. I don't
try to be."

JUMPERS: Suicides from San Francisco's Golden Gate Bridge have tripled over five
years and authorities don't know why. There were 11 in 1990, 18 in 1991, 15 in
1992 and 21 in 1993. This year: 30, including six in the past three weeks. There
have been 971 since the 1.7-mile span opened in 1937. Few survive the 220-foot
fall. "There's no doubt that there's some mystique to the bridge," said state
Highway Patrol officer Jerry Monge, who talks some out of jumping.

ABORTION RULING: Indigent women seeking Medicaid abortions in Pennsylvania must
provide a police report documenting rape or incest, a Philadelphia federal
appeals court judge ruled. The decision set aside a lower court decision that
blocked the state requirement, which took effect in March. An appeal is
expected. Most states with similar measures have lost court battles because the
laws are more restrictive than federal law.

OZONE HOLE: This year's annual thinning of the Antarctic ozone layer is about 9
million square miles, about the same as the past two record years, NASA said.
The level typically drops about 33% in early October and returns to normal by
late November. The hole, about the size of North America, is caused by
ozone-eating chemicals, including chlorofluorocarbons, widely used as
refrigerants. Ozone, a form of oxygen, filters cancer-causing ultraviolet
sunlight.

FIREARMS: All guns sold in Fulton County, Ga., will require a label Nov. 1 that
says a gun in the house increases the chance that the owner or a relative will
be killed. Opponents say it's another attempt to outlaw guns. Also, House
Judiciary Committee Chairman Jack Brooks, D-Texas, said the power of the Bureau
of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms to seize guns should be curbed. He plans
hearings to show where constitutional rights of gun owners had been violated.

ALSO THURSDAY . . .

-- HELMSLEY SUED: Leona Helmsley, convicted in 1989 of not paying $ 1.2 million
in taxes, was sued for stiffing the firm that helped her get a reduced sentence.
The National Center on Institutions and Alternatives sued the New York hotel
operator to get payment on a $ 52,000 bill.

-- FRAUD CASE: Herbert Steed, 63, who paid $ 27,000 for six months in a Trump
Tower apartment, was charged with defrauding New York welfare of $ 3,000,
claiming no job or income. The tour operator also is charged with stealing $
800,000 from World Cup-bound fans from Ghana.

Probe's last act: Death dive into Venus

NASA ground controllers today will send final commands that will send the
Magellan space probe crashing to its death in the searing atmosphere of Venus.
The $ 900 million robot mapping probe, one of the most successful space missions
ever, has been in Venus orbit since 1990. But with failing solar panels and
worn-out gyroscopes, the spacecraft will begin its death dive Tuesday.

Magellan has sent back more data than all previous U.S. planetary missions
combined. "It's been successful beyond our expectations," chief scientist
Moustafa Chahine said. The images sent back "gave us unprecedented information
to study the planet."

Magellan, deployed in 1989 from shuttle Atlantis, spent 15 months looping the
solar system before reaching Venus. It mapped 98% of the surface and found
volcanoes taller than Mount Everest and canyons longer than the Nile River.

Venus is often called Earth's twin; they are roughly the same size, age and
composition. But somewhere along the way, Venus suffered a runaway greenhouse
effect that left it with an acidic atmosphere and a surface temperature of 900
degrees. - Paul Hoversten

-- Shuttle Endeavour, 135 miles over the North Sea, used its powerful radar to
detect a 106-gallon spill of diesel oil and algae. Scientists dumped the
substances off Denmark to see if radar could differentiate between oil and
algae.

-- Intelsat 7, an international communications satellite, was launched from Cape
Canaveral. It's the third of five satellites for TV and telephone service to the
Pacific Rim.

Contributing: Paul Leavitt, Gary Fields, Leo Mullen and Gordon Dickson

LOAD-DATE: October 08, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, color, Jet Propulsion Laboratory; PHOTO, b/w, AP; PHOTO, b/w,
USA TODAY; PHOTO, b/w, NASA via Agence France-Presse

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              216 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   November 22, 1994, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

EDITORIAL CARTOON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 38 words


(Californian to illegal immigrants:)

"I WANT YOU OUT OF MY SCHOOLS, OFF MY WELFARE ROLLS, AWAY FROM MY HOSPITALS, AND
BACK TO WHERE YOU BELONG ...

... CLEANING MY KITCHENS, WATCHING MY KIDS, PICKING MY CROPS ...:"

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CARTOON, b/w, Mike Keefe for USA TODAY

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              217 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                September 4, 1992, Friday, INTERNATIONAL EDITION

SNAKE ALERT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 148 words


As if victims of Hurricane Andrew did not have enough to worry about, snakes may
come slithering out of Florida's swamps and Louisiana's bayous. Dr. Dale
Marcellini, curator at the National Zoo, said snakes will be moving around more
than normal.

ILLEGAL ALIENS: The U.S. Border Patrol says it will not arrest illegal aliens
who may be hiding from hurricane relief agencies in the most-damaged areas of
Dade County. ''We're just concerned whether there are any aliens who do not have
food or medical supplies,'' said Marshall Metzgar, chief patrol agent for the
Border Patrol. Metzgar said the moratorium could last months, although the
length will depend on how quickly the county recovers. The agency is also
issuing temporary permits to illegal migrant workers who are helping their
families recover from the hurricane.

Compiled by Ron Prichard and Darren Summers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

AFTER HURRICANE ANDREW; AFTERMATH

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              218 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 8, 1993, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Dual standard in nanny issue sparks anger

BYLINE: Judy Keen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1180 words


Shelley Robinson had little sympathy for Zoe Baird.

Robinson thought the demise of Baird's attorney general nomination in a national
mutiny over her hiring of illegal immigrants was justified.

But when Judge Kimba Wood's shot at becoming the first female attorney general
sank because she legally hired an undocumented nanny, Robinson's instincts told
her something else was going on.

''There's a double standard,'' says Robinson, a Bethesda, Md., lawyer whose
three kids have a legal nanny. It's ''disheartening because they haven't been
able to come up with a woman who can get through this screening.''

If Baird's disclosure ignited a debate over upper-class flouting of the law,
Wood's departure from President Clinton's list of Cabinet prospects is forcing
the nation to revisit the old debate over whether the professional world judges
women and men differently.

Wood broke no laws. She hired a baby sitter from Trinidad before it became
illegal to do so, filled out the necessary forms and paid required taxes.

On NBC's Meet the Press Sunday, Commerce Secretary Ron Brown said he paid back
taxes and penalties last month for a worker who ''helped my wife clean the
house.''

Employers must pay Social Security taxes for anyone who earns more than $ 50 a
quarter.

Asked if administration officials quizzed him about his household help, Brown
said, ''That did not come up during the nomination process.''

Robinson wonders why he was never asked the question that scuttled two women's
ambitions. ''But it's the question.''

Elizabeth Crighton, a political scientist at California's Pomona College, thinks
she knows why the nanny question was not posed to Brown.

''Even women who are appointed to very high office are considered to be the main
managers of the household and are held to higher standards,'' Crighton says.

Men aren't exempt:

- Charles Ruff, also an attorney general candidate, reportedly asked to be
dropped from consideration because he, too, failed to make tax payments for
household help.

- Cary Edwards, a male GOP gubernatorial candidate in New Jersey, once hired an
illegal immigrant.

''We have different things that disqualify people around this town and this year
it's this, next year it may be something else,'' Senate Republican leader Bob
Dole said on CNN's Newsmaker Sunday.

No other Cabinet members have pleaded guilty to this season's ethics litmus
test.

''We're not responding to the crime du jour,'' says Mike Gauldin, spokesman for
Energy Secretary Hazel O'Leary.

Women's groups are worried Clinton is signaling he can't find a qualified woman
- by reasonable standards, that is - to head Justice.

They're counting on Clinton to keep his promise to give women an equal voice in
his administration and find it ironic that his wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton, has
assumed an unprecedented policy role.

''If this is what we're going to be measuring women by, we should be measuring
everyone by it,'' says Harriett Woods, president of the National Women's
Political Caucus.

Patricia Ireland, president of the National Organization for Women, is
organizing a phone and fax campaign to ask the White House what arrangements
other Cabinet members have made for child care.

''Somehow, I think, we have to stop the standard that says women are reponsible
for the family and must bear this double burden,'' says Ireland.

The Baird and Wood debacles have focused attention on working families' problems
finding child care - Wood's departure overshadowed Clinton's signing of the
family leave bill - and on complex immigration and tax laws.

''We have a child care crisis in this country, and we've had an influx of
illegal immigrants,'' Vice President Gore said Sunday on ABC's This Week With
David Brinkley.

''This is going to be something that millions of people in the United States
wrestle with,'' Gore said. ''It's just and appropriate for us as a country
together to come to grips with the ethical standards that apply in these
situations.''

The Clinton administration's sensitivity to the fate of its nominees in the
heated, instant-democracy realm of radio call-in shows also is getting a lot of
attention: In her withdrawal statement, Wood said ''the current political
environment'' made it inappropriate for her to remain a candidate.

But some women are outraged at the insinuation the White House dumped Wood
because the public wouldn't be able to see the difference between her case and
Baird's.

And other women are insulted that the devaluation of child care has been largely
overlooked in the wrangle.

Susan Carlson, a law professor at St. Louis' Washington University and president
of the Missouri Women's Political Caucus, wonders why there's been little
concern about the women hired at low pay to care for children.

''Most domestic workers are women and their work has always been devalued,'' she
says. ''Nobody thought it was any big deal not to pay these nannies adequately.
They're invisible.''

Now some illegal nannies and the parents who hired them are wondering if
immigration or tax investigators are going to come knocking.

''Already, working mothers feel guilty. Now this is adding to it,'' says Alison
Clarke-Stewart, psychology and social behavior professor at the University of
California-Irvine.

''You wonder, if you scratched the surface of any professional woman you're
going to find a child care issue,'' she says. ''If not this one, you'll find
they were in a center with an illegal adult-child ratio, or something.''

Dr. T. Berry Brazelton, pediatrics professor at Brown University and author of
more than 24 books, says Washington's nanny nightmare hints at bigger, vital
policy issues that have yet to be addressed.

''We think families ought to be self-sufficient,'' says Brazelton. ''We don't
think we should step in and help them because it would interfere with their
autonomy, as if anyone had autonomy these days.

''Second, we don't think women should be out of the home, and we want to make
them suffer for it,'' says Brazelton. ''We don't like poor people, so even if
we'd do something we wouldn't do it for them. Those are the biases that keep us
from acting.''

Working mom Jody Nixon of Silver Lake, Kan., whose son Joshua, 3, is cared for
in a baby sitter's home, sympathizes with Wood's dilemma: ''Nowadays, if you can
get anybody you trust to watch your kids, you're lucky.''

''If they would go and check some of the bigwigs in high positions in Congress
and elsewhere,'' says Nixon, ''they'd find a lot more illegal aliens taking care
of their kids.''

 Contributing: Anita Manning, Mimi Hall, Linda Kanamine, Tom Squitieri

How we care for our children
Child-care arrangements for the 47.7 million children under age 13 in teh USA:
Parent                 44.9%
Relative               14.4%

Afterschool activities 13.8%
Daycare center         13.1%
Family-style daycare    6.9%

Provider hired for home 2.9%
Self-care               1.4%
Other                   2.6%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC; b/w, Marty Baumann, USA TODAY, Source: National Child Care
Survey,1990 (Pie chart); PHOTO, color, Shayna Brennan, AP

CUTLINE: BROWN: Wasn't asked about domestic helper

TYPE: Cover Story

See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              219 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 9, 1993, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Cabinet clean (not squeaky clean) on hirings

BYLINE: Judy Keen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 341 words


Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt left his office to make a speech this week and
immediately got a taste of Washington's latest ethics obsession.

"I was, of course, accosted on the way in by 30 or 40 rabid journalists who
stopped me and said, 'Have you ever hired an illegal alien? Have you paid Social
Security taxes?' " he told members of the American Mining Congress.

Babbitt said he replied, "No and yes.

"And there was a disappointed silence," he said.

Commerce Secretary Ron Brown has acknowledged breaking a decades-old,
often-ignored law requiring employers to pay Social Security taxes for a
domestic employee making more than $ 50 in a quarter.

His admission intensified a flap that began when attorney general nominee Zoe
Baird acknowledged hiring undocumented workers and failing to pay their Social
Security taxes.

The White House is considering a change in the $ 50 law, spokesman George
Stephanopoulos said.

"If you have a baby sitter once every three weeks and hire your next-door
neighbor to mow your lawn, technically you should be paying Social Security
taxes," he said.

The rest of the Cabinet has pleaded innocent to hiring illegal immigrants and
forgetting to withhold Social Security taxes. "We're as clear as the Sierra snow
in a non-drought year," said Babbitt aide Jay Ziegler.

Jack DeVore, spokesman for Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen, called the question
"ridiculous," but said, "the answer is no."

The $ 50 limit was set in 1954. Employers must pay 7.65% of a worker's gross
salary.

In 1991, the Internal Revenue Service estimated 500,000 of the 2 million people
who ought to pay Social Security taxes for domestic help do so.

Lynn Martin, George Bush's Labor secretary, said Democrats were content with the
law when "rich Republicans" were in power. "Now that the rules apply to them,
they're all running around saying, 'Oh, we didn't mean us.' "

Democratic political consultant Duane Garrett says Ross Perot helped create
higher standards: "Your key players have to be above reproach."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Jeff Mitchell, Reuters

WASHINGTON; HIRING OF ILLEGALS

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              220 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 9, 1993, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Fallout continues in and out of White House // Wood, Baird cases different, most
say

BYLINE: Richard Benedetto

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 594 words


President Clinton and Kimba Wood may have jumped the gun withdrawing her name
from consideration as attorney general.

She might have been confirmed if the case had been taken to the American people,
a new USA TODAY/CNN/Gallup Poll Monday found.

Most adults _ 65% _ say Wood shouldn't have pulled out when it was revealed she
hired an illegal immigrant to care for her child at a time when such hirings
were within the law.

But the Clinton White House, burned when a firestorm of protest broke over his
nomination of Zoe Baird as attorney general, wasn't ready to go to the mat for
Wood.

However, the new poll shows Americans drew a clear distinction between Baird and
Wood. Baird's hiring of illegal immigrants when it was against the law was found
to be a disqualifying factor by 75% of the public.

Only one in five _ 20% _ said Wood's situation should disqualify her.

Clinton made it no secret he wanted to fill the attorney general post with a
woman, and it wasn't missed by the public. Nearly half _ 45% _ say he was
considering Wood primarily because she is a woman, while 38% say it was because
she was the best qualified person for the job.

Men were more likely than women to say he was considering her
mainly because she's a woman _ 51% to 39%.   While Clinton may have

been trying to please women's groups, the vast majority of the public _ 66% _
say selecting a woman for the post is not too important or not important at all.
Only about one in three women _ 37% _ said it was very or somewhat important,
compared with 28% for men.

Sparks from the Baird flareup also have singed Commerce Secretary Ron Brown. He
admitted Sunday he hired a part-time household worker and failed to pay her
Social Security taxes, as required by law. Four of 10 in the poll said he should
resign as a result of the revelation. But almost half _ 49% _ say he should
stay.

Overall, most Americans _ 55% _ are worried intense scrutiny of candidates for
top federal posts will make it tough to find qualified nominees.

There also has been widespread speculation the flap surrounding Clinton's
handling of the attorney general appointments is causing him political damage.
The poll, however, finds 73% say it hasn't had much affect on their confidence
in Clinton's ability.

The child-care debate USA TODAY/CNN/Gallup Poll

A majority of people in a new poll say they think child-care workers are not
that difficult to find legally and that federal officials should follow the
rules:

Most disagree that it's very difficult to make good, legal child-care
arrangements
Agree       36%
Disagree    58%

...and that people should be disqualified from high federal office for
unlawfully hiring an illegal immigrant
Disqualified       75%
Not disqualified   21%

But Ron Brown, the new secretary of Commerce, should not have to resign for
hiring a part-time household worker and not paying her Social Security taxes
Resign      40%

Not resign 49%

More respondents say they think there is a double standard for women and men in
federal appointments
Yes    48%
No     40%

...with women saying there is a double standard much more often than men Double
standard
 Women    56%
Men      39%

No double standard
 Women    31%
Men      50%

Most say they think Kimba Wood shouldn't have had to withdraw from consideration
as attorney general
Not withdraw     65%
Withdraw         28%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Marty Baumann, USA TODAY, Source: USA TODAY/CNN/Gallup
Poll of 625 people Monday. Margin of error: 5 percentage points (Bar graphs)

WASHINGTON; HIRING OF ILLEGALS; See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              221 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  November 24, 1993, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

El Paso holds the line / City divided over sealed-off border

BYLINE: Richard Price

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 597 words

DATELINE: EL PASO


EL PASO

Silvestre Reyes has become the most famous and controversial agent in the recent
history of the U.S. Border Patrol, but what makes his story especially
remarkable is the reason.

"I'm just doing my job," says a perplexed Reyes, the 49-year-old chief agent in
this region. "I'm doing what I'm supposed to do."

What that is is effectively sealing the border against thousands of undocumented
aliens who flooded across from Mexico every day.

The result? A thoroughly altered life in this city of 540,000 - a contrast so
marked that it's forcing people finally to examine whether that's what they
really want.

"It's very strange," says Panto Morales, who lives in El Paso but has relatives
in Mexico. "For the first time in my life, the border truly has meaning, and no
one is sure how to deal with it."

Reyes' method is fairly straightforward. By drawing extra staff from interior
border patrol stations, he threw all his resources along a 20-mile stretch of
the border.

Instead of patrolling, 400 agents sit at fixed sites several hundred yards
apart, leaving no part of the border unobserved.

Now, because few dare to run across the border, arrests have dropped from a
maximum of 1,200 a day to just 75. Injuries, to agents and aliens, also have
dropped since the blockade began Sept. 19.

The crowds of aliens who used to congregate downtown each day are gone. So are
the street vendors who flocked here from Mexico
each day.    The changes have been a mixed bag, residents say.

Shoplifting and auto thefts are down. But business owners are deeply divided
over "Operation Hold the Line."

Paul Jenson, 33, a supervisor at the San Francisco Grill, complains that sealing
the border has hurt business significantly.

"Some of these Mexicans used to come in loaded with cash," he says. He's praying
for Reyes to relax the policy. But others applaud Reyes.

"No more shoplifting," says Mary Lee, owner of Familia De Lee's, a clothing
shop. "And no more stealing.

"Yes, business is down, but that's not because of the blockade.
We just have more stores than we did 10 years ago."    Businessman

Carlos Gurrola agrees it's a mistake to blame flagging business on the border
patrol. He cites Mexico's strict enforcement of customs regulations that charges
its citizens stiff tariffs on all U.S. purchases exceeding $ 90.

"Besides," he says, "how can you really criticize (border patrol officers) for
doing their job? I've criticized them for using excessive force, but I can't
criticize them for this."

Human-rights activists are furious, however. They characterize Reyes as a
demagogue.

"He just came in and implemented it in the middle of the night with no
dialogue," says Susan Kern of the Border Rights Coalition. "That's totally
unacceptable."

She says his policy fails to consider the fact that El Paso and Cuidad Juarez,
the city across the border, are actually one community.

She notes, correctly, that two-income American families who used to rely on
Mexican baby sitters crossing the border each morning are scrambling now to find
new day care.

"A lot of people are suffering," she says, "and you can rely on the fact that we
are preparing to challenge his authority on this."

Reyes just shrugs that off.

"When I first came here, they complained about violence and civil rights
abuses," he says.

"This policy eliminated that, but now they come up with a new complaint. There's
no satisfying these people. Frankly, I have no respect for them," he says.

And no intention of changing his strategy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, USA TODAY (Map, Texas); PHOTOS, b/w, Joel Salcido, AP (2)

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              222 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 1, 1994, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Govs urge balance in the war on crime

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 491 words


Governors meeting in Washington, D.C., gave their blessing Monday to cracking
down on crime but urged President Clinton and Congress to balance tough
treatment of convicts with prevention aimed at troubled children.

The governors also said they don't want Congress to pass along big spending
increases or force states to change their own sentencing guidelines to receive
federal help.

Also Monday, governors from states with high concentrations of illegal
immigrants met with White House officials to press their demands for more
federal assistance.

Budget director Leon Panetta vowed to help the governors lobby Congress. Still,
Panetta said, "The reality is . . . we have a tight budget here."

Florida Gov. Lawton Chiles, a Democrat who was once chairman of the Senate
Budget Committee, said his state was even considering a lawsuit to force the
federal government to help pay for services for illegal aliens.

TRADE PROTEST: Republican senators said the new deal to liberalize world trade
would let President Clinton meddle in the marketplace at a steep cost to U.S.
taxpayers. In a letter to Trade Representative Mickey Kantor, 44 senators said
the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade deal would lead to expensive federal
subsidies. Kantor said last week GATT could cost $ 6.5 billion to implement and
up to $ 11 billion in lost revenue over five years. Republicans predicted a
higher ticket. "If approved, the GATT agreement places the U.S. in a dilemma,"
said Sen. John Danforth, R-Mo. "Either we play the game of industrial subsidies
or we do not. If we subsidize, we must find billions of dollars. . . . If we
decide not to play the game, we lose." Congress must approve the agreement.

CIVIL RIGHTS: The Clinton administration hasn't made it official yet that Deval
Patrick will be the new nominee to head the Justice Department's civil rights
division, but some conservatives are already gunning for him. "Patrick appears
to be a 'stealth Guinier,' " said Clint Bolick of the conservative Institute for
Justice. Lani Guinier, Clinton's first nominee to head the Justice Department's
civil rights division, withdrew in June after critics said she had radical legal
views on quotas and voting rights. The impending nomination of Patrick, 37, a
Boston lawyer, also has won praise. "It's wonderful," said Mary Frances Berry,
chair of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights.

'TIME' PIECE: President Clinton and administration aides flatly denied a Time
story claiming Clinton slipped out of the White House six times last year
without his press watchdogs. "I was amazed when I read that," Clinton said.

"It's just wrong. It's simply wrong," White House press secretary Dee Dee Myers
said of the report, which also said Hillary Rodham Clinton made similar end runs
around the press, sometimes in disguise. "She's been wearing a hat and
sunglasses, and they've been on sunny, warm days," said spokeswoman Liz Caputo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, AP

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD; WASHINGTON; A QUICK LOOK AT WHAT'S GOING ON IN THE
NATION'S CAPITAL

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              223 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   February 2, 1995, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Sheik lived lavishly, New York jury told

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 900 words


Sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman is the "ideological leader" of Islamic groups engaged in
illegal activities in California, Michigan, Texas, New Jersey and New York, FBI
agent Harlen Bell testified Wednesday.

Bell told a New York federal jury trying Abdel-Rahman and 11 followers accused
of plotting to blow up New York-area landmarks that the sheik "gives his views
and is consulted for opinions."

Prosecutor Patrick Fitzgerald said an FBI raid at the sheik's Jersey City
apartment contradicted defense claims that the 56-year-old blind cleric was
living modestly. He wasn't "living in modest means," Fitzgerald said.  "He has
hundreds of thousands of dollars in bank accounts and $ 61,000 in hundred-dollar
bills sitting in his apartment."

Judge Michael Mukasey said he will allow the jury to hear about the money today.

ILLEGAL BORDER CROSSINGS: Record numbers of people were caught sneaking into
Arizona from Mexico last month. Officials blamed the surge on the fall of the
peso. In Nogales, arrests of illegal border crossers topped 19,000 in January,
nearly double the number of January 1994. In Tucson, the January total of 18,871
topped the one-month record of 18,012 set in May 1994. In El Paso, arrests were
up 25%, to 9,106. In San Diego, site of a recent enforcement effort, arrests
declined 13%, to 38,871.

SHUTTLE DELAY: Discovery's launch was postponed 24 hours because of a faulty
navigation instrument. Liftoff from Cape Canaveral is set for 12: 22 a.m. ET
Friday. There's only a 6-minute launch window because of logistics needed to
rendezvous with the Russian space station Mir.

POVERTY STUDY: More than 200 non-metropolitan counties had poverty rates above
30% in 1990, says a study by the Housing Assistance Council, a private advocacy
group for affordable housing. The per capita income gap between urban and rural
people grew from $ 3,100 in 1973 to $ 5,200 in 1989. Rural housing costs rose
sharply; 50% more rural people lived in mobile homes in 1990 than in 1980.

CLINIC VIOLENCE: A pretrial hearing for abortion clinic murder suspect John
Salvi was postponed until Feb. 15 after a prosecutor in Brookline, Mass., said
two of the victims from the Dec. 30 shooting spree were still too injured to
serve as witnesses. Salvi, 22, faces murder and attempted murder charges in the
slaying of two people and the wounding of five in a Dec. 30 rampage at two
abortion clinics.

Elsewhere, John Brockhoeft, 43, who torched two Cincinnati abortion clinics in
1985 and tried to burn one in Pensacola, Fla., was banned from nine northern
Kentucky counties when he is released from prison this month.

HOLY MONTH: The appearance of a sliver-thin, crescent moon Tuesday heralded the
beginning of Ramadan, the Islamic holy month observed by the 7 million to 9
million Muslims in the USA. The observation celebrates the revelation of the
Koran to the Prophet Mohammed in A.D. 610, marked by fasting during daylight and
study of scripture.

MYSTERY LEGS: Authorities in Antioch, Ill., have given up hope that Friendly, a
German shepherd that brought home human legs, will lead them to a body.
Sheriff's deputies put an electronic tracking device on Friendly, but to no
avail. The legs belong to a woman 16- to 25-years old, officials say. They are
treating the case as a homicide.

ALSO WEDNESDAY . . .

-- LOOSE TIGER: Authorities used an airplane to help search for a 200-pound
Bengal tiger that escaped from the Carson-Barnes Circus winter quarters in Hugo,
Okla. Circus officials were worried about the 2-year-old cat's safety.

-- NOISE COMPLAINT: Rosemarie Hamilton, 54, of Guntersville, Ala., is due in
court Feb. 10 on charges she clanged pots and pans because she was angry at
being awakened by duck hunters' shotgun blasts. It's a test case of a Jan. 1
state law that bars hunter harassment.

-- GULF SICKNESS: The Department of Veterans Affairs today opens a toll-free
number to tell Persian Gulf war veterans and families of available medical care
and other benefits. The number: 1-800-749-8387.

-- NAZI CASE: The Justice Department has filed to deport Nikolaus Schiffer, 75,
of New Ringgold, Pa., on civil charges he was a Nazi SS guard at concentration
camps during World War II and lied about it when he came to the USA. A judge
stripped him of U.S. citizenship in 1993.

-- WOLF PLAN: The Idaho House, citing resentment over the federal government's
wolf reintroduction project, rejected by a nearly 2-1 ratio a state wolf
management plan. The federal plan is proceeding without state help.

Baby Richard's transfer hits snag

The U.S. Supreme Court is considering whether to halt an Illinois order that
Baby Richard, now nearly 4, be immediately turned over to the biological father
who has never seen him. The adoptive parents, known as John and Jane Doe, asked
Justice Sandra Day O'Connor to stop the transfer pending a hearing. She referred
the request to the full court.

The Illinois Supreme Court has awarded custody to the biological father, Otakar
Kirchner. He and the mother, Daniela Janikova, were unmarried and estranged when
Richard was born. She put the baby up for adoption and told Kirchner the boy was
dead. The couple later reconciled and ultimately married. Kirchner has been
seeking custody since Richard was 57 days old. Written by Paul Leavitt.
Contributing: Carrie Dowling, Gary Fields, Debbie Howlett and Shannon Tangonan.

LOAD-DATE: February 04, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, b/w, AP (2); PHOTO, b/w, Janet Knott

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              224 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 6, 1995, Monday, FINAL EDITION

62 agents to bolster Ariz.-Mexico border

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 1007 words


President Clinton on Sunday ordered the redeployment of 62 U.S. Border Patrol
agents to Nogales, Ariz., to stem what the White House called "an unprecedented
rise in illegal border crossings" brought on partly by the Mexican peso crisis.
The reinforcement is about a 17% increase and is in addition to 100 new agents
being trained for duty around Nogales. The area has become a popular illegal
crossing point because of successful crackdowns in El Paso and San Diego.
Arrests of illegal border crossers around Nogales topped 19,000 in January,
double the number in January 1994. The redeployed agents report Tuesday.

SONS SLAIN: David Smith has received 20,000 letters, cards and gifts from around
the world since his estranged wife admitted she drowned their two sons Oct. 25
by rolling her car into a Union, S.C., lake with the tots strapped inside.

"To get a card that says, 'I'm thinking about you,' or 'You are still in my
prayers' is a boost that sometimes gets me to the next minute," Smith, 24, told
The Herald-Journal of Spartanburg in his first interview after two months of
public silence about the deaths of Michael, 3, and Alex, 14 months.

"I don't really have a good day," Smith said. "I have bad days and horrible
days. . . . Sometimes I find myself on my knees." Smith said he last saw the
boys two days before their death. During that Sunday afternoon and evening, he
read them books, wrestled with them and played blocks with Alex. "We just did
things dads like to do with their sons," he said.  Susan Smith, 23, is being
held on murder charges. Her trial is expected to begin in July.

PRISON DISTURBANCES: An uprising at the District of Columbia's maximum-security
prison in Lorton, Va., injured six corrections officers and six inmates.
Officials said a power outage unlocked 88 cell doors. Order was restored by
emergency response teams. In Chicago's Cook County Jail, 21 inmates and four
guards were hurt in a 2 1/2-hour protest Saturday over adding one more inmate to
each cell, for a total of three. There are 9,000 inmates; the jail is supposed
to hold only 8,000, officials said.

MINE DEATH: Mike Anderson, 26, the second of two miners trapped for two days
1,600 feet in a mine in Green River, Wyo., died of a heart attack after rescuers
lifted him out. The other miner, Dan Jereb, 28, was hospitalized in good
condition. They got separated from other workers and couldn't find their way out
of the maze of shafts, thrown into darkness by a 5.4-magnitude earthquake
Friday.

PRIESTS REMOVED: Four Washington, D.C.-area Catholic priests were removed from
their parishes after admitting they sexually abused the same altar boy in the
1970s, Cardinal James Hickey announced in a letter to worshipers. The decision
to publicize the incidents came after U.S. bishops in October recommended
officials take an open approach after being accused of covering up past abuses.

ADOPTION FIGHT: Photos of Baby Richard were shown to his biological father
Friday, the first time Otakar Kirchner has seen his now 4-year-old son. The U.S.
Supreme Court this week is expected to decide whether it will review an Illinois
Supreme Court ruling that ordered adoptive parents known as John and Jane Doe to
turn the boy over to Kirchner.

Seeing the 14 photos strengthened Kirchner's resolve to make Richard's
transition from the Does as painless as possible. "He'll bend over backward to
make it a very slow, gradual transition," said Kirchner's lawyer, Loren
Heinemann. Richard's mother, Daniela Janikova, and Kirchner were unmarried and
estranged when Richard was born.

She put him up for adoption and told Kirchner he was dead. The couple later
married. Kirchner first sought custody when Richard was 57 days old.

ALSO . . .

-- MENINGITIS OUTBREAK: Health officials in Mankato, Minn., today will vaccinate
and give antibiotics to 5,000 people who had close contact with students at West
High School, where a bacterial meningitis outbreak struck five students, a
woman, 64, and a boy, 3. One teen-ager died.

-- WOLVES SPARED: Alaska Gov. Tony Knowles halted the state's wolf-kill program
Friday, saying it was inhumane and ineptly run. News photos in November showed a
state agent shooting a snared wolf four times before it died. Program proponents
say predator control is needed to ensure adequate supplies of other game for
hunters.

-- TANKER EXPLODES: A truck carrying 6,000 gallons of a flammable mixture of
butane and petroleum exploded on an Emeryville, Calif., freeway, killing the
driver and injuring seven. The blast damaged the freeway and five cars.

'94 score: 81.5% on-time record

The nation's 10 largest airlines posted an 81.5% on-time arrival record in 1994,
about the same as 1993, the Department of Transportation's yearly report says.
Those carriers also mishandled 5.33 bags per 1,000 passengers, down from 5.60 in
1993. Consumers filed 6,943 complaints against the air-travel industry, 16% more
than in 1993.

The monthly report for December shows consumers filed 390 complaints, down 20%
from November and 17% fewer than December a year ago. The 10 largest airlines
mishandled 6.72 bags per 1,000 passengers, about 3% more than a year ago. The
airlines' on-time record for December was 79.3%, about the same as a year ago
but down 2% from November. On-time is within 15 minutes of schedule and delays
due to mechanical problems are not included.

Flights that arrived on time Northwest ........ 84.7% United ........... 83.8%
Delta ............ 80.9% USAir ............ 80.9% Continental ...... 77.9%
American ......... 76.8% Southwest ........ 74.7% Alaska ........... 73.3% TWA
.............. 73.1% American West .... 73.0%

Complaints per 100,000 fliers Southwest ........ 0.33 Northwest ........ 0.34
Delta ............ 0.45 USAir ............ 0.48 United ........... 0.58 American
......... 0.65 TWA .............. 1.15 American West .... 1.25 Continental
...... 1.46 Source: Transportation Department Contributing: Carrie Dowling and
Gary Fields

LOAD-DATE: February 08, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, b/w, AP (2)

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION; See info boxes at end of text.

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              225 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  February 22, 1995, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Clinton labor plan met with opposition

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 949 words


President Clinton's plan to forbid federal contractors from hiring replacement
workers during strikes met with Republican opposition Tuesday. His overture to
organized labor as he prepares for a re-election campaign spurred Sen. Nancy
Kassebaum, R-Kan., to threaten legislation to block it. The president shouldn't
be "using executive orders to tip the scales in labor-management relations,"
said Kassebaum, who chairs the Senate Labor and Human Resources Committee. The
proposed executive order will be issued in a few weeks, Labor Secretary Robert
Reich said after visiting with AFL-CIO leaders meeting in Bal Harbour, Fla.

-- AFL-CIO President Lane Kirkland met with 33 union leaders to hear complaints
that labor needs a more aggressive leader. He has not said if he'll run for
re-election.

ILLEGAL WORKERS: A 10-month Immigration and Naturalization Service investigation
found about 10% of the 50,000 employment papers agents reviewed in Arizona were
held by people who illegally entered the USA and obtained bogus work permits.
"Every one of these unauthorized people represents a job that should be had by a
U.S. citizen or an authorized alien," said Tony Esposito of the INS. Officials
said the rate of fraud was significant.

CHILDREN RETURNED: A judge in Hillsboro, Ore., ordered state child-welfare
officials to return five children - ages 2, 4, 6, 8 and 10 - seized Friday from
a school Valentine's Day party as their mother, Diane Whitehead, fought to keep
them. An 11-year-old, who the mother had spanked with a belt Thursday, could be
returned to their home in Aloha after a meeting today. Whitehead and her
husband, Capt. Gordon Whitehead, a Marine recruiting officer, suggested the
agency seized the children in retaliation for her trying to help a relative
whose children were taken away.

SOLDIER ABDUCTED: Investigators want to know if the driver of a car that left
the scene of the apparent kidnapping of Pvt. Tracie McBride was questioned at
the gate of Goodfellow Air Force Base in San Angelo, Texas. McBride, 19, was
taken Saturday night from a base laundromat and is still missing. "I cannot
fathom . . . how that could have happened on a military base," said her father,
Jim McBride.

VOTING LAW: South Carolina asked a federal judge in Columbia to throw out a new
law that says the state must register voters at agencies that provide services
like welfare. "If it's such a good idea, why doesn't Congress offer to pay for
it?" asked Ken Woodington, a state lawyer. California, Illinois and Pennsylvania
also are not implementing the law. Federal officials, who asked the judge to
order enforcement, said Congress has the authority to regulate elections.

BOMB PLOT: Yahya Abu Ubaidah Muhammad, who helped defense lawyers for Sheik Omar
Abdel-Rahman and 11 other Islamic fundamentalists charged with plotting to blow
up New York landmarks, was arrested on firearms charges. He already was a
potential unindicted co-conspirator in the terrorism trial. Defense lawyers say
he was arrested on tips from Siddig Ibrahim Siddig Ali, who pleaded guilty in
the terrorism case and is aiding prosecutors.

CLEANER FUEL: EPA officials in Milwaukee today begin investigating complaints
that a reformulated gasoline intended to help clean up urban smog is hurting
mileage and performance and making people sick. Motorists complained at a public
meeting Monday. The investigation should be completed by April 1, the EPA said.

BOY SCOUTS: A single mother who says she was barred from a Boy Scouts father-son
dinner in North Bellmore, N.Y., says she will sue, charging sexual harassment
and discrimination. Assistant scoutmaster George Facompre denies he forced
Josephine Scatigno to leave the dinner when she arrived with her son, Vito, 10,
but a scouting supervisor has told Facompre to write a letter of apology or
resign.

ALSO TUESDAY . . .

-- BRIDGE PLUNGE: Donna Flemming, 23, was charged with murder and attempted
murder after authorities said she threw her two sons off a bridge into a channel
near Long Beach Harbor, Calif. She also jumped, but survived. The 50-foot drop
killed Craig Flemming, 22 months, and critically injured Michael Flemming Jr.,
3.

-- DEADBEATS: More than 100,000 federal workers are denying court orders to pay
child support or acknowledge paternity, Department of Health and Human Services
records show. Breakdown: 74,880 in the Department of Defense; 30,831 in other
agencies, the courts or Postal Service.

-- HOMELESS CAN STAY: Amtrak no longer can oust homeless people from New York's
Pennsylvania Station based solely on their appearance, a federal judge ruled.
Amtrak argued passengers will feel less safe.

-- BODY PARTS: El Paso police charged James Bradley, 47, with murder in the
death of his wife, Suzy, whose body parts, some painted gold, had been found in
boxes at four sites in West Texas and New Mexico. She had been shot.

-- LIGHTNING STRIKE: Lightning struck an American Airlines plane as it was being
moved from a gate in Phoenix, injuring three workers outside the plane.

Ga. town, shops lift ban on 21 blacks

After 10 hours of mediation, Union Point, Ga., officials and merchants agreed to
lift a ban that barred 21 black residents from downtown stores. The officials
and merchants, who said they were trying to reduce crime and shoplifting, did
not apologize. U.S. District Judge Duross Fitzpatrick, who was overseeing a
lawsuit by 12 of the 21 people banned, said the city and merchants were not
racially motivated. A proposed settlement had fallen apart last week over a
demand that the city and merchants apologize.

With: Shannon Tangonan, Carrie Dowling, Rae Tyson and K.V. Johnson

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, AP; PHOTO, b/w, CNN via AP; PHOTO, b/w, Ric Feld, AP

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              226 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    January 5, 1993, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Haitians say Cubans get treated better

BYLINE: Deborah Sharp

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 507 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


More than 150 Haitians at a federal detention camp refused food for the fifth
day Monday, protesting what they see as preferential treatment for Cuban
refugees.

The Haitians, many held for months at the Krome Detention Center while awaiting
political asylum hearings, are angered by what they see as the hero's welcome
given Cuban defectors in recent headline-grabbing cases:

- Last month, Cuban defector Orestes Lorenzo piloted a private plane into Cuba
to fly his family to freedom in Miami. Lorenzo made headlines nationwide and
landed on The Tonight Show, where host Jay Leno offered up a plate of Cuban rice
and beans.

- Last week, another Cuban pilot and 47 of his passengers commandeered a Cuban
airliner for a mass defection. After overpowering a co-pilot and a Cuban
security officer, they flew from Havana to Miami and spent just one night at
Krome before being released to families and friends.

''There is a blatant double standard,'' says Cheryl Little, a lawyer for some of
the Haitians. ''It was a bitter reminder of the extent to which they're
discriminated against.''

But Duke Austin, Washington-based spokesman for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, says the treatment of Cuban refugees can't be compared
with that of Haitians.

He says Cubans were granted more generous treatment than refugees from any other
country by the Cuban Adjustment Act of 1966.

He also notes that the United States has no agreement with Cuba to return
defectors.

Says Austin: ''With the Cuban situation, you have an aberration in our laws.''

U.S. authorities are still reviewing last week's Cuban incident for possible
criminal charges.

Meanwhile, the Haitians are aiming their outrage at U.S. immigration officials,
who operate Krome, a barbed wire-ringed camp 25 miles west of Miami.

Claiming mistreatment, they threaten to refuse food until they're released like
''the Cubans who come in planes without documents.''

Written in halting English, the Haitians' statement says: ''All Haitian refugees
in Krome are ready to eat with our family who wait for us in the USA.''

Last year, the U.S. Coast Guard intercepted 2,557 Cuban rafters making their way
to the USA to seek political asylum. By comparison, 31,401 Haitians were
intercepted on boats sailing to the United States; most were turned back to
Haiti.

The disparate treatment has long been a focus of criticism in the Haitian
community - and a cause of ethnic tension with Cubans.

There are 75,000 to 100,000 Haitians in the Miami area, compared with almost 1
million Hispanics, mostly Cubans.

Says Steven Forester, a Haitian Refugee Center lawyer: ''It's not that we don't
think the Cubans should get asylum.  We're delighted they get asylum. We just
think that Haitians should get it, too.''

Ken Boodhoo, a Florida International University professor and Haiti specialist,
says Haitians will keep coming, despite their treatment here:

''There's such a degree of desperation in Haitian society, Krome is still a
better alternative to living in Haiti.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Andrew Itkoff

CUTLINE: LITTLE: Lawyer cites 'blatant double standard' in treatment of Haitian,
Cuban refugees.

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              227 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      June 19, 1995, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Standoff over at N.J. immigrant center

BYLINE: Gary Fields

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 789 words


About 300 detainees at a New Jersey center for immigrants took two guards
hostage Sunday until police stormed in nearly six hours later. No one was
seriously injured at the Esmor Immigration Detention Center in Elizabeth, Union
County prosecutor Michael Lapolla said. A third guard hid in a ceiling crawl
space until his rescue. "If this is what privatization is all about, we're in
big trouble," said Lapolla. The detention center, opened last August, is under
investigation by the Immigration and Naturalization Service at the request of
U.S. Rep. Robert Menendez, D-N.J. "Now, we have another chapter to review,"
Menendez said Sunday. The center, operating under an $ 8 million annual contract
with INS, has been criticized by former detainees, AP

TRIBAL LEADERS: Former Cherokee Nation tribal operations director George Watie
Bearpaw and Tribal Councilman Joe Byrd will face off July 29 in a runoff to
succeed Wilma Mankiller as chief of the 170,000-member tribe. The two were the
top finishers in Saturday's election in Tahlequah, Okla. Inauguration is Aug.
14. Mankiller, 49, the tribe's first female chief, announced last year that she
would not seek re-election to a third term. "It was time for the Cherokee Nation
to have a change," said Mankiller, who became one of the nation's leading
speakers on Indian sovereignty and health care.

SHIPBOARD MISHAPS: A fire in the engine room of the cruise ship Celebration
stalled the vessel off the Bahamas, about 370 miles southeast of Miami. Two
Coast Guard ships were expected to arrive today in case an evacuation of the
2,400 passengers is needed. Also: The captain of a cruise ship that ran aground
June 10 off Nantucket, Mass., has quit. And the American Queen, history's
largest steamboat, got stuck on an Ohio River sandbar on its maiden voyage. No
one aboard the 418-foot boat was hurt.

PATIENT DIES: A woman who went into a coma at Holmes Regional Medical Center in
Melbourne, Fla., June 12 after a construction worker accidentally shut off her
oxygen has died. The 55-year-old woman, whose name was withheld, died Friday
after her family requested that life support systems be disconnected, hospital
officials said.

GAY PRIDE: About 400,000 people, including House Speaker Newt Gingrich's
half-sister Candace, attended the "Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender Pride
Celebration," in San Francisco. "It's a chance that too many people only have
one day a year, the chance to be out," she said. The event was the city's 25th
Gay Pride parade. The parades, held around the USA, commemorate the 1969 raid on
a New York gay bar that sparked the gay-rights movement.
-- In Washington, D.C., protesters chanting "shame, shame," tied 75 rubber
gloves to the White House fence, five days after uniformed White House police
officers donned protective gloves to greet gay and lesbian elected officials.
They said it was for "protection." White House spokesman Mike McCurry called it
"an error of judgment."

ALSO SUNDAY . . .
-- MILITIA GROWTH: Membership in paramilitary militias has grown since the April
19 Oklahoma City bombing that killed 168 people, despite the apparent link
between the suspects in the attack and militias, said a report by the
Anti-Defamation League. The study, based on local police reports, cited 15,000
militia members in at least 40 states.
-- FATAL STUNT: Ocean City, Md., authorities said David Wahlers, 22, was
apparently trying to do a headstand on a balcony railing when he fell 12 floors
to his death. Investigators said alcohol was probably a factor.

1,000 evacuated after Okla. derailment

Authorities in Miami, Okla., evacuated at least 1,000 people from their homes
after 12 cars on a Burlington Northern train carrying toxic chemicals jumped the
track. Mayor Red Mathia said authorities had to clear 300 to 400 houses.

And in Corning, Ark., 400 people remained out of their homes after 21 cars of a
Union Pacific freight train derailed Saturday and one carrying propane caught
fire. "As long as that's still burning, we're not going to let them back in,"
state police spokesman Wayne Jordan said. The incidents were two of at least
five rail mishaps. Elsewhere:
-- In Ely, Nev., 56 people were injured when a runaway flatbed car loaded with
railroad ties rolled five miles and slammed into a tourist train at 60 mph. None
of the injuries appeared life-threatening.
-- In Petersburg, Va., authorities spent much of the day clearing the site where
52 of the 186 cars of a Norfolk Southern Corp. train carrying coal derailed
Saturday morning.
-- In Gardners, Pa., Jim Cornell, 48, was in critical condition after a steam
engine pulling an excursion train with 300 passengers exploded Friday. With:
Jeannine Lee

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, AP; PHOTO, b/w, Susan Ragan, AP; PHOTO, b/w, Richmond
Times-Dispatch via AP

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              228 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     July 29, 1993, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Immigration plan flawed

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 306 words


There's no doubt about it: The "Expedited Expulsion and Alien Smuggler Enhanced
Penalty Act of 1993" has a hefty title - heavier, certainly, than it merits. The
$ 172.5 million package barely nods at the troublesome issues that are at the
core of the current asylum ruckus.

The act takes a couple of mildly sensible steps. It doubles penalties for
people-smugglers. It supplies some new tools to catch them. And it calls for 600
new Border Patrol officers. Good enough.

But when it gets to the critical issue of who gets asylum, the package grows
weak and feeble. The nation's backlog of asylum cases is 250,000 and growing.
Immigrants arrive, claim asylum, get working papers, then disappear while
waiting more than a year for a hearing. In response, the administration proposes
accelerating the application and review process, and there lies trouble.

Rather than expand Immigration's overworked corps of 150 asylum officers, the
bill would authorize officers at seven major ports of entry to summarily reject
applicants with unconvincing stories. This is bound to result in rejection of
deserving claims. But even if it worked perfectly, the practice would apply to
12% of this year's 120,000 asylum seekers. That's a pretty low payoff for the
retreat from due process.

Someday, Congress will be forced to debate true asylum reform. That will require
a close examination of due process rights of immigrants as well as how the
process should be streamlined. It might even renew discussion over a national
I.D. card and other vexing issues.

In the meantime, the White House plainly hopes this nod-wink package takes the
edge off the nation's increasingly nativist mood. So will it placate
immigration-angry Americans? Well, maybe. But will it rescue our sagging,
staggering immigration structure? Well, no, not at all.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              229 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    August 23, 1994, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

At Miami detention center, anxiety and relief

BYLINE: Deborah Sharp

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 473 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Like most in the Cuban community, Maybelin Gutierrez has seen the TV pictures of
empty boats bobbing in the Florida Straits.

She's heard survivors' tales of refugees taken by sharks. And she's mourned for
a young boy who arrived an orphan, his parents and boat-mates swept to sea.

Knowing all this, she felt blessed Monday to be standing in a blistering heat,
awaiting a family reunion inside Krome Detention Center here.

After nine days at sea, her cousin and three other Cuban rafters washed ashore
at a beachfront hotel, and were taken to the detention center at the Florida
Everglades' edge.

"We thought the worst," says Gutierrez, 18, among 300 relatives allowed inside
to visit the 531 Cubans in custody there. "We thought he was dead."

Since last week's presidential decree to detain Cuban refugees, most are being
intercepted at sea and taken to the U.S. Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. But
those who make it to Florida are sent to Krome, fast approaching its emergency
capacity of 1,000.

Relatives Monday took tickets and boarded buses for a quarter-mile ride into
Krome. They symbolize the breadth of the Cuban-American community: calloused
hands and work clothes for recent arrivals, business dress and cell phones for
those here long enough to prosper.

Relatives say spirits inside are high. Most refugees believe they'll be released
soon, though neither administration nor immigration officials will say when.

A crowd forms around a Metro-Dade police officer with a list: 11 pages of names
of those inside.

When her brother called last week from Cuba to say his son was on the way,
Sylvia Martinez promised she'd care for the 21-year-old when he arrived. With
worry in her eyes, she steps up: "Reynaldo Gonzalez Friera?" she asks the
officer.

He shakes his head no.

"We're desperate," says grandson Gerardo Martinez, who is hopeful the name will
turn up in coming days as Guantanamo Bay refugees are identified.

"We don't know if he's here, or there, or if he's died at sea," says the
grandmother, crying.

For relatives awaiting reunions, the mood is relief. Detention of loved ones
inside Krome is better than the alternatives. But some are angry at the abrupt
shift in policy.

"They're in there like prisoners, and it's very upsetting," says Ana Sanchez,
31, who had a 45-minute visit with her cousin and the woman's two children. She
did not see her cousin's husband, since Krome separates men and women. "I've
been waiting for this moment for a year, and I'm not happy that I have to leave
them. I'm ready to take them in."

An intern with the Cuban American National Foundation, University of Michigan
student Tim Bower, compares the privileges and freedoms of his life with the
refugees' deprivations.

"I would feel guilty if I weren't down here, trying to make a difference," Bower
says.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, b/w, Tom Salyer (2)

NATION/WORLD; See related stories; 01A, 02A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              230 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    December 15, 1995, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Midwest new hub for Hispanics

BYLINE: Debbie Howlett

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 1271 words

DATELINE: WILLMAR, Minn.


After a fourth summer of following the crops north to the beet fields of
Minnesota, migrant workers Eduardo and Yolanda Ibarra decided they would not
return home to Mexico.

Overstaying their work visas, he found a job slaughtering turkeys for Jennie-O,
and she went to work in a nursing home. They enrolled their children in public
schools.

Over the next six years they became legal residents, bought a minivan and moved
into a ranch house. They even learned to enjoy the sting of winter.

"Oh, yes. It's better here," says Eduardo Ibarra, a welder by trade. "In
Chihuahua we work hard, but we don't go so far."

The Ibarras are part of a surge in Hispanic immigration to the Midwest this
decade. It soon may push the Hispanic population to 2.5 million, more than
double the count in the 1980 Census.

Refugio Rochin, a Michigan State University researcher, calls it the "browning"
of the Midwest. Discouraged by difficult job markets and hardening racial
attitudes in the desert Southwest and California, Hispanic immigrants are
instead choosing Midwest states where they're finding greater opportunities.

From 1980 to 1992 the number of Hispanics in 10 Midwest states - Ohio, Indiana,
Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin, Minnesota, Iowa, Missouri, Kansas and Nebraska -
climbed from 1.2 million to 1.8 million. Over the same period, the white
population in those states declined by 400,000.

Illinois - its Hispanic population fast approaching 1 million - ranks fifth in
the nation behind California, Texas, Florida and New York. Those four are home
to 75% of the USA's 24 million Hispanics.

Immigrants have been coming to Chicago for generations. The reason Hispanic
immigrants are choosing it is the same reason Eastern European immigrants chose
the city.

"It's the city of big shoulders and the city of big jobs," says Maria Amezcua,
who immigrated with her husband, Adolfo, and their four children.

They came from Mexico nearly 20 years ago. Last year she became a naturalized
citizen. All four children are college graduates. "You are coming here to forge
a new destiny for you and your family," she says.

Census figures from 1992, the most recent available, show that Minnesota's
Hispanic population has increased 94% since 1980, to 62,316. That percentage
increase was the highest in the country.

"There have always been (Hispanic) migrants in the Midwest," says Dennis Valdez,
a University of Minnesota historian who has studied the flow of Mexicans into
northern states. "The distinction in the 1980s is that they began settling."

But along with the growth have come growing pains. And Willmar is an example of
both. It is a town of Scandinavian heritage 95 miles west of Minneapolis. The
addition of 3,000 immigrants has pushed the city of 17,500 to its limits.
Housing is scarce, crime is escalating and racial tension is high.

Last week police were alerted to the distribution of leaflets denouncing
immigration, as well as claiming white superiority over blacks.

Residents may have been upset by the fliers, but they weren't really surprised.

"This is your basic white, Anglo-Saxon community and we're not used to any
minorities at all," says Butch Mellom, 44, a truck driver who has lived here 40
years.

In the school system, there are now 850 Hispanic students, up from 15 just 10
years ago.

"That was a shock to the community," says superintendent Orlo Almlie, who has
hired 12 teachers trained to teach English as a second language. "We've taken
care of our responsibilities, at least we've tried to. We haven't solved all our
problems because there are still cultural conflicts."

The quality of the schools, especially the English-as-a-second-language program,
led the Ibarras to choose Willmar as their new home.

"When our oldest daughter finished (grade) school, we decided it was time to
move," says Yolanda Ibarra.

Maria Ibarra, now 22, entered Central High School unable to speak a word of
English. She is now a pre-med student with a scholarship to the University of
Minnesota.

"I didn't want to leave (Mexico)," she recalls. "I totally cried."

Their sons - Silverio, 19, who graduated from high school last year, and Eduardo
Jr., 17, who is a senior - have enlisted in the military. Their youngest child,
Alba, 12, is in ninth grade.

Work and learning a new language have been tough. But the hardest part may be
winning acceptance among the fifth- and sixth-generation Scandinavians here.

One turning point may have been a fight over a ramshackle trailer park on the
edge of town where many Hispanics first lived when they arrived. After a
shooting and a newspaper account that described the site as a barrio, the city
ordered the owner to make repairs. Instead, he razed it.

That forced many Hispanics to move into city neighborhoods that were all white.
The city used federal and state money to put together a loan program so 30
families could buy homes.

"Without question the community has been forced to make some major adjustments,"
city administrator Michael Schmit says. "We've gone from a quaint, quiet, rural
Scandinavian town to one that is much more diverse. That's good, in the long
run."

Perhaps the easiest transition point in Willmar has been in the workplace. Jobs
for unskilled laborers are abundant here.

"New immigrants . . . will do the hard work," says Rev. David Echavarria, a
local pastor and activist who moved to Willmar in 1990 to establish a church.

The $ 8-an-hour starting pay at Jennie-O, the largest employer in the region, is
more than the daily rate many immigrants earned in Mexico. It is easy for a
family to boost its standard of living, especially because homes in the area
cost as little as $ 30,000.

The Ibarras' home is a tidy rambler, filled with family pictures and decorated
for Christmas. A pan of frijoles warms on the stove. A framed poster is
captioned in Spanish. But the family considers itself as American as any other
in the Midwest.

The family has returned to Chihuahua, 1,700 miles south of Willmar, only once.

For Maria Ibarra, who didn't want to leave her homeland, the trip back two years
ago was not the homecoming she thought it might be.

"Even though I grew up there, I spent my teens here," she says. "When I went
back I felt out of place."

Hispanics in the heartland

Number of Hispanics in Midwestern states in 1992 compared to 1980:
State             1992       1980      Increase
Illinois          975,161    635,602      53.4%
Michigan          215,361    162,440      32.6%
Ohio              149,286    119,883      24.5%
Indiana           106,396     87,047      22.2%
Wisconsin         101,649     62,972      61.4%
Kansas            100,601     63,339      58.8%
Missouri           66,277     51,653      28.3%
Minnesota          62,316     32,123      93.9%
Nebraska           42,346     28,025      51.1%
Iowa               37,489     25,536      46.8%
Midwest         1,856,882  1,276,545      45.5%

How Midwest Hispanics compare

Median
                    household    Jobless      High school
Race/ethnicity        income       rate         grad. rate
White (non-Hispanic)  $ 30,000        5%            78.6%
Hispanic              $ 26,000       11%            52.9%
Black (non-Hispanic)  $ 20,000       19%            65.3%

Source: U.S. Census Bureau; Julian Samora Research Institute, Michigan State
University

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, USA TODAY (Map); PHOTOS, b/w, Judy Griesedieck (2)

THE NATION; Hispanic immigrants, frustrated with racism and fewer economic
outlets in the desert Southwest and in California, have turned to the Midwest as
a new land of opportunity. And the Hispanic population may soon hit 2.5 million,
more than double the count in the 1980 Census; See info box at end of text; See
sidebar; 03A

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              231 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      June 24, 1994, Friday, FINAL EDITION

'Flesh-eating bacteria' claim another victim

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 780 words


A bacterial infection that eats muscle and flesh has claimed another victim.
University Hospitals of Cleveland said a 40-year-old man died last week of
necrotizing fasciitis, which produces toxins that deprive cells of oxygen,
killing them at a rate of an inch an hour. Cases of necrotizing fasciitis have
been reported in at least eight states recently, including three fatal cases in
Michigan.

ALIEN SMUGGLING: A federal grand jury indicted four people on conspiracy and
alien-smuggling charges in a scheme to smuggle more than 100 Chinese nationals
into the USA. Kenneth "David" Wong, a naturalized U.S. citizen from China is
accused of masterminding the scheme. The Coast Guard boarded the 75-foot fishing
ship Captain Denny in Norfolk, Va., Saturday and escorted it to Cape May, N.J.,
where 18 purported "enforcers" and six crew members were brought ashore in
handcuffs Thursday.

POSSE RIDES OUT: A posse of 45 armed civilians accompanied by 40 Maricopa County
Sheriff's deputies headed out at sundown to fight crime just outside Phoenix.
About 25 arrests and citations had been issued by deputies after posse
volunteers "tracked" criminals and then "radioed for deputies" to help make
arrests, said Lisa Allen of the sherriff's office. Operation Summer Heat will
continue nightly through August with 700 volunteer posse members.

CLEAN WATER: Making contaminated ground water safe for drinking isn't
technologically possible everywhere, despite a federal requirement, says the
National Research Council, part of the National Academy of Sciences. About
300,000 sites have tainted soil and ground water. More than half the population
uses ground water for drinking.

'JOKE' TEST: Chicago teacher Charles Routen - who gave sixth-graders a math test
with questions about prostitutes, drug dealers and sex - has agreed to resign,
school lawyer Patricia Whitten said. Routen had been removed from the classroom
after giving the "joke" test May 20.

TEACHER IN SPACE: Alan Ladwig, chairman of a NASA panel reviewing the
teacher-in-space program, said he favors reviving the project, although a
decision isn't near. But Grace Corrigan, mother of Christa McAuliffe, said
renewing the program would bring bad memories of the 1986 shuttle Challenger
explosion that killed her daughter and six others. The program has been dormant
since then.

LAST LEG: Japanese Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko flew to Hawaii from
California, their last leg of a 15-day U.S. tour. "This community endured many
hardships during the war years when relations between Japan and the United
States were strained, and I sympathize with you," Akihito told 300 elderly
Japanese-Americans in San Francisco. The couple leaves Honolulu Saturday. A
visit to Pearl Harbor was canceled after inciting protests.

ALSO THURSDAY . . .

-- SUED AGAIN: Denny Restaurants, which last month agreed to pay $ 45 million to
settle charges it discriminated against black customers, was sued in Los Angeles
for $ 50 million by a Long Beach man and his nephew claiming discrimination
against Mexican-Americans.

-- ARMED CABBIES: Miami-area taxi drivers can carry guns in their cabs under a
new ordinance to curb cab robberies. "We're like convenience stores on wheels,"
said John Jurich of Yellow cabs. The guns must be registered.

-- IMMIGRATION COSTS: Backers of a proposal to deny public education and social
and health programs to illegal immigrants in California submitted enough
signatures to get the measure on the Nov. 8 ballot, the secretary of State's
office said. Opponents call it immigrant bashing.

-- CREMATORIUM FIRE: A San Antonio crematorium building was destroyed by fire
when funeral home workers loaded a 400-pound body on top of another in the
furnace, overheating the unit, fire officials said. No one was hurt.

-- INDIAN GAMBLING: The federal government would expand its role in regulating
and overseeing gambling run by Indian tribes and allow tribes to seek gaming
operations even if a state objects, under a bill introduced in the Senate.

Hawaii bans same sex marriages

Hawaii Gov. John Waihee signed into law a ban on same-sex marriage. The
Legislature passed it because the state Supreme Court ruled a policy against
granting marriage licenses to same-sex couples was "presumed to be
unconstitutional" sexual discrimination. A marriage in one state usually must be
recognized in all states.

-- In New Orleans, a state judge barred enforcement of part of the Louisiana
sodomy law pending a trial on the merits. No date was set.

Contributing: Sandra Sanchez, Steve Marshall, Gary Fields, Gregory Townsend,
Linda Kanamine and Earle Eldridge

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1994June 26, 1994June 26, 1994June 26, 1994June 26, 1994June
26, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Lacy Atkins; PHOTO, b/w, Ben Fogletto, The Atlantic City
Press via AP; PHOTO, b/w, AP

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              232 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     July 1, 1992, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Florida migrant workers allege 'slave labor'

BYLINE: Deborah Sharp

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 687 words

DATELINE: IMMOKALEE, Fla.


When Benjamin Torres saw the job offer in a Houston newspaper, it proved too
tempting to resist.

A company called La Pisca promised a job picking grapefruit in Florida, with pay
of up to $ 300 a week.

All Torres had to do was sign a contract promising to repay the company for
transportation costs ranging from $ 125 to $ 150. It was also agreed he would
pay for room and board.

So Torres signed. But the 45-year-old father of eight didn't get what he
bargained for.

A Justice Department investigation and separate civil lawsuit suggest that
Houston-based La Pisca forced Torres and many other migrant workers into
indentured servitude - charges the company denies.

Says La Pisca owner Vincent Carballo: ''You know, people can accuse you of
almost anything. But everyone is innocent until proven guilty in a court of
law.''

The case is one of many that highlight the treatment of the nation's estimated 4
million migrant workers, 90% of whom live at or below the poverty level. From
Florida to California, those who pick the USA's food are targets for
exploitation.

''There's a lot of slavery going on,'' said migrant lawyer Mark Finnegan, of
Florida Rural Legal Services.

Rep. Porter Goss, R-Fla., compares many migrant workers' lives to the farm
worker oppression documented in John Steinbeck's 1939 Grapes of Wrath. ''The
opportunity exists for abuse,'' he said.

Torres said he was shipped by La Pisca last fall from Houston to La Belle, Fla.,
to pick grapefruit - one of about 4,000 migrants the company moves each year to
farms in Florida and 10 other states.

Once in Florida, workers say the 17 men were crammed in a two-bedroom trailer
with gaping holes, no electricity and an ever-growing cockroach and frog
population.

''To drink the water,'' Torres said, ''you'd have to hold your nose.''

Wages ended up being so low - often under $ 30 a week - that many of the workers
say they ended up hopelessly mired in debt, mostly because of obligations to La
Pisca.

''Like a slave,'' Torres said. ''That's what I was feeling.''

Finnegan said the workers were charged $ 425 a week rent for the bug- infested
trailer and paid La Pisca another $ 30 a week for meals that consisted largely
of beans and tortillas.

In addition, Finnegan said, La Pisca forced the workers to surrender their
''green cards'' - government work permits - effectively preventing them from
leaving.

As a U.S. citizen from Puerto Rico, Torres is more willing than others - most of
whom are Mexican - to speak out against La Pisca. He says he tried to help
others in his camp, but that they feared deportation.

''If they don't have a green card they are afraid to walk out on the street,
afraid immigration will stop them and send them back to their countries,''
Torres said.

Finnegan filed suit last month on behalf of 26 migrant workers, charging that La
Pisca and three Florida crew bosses scared migrants into staying by holding
their work documents hostage.

The migrants have asked a federal judge to find that La Pisca owner Carballo and
the Florida crew bosses engaged in racketeering. They also want about $ 100,000
in total damages, Finnegan said.

Today, Leon Gonzalez, one of the labor crew chiefs named in the suit, will be
the first to formally deny the workers' charges in court documents in Tampa,
Fla.

''It's all made up. These people work one day and disappear, then they want
their money,'' said Gonzalez. He said he never withheld workers' green cards,
and always paid them what they were owed.

Carballo said La Pisca quit operating a year ago, and that a $ 4,000 fine
settled his troubles with the U.S. Labor Department. But farmworker advocates
and federal authorities say he's wrong.

Finnegan said La Pisca is still advertising in a Spanish-language newspaper in
Houston. The company delivered workers to several Southern states just last
week.

Though authorities wouldn't say much about the federal investigation, Dan Brown
of the Labor Department's Houston office said: ''It would be inaccurate to say
he's not been in business for a year, and it would be inaccurate to say he's
been cleared.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC; b/w, USA TODAY (Map, Florida); PHOTOS; b/w, Michael L.  Kimble
(2)

CUTLINE: FINNEGAN: Has filed suit on behalf of 26 workers CUTLINE: 'LIKE A
SLAVE': Benjamin Torres, 45, says he and 16 other men were shipped from Houston
to La Belle, Fla., to pick grapefruit. In the background: a migrant labor camp
in Immokalee, Fla.

AGRICULTURAL PRACTICES PROBED

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              233 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

               February 5, 1994, Saturday, INTERNATIONAL EDITION

Expats, locals vie for jobs in ex-East Bloc

BYLINE: Elisa Tinsley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 1016 words


The flood of foreign firms into Eastern and Central Europe has created new - and
often lucrative - job opportunities for foreign workers in those countries.

But those opportunities may be short-lived as local workers develop the skills
to assume jobs now held by foreigners.

One reason foreign firms hope to quickly replace expatriate workers is to take
advantage of local nationals' better grasp of the language, culture and working
environment.

But another big reason is pay. A recent survey conducted by U.S.-based Coopers &
Lybrand and U.K.-based Monks Partnership shows a huge gap between the average
earnings of foreigners and their local national counterparts.

For example: In Russia, pay levels for foreigners is up to ten times that for
locals performing similar jobs. Expats in the Czech Republic can earn eight
times more than natives.

"Generally, it takes three times the salary to keep an expatriate" employed
abroad, says Janet Fuersich, a partner in charge of compensation consulting at
Coopers & Lybrand. In addition to salary, companies often pay allowances
including housing, home-leave, and education.

"The current trend of multinational corporations is to have as few expatriates
as possible and train local nationals - not only because it's more cost
effective, but also for the long term because they have the relationships, they
know the culture," says Fuersich.

Suzanna Karoly, senior consultant, corporate resources, for Ernst & Young in
London, agrees that foreign firms are leaning towards hiring local nationals -
"provided they can come up with the same skills provided by the expats."

But she notes, "U.S. companies going into Eastern Europe require a certain
amount of financial reporting skills," she says. "You need to be a CPA
(Certified Public Accountant) or Chartered Accountant. . . . You know very well
how long it takes to become a CPA or chartered accountant. This is not something
that's going to happen overnight."

And while local nationals may have a better understanding of their native
culture, in some countries that knowledge may be an obstacle to learning or
accepting a Western corporate culture. Among the problems cited in the Coopers &
Lybrand/Monks Partnership survey of 30 multinational firms operating in Central
and Eastern Europe:

In Hungary, which had a history of capitalism on which to draw and a more
liberal political climate than other former communist countries, the survey
respondents found it difficult to develop employee loyalty.

"Local nationals see a need to build a strong CV (curriculum vitae), which
implies gaining experience with more than one Western firm," the survey summary
says.

Foreign firms reported the greatest difficulties in Russia, where free-market
reforms are just two years old.

"Russians have a pride in their country and its achievements. They do not see
Western ways as better ways," the survey says. "They find the informal
atmosphere of Western firms confusing and an indication of poor management."

The fewest problems were cited in Poland, where reform of the state-controlled
economy has been underway for several years. Says Ernst & Young's Karoly:
"People were freer to travel and pursue an education in a Western country then
they were in, say, Czechoslovakia or Bulgaria.

"In Poland, you find a much larger pool of people who understand the Western
style of management and have been schooled in Western countries," she adds. "In
some instances, they even have an MBA."

As a result of this growing expertise and training, local nationals - even in
Russia - are closing the pay gap.

The law of supply and demand works as well in Central and Eastern Europe as
elsewhere, says Michael Tappan, vice chairman, international, of the recruiting
firm Ward Howell International: "If you can find an excellent Russian manager
with good training . . . then you have to pay an attractive salary."

What, then, are the employment prospects for foreign workers who would like to
work in these former communist countries? According to the survey, in Moscow
alone there already are more than 100,000 foreigners - "and more firms move in
all the time."

For now, expatriates can expect to see job growth throughout the region as
foreign firms get further involved in developing and investing in local industry
and services.

"The thing that's going to keep the demand for expats who speak (the languages)
is new western companies will continue to move into those markets because
they're so huge," says Tappan. "Those companies will continue to have
experienced managers from the West."

Coopers & Lybrand's Fuersich agrees: "I think it's still a burgeoning market,"
she says. "You have to look at it as an idea laboratory for companies to go in
and test their ideas."

NOTES FROM ABROAD ... FRENCH IDENTITY: France announced it will replace
citizens' old-fashioned, paper identity documents with high-tech,
plastic-covered cards linked to a central computer system and much harder to
forge. The new blue cards will be phased in by the end of 1995. The Interior
Ministry is also considering replacing residence permits for foreigners with a
computerized stamp attached to passports.

Huge pay gap between foreign, local workers

A recent survey that examined management pay levels among 30 private,
multi-national corporations operating in the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland and
Russia found substantial differentials between local nationals and foreigners
working on similar levels.

In Russia, pay levels for expatriate workers generally were up to ten times
those for local nationals employed in similar positions. In Poland, foreigners
earned four times as much as locals. Here is a sample of average pay levels for
country managers working for multinational companies.
               Expatriate    Local national
Czech Republic  $ 115,000      $ 14,400
Poland          $ 117,000      $ 33,000
Russia          $ 111,000       NA(1)
Hungary          $ 86,000      $ 12,000

1 - Sample too small for analysis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Julie Stacey, USA TODAY, Source: Coopers & Lybrand, Monks
Partnership survey (Bar graph)

TYPE: USA Abroad

HELPING INFORM U.S. CITIZENS ABROAD; See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              234 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  June 26, 1995, Monday, INTERNATIONAL EDITION

Expat workers may have trouble fitting in upon return to USA

BYLINE: Anita Bruzzese, Gannett News Service

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 436 words


As U.S. business expands its global presence, more U.S. workers are taking
assignments overseas - and quitting when they come home.

"Very often employees leave a company when they come back to the USA because
there isn't a job waiting for them even vaguely resembling what they did
overseas," says Calvin Reynolds, chairman of the American Compensation
Association's International Council.

These expatriates are often used to dealing with foreign governments and
businesses, using entrepreneurial skills to solve problems. Such independent
thinking, Reynolds explains, doesn't necessarily fit in with the U.S. company
culture.

Reynolds found in several confidential surveys within various industries that at
some corporations, the number of people who quit within a year of their return
to the USA is more than 60%.

"In most companies, no one is waiting for these people to come back and share
their skills," he says. "They just want them to get the job done, rather than
using the overseas assignment to further a career." Adding to the dilemma is the
notion that those on international assignment are "living like kings and queens"
because of company lodgings provided, he says.  "When these people come home,
others think they've had excessive living arrangements," Reynolds says. "You end
up getting treated rather like a skunk at a picnic. No one wants to hear what
you have to say."

One of the biggest mistakes U.S. companies make is sending marginal employees
overseas in the first place. By not selecting top performers, employers make
those sent internationally even more "disposable" when they come home. That
doesn't make much sense when you consider the costs of sending a worker to a
foreign land, Reynolds says.

The average annual cost for an international assignee is about $ 250,000,
including compensation and allowances. In Hong Kong, Tokyo or Paris, the price
can reach $ 500,000. If you consider that many assignments last three years or
longer, the cost per person for an overseas job can top $ 1 million.

How to make overseas assignments benefit both employees and employers:

-- Use international assignments to help boost a career - not hinder it.
Consider sending top performers to help them develop creative, on-the-spot
thinking skills that are needed in foreign posts.

-- Think globally. Employees often are sent overseas with little or no training.
International assignments should be seen as a way to develop business.

-- Use skills wisely. When an employee returns home, have a job waiting that
utilizes the skills learned through an international assignment.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MONEY MATTERS

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              235 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   December 15, 1994, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Power surge zaps 8 Western states

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 859 words


Up to 2 million people were left in the dark Wednesday when an unexplained
pre-dawn power surge in the West Coast's main electrical transmission line shut
down transmission stations and power plants. Most people were still asleep when
the outage hit. Affected: Arizona, California, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, Oregon,
Utah and Washington. Doctors sewing up a patient at Seattle's Swedish Medical
Center used flashlights when emergency lighting failed.

ABANDONMENT CASE: Pittsburgh Magistrate Donald Machen dismissed child
abandonment charges filed Sept. 26 against Bonnie Railing, 28, and James Fignar
Jr., 37, for leaving four children - 2 to 10 - home with a 14-year-old baby
sitter for two weeks. The couple went to New Jersey. Machen called their
judgment "appalling" but not criminal. The children are in foster care pending a
custody hearing.

PROPOSITION 187: A Los Angeles federal judge continued her ban on enforcing much
of California's initiative to deny most public assistance to illegal immigrants.
Judge Mariana Pfaelzer granted a preliminary injunction until a trial, saying
the measure endangers public health and only the federal government can regulate
immigration. Not blocked: denial of higher education and a ban on sale or use of
false immigration documents. The state may appeal.

TRAIN CRASH: A runaway Santa Fe freight train with failed brakes fell off one of
the steepest grades in the U.S. rail network and tumbled onto a stopped Union
Pacific coal train near San Bernardino, Calif. Four people were injured and 10
rail cars were left in a fiery heap.

NAVY SEX SCANDAL: Four instructors at the San Diego Naval Training Center face
courts-martial on charges including sex harassment and fraternization with
recruits, the Navy said after investigating claims that some male instructors
demanded sex for good grades from 16 female recruits. Officials said there were
no such demands, but other improprieties occurred. Seven people got lesser
punishment for such things as adultery or singeing a recruit's hair.

MISSING BOY: Dwanna Harris of Livonia, Mich., says police grilled her for 18
hours about the disappearance of her 4-year-old son and she thinks it's because
of the Susan Smith case in Union, S.C. Smith touched off a nationwide search for
a carjacker she said abducted her two sons, but later she admitted she drowned
them. Harris says that since she reported her son missing from a shopping mall
Sunday, the investigation "has been focused the wrong way." Police deny they
found a letter at her home from a man saying he didn't want a relationship with
her "with a kid in the way."

BOMB CLUE: The FBI wants help identifying "H.C. Wickel," listed as the return
addressee of a mail bomb Saturday that killed New Jersey advertising executive
Thomas Mosser. The typed return label listed Wickel and the Department of
Economics at San Francisco State University. No one by that name has ever taught
or enrolled at the school, postal officials say. Authorities believe the same
person has killed two and injured 23 in 15 bombings since May 1978.

ALSO WEDNESDAY . . .

-- HOSTAGES FREE THEMSELVES: Ralph Tortorici, 26, was arrested after holding 35
students and a professor hostage for two hours in a State University of New York
lecture hall in Albany. Motive: unknown. Jason McEnaney, one of five captives
who subdued the gunman, was in serious condition with three gunshot wounds.

-- JURY QUITS: A judge in White Plains, N.Y., declared a mistrial Tuesday in a 4
1/2-month-old libel trial, because jurors said they had problems being away from
work for so long and couldn't afford to continue beyond Jan. 1.

-- RIGHT TO DIE: William Meyer III, 65, was placed on two years' probation in
Westport, Conn., for assisting in the 1991 suicide of his 88-year-old father,
who was dying of colon cancer. A second-degree-manslaughter charge will be
dismissed if Meyer completes probation. He was a loving son carrying out his
father's wishes, the judge said.

-- 'HOLLYWOOD MADAM' CASE: Heidi Fleiss asked a Los Angeles judge to overturn
her pandering conviction. Cited: affidavits from five jurors who said they
discussed the case outside of court before the start of deliberations.

-- BODY SNATCHED: Dallas authorities suspect an occult sect or an obsessed
admirer in the grave-robbing case of Melinda Ann Lee, 20, a college honors
student who died Dec. 7 after a car wreck and was buried Saturday.

Nogales, Ariz., calls for federal help

Arizona health officials say a study confirming unusually high rates of certain
diseases in Nogales shows the need for federal help to determine the cause and
find solutions.

The University of Arizona study found the rate of lupus is three times the
national average; the rate of multiple myeloma bone cancer is 2.4 times the
norm. Those are lower than a preliminary study last year based on cases from
1989 to 1993.

The leukemia rate, double the norm in the earlier study, actually is below the
national average, the new study found.

Many residents blame pollution for their illnesses.

Contributing: Gary Fields and Gordon Dickson.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, USA TODAY (Map); PHOTO, b/w, Gene J. Puskar, AP; PHOTO,
b/w, FBI sketch via Reuters

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              236 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 21, 1994, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Plenty of Norway in the USA / 'Better life' lures millions to emigrate

BYLINE: Erik Larsen Brady

SECTION: BONUS; Pg. 8E

LENGTH: 663 words

DATELINE: LILLEHAMMER


Ingrid Butts skis on the U.S. Olympic cross-country team, which puts her in
exclusive company. There are only 17 members.

She's also Norwegian-American, which does not put her in exclusive company.
There are nearly 4 million people of Norwegian descent in America - which is
almost as many as there are in Norway (4.2 million).

"Of all European countries, only Ireland has a greater number of immigrants by
percentage of population," says Odd S. Lovoll, author of The Promise of America:
A History of the Norwegian-American People. "That's known as 'immigration
intensity' - and for 100 years it was quite intense."

That would be from 1825 to 1925. Irish immigration exploded after the great
potato famine of the mid-1800s, but Norwegian immigration cannot be traced to a
similar single event. "It was not so much an escape from poverty as an
opportunity for a better life," says Lovoll.

Much of the emigration came from Norway's east-central valleys, including
Gudbrandsdalen, the largest, which stretches north of Lillehammer. That means
many Norwegian-Americans watching the Olympics on TV had forefathers from the
region where the Games are being held.

"There is a saying, 'Everyone in Norway has an uncle in America,' " says Knut
Djupedal, curator of the Norwegian Emigrant Museum in Hamar. "We have folk-tales
here - and relatives in America."

Which is a problem for Djupedal. Attendance is not large. "It's like trying to
make a museum about your shoes," he says. "It's so common."

Of the 900,000 Norwegians who emigrated, about 90% went to the U.S., says
Djupedal. Many settled in Midwestern states like Minnesota, Wisconsin and Iowa -
what Lovoll calls the Homestead Triangle between the Missouri and Mississippi
rivers. Those same Norwegians also founded St. Olaf College in Northfield,
Minn., where Lovoll, himself an immigrant, is a professor of Norwegian history.

"Norway was and is a rural society and many of the immigrants became farmers,"
Lovoll says. "Even now, with the decline of the farm in America, there are many
Norwegian-American farmers."

Minneapolis remains Norway's unofficial capital in the U.S., but there are also
large Norwegian-American populations in Seattle and Brooklyn. The Seattle
Norwegians, who came mostly from coastal Norway, found the scenery of the
Pacific Northwest strikingly familiar to that back home. The Norwegians who came
to Brooklyn - many of whose descendants now live on Staten Island - were, for
the most part, harshly treated sailors who jumped ship when they got to the
States.

Most Norwegian-Americans remain fiercely proud of their heritage, says Lovoll.
"They tend to see themselves as descendants of the Vikings and they cling to
their ancient Nordic roots, yet remain highly patriotic Americans. These ethnic
symbols have become part of their collective memory."

As has their love of skiing. Ski is a Norwegian word. The sport was born in
Norway.

"Almost everyone here skis," says Butts, 30, a first-generation
Norwegian-American. Her mother, Freda Opdahl Langell, was born in Norway and
almost skied with the 1952 Norwegian cross-country team except for a blown-out
knee at the last minute.

Ingrid's not the only Norwegian-American on the U.S. cross country team. John
Aalberg is a native Norwegian.  Ben Husaby's grandfather came to the U.S. from
Norway in 1921. And downhill gold medalist Tommy Moe's grandfather also
emigrated from Norway in the 1920s.

He and other Olympic visitors of Norwegian descent can research their roots at
Maihaugen Museum in Lillehammer, which has a computer with a genealogical
database built up from old parish records and population censuses.

Ingrid Butts won't need all that data. She can simply look at the museum's
murals, painted by a distant cousin, Jakob Wiedemann, Norway's foremost living
artist.

"For me, competing in these Games is doubly meaningful," Butts says. "I ski for
the United States - and I do it in the land where my mother was born."

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Tim Dillon, USA TODAY

'94 WINTER OLYMPICS BONUS SECTION; LILLEHAMMER '49 SCENE; See sidebar; 08E

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              237 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    March 2, 1994, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Refugees drain Florida resources / 'Silent invasion' puts state in caring vs.
cost quandary

BYLINE: Deborah Sharp

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 663 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


As constant as the waves, they come: Refugees from Haiti and Cuba, swept by
poverty and politics on ocean currents to south Flordia.

This "silent invasion" - though not as dramatic as the massive boatlifts that
brought 100,000 Cubans to the USA in 1980 - is just as draining on state
resources already stretched thin.  Officials also face a new problem: Human
smuggling. A boat captain accused in a scheme that left four Haitians dead is in
court today.

The state, caught between concern for the refugees and finding the money for
their health, education and welfare, has signaled a get-tough stance:

-- Gov. Lawton Chiles plans to sue to force the federal government to pick up
its share of an estimated $ 2 billion annual tab for immigrants.

"Florida has come out of the gate earliest and quickest in terms of taking legal
action," says Dag Ryen, of the Council of State Governments.

-- The child welfare department says it's fed up with funding refugees.  It
wants to deny foster care to a handful of undocumented children - including a
boy, 15, who came to Florida alone by boat after his father and brother were
slain by the Haitian military.

Says lawyer Chris Zawisza, whose Miami Legal Services represents the boy:
"They're choosing to close the door starting with the most vulnerable, children
who have no parents."

Counters Jim Towey, head of Florida's Department of Health and Rehabilitational
Services: "We'd love to care, but we want the feds to give us the money to do
it."

With an annual budget of $ 126 million for foster care, the quality of life for
the 9,000 children in the program is already "the pits," says Towey. "The
problem in not going away. The fact is that Haiti and Cuba are more unstable
today than a year ago. Who's going to pay the price for that? Florida."

Zawisza, whose Polish grandparents immigrated to the USA as teens, is appealing
the state's stance on foster care: "Immigrants have made this country, a couple
of generations later we're saying, 'We made it, they can't.' "

Increasingly, Haitians are arriving via human smuggling rings: picked up in the
Bahamas, charged up to $ 2,000 a family, then dumped - often at gunpoint - off
Florida's shores.  A Boynton Beach, Fla., boat captain Richard Bennett Barker,
43, faces up to 140 years in prison if convicted on the federal smuggling
charge.

Barker reportedly forced 27 Haitians off his 31-foot boat off the coast of
Stuart, Fla.

For Haitian immigrant Blaise Augustin, each new drowning awakens an old pain. In
1979, he paid a smuggler $ 1,000 to come to Florida.

The captain pulled a gun, forcing Augustin and 23 others to jump into 15-foot
deep waters. Seven drowned.

"By the time they found the children, they were dead," says Augustin. "It makes
me so sad in a Christian way. We are human beings."

In recent months, dozens of Haitian refugees have drowned. As many as 34
Florida-bound Haitians were feared dead in waters off the Bahamas after a
smuggler's boat capsized Feb 19.

But the tragedies seem to have little effect on the steady stream. The
Immigration and Naturalization Service says arrivals by sea or by air are up
this year: in 1993, 4,100 Cubans and 2,546 Haitians arrived in Florida. Already
this year: 581 Cubans and 400 Haitians.

Augustin, 39, works 12-hour days, seven days a week. In addition to providing
counseling to St. Joseph's Haitian Catholic Center in Pompano Beach, Fla., he's
bought his own convenience store and put his three children in private school.

"People are looking for life. They're looking for freedom, and the U.S is the
place to come," says Augustin. "If we can't come to the United States, where can
we go?"

Coast Guard interceptions at sea

The government ordered the return of Haitians intercepted at sea to stem a
refugee surge after Jean-Bertrand Aristide's overthrow in 1991.
         Cubans      Haitians
1989        391        3,368
1993      3,656        2,324

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Sam Ward, USA TODAY, Source: U.S. Coast Guard (Line
graph); PHOTO, b/w, Andrew Itkoff

IMMIGRATION; See sidebar; 09A; See related story; 11A; See info box at end of
text

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              238 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      March 4, 1994, Friday, FINAL EDITION

NYC probe turns to motive / Investigators digging into suspect's past

BYLINE: Bruce Frankel; Debbie Howlett

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 604 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


His motive remains a mystery but more details emerged Thursday about the
Lebanese cab driver charged in the attack on a van of Hasidic Jews.

Before he was accused of the Brooklyn Bridge shooting, which left one student
brain dead and three others injured Tuesday, Rashad Baz, 28, moved among the
shadows of New York's bustling immigrant neighborhoods.

He came here in 1984, like so many others, on a student visa from his native
Lebanon.

But within a year, Baz had flunked all three courses - calculus, English as a
second language and engineering - at Rockland Community College, 30 minutes
north of New York.

"He was not a stellar student," says college president Neal Raisman.

Like thousands of other student immigrants who fail or drop out of school, Baz
didn't bother to return home.

Instead, he took up a life on the edge, among the many immigrants in this city
who drive unlicensed cabs.

The government doesn't have a system "that allows it to keep track of everyone
here," says Richard Kenney of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Baz worked for Pioneer Car Service. The company had operated without a hack
license after it failed to properly register its vehicles, officials say.

The company is owned by Jordanian Hlal Mohammed, 32. He and fellow Jordanian
Bassam Reyati, 27, Baz' boss, are charged with hindering prosecution. Police say
they helped Baz hide the guns and car used in the shooting.

Baz received a driver's license in January 1991, according to state motor
vehicle officials. Two months later, it was suspended when he was caught
speeding while on probation.

But that didn't ground him. Baz continued to drive, collecting summonses for
speeding and knowingly lending his car to an unlicensed driver.

Now, Baz may rely on his erratic driving record for a defense. He reportedly
told police he fired on the students because he thought their van had cut him
off.

Witnesses said Baz fired at least one shot as he trailed the van onto the ramp.
He then shot twice more on the bridge.

Neighbors describe him as a tempestuous man. But a motorist whose car collided
with Baz' just 16 months ago says Baz didn't lose his temper then.

Leonel Cortizo of Brooklyn does remember something strange about the accident.

"The very first thing he said to me was, 'I am Muslim.' "

Baz and the other two men are said to worship at the Al-Farooq mosque, where the
muezzin's call to prayer echoed across slushy Atlantic Avenue Thursday. Members,
who are observing the holy month of Ramadan, declined to speak with reporters.

On a desk near the mosque's offices, fliers announced a Sunday rally to deplore
"the horrible terrorist attack" by a Jewish extremist at a mosque last week on
the West Bank.

Law enforcement officials say they are still looking for a motive - the twisted
politics of the Middle East, racial or religious hatred, or plain fury.

Was he seeking revenge for the Hebron massacre?

Or did the answer lie in a newspaper clipping found in Baz' wallet about a
bombing of a Lebanese mosque?

Or was he simply enraged by Hasidic Jews he thought had cut him off because of
his Muslim headdress?

Asked how he planned to answer the charges in court, defense lawyer S. Michael
Musa-Obregon said, "We only just began investigating. We're not commenting on
that."

Yet as Hasidic Jews continued their prayers Thursday, fears of a wider terrorist
conspiracy began to recede.

"There is no information now" that the shooting was part of a plot, says
Assemblyman Dov Hikind. "People have a good sense of relief that the person
responsible for the actual shooting is in custody."

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, b/w, AP (4)

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              239 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     March 18, 1994, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Analysts argue over cost vs. contribution

BYLINE: Margaret L. Usdansky

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 806 words


At the heart of the debate over immigration lies one question: How much do
immigrants cost the USA and how much do they contribute?

Almost every time the question comes up, one person's numbers are used: Rice
University economist Donald Huddle.

Huddle's dramatic claim that legal and illegal immigrants cost $ 42.5 billion
more each year than they pay in taxes appears everywhere from Congress to
front-page news stories.

But many academics now challenge Huddle, saying his headline-grabbing claims
come from a study with logic that's hard to follow and many numbers that come
out of thin air.

"I think the numbers are just completely wrong," says Jeffrey Passel, a
demographer with the Urban Institute, a Washington, D.C. think tank. "If you try
to measure them against any data, they don't make any sense."

"The numbers he comes up with are just absolutely implausible," says University
of Chicago economist Robert LaLonde.

Huddle isn't troubled by criticism: "If you're doing something so against the
elite, conventional wisdom, you'll get hit." Huddle's study was commissioned by
the Carrying Capacity Network, a Washington, D.C. group concerned about rapid
population growth - not an academic journal. It has not been presented to a
major academic conference.

But Huddle's work has dominated the immigration debate outside academia, partly
because few other studies are available. Experts say solid numbers are hard to
come by.

"Some people have a political agenda on both sides and they'll take whatever
numbers happen to fit their case," says George Borjas of the University of
California at San Diego.

Huddle says his study was thoroughly scrutinized by experts he selected. And, he
charges, many academics who criticize his work reached similar results.
Researchers at the Urban Institute and Princeton University "try to get away
from their own conclusions," Huddle says. "They try to weasel out of it."

An Urban Institute study released last month that rebuts Huddle's numbers "isn't
weaseling out of anything," Passel says. That study estimated that instead of
costing $ 42.5 billion a year, immigrants actually pay $ 28.7 billion more in
taxes than they cost in services such as education and welfare.

But Passel says no one knows exactly how much immigrants cost or benefit the
economy. That's because information about individuals' income, taxes and use of
social services isn't available - for immigrants or anyone else. So social
scientists make estimates.

Different estimates produce different results. But most academics agree that the
federal government gets most of the taxes immigrants pay, while states and
cities bear most of the costs. They also agree the most expensive thing
immigrants do is send children to public school. Education accounts for more
than a fourth of all immigrant costs.

But immigrants also open businesses and buy food and housing. That money
"ripples through the economy and creates jobs," Passel says. Huddle's study
"takes none of this into account."

A hotly debated question among experts is whether immigrants take jobs away from
U.S.-born workers or lower their wages. A growing number of academics think
there's evidence immigrants lower wages.

Huddle goes further, saying that for every 100 immigrants who enter the USA, 25
U.S.-born workers lose their jobs, costing $ 11.9 billion a year in unemployment
and welfare benefits.

That claim is widely disputed - even by social scientists who share some of
Huddle's misgivings about immigration. "The data just suggest that's a flight of
fancy," says economist Barry Chiswick of the University of Illinois at Chicago.

Huddle says studies by Northwestern University economist Joseph Altonji back up
his claim. When told that, however, Altonji said his study "no evidence like
that." Countered Huddle: Altonji covered up the real results. He "wimped out."

Immigration costs: A plus or minus?

Calculations of the financial impact immigrants have on the USA vary
dramatically. Rice University economist Donald Huddle says the cost of
immigrants outweighs their benefit. The Urban Institute, a Washington
think-tank, argues the opposite. Annual cost comparisons:

 (in billions)
                                     Huddle       Urban Institute

Benefits from immigrants
Taxes paid                             $ 20.2           $ 70.3

Costs for immigrants
Government services                    $ 50.8           $ 41.6
Displacement(1)                        $ 11.9            $ 0.0
  Net effect                            -$ 42.5          +$ 28.7

1 - Benefits paid to U.S.-born workers who lose jobs to immigrants

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Gary Visgaitis, USA TODAY, Source: The Urban Institute
(Bar graph); PHOTO, b/w, Tim Johnson, AP

IMMIGRATION; See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              240 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     March 25, 1994, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Mexico and U.S.: The ties that bind

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 430 words


The assassination of the anointed leader of Mexico on Wednesday has thrown the
country into turmoil. A look at Mexico:

San Cristobal de las Casas: Indian uprising in Chiapas state in January demanded
poor get more rights, share of political power; 145 killed in fighting with
army. Government envoy abruptly broke off talks Thursday.

Tijuana: Luis Donaldo Colosio, in line to become next president, shot down while
campaigning; one arrested. Also, major route for drug shipments across U.S.
border

Chihuahua: U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration headquarters

Monterrey: (and north to border) - Industrial center, home to many U.S.-owned
companies

Veracruz, Campeche: Center of oil industry

Mexico City: Capital

Fast-growing country Mexico's population has grown quickly but maintains an
87.6% literacy rate. Population in millions:
             U.S.         MEXICO
1960          180.7        36.5
1991          252.5        86.3
2000          275.3       102.6

Most are Mestizo (Spanish-Indian)
Mestizo     60%

Amerindian 30%
Caucasian    9%
Other        1%

Mexican wage shortfall Although average Mexican wages have more than doubled
since 1987, they still lag far behind the USA, yielding about $ 5,918 in per
capita income per year. Hourly wages and benefits for private industry:

Many go north to earn money The number of legal immigrants are far outpaced by
illegals as indicated by these figures. (in millions)

 '93
Illegal Mexican immigrants   1,260,000
Legal Mexican immigrants       213,802

Political dominance

Only one of Mexico's nine political parties has any chance of winning the
presidency: the Institutional Revolutionary Party whose 65-year rule has made
Mexico into a virtual one-party state. It is currently led by Mexican President
Carlos Salinas de Gortari. Known by the Spanish acronym PRI, the party is under
siege to open up the political system. PRI controls 62 of the 65 Senate seats
and 320 of 500 seats in House of Representatives.

The other seats are held by:
-- The conservative, pro-business National Action Party (PAN), which has one
Senate seat and 89 House seats. Its strength is mostly in industrialized and
business-oriented northern Mexico.
-- The leftist Democratic Revolutionary Party (PRD), with two Senate seats and
41 House seats. It was founded by disenchanted PRI members and is headed by
Cuauhtemoc Cardenas, who nearly won 1988 elections.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Marcy E. Mullins, USA TODAY, Source: United Nations;
Immigration and Naturalization Service; Employee Benefits Research Institute;
Bureau of Labor Statistics; U.S. Department of Commerce, The World Factbook,
Stand alone graphic (Map, Mexico, line graph, pie chart, bar graph); PHOTO, b/w,
Flor Cordero, Reuters

THE USA AND MEXICO; See related stories; 01A, 02A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              241 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                March 26, 1994, Saturday, INTERNATIONAL EDITION

IMPLANT SUIT

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 141 words


Actress Farrah Forke from NBC comedy Wings filed a lawsuit saying her silicone
breast implants were negligently designed and harmed her when they ruptured.
Forke, 26, said she received the implants in 1989 and had them removed in
February 1993. She said neither the implant makers nor her doctor properly
warned her of possible complications.

GAY ASYLUM: A gay man who said police in his native Mexico raped and harassed
him was granted political asylum in what his lawyer said was the first U.S. case
involving sexual orientation. The man who identified himself with the pseudonym
Jose Garcia, told a news conference the Immigration and Naturalization Service
decision "saved my life." He said he hoped it also sent a signal to all
homosexuals "that there are countries in the world which respect the human
rights of all citizens."

TYPE: Lifeline

A QUICK READ ON WHAT PEOPLE ARE TALKING ABOUT

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              242 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     March 29, 1994, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

'Atlantic' study of a town squeezed hard by newcomers

BYLINE: Deirdre Donahue

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 487 words


A good magazine piece combines the timeliness of a newspaper article with the
distance and thought that comes from months of research.

An excellent example of this appears in the April Atlantic Monthly: "The Ordeal
of Immigration in Wausau," by Roy Beck. The piece couldn't be more timely,
considering the current firestorm over the proposal to curtail the benefits
illegal immigrants can receive.

Beck's piece explores the history of how Wausau, Wis., became an inadvertent
mecca for Southeast Asian refugees, particularly the Hmong people from Laos. The
immigrant population has more than quintupled in the small city since 1978. With
jobs scarce, 70% of the immigrants and their families receive public assistance.

Quite simply, the town feels overwhelmed by rising school taxes, gang activity
and the cost of social services. Writes Beck, "The overwhelming emotion seemed
to be sadness about a social revolution that the community as a whole had never
requested or even discussed. While most residents spoke well of the immigrants
as individuals, they thought the volume of immigration had crossed some kind of
social and economic threshold."

Beck draws parallels between the current immigration situation and the tensions
that emerged around 1910 in Wausau between German immigrants and the established
Yankees. And, more ominously, he believes the troubles that beset Wausau will
soon be played out across the nation.

OSCAR BURNOUT: Writing in the April 11 New Republic, editor Andrew Sullivan
accurately - if acidly - sums up the vacuous reality behind the acting icons of
the Academy Awards. Actors in general "are an excruciating bunch of insincere
egomaniacs.  They have little to say for themselves, they manage to combine
fathomless vanity with equally fathomless insecurity and their politics are
uniformly idiotic." Sullivan found Paul Newman's statement that actors are the
most giving of all Americans stunning: "Social workers, teachers, parents, take
a ticket," he writes. As a culture, Sullivan theorizes that we have placed
actors and actresses at the very center where, "like substitute teachers, they
grope for the lessons others used to teach; but merely provide us with
gestures."

SHORT TAKES: Directors are usually more provocative, as the May Out proves. Brad
Gooch profiles the flamboyant Spanish filmmaker Pedro Almodovar. . . . The
concept of a time capsule sounds dated but as a cultural pop document, it is
hard to top 20 Years of People Covers. Yes, this newsstand-only special issue
publishes all 1,038 covers. And surely, People itself has set some sort of
commemorative record. There was the special double issue, the TV special, two
books and one giant oversized coffee cup. Enough already. . . . The March/April
Family Life breaks the code of silence on the secret triangle of modern life. No
- not man, wife and mistress but rather, mommy, child and nanny.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, b/w (3)

TYPE: Magazines

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              243 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    April 6, 1994, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Lotto fever: 55,000 chances of a lifetime in the USA / This year, computers will
decide

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 678 words


A kind of lotto fever is spreading around the globe in anticipation of a State
Department lottery for 55,000 immigrant visas to the USA.

Would-be immigrants worldwide are clamoring for details, sifting through rumors
and succumbing to scam artists promising to make them winners in the lottery,
which opens June 1 and closes June 30.

"There's a lot of interest in this," says Gary Sheaffer, consular affairs
spokesman at the State Department, which last week announced the plan that
would-be immigrants have eagerly awaited for months.

But critics who think there are already too many immigrants in the USA are
exasperated by plans to accept 55,000 more - plus their spouses and dependent
children.

Even people illegally residing and working here may win the lottery.

"At a time when there's clear public apprehension and concern about immigration,
the federal government is out there advertising for more immigrants - what's
wrong with this picture?" asks Dan Stein, head of the Federation for American
Immigration Reform.

Visa lotteries aren't new. In 1990, post offices were swamped by millions of
entries, and thousands of applicants camped out in postal parking lots to be
among the first to file.

This year, winners will be picked randomly by computer, not by order of arrival.
And only one application per person will be accepted.

But the promise to reduce chaos hasn't diminished criticism.

"Why do we need this? What's the national purpose?" asks Stein.

Rep. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., who helped create the lottery, says it brings in
"hard-working" people from countries that usually don't get many visas.
"Rational and reasonable immigration is good," he says.

Lotteries are above and beyond the regular flow of legal immigrants.

Nearly 1 million legal immigrants were admitted in 1992, most on the basis of
reunification with close relatives already here. The numbers were dominated by a
few nations, such as Mexico, Vietnam and the Philippines.

That problem is supposed to be ameliorated by the Diversity Visa Lottery, which
was established in the 1990 Immigration Act and becomes permanent this year.

Under the plan, 55,000 immigrant visas - also known as green cards - are
apportioned to Africa, Asia, Europe, North America, South Pacific nations and
South America based on their immigration rates.

Countries that have sent fewer than 50,000 legal immigrants in the past five
years are included in the lotteries. This year, 12 countries - including Mexico,
Vietnam and the Philippines - are excluded.

There actually will be six separate lotteries - Asians compete with Asians,
Africans with Africans - and no single country will get more than 3,850 visas.

Lottery winners may later petition to bring their families, increasing the pool
of people eligible to enter under the family unification category.

In the first three years of the lotteries, 1990-1993, 40% of the visas were set
aside exclusively for the Irish, whose supporters argued had been
disproportionately excluded from the immigrant stream for decades. But in 1991
and 1992, not enough Irish applied, and this year there won't be an Irish quota.

Winners, who will be notified in late summer or early fall, have to meet
standard immigration criteria. Not eligible: anyone with a criminal record,
communicable disease or likelihood to wind up on welfare.

The big visa lottery

The State Department is making 55,000 permanent resident visas available through
a lottery to be held June 1-30. Visa allocations (3,850 limit per country) and
exclusions:
Europe                   24,549
Africa                   20,200
Asia                      6,837
Central/South America     2,589
Oceania (South Pacific)     817
North America (Bahamas)       8

Who shouldn't apply These countries are excluded because 50,000 or more
immigrants have come from these nations in five years: Canada China Dominican
Republic El Salvador India Jamaica Mexico Philippines South Korea Taiwan United
Kingdom Vietnam

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Nick Galifianakis, USA TODAY, Source: State Department
(Bar graph, List); PHOTO, b/w, Bill Perry, Gannett News Service

THE NATION; See info box at end of text; See related story; 10A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              244 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    April 6, 1994, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Beware promises of winning entries

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 186 words


Applicants for the U.S. visa lottery are being warned to avoid scam artists who
claim they can guarantee a winning entry.

The American Immigration Lawyers Association reports ethnic community newspapers
have carried ads by "snake-oil sellers charging hundreds of dollars to prepare
applications that anyone can file for the price of a stamp."

Says Gary Sheaffer, State Department consular affairs spokesman: "People are
charging exorbitant rates and promising things they can't deliver. There's no
way anyone can have inside information or influence selection because it's done
by computer."

Sheaffer says some immigration lawyers or consultants charge "reasonable fees"
to make sure applications are in order. "That's legitimate," he says.

But would-be immigrants often think they can't afford a lawyer.

"We're recommending our members take a few minutes and prepare applications for
free as a goodwill gesture," says Warren Leiden, director of AILA. "That way, if
the applicant wins, then the attorney gets his business in filling out all the
paperwork that accompanies the visa application."

THE NATION; See related story; 10A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              245 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    April 6, 1994, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

A painful reminder of U.S. indifference

BYLINE: Matt Roush

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 312 words


In World War II remembrance, the U.S. likes to think of itself as liberators,
champions of freedom.

How, then, to reconcile this image of glory with the shameful and largely
unacknowledged chapter of the nation's slow response to the Nazi genocide of
Jews - an episode The American Experience series brings to light in a
devastating account of "calculated bureaucratic delay" and "deliberate
obstruction of rescue."

America and the Holocaust - Deceit and Indifference, powerfully assembled by
Martin Ostrow, is also a startling reminder of the anti-semitism still pervasive
in the U.S. in the '30s and early '40s: restricted public venues, want ads
specifying "Christians only" and arduous immigration policies friendlier to the
British and Irish than to European Jews.

When the urgency to emigrate increased among Germany's Jews after the violence
of 1938's Kristallnacht ("night of broken glass"), these systematic bigotries
took on a deadly tone of indefensible neglect.

State Department documents speak of creating obstacles to "postpone and postpone
and postpone the granting of visas" and, later, to suppress mounting reports of
genocide. Not until 1944 did FDR establish a War Refugee Board to attempt
rescuing the victims of oppression.

Too little, too late.

Beyond the impressive research, Ostrow also triumphs by framing his report in
the heartbreaking personal story of Kurt Klein, a German immigrant who was bar
mitzvahed the same year Hitler came to power. At 17, he fled to the U.S. with
his siblings, but repeated efforts to bring their parents over and save them
from concentration camps were thwarted by government roadblocks.

America and the Holocaust has elements of suspense, tragedy, political intrigue
and an indelible history lesson - especially valuable at a time of "ethnic
cleansing" in Bosnia.

Watch, remember and mourn.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Yivo Institute for Jewish Research

TYPE: Television; TV Preview

America and the Holocaust -- Deceit and Indifference --

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              246 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     April 26, 1994, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Haitian refugees snared in Clinton policy / Advocates of asylum fear shift

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 471 words


They're stuck in jail, sweltering under tents in south Florida humidity, but
they're still the lucky ones - about 400 refugees who got out of Haiti and into
the USA.

Now the question is: How long do they get to stay? It could be a matter of life
and death, with continued violence in Haiti, where soldiers reportedly massacred
at least 23 people in one slum Saturday.

With the refugees expected to file for political asylum here, their fate will
ultimately rest with U.S. immigration judges.

In the meantime, they may be released to relatives in Miami or to resettlement
agencies who would find them homes outside Florida.

"There's a visible sense of relief that they're here and not in Port-au-Prince,"
says Thomas Wenski, pastor of Miami's Notre Dame D'Haiti Catholic Church. "I'm
thanking God they've been delivered."

But refugee advocates also wonder whether their arrival in Miami this weekend
signals another shift in the Clinton administration's Haitian policy.

"This might be just a one-time thing," frets Wenski.

In essence, Clinton policy says: Go home. Or better yet, don't even try to leave
Haiti.

The U.S. Coast Guard routinely forces refugee boats from Haiti to turn back -
under a Bush administration repatriation policy that candidate Bill Clinton
condemned but President Clinton follows.

But a boatload of 414 refugees was accepted Friday with the OK of top Clinton
officials.

They are now at the Krome Detention Center in Miami, an Immigration and
Naturalization Service facility.

Clinton denies any change in the repatriation policy. The Coast Guard Monday
sent back nearly 100 Haitians whose 35-foot sailboat was intercepted off Haiti
on Thursday. The group was returned to Port-au-Prince, where 18 were reportedly
detained by authorities.

Clinton said an exception was made for the 414 because of "extraordinary
circumstances," including crowding on their boat, its proximity to the U.S.
coast, reports of abuse on board, need for medical care and suspected smugglers.

"The whole purpose of the return policy is primarily to deter people from
risking their lives," Clinton said.

But others think Clinton responded to increased pressure from exiled Haitian
President Jean-Bertrand Aristide and his supporters in Congress.

Last week, six House Democrats were arrested outside the White House after a
protest over Clinton policies on Haiti. And Randall Robinson, director of the
TransAfrica lobbying group, is on a hunger strike to protest inaction.

"A lot of people speculate that there's been so much criticism that this was an
effort to calm people down," says Cheryl Little, of Florida Rural Legal
Services.

Friday, Clinton announced he will seek United Nations backing for an expanded
embargo of Haiti. The current U.N. embargo on oil and weapons is frequently
violated.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Wayne Fleisher, AP

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              247 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     April 26, 1994, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Officer: King came close to being shot

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 936 words


Rodney King was so out of control he came "very close" to being shot by police
officers, whose beating of King was captured on videotape, one of the officers
testified Monday.

Laurence Powell, one of two officers sentenced to 30 months in prison for
violating King's civil rights, said the beating was justified and "if he got up
and attacked me one more time, it was going to be a shooting situation." Powell,
who struck most of the blows during the March 3, 1991, incident, defiantly
asserted he was positive he had done nothing wrong. The federal civil jury has
awarded King $ 3.8 million for his injuries and now is considering punitive
damages against Powell and 14 others.

IMMIGRATION LAWSUIT: California this week will file the first in its series of
lawsuits against the federal government seeking enforcement of immigration laws
and reimbursement for state's costs of illegal immigration, Gov. Pete Wilson
said. Florida already has filed suit. Wilson said California initially will seek
$ 400 million, the annual bill to imprison illegal immigrants, and will ask a
court to order U.S. officials to prosecute "alien felons" who return to the USA.

CASINO ROBBERIES: Nevada Gaming Control Board officials, prompted by two weekend
casino robberies in Las Vegas, this week will urge additional security measures.
Eight casinos have been hit in the past 18 months. Five men, suspected of being
Los Angeles gang members, are charged with the Sunday robbery of Harrah's. The
Flamingo was hit Thursday for $ 158,000. The money is missing.

ASSISTED SUICIDE: Jack Kevorkian's Detroit trial on a charge of violating
Michigan's new law against assisting a suicide will continue, a judge ruled. His
lawyer, who wants the charge dismissed, said the prosecution was in the wrong
county. Kevorkian, an advocate of doctor-assisted suicide, has been present at
20 deaths. Also, the state panel that has studied the issue for a year decided
it couldn't agree and sent lawmakers three possibilities: legalize assisted
suicide with strict controls; continue the ban passed last year; or leave the
decision up to the Legislature and send along procedural safeguards to use if
lawmakers decide to allow it.

SPECIAL DELIVERY: Mail carriers hope to collect 35 million to 45 million pounds
of food for charity May 14. The National Association of Letter Carriers will
pick up donations on mail routes and distribute them to food banks. People
should leave packaged food near their mailboxes. Last year, 220 branches
collected 12 million pounds of food.

SCHOOL PRAYER: Bishop Knox returned as principal of Wingfield High School in
Jackson, Miss., for the first time since being suspended for allowing
student-led prayers over the intercom in November. A county judge Friday ordered
immediate reinstatement and back pay. His biggest problem Monday: getting the
school keys he had surrendered. The U.S. Supreme Court in 1962 barred officially
sanctioned in-school prayer.

KILLER CAT: Hikers, bikers and joggers are being warned a mountain lion is
suspected of killing a jogger in the Auburn Lake Trails subdivision near Cool,
Calif., 40 miles northeast of Sacramento. Authorities say there were claw marks
on Barbara Schoener, 40, and she may have been dragged down a hillside. Her body
was found Sunday.

PRIEST TO PRISON: The Rev. John Hanlon, 65, was sentenced to life in prison for
raping an altar boy in 1980 and 1981 while a Catholic priest at St. Mary's
Church in Plymouth, Mass. He's eligible for parole in 15 years. "I still wish
him dead," said the victim, William Wood, 27.

TRUTH IN SENTENCING: The New Jersey Supreme Court adopted a rule that judges at
sentencings must say when a defendant is likely to be paroled. Gov. Christie
Whitman had urged the measure. Most inmates get time off for being good and are
paroled long before their term ends.

ALSO MONDAY . . .

-- EXECUTION: Texas executed Arkansas parolee Larry Anderson by injection early
today for the 1982 stabbing murder of Houston bar manager Zelda Webster, 28.

-- RED BAITING: New Hampshire's 1951 Subversive Activities Act, which outlawed
the Communist Party and required loyalty oaths of state workers and political
candidates, is being repealed effective June 21.

-- TWISTER: Three people were hurt and up to 20 homes leveled by a tornado in
Talihina, Okla., emergency workers said. Some residents were missing. A tornado
in Lancaster, Texas, injured 12.

-- GRANT'S TOMB: Descendants and admirers of Ulysses S. Grant asked a federal
judge to order the government to restore the 18th president's burial site in New
York. Lawyer Edward Hochman cited urine stains, litter and graffiti.

Spy case plea agreement in works

A plea agreement may be near for Aldrich and Rosario Ames, accused of selling
secrets to the Russians and Soviets for more than $ 2.5 million while he was
with the CIA.

News reports say he would plead guilty, take a life prison sentence and
cooperate in assessing the damage he's done to national security - if his wife
gets a relatively short prison term so she can care for their son, Paul, 6.
Prosecutors are said to have offered her a five-year sentence, but she has
resisted. Aldrich Ames' lawyer said it's possible an agreement could be
disclosed Thursday in federal court in Alexandria, Va., but that depends whether
Rosario Ames agrees. Also, the White House is considering a plan to transfer key
spy-catching and policy-setting responsibilities to the FBI from the CIA, The
Washington Post reports today.

Contributing: Gary Fields, Jane Schmucker, Sandra Sanchez and Steve Marshall

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, AP; PHOTO, b/w, Rogelio Solis, AP; PHOTO, b/w, Agence
France-Presse

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              248 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                       May 9, 1994, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Cuban pilot locks out crew, flies plane to Miami

BYLINE: Gary Fields

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 185 words


A civilian Cuban pilot flying about 16 passengers to the Bahamas from Havana
diverted to Miami Sunday and sought political asylum.

Pilot Basilio Garcia-Breto will be turned over to the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Officials said he locked the crew out of the cockpit and flew into Miami
International Airport.

"The co-pilot said the pilot had asked him to go get him something to drink and
when he did, the pilot locked the door from the inside," said Guido Pietroni, a
24-year-old passenger from Genoa, Italy.

Pietroni said "the co-pilot was trying to open the cockpit door with a
screwdriver."

"When the plane landed, the co-pilot wanted to attack the pilot with a
screwdriver," Pietroni said. "The police handcuffed the co-pilot because they
thought he was going to kill the pilot."

Authorities initially thought the aircraft had been hijacked, said Federal
Aviation Administration spokeswoman Kathleen Bergen.

In December 1992 Carlos Cancio Porcel diverted his plane to Florida from Havana.
He wasn't prosecuted as a hijacker since as captain he remained in control.

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              249 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      June 17, 1994, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Shipboard U.S. inspectors question Haitian refugees

BYLINE: Tom Squitieri

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 404 words


U.S. immigration inspectors on a Navy hospital ship in Jamaica have begun
interviewing 35 Haitian refugees, the first whose bids for asylum will be
determined under the new U.S. procedures.

The Haitians, fleeing the country controlled by army chief Raoul Cedras, were
picked up Wednesday by the U.S. Coast Guard from three small boats. They were
transferred to the 1,000-bed hospital ship Comfort, anchored in the harbor of
Kingston. They will receive hearings for their asylum claims. Those granted
immigration status will be taken to the U.S. Navy Base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba,
for processing before being flown to the USA. Those denied asylum will be
returned to Haiti.

Meanwhile, 12 U.S. Embassy staffers and families left Port-au-Prince, the
largest group to leave since President Clinton last week banned commercial air
flights to Haiti.- Tom Squitieri

RWANDA FIGHTING: Factions battled in the deserted capital Kigali, ignoring an
African-brokered cease-fire agreement and forcing the United Nations to put off
scheduled peace talks. Government forces and the rebel Rwanda Patriotic Front
traded mortar rounds and heavy machine gun and small arms fire during the
fighting in the African nation.

BOSNIA MAP: International peacemakers are huddled in London to draw the map of a
future Bosnia-Herzegovina. Under a plan attacked by all sides, the Muslim-Croat
federation would hold 51% of the former Yugoslav republic, with Bosnian Serb
land cut from 70% to 49%. Meanwhile, fighting raged between rival Muslim forces
in the Bihac enclave.

YEMEN WAR: Northern Yemeni gunners pounded the besieged southern city of Aden,
sending shells crashing into single-story houses and killing 18 people. As the
worst shelling in recent days rocked parts of Aden, about 1,000 foreigners
started boarding a ship sent from Africa to rescue them from Yemen's 6-week-old
civil war between north and south.

CRISIS IN SWEDEN: Environment Minister Olof Johansson resigned after Sweden's
government said it would go ahead with plans to build a controversial bridge and
tunnel link to Denmark. He says it could harm the environmental balance of the
Baltic Sea.

FREEDOM RIDE: Three busloads of Palestinian prisoners freed by Israel, including
some members of the extremist wing Hamas, arrived in the Palestinian-controlled
Gaza Strip. They're the first of more than 1,000 expected to be released over
the weekend.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1994June 22, 1994June 22, 1994June 22, 1994June 22, 1994June
22, 1994

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, AP

TYPE: Elsewhere in the World

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              250 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      June 20, 1994, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Suddenly, not enough refugees / 35 Haitians at U.S.  site in Jamaica

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 622 words

DATELINE: KINGSTON, Jamaica


After a multimillion-dollar U.S. effort to set up a Haitian refugee processing
center here, there's a hitch: few refugees.

Only 35 Haitians have arrived to ask for asylum after:

-- Five weeks of preparations and days of negotiations with Jamaican officials.

-- The dispatch of 1,200 U.S. immigration, military and government personnel
here.

-- The arrival of the U.S. Navy hospital ship Comfort to act as the floating
processing center in Kingston's harbor.

And it may be unnecessary: President Clinton's special Haiti adviser, William
Gray, says the United States signed an agreement with the British-held Turks and
Caicos Islands, north of Haiti, to set up a land-based processing center in
July. "I suspect that will become the primary processing site," Gray says.

That news is expected to please Haitian advocates in the USA, who criticize
shipboard processing as inadequate for protecting refugee rights.

"We hope it will allow for the procedural safeguards which even the
administration concedes are essential, such as access to counsel and a formal
appeals process," says Robert Rubin of the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights,
who flew into Jamaica on Sunday.

The most prominent of those critics is Washington-based activist Randall
Robinson, who arrived Sunday and hopes to tour the Comfort today.

Robinson, director of the Africa and Caribbean policy and lobbying group
TransAfrica, earlier this year went on a 28-day hunger strike to protest
Clinton's Haiti policy of turning back Haitian refugees without giving them a
chance to make a case for political asylum.

Only six of the first 35 "migrants," as the U.S. government calls them, were
granted refugee status.

The 31 men, three women and one baby girl were picked up in three boats off
Haiti by the U.S. Coast Guard on Wednesday. By early Friday they had been
interviewed by immigration officers and examined by Navy physicians.

The six who were accepted, all men, were whisked off by plane Friday to the U.S.
Navy base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, where they will get a chance to apply for
U.S. entry.

The 29 who were turned down remained on board the Comfort. They're being
returned to Haiti today.

Under U.S. law, refugees must demonstrate a well-founded fear of persecution
based on race, religion, national origin, membership in a social group or
political opinion. Desire to escape poverty or general unrest does not entitle a
person to asylum.

Officials of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees are aboard the Comfort to
monitor the process. So far, says commission spokeswoman Barbara Francis, the
U.N. agency is satisfied the processing system seems to work but worries about
larger numbers.

Military and immigration officials repeatedly stress that the system is designed
to be non-intimidating so the applicants feel more comfortable in telling their
stories.

"Compassion is much different than fairness in what could be a life-or-death
decision for the migrants," Francis says.

The Jamaican government is also concerned about fairness, given the current of
sympathy here for the Haitians and lingering distrust of Clinton administration
intentions.

Jamaican observers will watch the processing to underscore its fairness.

The Clinton administration appears to be aware of the political risks the
Jamaican government is taking to help out the United States. This was made clear
by Gray during his weekend stopover.

"I'm here to express the appreciation of President Clinton to the Jamaican
government for its support in dealing with this hemispheric problem," Gray said,
with Jamaican Foreign Minister Paul Robertson standing next to him. Robertson
reminded reporters Jamaica agreed to cooperate for no more than six months.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1994June 21, 1994June 21, 1994June 21, 1994June 21, 1994June
21, 1994

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Pedro Ugarte, Agence France-Presse; PHOTO, b/w, Anita Baca,
AP

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD; See sidebar; 06A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              251 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     June 23, 1994, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

24% of migrants accepted as refugees / Highlights Clinton bid for fairness

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 540 words

DATELINE: KINGSTON, Jamaica


Haitians going through the U.S. center here are gaining refugee status at a
higher rate than expected by the White House.

Out of 127 migrants processed on the Navy ship Comfort as of Tuesday, 30 were
accepted as refugees.

The acceptance rate is about 24% or five times the 5% rate administration
officials predicted when the processing system was announced.

The 5% was based on the acceptance rate for applicants at the U.S. Embassy in
Haiti.

Though the total number of migrants processed is still low, the
higher-than-expected acceptance rate bolsters administration efforts to show
that the processing system is fair.

"The applicants here have the most assurances (of fairness) of any applicant
group the INS now deals with," says Arthur Nieto of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service working in the processing operation on the Comfort.

Those accepted as refugees are taken to the U.S. Navy base at Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba, for medical exams and then can apply for entry to the USA.

Meanwhile, 22 more Haitians arrived Wednesday morning at the processing center.
Another 77 are expected today.

In Washington, Randall Robinson, head of the lobbying group TransAfrica, blasted
the U.S. effort. "Shipboard processing - even if done perfectly - is inadequate.
. . . It's not a good idea." Robinson just returned from a trip to Haiti.

Elsewhere Wednesday:

-- President Clinton ordered U.S. financial institutions to freeze the assets of
all Haitians still living in Haiti.

Clinton's order, which took effect Wednesday, expands the financial squeeze the
administration earlier applied to Haiti's military leaders. It's designed to
make life so uncomfortable - even among those who don't directly support the
military - that ousted president Jean-Bertrand Aristide will be returned.

"It sends a signal to the wealthy Haitians and others that we're serious about
this," says White House press secretary Dee Dee Myers.

"We're going to continue to press, we're going to continue to tighten
sanctions."

-- In Port-au-Prince, sandbags went around key government installations and
foreign journalists were ordered to stay within 12-miles of the capital, as
Haiti's military-backed government continued to move deeper into a siege
mentality.

The actions came two days before the imposition of stiffer economic sanctions
against Haiti, including a ban on most airline flights.

The civilian government also declared some parts of Haiti "strategic areas" -
smugglers' havens along the border and coast areas - and made them off limits to
all foreigners.

In addition, the government banned the media and photos near the presidential
palace, military headquarters and police station.

Streets leading to such areas were blocked off with sandbags and guards.

Foreigners violating the orders would be expelled from the country, the military
said.

-- A new Associated Press poll of U.S. residents found that only 28% favor
military intervention in Haiti; 54% oppose it. The national poll of 1,003 adults
also found 62% think the USA is taking in too many Haitians.

The poll by ICR Survey Research Group has a margin of error of 3 percentage
points.

Contributing: Judy Keen, Juan J. Walte and Tom Squitieri in Port-au-Prince

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1994June 25, 1994June 25, 1994June 25, 1994June 25, 1994June
25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, color, AP; PHOTO, b/w, Anita Baca, AP

HAITI; See related story; 09A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              252 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     June 30, 1994, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Florida's foreign felons now facing deportation

BYLINE: Deborah Sharp

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 735 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Colombian-born Jimmy Fernando Mejia was scheduled to serve 15 years for a $
40,000 cocaine deal in Tampa with an undercover cop.

Wesley Newton Robinson of Jamaica was set for release next year on a sentence
earned trying to sneak through the West Palm Beach, Fla., airport with 2 kilos
of cocaine stashed in his boots.

Carlos Torres of Colombia had five years to go on his term after a Miami airport
X-ray machine showed he'd smuggled 2.39 pounds of heroin - in packs inside his
stomach.

These foreign-born felons are among hundreds in Florida whose sentences will be
cut short under a clemency and deportation plan that federal officials hope to
expand to other immigrant-heavy states. On Wednesday, 24 criminals who were
among the first granted clemency in Florida were flown back to their homelands.

"This project demonstrates the ways that states and the federal government can
cooperate to identify criminal aliens in our prisons and jails and to deport
them so they do not get back on the street," says U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service Commissioner Doris Meissner, who expects Florida's plan
to expand to California, Texas, Illinois, and New York.

"They did not live within our laws and we will not allow them to live in our
country," said Florida Gov. Lawton Chiles. The precedent-setting plan is
supposed to ease the state's chronic prison crowding and shave the estimated $
60-million-a-year cost of incarcerating aliens.

Officials say about 500 of Florida's 2,700 imprisoned aliens have committed the
kinds of non-violent crimes - mostly drug-related - that make them eligible for
clemency and deportation. So far, 113 have been granted clemency. Officials
expect to grant clemency and deport several hundred more throughout this year.

The felons - who would have faced deportation any way at sentence end - will go
to prison again if they ever re-enter the USA. But the plan includes no
sentences or other punishment once they're back in their homelands - a point
seized upon by critics.

"We're saying . . . 'You can come into Florida, you can do some horrendous drug
trafficking, you can get caught, you can get sentenced. But if you're a
Colombian, we're going to let you out early,' " says Tom Gallagher, who cast the
Florida Cabinet's sole vote against clemency. Gallagher is among several
Republicans seeking to run against Chiles, a Democrat, in this year's governor's
race.

Florida's clemency and deportation deal was a hot topic at this month's American
Immigration Lawyers Association convention in San Francisco. The group's Warren
Leiden applauds the prison cost-saving aspects, as well as the uncommon
cooperation between state government and U.S. immigration officials. But he
cautions there may be a potential for abuse of the rights of legal immigrants
imprisoned in Florida and other states weighing the plan.

"We want to make sure this is done in a way that allows those with a chance to
remain in this country the chance to exercise that right," he says.

Foreign-born inmates in state prisons across the USA: 61,744. In federal
lock-ups: 22,326.

"This is pretty innovative," the INS's Lisa Jacobs says. "(This) frees up bed
space to put some people in jail who should not be walking the streets."

Illegal immigrants freed from prison, then deported

To reduce crowding and costs, Florida is granting clemency to, and then
deporting, hundreds of illegal immigrants in state prisons. Of the first 113:

COUNTRY OF ORIGIN
Colombia                 60
Jamaica                  14
Haiti                     6
Peru                      5
Dominican Republic        4
Mexico                    4
Bahamas                   4
Panama                    3
Venezuela                 3
Nicaragua                 2
Trinidad                  2
Honduras                  2
Guatemala                 1
Guyana                    1
British Virgin Islands    1
Canada                    1

CRIMES
Cocaine trafficking      91
Illegal drugs            12
Heroin trafficking        3
Cocaine possession        3
Marijuana trafficking     2
Grand theft               1
Concealed weapon          1

Source: Florida Parole Commission

LOAD-DATE: July 02, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Daniel Portnoy, AP

See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              253 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     August 1, 1994, Monday, FINAL EDITION

'A real melting pot' / Lowell, Mass., welcomes immigrants, with little backlash

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 691 words

DATELINE: LOWELL, Mass.


Since 1822, this city has been a gateway for immigrants, beginning with the
first Irish immigrants who walked up from Boston to help build the city's
canals.

Today, there are 55 different ethnic groups settled here, from Irish, French
Canadian, Greek and Polish, to Italian, Portuguese and Russian. And what's
remarkable, say observers, is how this city has succeeded in accommodating such
a diverse population.

That's why the National Commission on Immigration Reform has scheduled a hearing
here today to explore how a medium-sized New England town still struggling with
a brutal recession copes with large-scale immigration with a minimum of the
anti-immigration sentiment raging in places like California.

"Lowell reflects what America is all about, it's a real melting pot," says Mayor
Dick Howe, former head of the school board during the late 1980s, when 50 new
Southeast Asian children were arriving every week and there were no bilingual
teachers and an acute shortage of classrooms.

The city has spent $ 130 million since 1988 on 10 new schools. The student
population is 55% minority - up from 18% in 1986. Nearly half speak languages
other than English at home.

"The leadership has not forgotten that newcomers made this city," say Eleanor
Glaessel-Brown, a political demographer who has studied Lowell.

The latest batch of "new people" bringing their culture to the former "Spindle
City" are the Cambodians. An estimated 25,000 Cambodians are living here -
almost one-quarter of the city's population and one of the largest in the
country next to Long Beach, Calif.

"We are proud of our community," says Akara Im, 15, who helps her family with
its Cambodian wedding business.

Cambodians are helping revitalize a city still reeling from the downturn of the
high-technology industry that once fueled the 1980s' "Massachusetts Miracle." By
1990, 10 years after their arrival, there were nearly 90 Cambodian-owned
businesses in Lowell.

There's been little organized resistance to immigrants. A former school board
chairman led a successful campaign to make English the official language three
years ago. "(The English law) was a way for people to vent, to say we're still
in power, and then it was over," says Lydia Mattei of the International
Institute of Lowell, which has helped resettle thousands of refugees.

That's not to say that immigrants don't struggle against misconceptions from
people who don't understand the culture and believe immigrants are on welfare,
selling drugs or forming gangs.

"We work for everything, we earn it," says Pedro Alguila, 40, a Dominican who's
been in Lowell for 13 years.

And because there's such a diverse population, immigrants have to learn to
adjust not only to local residents but to other immigrants as well.

Immigrant leaders are trying to forge inter-ethnic alliances, encouraging people
to become citizens and register to vote to achieve what they still lack -
political clout in local governments.

"It will take time because people are so afraid to take action. They think the
government will punish them," says Vongsaranak Ros, 22, a Cambodian University
student.

Law enforcement officials also are working to foster understanding. District
Attorney Tom Riley's Southeast Asia task force, started two years ago after a
shooting, has evolved into a forum for community discussion of problems like
crime and drugs.

Police have opened precincts in ethnic neighborhoods. "We recognized we couldn't
communicate with a large segment of the community," says police superintendent
Ed Davis. "You can't solve crimes if people won't talk to you."

Immigrants and Lowell, Mass.

Lowell is an example of the effects on many areas of Massachusetts from a stream
of more than 150,000 immigrants between 1986 and 1992:

Nearly 40% of Lowell's 110,000 people are immigrants
Cambodians       25,000
Laotians          4,500
Vietnamese        1,500
Hispanics        10,000

Minorities are a majority in city schools 1988-86 18% 1989-90 50% 1993-94 55%(1)
(1) - 27% are Southeast Asians

... and many speak languages other than English

LOAD-DATE: August 03, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Suzy Parker, USA TODAY, Sources: University of
Massachusetts at Lowell Center for Family, Work and Community; Lowell Coalition
for a Better Acre; Lowell School District (Map, Massachusetts; Bar graphs);
PHOTO, b/w, Henry Hilliard

THE NATION; See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              254 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     August 8, 1994, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Refugees from '80 boatlift have found societal success

BYLINE: Margaret Litvin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 277 words


The more than 125,000 Cuban refugees who came to Miami in the May 1980 Mariel
boatlift included several thousand criminals and mental patients who gave the
entire group a bad name.

But in the past 14 years the "rotten apples" have "eliminated themselves"
through criminal activity, says Miami sociologist Juan Clark. As a result, he
says, "the animosity and the stigma assigned to that word Marielito has been
sort of disappearing in the Cuban community."

Most "successfully are working, honestly like any other immigrants," says Felix
Toledo, head of an exile group in Miami. "They are part of Cuban society like
any others that came before."

About 80% of the refugees are now U.S. citizens, says Miami lawyer Rafael
Penalver.

But about 8,000 have spent time behind bars, and some are still in prison.

Of the 125,266 Marielitos:

-- Cuba agreed to take back 2,746. About 1,200 were deported. Another 100 await
deportation. The rest won't be returned to Cuba unless they're convicted of a
crime.

-- About 1,100 are held in federal detention centers, where they are sent after
serving time for a conviction. These criminals, who have lost their right to
legal immigrant status, can't be returned to Cuba because they're not on Fidel
Castro's list.

Every year, these refugees are evaluated for release. "You're stuck in
determining whether to detain them indefinitely or re-parole them," says Duke
Austin of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. "Some have come back into
our custody two or three times."

-- Some are in jail. When they have served their sentences, they will be handed
over to INS. No total of these refugees is available.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, AP

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD; See related stories; 01A, 05A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              255 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     August 8, 1994, Monday, FINAL EDITION

U.S. to Cuba: Don't open refugee gate

BYLINE: Juan J. Walte

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 311 words


The Clinton administration hopes Fidel Castro's threat to flood southern Florida
with hundreds of thousands of Cuban refugees is easing.

Meanwhile, 600,000 Cubans gathered Sunday in Havana to show support for the
government, two days after a rare public protest that injured 35.

Castro raised the specter of a new Mariel - the 1980 refugee exodus - after
Friday's clash, which he blamed on the United States.

"We've made very clear to Castro that he cannot dictate our immigration policy,"
White House chief of staff Leon Panetta said Sunday on NBC's Meet the Press.

Administration officials met last weekend to discuss a response to an exodus.
Among the options: a blockade by warships of the passage between Key West, Fla.,
and Cuba, The Associated Press reports.

But Panetta says, "We (don't) have to face (a new Mariel) right now because,
frankly, things are calming down."

Castro, in Colombia Saturday, acknowledged there are Cubans discontented with
the desperate economic situation.

"But you have to consider the immense patriotism in most of the population."

Castro's threat to open the door for Cubans to leave did have an effect on U.S.
public opinion, already divided by bitter debates over immigration from Haiti
and Mexico.

And it brought back memories of the Mariel exodus when 125,000 Cubans fled over
six months, overwhelming officials' ability to handle them.

Many had criminal records and were sent to federal prisons. Some of those housed
at Fort Chafee in western Arkansas rioted, politically damaging then-governor
Bill Clinton.

"The potential for another Mariel is there, but I just don't think it will
happen immediately," said Jaime Suchlicki of the University of Miami.

The number of people leaving Cuba illegally to cross the 90 miles to Florida is
at the highest level in years - nearly 5,000 so far this year.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

See related stories; 05A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              256 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    August 11, 1994, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Diplomat blames U.S., throws jabs at immigration policy

BYLINE: Juan J. Walte

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 246 words


Cuba blamed the United States for recent refugee escapes, saying it's part of a
"strategic plan" to strangle Cuba economically and bring down President Fidel
Castro's regime.

In a rare news conference, Cuba's diplomatic representative in Washington, D.C.,
Alfonso Fraga Perez, said the United States "is interested in internal conflicts
and blood baths in my country . . . to open the door to a U.S. military
intervention."

He refused to talk about the apparent hijacking of a Cuban government boat
intercepted by the U.S. Coast Guard off southern Florida with 26 people on
board.

The State Department said Wednesday it has no plans to return 26 Cubans from the
boat, saying there is no proof of Cuban claims that they killed a naval officer
or committed other crimes.

Fraga accused the United States of an "immoral and cynical double standard" in
its immigration policies. He said only 2,000-3,000 visas are OK'd, but "any
Cuban who arrives illegally is welcomed with open arms." The United States
refuses to send back Cubans seeking asylum from the communist island.

A recent rash of refugee incidents led Castro to warn that he may allow all
Cubans who want to leave to do so, raising the specter of a second Mariel-type
exodus that brought more than 125,000 Cubans to the USA in 1980.

Fraga said the crisis can be solved if the United States lifts an economic
embargo, which Cuba considers the root of all its economic, social and political
problems.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              257 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   August 17, 1994, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Memories of Mariel / 14 years after boatlift, a 'much more explosive' situation

BYLINE: Deborah Sharp

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 545 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


As officials fire-drill for an immigration emergency, a new tide of refugees
awakens memories in those who fled from the Cuban port of Mariel.

"This situation is different. It's much more explosive," says college teacher
Braulio Saenz, among 125,266 Cubans who arrived in Florida from the Mariel port
in 1980.

"People are in dire need. And in desperation, people will do anything."

Florida's top emergency manager will meet today with local officials in Broward
County, just north of Miami, to review the state's emergency plan to deal with a
Mariel-sized flood of immigrants.

"We feel like we know our roles and responsibilities," says Joe Myers of the
state Division of Emergency Management. "We're going to need some federal help."

State officials have defined the trigger point at which the state's usual
refugee tide becomes an immigration emergency: the arrival of more than 300
refugees per day for at least three consecutive days.

Though reluctant to specify such a trigger, federal officials' plans to
forestall a Mariel-style exodus include an at-sea blockade and prosecution of
those who head south to pick up refugees.

In 1980, the Mariel boatlift was launched when Cuban president Fidel Castro said
whoever wanted to go could leave. Miami's prosperous Cuban-American community
launched a freedom flotilla to rescue relatives.

The entire group of refugees gained a bad name when thousands of mental patients
and criminals were added to passenger lists.

"There was a stigma," recalls Saenz, 59, who teaches biology at Miami-Dade
Community College's Kendall campus. "I say I came during Mariel, and people are
astonished, their eyes popping out: I'm a professor. My English is good. They
say, 'How can a college professor have come from Mariel?' "

After 14 years, the stigma has faded.

"There has been a major change in the attitudes and perceptions of most people
in regards to the Mariel people," says Antonio Jorge, a Florida International
University political scientist. "It was not the horror story we heard of in the
beginning."

Emergency plans now being readied will mean a distinct difference in the
reception given Cuban refugees who have arrived since Mariel. The majority of
refugees currently receive a brief immigration screening, and are released to
friends or family. Under the emergency measures:

-- Arriving refugees would be taken into custody and kept at temporary state
processing centers in schools, firehouses or police stations.

-- Within 72 hours, they'd be sent to federal centers at military bases or
Miami's Krome Detention Center.

-- The federal plan would move the majority of the Cubans outside Florida.

"Resettlement has been going on for quite some time. Thousands upon thousands of
Cubans were relocated," says Jorge.

Of the first wave of Cuban refugees, 451,496 from 1959-1972, about 298,798 were
sent outside the Miami area, he says.

Says Jorge: "I think everybody agrees the cost would be too great for Dade
County to absorb."

Saenz, who made the crossing with his wife and two teen-aged daughters in a
shrimp boat hired by Miami relatives, says: "You can talk to hundreds of
refugees from a communist country like Cuba, but you will never understand the
feeling of being owned by the system."

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Daniel Portnoy, AP; PHOTO, b/w, UPI

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD; See related story; 06A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              258 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    August 18, 1994, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Fla. asks help with growing Cuban influx

BYLINE: Carrie Dowling

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 229 words


Florida officials, reeling under a near-record influx of Cuban refugees, are
turning to the federal government for help.

"The situation is reaching critical proportions," said Gov. Lawton Chiles
Wednesday.

He asked Washington "to immediately alleviate the burden on local and state
taxpayers."

Congress Tuesday raised the Immigration Emergency Fund to $ 75 million from $ 35
million.

The Coast Guard picked up 465 Cubans in 43 groups Wednesday, the biggest one-day
total since the Mariel boatlift in 1980.

"We're getting them out of rowboats, homemade rafts, inner tubes, basically
anything that can float," says U.S. Coast Guard spokesman Luis Diaz.

Among those rescued Wednesday: Alejandra Castillo, 91, who came because her son
was leaving. "I wasn't going to be left behind," she says.

The influx comes two weeks after Cuban President Fidel Castro threatened to
protest U.S. immigration policy by opening his ports
to all who want to leave.    Jose Basulto, the leader of a

volunteer group that searches for Cubans in the Florida Straits, says several
emigres have told him Cuban security made no effort to stop them.

The Clinton administration says it will not tolerate a tide of refugees like
that in 1980.

Cuban refugees, unlike the Haitian boat people, are granted asylum on the
assumption they are fleeing communism.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              259 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     August 22, 1994, Monday, FINAL EDITION

EDITORIAL CARTOON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 11 words


I WILL NOT LET CASTRO DICTATE U.S. IMMIGRATION POLICY ...

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CARTOON, b/w, Michael Ramirez, Memphis Commercial Appeal, for USA TODAY

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              260 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                August 25, 1994, Thursday, INTERNATIONAL EDITION

U.S. expands Guantanamo refugee space

BYLINE: Bill Nichols

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 328 words


The Clinton administration, facing a massive influx of Cuban refugees, on
Wednesday announced plans to expand detention camps at the Guantanamo naval base
in Cuba to house up to 40,000 refugees.

"We have a flood of boat people on the way to Guantanamo now," Defense Secretary
William Perry said at a White House briefing. Perry said about 9,000 Cubans
already have been picked up at sea by U.S. Coast Guard and Navy ships, and 2,000
of those now are at Guantanamo. The 7,000 others are en route to the U.S. base,
in southeastern Cuba.

The administration has said those people have no chance of being allowed into
the USA.

Earlier, White House spokeswoman Dee Dee Myers said the administration was
moving to make it easier for people still in Cuba to apply to become legal
immigrants.

The 1994 quota for Cuban immigrants is 20,000, a figure that has not been
reached.

"We're looking at ways to streamline the existing immigration process," Myers
said.

But Attorney General Janet Reno, speaking at the White House briefing, said,
"Some people feel if you get to Guantanamo you'll get into the United States.
That is not so."

She added a warning to the boat people: "Do not risk your lives. It is
dangerous."

Radio and television broadcasts to Cuba have been increased, and Cuban-Americans
are being urged to tell relatives to stay home. But the flow of refugees shows
no sign of abating.

"I am stunned by it," says Rep. Carrie Meek, D-Fla.

Perry said the United States is "preparing to maintain the base indefinitely if
necessary until such time as the people can be repatriated to Cuba."

Asked if that meant until Fidel Castro were "gone," Undersecretary of State
Peter Tarnoff, who also attended the news conference, replied without
elaboration: "Our policy is that they are to be detained for an indefinite
period of time."

One reported option: to move many of the 5,000 military personnel, civilians and
dependents to make room for migrants.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              261 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   August 31, 1994, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

20,000 immigrants may be allowed

BYLINE: Juan J. Walte

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 182 words


The flow of Cuban rafters to the USA rose sharply to 1,234 Tuesday amid reports
from Cuba that dozens more rafts were taking to the sea.

Meanwhile, U.S. officials indicated they aimed to nudge legal immigration by
Cubans up toward an annual figure of 20,000 at talks Thursday in New York with
Cuba in a bid to halt the flow of illegal immigrants. Only about 2,700 Cubans
were allowed to immigrate last year.

Saturday to Monday, the flow was down to 509, because of bad weather in the
Florida Straits. Also:

-- There are now 15,471 Cubans in the U.S. holding camp at the U.S. naval base
at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, with another 790 on ships headed there. And there's
14,308 Haitians. "It's not summer camp at Guantanamo," says Pentagon spokesman
Col. Douglas Kennett. "It's tough; it's dirty."

-- The Pentagon says 42 Navy and Coast Guard ships are operating in the Florida
Straits. Coast Guard aircraft fly 15 to 30 missions a day.

-- Honduras says it will accept 5,000 Cuban refugees.

Panama, Venezuela, Mexico and several Caribbean countries have said they'll
accept Cubans.

LOAD-DATE: September 01, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Dave Martin, AP

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD; See related story; 04A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              262 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   August 31, 1994, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

'Promised Land' dream tantalizes migrants / Politics and poverty keep people
moving

BYLINE: Ellen Hale, Gannett News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 725 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO DE ALEJANDRIA, Mexico


As villagers stroll through the town square in the weekly Sunday ritual,
sombrero-wearing old men fill the benches, youngsters crowd the sidewalks and
pretty girls amble arm in arm.

One thing is missing: Like thousands of villages across Mexico, there are few
young men here. They've left for the USA, some legally and some not, to get
jobs.

Says Miguel Gutierrez, who spent seven years working in the USA: "Our fathers
and uncles and brothers went there, and so we do, too."

A population boom and the weak Mexican economy have produced this wave of
northward migration. That, in turn, helped spark an emotional immigration debate
in the USA.

And the USA is not alone: As the world convenes Monday at the U.N. International
Conference on Population and Development in Cairo, Egypt, many other countries
are eager for a plan that helps them cope with immigration.

The growing gap in the standard of living between wealthy and poor nations, as
well as increased political instability in some countries, has given rise to
record numbers of international migrants.

A draft plan for the U.N. conference estimates that 125 million people have left
their nations of birth.

The fastest-growing group of immigrants are refugees, as many as 19 million
worldwide, who have fled their countries for fear of persecution.

But the number of people moving from poor, developing nations to wealthy,
industrialized ones has increased four-fold in 30 years, according to a recent
study by Population Action International.

The U.N. plan has several proposals aimed at immigration. One says migrant
workers could be encouraged to return to their own countries, if wealthy nations
had policies allowing transfer of pensions and work benefits.

In many ways, the town of Peto, Mexico, represents a case study in migration
flow.

In Mexico, birth rates have dropped from an average of nearly seven children per
woman in 1970 to three this decade. But the rate remains nearly twice as high in
rural areas like Peto, the main source of immigrants to the USA.

Teodoro Acosta, 23, is part of a large clan in Peto, where six of the nine
children are boys. Four members of the Acosta family are now working in San
Rafael, Calif.; Teodoro Acosta and a brother just returned.

The mathematics of his decision to follow an older brother to the USA was
simple: Where Acosta could earn only $ 5 a day in Mexico, he earns 10 times that
in San Rafael.

That's not an unusual tale in Peto. Less than two decades after the first person
from Peto emigrated to California, as many as 5,000 people from this town of
just over 15,000 live in San Rafael.

So established is it in Peto that a special business, "Envio Express USA," was
set up in San Rafael and Peto to transfer earnings to Mexico with a single phone
call.

"For me, it's curiosity, it's adventure, it's money," Acosta says. "We want to
know what California is like, what the United States is like. We would still go
even if there were good jobs here."

Acosta and his brothers sent money back to pay for his sister to go to computer
school, plus some to all their other family members.

Such transfers are a vital part of the Mexican economy. One recent study
estimated that $ 2 billion in so-called "migradollars" makes its way to Mexico
from immigrants each year.

The results are obvious in many villages in Mexico, where per-capita income is
about $ 3,200. Those whose relatives have gone across the border may have
satellite dishes on their rooftops.

And on the streets, a visitor may see shiny new Fords and Chevrolets - with
license plates that read California, Texas, Oregon, Arizona and even Ohio.

So important is this money, and the support it offers their families, young men
willingly - and illegally - zip back and forth across the border.

Only one of the six Acosta brothers is fully documented as a legal immigrant in
the USA. The others have temporary papers that require them to stay in the USA
until they are fully documented.

But that doesn't stop Acosta, and he says that's a sign of how hard it would be
to stop anyone whose mind is set on crossing the border.

"It's so easy to sneak across," says Acosta, who goes from Peto to Tijuana to
cross at the border there in a secret spot. "If they catch you, you just do it
again the next day. They can't stop it. They can never stop it."

LOAD-DATE: September 01, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Jym Wilson, Gannett News Service

NATION/WORLD; See sidebar; 02A; See related stories; 01A, 02A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              263 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   September 1, 1994, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

U.S., Cuba set to begin talks today

BYLINE: Juan J. Walte

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 146 words


The United States and Cuba open talks today to deal with the surge of Cubans
fleeing the island, including 2,044 plucked from the Straits of Florida by
Wednesday night.

They follow 20,000 other Cubans who fled, most held at the U.S. naval base at
Guantanamo Bay in Cuba.

U.S. officials want to limit the talks in New York to Cuban immigration.

Washington is expected to propose an expansion in legal immigration if Fidel
Castro stops the mass flight of raft people.

Cuba hopes to include lifting a 33-year U.S. economic embargo of Castro's
regime.

Meanwhile:

-- Three Cubans trying to leave their country by walking across the border to
Guantanamo Bay were seriously wounded when one of them stepped on a land mine,
U.S. officials said.

-- The Pentagon said that 537 Cuban migrants have taken rafts directly to
Guantanamo, 41 have walked there and 55 swam.

LOAD-DATE: September 02, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NATION/WASHINGTON; See main story; 04A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              264 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    September 2, 1994, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Family of six made it out just in time

BYLINE: Deborah Sharp

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 749 words

DATELINE: HIALEAH, Fla.


Struggling to adjust as immigrants, Pedro Veliz and his family already feel
luckier than thousands of other Cuban rafters.

The six arrived one month before a presidential policy change closed a door long
open to Cubans.

Had Veliz left in August instead of July - with his wife, their kids, and his
two brothers - they'd be languishing in immigration limbo with 30,000 other
refugees at the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

Instead, in a two-bedroom apartment shared by 11, they're learning a new life
and trying to forget the old one that made them leave.

"Imagine Cuba as if it were a father you love, but he beats you," says Veliz,
40, a sculptor who spent a year in prison in Cuba for trying to flee before.
"This father doesn't feed you. He doesn't care for you. He doesn't let you
develop into what you can be. You love him, but you have to leave."

Adds Miguel Angel, 38, a Cuban policeman punished for brother Pedro's escape
attempts: "To get anywhere, one has to put Fidel Castro before family, before
anything. Many come here not for economic reasons. Some do, but so many come
because of the political repression."

The former policeman, worries about the wife and 15-year-old son he left behind:
"It's a very poor place for the son of a defected police officer. Accidents
happen."

Home - once the tiny Cuban fishing town of Isabela de Sagua about 150 miles east
of Havana - now is Hialeah, population 188,000, a working-class suburb of Miami
that's 77% Hispanic.

Since arriving July 21, their life has been a bewildering round of
social-service agencies and bureaucracies:

-- Receiving a $ 200 grant given each new arrival by Miami's church-run
resettlement agencies.

-- Waiting for hours for a Social Security number.

-- Finding minimum-wage work making furniture or packing clothes in a factory.

-- Sending a nervous Maykel, 13, to his first day at a U.S. junior high school
Thursday.

"I tell them things will come, little by little," says Consuelo Dominguez,
principal at Hialeah's Henry Filer Middle School.

When Maykel (say: Michael) is fearful because he knows only a word or two of
English, Dominguez reassures him in Spanish he'll have plenty of company. In the
first week of school, 103 new students enrolled in the most-basic English level
for foreign-born students.

In the cramped apartment shared with Pedro's brother and his family - who
arrived in Florida a year ago - a tiny TV tuned to a local cable station scrolls
the names of Cubans at Guantanamo.

Like other Cubans who've made it here, the family watches for names of friends
and relatives who were not so lucky.

The oldest of the brothers, Veliz brought the family on a 12-foot boat he built
himself - part of a three-vessel, tied-together convoy of 19 Cubans and one dog.

Even before leaving the coast of Cuba, the group spent 15 days hiding out among
the mangrove islands offshore, drinking rain water and eating fish while dodging
Cuban patrol boats.

When it finally was safe to leave, they sailed for three days, then shipwrecked
on a small rock island in the Florida Straits.

Spotted by a plane in the volunteer Cuban-American pilots' group known as
Brothers to the Rescue, the refugees were reported to the U.S. Coast Guard. A
day later, they were picked up and delivered to a new life in Florida.

Pedro's wife, Sonia Rodriguez, 31, says she can barely believe the USA's bounty:
Home Depot, Kmart and supermarkets with real meat, milk and fruit. In Cuba, she
says, grocery stores display pictures of food and offer empty shelves.

A church has offered used furniture, once they rent their own apartment. A Miami
friend gave them cast-off clothing, adding a new pair of school sneakers for
Maykel - a gift that would have cost a year's salary in Cuba.

"It makes me dizzy," she says. "There are so many things."

The biggest hurdle: Finding an affordable apartment. On a weekly salary of $
184, Pedro's brother Juan Carlos and his family were barely making ends meet in
Hialeah before the others moved in.

But his wife, Maria Estevez, says they'll do whatever they can to help family:
"What else would we do?"

Maykel Perez's middle school

Racial breakdown of the 1,701 students at Henry Filer Middle School in Hialeah,
Fla., where Maykel Perez was registered Thursday:
Hispanics(1)    81.8%  (1,392)
Blacks          14.8%    (251)
Whites           3.0%     (51)
Asians            .4%      (7)

1 - Non-Hispanic whites

LOAD-DATE: September 03, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Marty Baumann, USA TODAY, Source: Henry Filer Middle
School (Bar graph, Map); PHOTO, b/w, Tom Salyer

THE CARIBBEAN; See info box at end of text; See related story; 06A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              265 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    September 2, 1994, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Cuba refugee talks progress on upbeat note / Speeding the immigration process
among proposals

BYLINE: Juan J. Walte; Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 483 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


The United States told Cuba Thursday it is prepared to speed up admission to the
USA of nearly 28,000 immigrants to turn Cuba's massive exodus into a safe,
orderly immigration.

The first day of talks on the flow of Cubans by sea across the Florida Straits
reached no agreements but ended on a somewhat upbeat note.

"The talks represented a useful exploration of the migration issues," said U.S.
delegation spokesman David Johnson. "We both had a good opportunity to review
our concerns and discuss ways in which to address these issues."

He said the Clinton administration "remains very concerned about the outflow of
people from Cuba, which is proceeding in a dangerous and disorderly manner."

Others familiar with the talks said the U.S. delegation made a point of its
intention to grant "humanitarian parole" to would-be immigrants not otherwise
eligible for visas.

That's controversial.

Opponents of increased immigration and advocates for Haitian refugees question
whether the plan would be legal and whether it would work.

And they call it unfair, saying it grants special treatment for Cubans while
ignoring others, such as Haitians, also poor and persecuted.

"Preferential treatment for Cubans has been a political reality for a long time,
but that doesn't make it right," says Lucas Guttentag of the American Civil
Liberties Union.

Reports from Cuba indicate that efforts at dissuading refugees from setting sail
have failed so far, and many in Cuba are worried the talks may end their only
chance to leave.

More than 21,300 Cubans left the island in August, the highest monthly figure
since the 1980 Mariel boatlift.

Another 1,484 were picked up at sea Thursday.

As talks opened at the U.S. mission to the United Nations here, chief U.S.
negotiator Michael Skol deplored the "chaotic, dangerous and unsafe" exodus of
U.S.-bound Cubans.

"We want to end that. We want to replace it with the rule of law . . . and a
firm system of legal, safe and orderly migration," said Skol, No. 2 official in
the State Department's Latin American policy bureau.

Johnson said negotiators also discussed U.S. law enforcement measures and the
return of Cuban criminals now in U.S. jails. Some of the latter arrived in the
1980 boatlift.

Skol said there are no plans to discuss the 33-year-old U.S. economic blockade
of Cuba.

Former Cuban Foreign Minister Ricardo Alarcon, chief of the Cuban delegation,
said Thursday night he repeatedly brought up the U.S. embargo against the Castro
regime.

Interviewed on CNN, he accused the United States of continued "hostility" toward
Cuba and dismissed as "arrogant and undemocratic" the U.S. policy of urging Cuba
to move toward democracy and a more open system.

Talks continue today at the Cuban mission.

Cuban rescues on rise again

Cubans rescued by the Coast Guard in the past two weeks:
8/19     575
8/31   2,156

LOAD-DATE: September 03, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Suzy Parker, USA TODAY, Source: U.S. Coast Guard (Line
graph)

THE CARIBBEAN; See info box at end of text; See related story; 06A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              266 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   September 12, 1994, Monday, FINAL EDITION

U.S. doesn't soften up on Cuba / Says talks not a sign of a thaw

BYLINE: Lee Michael Katz

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 472 words


The Clinton administration Sunday downplayed any thaw in U.S.-Cuba relations,
two days after an immigration accord was reached with the island nation in an
attempt to shut down the Cuban raft flotilla.

Secretary of State Warren Christopher and U.N. Ambassador Madeleine Albright
both emphasized no talks would be held on anything other than refugee issues.

Their insistence Cuban leader Fidel Castro make significant human rights moves
before any diplomatic openings comes despite congressional and world pressure to
lift a 32-year-old U.S. trade embargo.

U.S. officials Friday agreed to accept a minimum of 20,000 refugees annually
from Cuba. Relaxed immigration rules will be announced by the end of this week,
U.S. officials said.

In return, Castro agreed to non-violently halt by Tuesday a raft exodus toward
Florida that at times reached several thousand Cubans a day.

Albright lambasted Castro, a 35-year U.S. nemesis: "What we want to see is the
removal of a tyrant and the creation of a democratic society in Cuba, the last
communist holdout," she said on ABC's This Week With David Brinkley.

That pressure is at odds with such influential Democratic congressional leaders
as House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Lee Hamilton, D-Ind., and his Senate
counterpart, Claiborne Pell, D-R.I.

"I think the fundamental flaw is that they are focusing policy on the person of
Castro" because of his "horrible" past, Hamilton said.

But with Cuba in economic shambles, "I don't believe Castro represents any
threat to us today or the national security of the United States," he said.

The embargo has been recently tightened to restrict money transfers and charter
flights. Hamilton said the embargo should be gradually lifted, starting with
food, medicine and communications, including reopening direct telephone service.

"I'd like in a sense to invade Cuba with people, with facts, with ideas, with
food," he said, to prepare for a post-Castro democracy.

Cuban police Sunday began to patrol Havana's Cojimar neighborhood in Havana, a
favorite launching point, to make sure no new rafts are brought to the beach,
The Associated Press reported.

"We're lucky; we're the last," said rafter Maria Rodriguez, setting sail in a
makeshift craft of welded metal and inner tubes.

But Sunday, the Coast Guard plucked 684 U.S.-bound Cubans out of the water. They
will likely end up back in Cuba in refugee camps at the U.S. naval base at
Guantanamo Bay. U.S. policy was changed last month to detain refugees
indefinitely rather than offer asylum.

Sunday in Guantanamo, 2,500 Cubans demonstrated against the immigration
agreement, Reuters news service reported. But military guards turned back a
march toward the main base without any reported injuries. Saturday, a Cuban
protester was wounded by a guard's bayonet.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Jose Luis Magana, AP

THE WORLD

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              267 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  September 14, 1994, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Cuba's beaches deserted as rafting ban takes hold

BYLINE: Natasha Singer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 302 words



The beaches around Havana were deserted for the first time in weeks Tuesday as
Cuban police banned rafters from trying to flee in homemade boats. In
Washington, State Department officials said they believed the Fidel Castro
government was fulfilling its part in a deal to end an exodus from the Caribbean
island. Cuba called a halt to the exodus after reaching an immigration accord
with the United States Friday in New York. The United States agreed to increase
the number of visas it grants to Cubans to a minimum of 20,000 a year.

PEACE ANNIVERSARY: Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres and PLO leader Yasser
Arafat agreed on ways to speed up donations to Palestinian self-rule projects,
Norwegian Foreign Minister Bjoern Tore Godal said. "We have the peace process
back on track," Godal told reporters. Peres and Arafat were in Oslo to celebrate
the first anniversary of the Palestine Liberation Organization's historic peace
accord with Israel.

NEW NATO CHIEF: Belgian Foreign Minister Willy Claes, expected by diplomats to
become the next head of NATO, says he is interested in the job and hopes there
will be strong consensus on the appointment. The two other candidates, the
Netherlands' Hans van den Broek and Norway's Thorvald Stoltenberg, may withdraw.

RUSSIAN REAL ESTATE: The United States, in its first purchase of Russian
residential property, spent about $ 8.3 million on condominiums for U.S.
government employees working in Russia. The United States agreed to buy 44 units
at Rosinka, about 40 minutes from downtown Moscow. - Natasha Singer in Moscow

FAMILY FEUD: Susana Higuchi, estranged wife of Peruvian President Alberto
Fujimori, launched her own candidacy for president in the 1995 election.
Higuchi, 44, has accused her husband's administration of corruption.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Elsewhere in the World

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              268 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

               September 30, 1994, Friday, INTERNATIONAL EDITION

U.S., U.K. tightening visa rules for business visitors / Target: 'Specialty
occupation workers'

BYLINE: Elisa Tinsley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 1243 words


In London and Washington, moves are under way to protect local workers from an
influx of foreign professionals, many of whom are washing up on U.S. and British
soil on a business tide created by the globalization of world economies.

U.S. business people are concerned about an amendment to the British Immigration
Act, which takes effect Saturday.

Rule 41 (iv) states that a business visitor to the U.K. will be granted entry
without a work permit only if he or she "does not intend to produce goods or
provide services within the United Kingdom."

Soon after the proposed changes were announced early this year, the American
Chamber of Commerce (UK) sent a letter to Britain's Home Office - equivalent to
the U.S. Department of State - to register its concerns over the amendment's
restrictions. Among its chief worries:

-- The rule clarifies the work-visa rule in a way that may make it more
difficult for U.S. consultants to enter the country on business.

-- Additional changes set a minimum age - 60 - for retirees who want to enter
the U.K. without proof of substantial, independent means.

-- And a new clause specifies where and how someone seeking permission to enter
the U.K. as an investor may invest money in the U.K.

The Chamber's president, Edward Streator, sent another letter last June to
Michael Howard, secretary of state for the Home Department, complaining that the
new rule requires visitors who wish to provide services within the U.K. to
obtain "prior entry clearance or (a) work permit."

Streator added, "The new Rule is unduly restrictive and likely to impede the
free and speedy flow of business people from overseas intending to provide a
service required by a U.K. company."

In his response, Howard called the Chamber's concerns "unfounded." "The only
change has been to make clearer in the Rules our long-standing view that the
provision of service per se normally requires a work permit. We will continue to
have a flexible approach on this matter."

Chris Magrath, an immigration lawyer and senior partner at Magrath and Co. in
London, agrees with Howard, saying U.S. consultants are unlikely to have
problems entering the U.K., despite the rule change. "Consultants coming in for
for-profit seminars will be taken on a case-by-case basis," he says. "Almost
always, the Home Office will grant that."

While immigration officers still will have some power to exercise discretion in
an emergency, the new rule "will greatly restrict" their ability to do so in the
future.

Magrath says, "We've usually been able, on a borderline case, to persuade a
chief customs officer at the airport to exercise discretion. Now they won't be
allowed to do that."

The reason for the changes, he says, is to protect the resident labor force.
"Work permits will not be issued unless the Department of Employment is
satisfied that there is no individual within the entire European area who can
satisfy the category."

Says Stephen Maltby, an immigration lawyer with Gibney, Anthony & Flaherty in
New York, "I suspect that the new U.K. rule changes . . . will tip a few people
- not many - into the work-permit category, as opposed to just going in on
business.

"But I don't think it's that dramatic." What Maltby does think is dramatic is a
proposed U.S. rule change that would limit the ability of U.S. companies to hire
foreign firms to supply workers in the USA.

He says the "proposed changes in the U.S. rules take aim at foreign 'job shops,'
most notably those in the computer industry, who send their employees to the
U.S. on the B-1 visa."

He adds, "These workers will be required to obtain H-1B visas that are available
to specialty occupation workers."

The B-1 visa is for business visitors coming in for a few days. The H1 visa is
aimed at longer-term visitors who enter the USA on condition they remain on the
payroll of an overseas company while in the USA, Maltby says.

Under the proposed rule change, more foreign workers will be required to apply
for H-1B visas. This creates two problems, says Maltby.

"First, the H-1B visa requires evidence of compliance with certain labor
regulations, including U.S. prevailing wage rates and other working conditions.
This adds to the cost and time to procure the visa."

The second issue: Congress has limited the annual number of H-1B visas issued to
65,000.

By the end of this fiscal year - Friday, Sept. 30 - Maltby says there were just
a few hundred H-1B visas remaining.

The new rules would force more people into the already strained H-1B category.

"As you get towards the end of each visa year, there's likely to be an
unavailability of H-1B visas to retain the services of foreign professionals,"
he says.

The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which represents 215,000 businesses and
organizations, has weighed in on the proposed changes to the B-1 business visa.

In addition to what it calls "costly and time-consuming burdens" on foreign
business people, the Chamber's Willard A. Workman, vice president of the
international division, says the change could "impede international commerce by
subjecting applicants to extensive consular review, legal analysis and lengthy
adjudications."

The new B-1 rules are likely to be finalized later this year.

UNITED KINGDOM'S NEW VISA RULE

Here is an excerpt of the text of the British rule on business visits to the
U.K.:

"All visitors to the United Kingdom, whether they come here for business
purposes or for social reasons, are given leave to enter for up to six months
which is the maximum period allowed under the Immigration Rules.

"Frequent visitors can apply for a two-year, multiple-entry visitor's entry
clearance if they consider that they need to put their visitor status beyond
doubt.

"A non-EEA national may transact business during a visit, but not take paid or
unpaid employment or self-employment or engage in business or any professional
activity. Neither can a visitor produce goods or provide services within the
United Kingdom including the selling of goods and services direct to members of
the public. . . . In addition, visitors may attend trade fairs, conferences,
short classroom training courses and meetings provided such activities are
essentially for fact-finding purposes as recipients of services or briefings by
United Kingdom businesses."

Of specific concern to U.S. and multinational businesses employing U.S.
nationals in the United Kingdom:

"As a matter of administrative policy, we also allow non-EEA nationals to enter
as visitors to supply services in certain specified circumstances:

"(iii) Advisers, consultants, trainers, troubleshooters, etc., provided they are
employed abroad, either directly or under contract by the same company (or group
of companies) to which the client firm in the United Kingdom belongs.

"The involvement of such advisers or consultants must not extend to actual
project management or to providing advice or consultancy services direct to
client of the United Kingdom company."

Notes from abroad . . . LONDON BENEFIT: A World of Difference is sponsoring a
night at the London Zoo to benefit the Camden Society, which helps people with
learning difficulties. Tickets cost 35. Contact Ann Seamans, 2A Frognal Gardens,
London NW3 6UX. Phone: 071-435-3014 or 071-435-6823. HOUSE SAVED: A
restructuring agreement by The Friends of Benjamin Franklin House may have saved
the 36 Craven Street site in London from sale, The American reports.

LOAD-DATE: October 01, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: USA Abroad

LIFE OVERSEAS; Helping inform U.S. citizens overseas; See info boxes at end of
text

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              269 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 25, 1994, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Lawsuit seeks visa hearings for Cuban detainees

BYLINE: Deborah Sharp

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 517 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Lawyers for Cuban detainees filed a federal lawsuit Monday saying 32,000 Cubans
are being held illegally in inhumane conditions at the U.S. naval base at
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and in Panama.

"To detain indefinitely innocent men, women and children, crammed into tents be-
hind barbed wire, is anathematical to everything the United States stands for,"
said Jose Garcia-Pedrosa, part of a 25-lawyer coalition.

The coalition, working for free, wants the detainees to be able to apply for
U.S. visas.

U.S. District Judge Wilke Ferguson scheduled an emergency hearing today.

If the suit is accepted as a class action, it is expected to include all 31,905
Cubans - 23,699 at Guantanamo Bay and 8,206 in Panama - as well as 6,428
Haitians at the Guantanamo Bay base.

Clinton administration officials had no comment.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service's Tim Counts denied allegations that
conditions at the camps are an apparent effort to demoralize and discourage the
refugees into a coerced return to Cuba.

Only rafters who volunteer have been repatriated. So far, 65 Cubans and 14,703
Haitians have gone home.

"To the best of my knowledge, there has been no talk about forcible
repatriations of Cubans," Counts said.

In Florida, the rafters have been a political minefield in a hotly fought battle
for the governor's seat between Democratic incumbent Lawton Chiles and
Republican challenger Jeb Bush.

Clinton effectively slammed shut a door that had been open to Cuban refugees for
28 years.

While several powerful Cuban-American leaders initially approved the plan,
dissent has been growing along with media coverage of crowded camps.

When Clinton visited Miami this month, thousands of Cuban-Americans lined the
streets in protest of the camps. Some likened Guantanamo Bay to the Nazi
concentration camps of World War II, an analogy that brought swift and angry
protest from Miami Beach's Jewish community.

But detention of the rafters remains popular among non-Cuban, immigration-weary
Florida voters.

Chiles spokesman Ron Sachs points out the Clinton administration already has
taken steps to improve camp conditions and to release old and infirm detainees.
Chiles opposes a wholesale release.

"Gov. Chiles strongly believes that would send an immediate signal that could
bring yet another wave of rafters to Florida. And that's something Florida could
not afford and will not tolerate," Sachs says.

Meanwhile, Cuba and the United States are expected to resume talks in Havana
today on an agreement last month that halted the latest Cuban rafter exodus to
Florida.

Cuba is seeking U.S. repeal of measures imposed last summer to increase economic
pressure on the island.

Cuba's chief delegate to the talks, Ricardo Alarcon, called the measures
"absurd" and said they are contrary to the spirit of the migration agreement
reached by the two countries on Sept. 9.

The U.S. delegation is being headed by Dennis Hays, State Department coordinator
for Cuban affairs.

He said the talks will deal only with migration issues and not such matters as
the U.S. trade embargo.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Hans Deryk, AP

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              270 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   November 2, 1994, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Politics of race taking on more subtle shades

BYLINE: Andrea Stone

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 1313 words


The issues are genuine - crime, welfare, immigration, taxes - but beneath the
angriest political rhetoric in decades, some hear familiar code words in a
nation split by race and ethnicity.

Whether it's Californians torn over a proposal to end benefits to illegal
immigrants, New Yorkers divided over the death penalty, or Maryland liberals
pushing to limit welfare, the politics of race look to be one of the hidden
forces driving the 1994 campaign.

As during the Great Depression, when immigrants and Jews were blamed for the
country's troubles, today's economic uncertainty has led to "social
scapegoating," says Marcus Pohlmann, a professor of race relations at Rhodes
College in Memphis.

"There are definitely racial undertones to the attack on liberalism and to what
people mean when they talk about locking more people up and having more death
penalties."

Not so simple, respond mainstream politicians of both parties, who say fixing
welfare, stopping crime and controlling borders need not equate to a secret war
on minorities.

But the trend is showing up in polls, where voters are turning from solving the
problems of poverty and toward dealing with crime and economics.

"It's not 'spic' and 'nigger' anymore," Rep. Charles Rangel, D-N.Y., said at a
rally last week. "They say, 'Let's cut taxes.' . . . You don't have to be a
social scientist to understand that if you're going to reduce taxes it's going
to impact on the poor, and the poor happen to be blacks and other minorities."

Neither party is immune from such criticisms as politicians on all sides seize
crime, welfare and immigration reform as winning issues.

Republicans, often labeled as least sensitive to minority issues, dismiss
critics who say they appeal to race.

"Are there racists in the country? Yes. Are there some who would like to see
programs destroyed? Yes. Is that driving the issues? Absolutely not," says GOP
consultant Eddie Mahe. "You have people like (Massachusetts Sen.) Ted Kennedy,
for heaven's sake, talking about welfare reform."

Indeed, economic insecurity, anti-incumbent anger and frustration with
government's failure to solve social problems are key factors in the nation's
conservative drift.

"Sheer racism (has) measurably declined," says William Schneider of the American
Enterprise Institute. "Yet, politically, the gap between the races has widened.
Blacks remain on the left, and everyone else has moved to the right on issues."

A recent Times Mirror poll found whites less sympathetic to black problems after
1992's Rodney King trial and ensuing riots. "Issues like affirmative action have
become lightning rods" for whites, Pohlmann says.

The highly charged debate over the recently released book The Bell Curve shows
how entwined race is with national politics.

The controversial book by Charles Murray and the late Richard Herrnstein argues
that whites are genetically more intelligent than blacks and calls for
abolishing welfare and social programs like Head Start.

"If I were a believer in conspiracy, I would say that book's timing is very
interesting," says Harvard psychiatrist Alvin Poussaint. ". . . It fits into
lots of right-wing agendas."

But there are liberal Democrats talking a new kind of talk as well:

-- Edward Kennedy - a staunch advocate of prevention and rehabilitation - now
stresses tough law enforcement when talking about crime.

-- Sen. Paul Sarbanes of Maryland, a fellow Democrat, is using TV ads "demanding
life in prison without parole for three-time violent offenders."

-- And Rep. Dave McCurdy, D-Okla., has parted ways with President Clinton on
welfare reform, saying he'd cut support to non-citizens and those who refuse
training or jobs.

The Democratic move to the right echoes the GOP's more seismic shift down the
political spectrum, from Richard Nixon's "Southern strategy" to the "Reagan
Democrats" who often joined the GOP in attacking social programs.

Despite a record 25 black Republican nominees for Congress, many of them
conservative, the GOP is "the white people's party," says David Bositis of the
Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, a black Washington think tank.

Many Republican leaders acknowledge they need minority voters if the party is to
achieve broad-based influence.

"Sure we've got some bad people in our party, and the Democrats have them in
their party," says Jack Kemp, a GOP presidential hopeful who has consistently
reached out to minorities, including a recent denunciation of California's
anti-immigration measure.

"But we are coming after the black and Hispanic vote like never before."

Still, says Jesse Jackson, "Republicans play up on a lot of fears." Though just
37% of parents on welfare are black, "They make welfare and blacks synonymous."

Conservatives say equating welfare reform with racism is little more than a game
of political semantics.

"That is an interpretation that comes (mostly) from liberals," says political
analyst Kevin Phillips. "It's an interpretation they've made before and it's a
great way to not look at whether people are tired with your fundamental
philosophy - the liberal approach to welfare."

Welfare isn't the only issue with a racial subtext:

-- Immigration. Critics of California's Proposition 187, which would deny
education and other government services to illegal immigrants and their
children, say the measure is a thinly veiled attempt to discriminate against
Hispanics.

Supporters, including GOP Gov. Pete Wilson and Senate candidate Michael
Huffington, say the proposal is the strongest signal yet that the state must
come to grips with the social and financial pressures of uncontrolled
immigration.

-- Big government/Taxes. The twin bogeymen of the 1994 campaign cuts across
racial lines: Who isn't against government waste?

Polls show blacks are "the only constituency in this country who have no quarrel
with big government. That makes them unique," Schneider says. "Big government
saved them from slavery in the 1860s and rescued them from segregation in the
1960s."

A growing number of conservative blacks would disagree, arguing it was just such
programs that have kept minorities from economic clout.

Whether rooted in genuine reform or hidden appeals to bias, the airwaves are
full of political ads attacking what were once untouchable social programs. And
the message, for whatever reason, is finding an audience.

Says Bositis: Voters "could be described as selfish or laden with compassion
fatigue. They don't particularly care about anybody else. If things are going
bad for you, too bad."

Poll: Less concern about racial issues

A nationwide Times Mirror poll released in October found that Americans are less
concerned about racial issues than when they were polled annually since 1987.

More say the United States has gone 'too far' in pushing equal rights
Year   Agree
1994   48%

Percent that agree by race
         Blacks     Whites
1992       21%        42%
1994       26%        51%

Fewer say 'every possible effort' should be made to help minorities
Year   Agree
1994   29%

Percent that agree by race
         Blacks     Whites
1992       67%        29%
1994       62%        25%

Reason many blacks can't get ahead
Racial discrimination           32%
Their own fault                 59%
Other                            9%

Concerns about immigration More say USA should restrict immigration
1992     76%
1994     82%

Attitudes about immigrants
Strengthen USA with talents and hard work          31%
They take our jobs, housing and health care        63%
Other                                               6%

LOAD-DATE: November 03, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Julie Stacey, USA TODAY, Source: Annual polls conducted
for the Times Mirror Center for The People & The Press (Line graph, Bar graph,
Pie chart); PHOTO, b/w, AP

POLITICS; See info box at end of text; See sidebar; 08A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              271 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    November 25, 1994, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Top teacher beats prof's prognosis

BYLINE: Karla Price

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 5D

LENGTH: 421 words


When a college professor told aspiring teacher Huong Tran Nguyen she should
choose another career - informing the Vietnamese immigrant she'd never reach the
level of her native English-speaking classmates - the student Nguyen was
"devastated."

But Nguyen believed in her goal, and that belief was validated last week as she
was named Outstanding Teacher of 1994 at the Walt Disney Co. American Teacher
Awards.

"When the professor said that to me, I wanted even more to prove to her and
prove to myself that goals can be met," says Nguyen, 41, who teaches English as
a Second Language at Polytechnic High School in Long Beach, Calif.

Nguyen received her degree - with honors - in liberal arts studies from San
Diego State University.

The American Teacher Awards paid tribute to 36 outstanding educators in 12
categories including science, performing arts, social studies and vocational
education.

At the end of the ceremony, in Washington, D.C., group members voted among
themselves to choose Nguyen, a winner in the Foreign Language/ ESL category, as
the outstanding teacher overall. She received a $ 25,000 honorarium and her
school and school district received a total of $ 35,000.

"I represented everybody in the room," she says. "I don't think they singled me
out, because everyone was so outstanding."

Although Nguyen - who first came to the USA on a foreign student visa in 1971 -
has taught at education levels from elementary school to community college, she
says high school students are "my cup of tea."

She was involved in the formation of the district's English language development
program. Her mission is teaching students literacy in both English and their
native language.

"I think if they are readers today, they will be leaders tomorrow," she says. "I
serve as a role model for all students, particularly for students who may have
been socialized to think that the only work they could obtain are minimum-wage
salaried jobs."

And Nguyen opposes California's Proposition 187, the new law that will require
schools to report illegal aliens in their classrooms.

"I think it's an extremely cruel proposition," she says. "It's inhumane. I'm not
a police officer or an immigration officer. I'm a teacher.

"We are very much in danger of losing some of our brightest resources of the
future if it goes into effect," Nguyen adds.

Meanwhile, she continues to pass her love of learning along to her students.

"You cannot expect a student to work hard if you don't put 110% into your work."

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w

TYPE: Health and Behavior

REPORTS ON THE SCIENCES, PLUS EDUCATION AND ENVIRONMENT

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              272 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  December 14, 1994, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Immigration-bias crisis confronting U.S. / Panama may force issue of 8,500
Cubans on its soil

BYLINE: Deborah Sharp

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 793 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


With 35,000 refugees held in U.S.-run camps, the government faces an immigration
crisis: what to do with the thousands of Haitians and Cubans.

On the heels of rioting by 1,000 Cubans in a Panama camp, that country's
president may just force the issue: President Ernesto Perez Balladares says he
wants the U.S. military-run operation shut down, and all 8,500 Cuban refugees
gone by March 1.

Meanwhile, the arrival in the USA Tuesday of the first group of Cuban refugee
children allowed to leave camp has raised charges of racism.

Though Haitian children are denied entry, advocates say their long months of
detention have been just as deplorable as for the Cubans.

About 150 Cubans - 32 from Panama and the rest from Guantanamo - were processed
at Homestead Reserve Base in south Florida. Most were children.

President Clinton announced Dec. 2 that Cuban kids and their immediate families
would be considered for release on a case-by-case basis, provided they have
financial support in the USA.

Lawyers for hundreds of minors held in a refugee camp will argue in court next
week that it's unjust to allow Cuban kids into the USA, while prohibiting entry
to Haitian children.

"It's a blatant violation of legal principles of fairness and equal treatment to
give a benefit to one group, and deny it to another, based solely on race or
national origin," says Steven Forester, lawyer for Miami's Haitian Refugee
Center.

The advocates represent 237 unaccompanied Haitian minors, as well as an unknown
number of youngsters detained with family members. They've been held since July
at a U.S. military-run refugee camp at Guantanamo. The camp also houses 22,000
Cubans.

Florida Gov. Lawton Chiles spearheaded a suit against the federal government so
Florida could recover some refugee costs. But he's had little to say about the
bending of federal rules so that some of detained Cubans could be admitted.

Meanwhile, unrest among Cubans continued at a second detention camp in Panama.

"Haitians are now in a very different situation than Cubans," says Elaine Komis
of the federal Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Government officials maintain Haiti's violent political turmoil has improved
with the U.S.-led effort to return President Jean-Bertrand Aristide.

Haitians no longer face persecution, officials say, but Cubans may by returning
to the government of Fidel Castro.

Advocates for the Haitians disagree. They say the disparity is due to
Cuban-Americans' greater political clout.

"It's obscene almost to think that our government would allow this to happen,"
says U.S. Rep. Carrie Meek, a Miami Democrat who just won a second term. "I want
equality for both, but it appears now the only equality is for the Cuban
children. It sends a very bad message around the world."

Says lawyer Cheryl Little, representing the Haitian kids: "Anybody who knows
anything about politics in Haiti knows it's far too early to assure a new day
has dawned."

Little calls ironic U.S. officials' arguments against a long-standing request to
release the names of the Haitians at Guantanamo. Reason: Families back home may
face trouble.

"You can't have it both ways: Arguing things are politically stable in Haiti,
but at the same time, arguing we can't release the names because of political
reprisals," she says.

Lists of Cubans held at the camps were released within weeks of this summer's
rafter crisis. That's when thousands of Florida-bound Cubans formerly granted
immediate entry were halted at sea, and taken instead to camps at Guantanamo and
Panama.

Lawyers say many of the camp's Haitian children are traumatized by experiences
back home.

They're frustrated by months of detention, and terrified of being sent home,
says Little. Some have attempted suicide.

"Children were telling me things like, 'Maybe if we pulled off our black skin,
we'd be treated differently,' " says Little, who visited Guantanamo last week.

With 630 more U.S. troops arriving to bolster the 2,000 already guarding the
Cuban refugees, unease prevailed Tuesday. Last week, 1,000 Cubans rioted,
breaking through barbed wire, running through the jungle, and trying to swim the
Panama Canal. More than 200 U.S. soldiers and several refugees were injured in
the melee.

Refugees in U.S. camps Cuban and Haitian refugees living in U.S. military-run
camps in Panama and at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba:

Cuba
Cubans        22,064
Haitians       4,915

Panama
Cubans         8,528
Haitians           0

Sent to the USA for humanitarian, medical reasons
Cubans           658
Haitians          25

Returned to homelands voluntarily
Cubans           203
Haitians      14,650

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Julie Stacey, USA TODAY, Source: Immigration and
Naturalization Service (Bar graph); PHOTO, b/w, Agence France-Presse; PHOTO,
b/w, Jym Wilson, Gannett News Service

IMMIGRATION; See related story; 08A; See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              273 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  December 21, 1994, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Federal judge rejects Fla. immigration suit

BYLINE: Steve Marshall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 809 words


A federal judge Tuesday dismissed a lawsuit filed by Florida officials demanding
more than $ 1 billion in reimbusement for federally mandated services to illegal
immigrants. Judge Edward Davis called immigration a political issue, "clearly
beyond the judiciary's authority." Florida Gov. Lawton Chiles vowed to appeal
the ruling, which he called a "temporary setback in our efforts to bring
immigration justice to Florida's communities." Also suing: Arizona, Texas, New
Jersey and California.

TOUGH MOM: When Deborah Kemp finished with a would-be carjacker, he was begging
for mercy. His mistake: trying to swipe a car with Kemp's sleeping 6-year-old
daughter inside. "I tried to kill him," said Kemp, 34. Kemp wasn't badly hurt in
the Monday incident, even though she was dragged a quarter-mile while she hit
the man with her car's Club, a steering-wheel lock. Kemp pulled him out of the
car, which went out of control and hit a restaurant. That's when Kemp's daughter
woke up.

ABORTION CLINIC ATTACKS: Death threats and other violent acts against abortion
clinics increased this year over 1993, the Feminist Majority Foundation said.
The national survey found that 52% of the 314 clinics that responded reported
some form of violence. In 1993 the rate of violence was 50.2% at the 281 clinics
that responded to the survey.

FLOODING: Heavy rain on the Olympic Peninsula and in southwest Washington state
forced the evacuation of dozens of people along the Skokomish River. "It's bad,
as bad as I've seen it," said Betty Slater, who was among several people
evacuated by Hovercraft. High water and mudslides also closed roads and some
schools in the area.

SCARING LANDING: The 139 passengers and 14 crew members aboard American Airlines
Flight 63 from Paris got a scare when the right main landing gear on the Boeing
767 didn't deploy on the jet's first pass at Miami International Airport. The
gear came down on a second pass and locked in place. Meanwhile, a Continental
Express plane was flying again after an unscheduled landing Monday in Baton
Rouge. En route from Houston to Gulfport, Miss., the pilot shut off an engine
and landed the ATR-42, with 45 people aboard, after an apparent engine
malfunction.

BLOCH ARRESTED: Felix Bloch, a diplomat accused of spying but never charged, has
been charged for a second time with shoplifting. Bloch was charged Friday in
Carrboro, N.C. In 1993 he agreed to pay a $ 60 fine and perform community
service for a Chapel Hill, N.C., incident. District Attorney Carl Fox said Bloch
won't get such lenient treatment this time. Bloch wasn't available for comment.

'HIT MAN' WANTED: As a Pompano Beach, Fla., jailhouse television blared,
convicted child molester Vinnie Biviano negotiated by phone with a purported hit
man to kill a 5-year-old girl he's accused of molesting. Police say Biviano, 65,
offered an undercover deputy $ 3,000. Biviano, who served jail time in Indiana
for two child molestation convictions, was arrested in October. Since his
arrest, two families have accused Biviano of molesting their boys.

Out of hiding and into custody IN FLORENCE, ALA.: Detective Randy English, with
gun drawn, pulls Gregory Ledbetter, 22, out of hiding in a debris-strewn lot.
Ledbetter, of Panama City, Fla., escaped after he was picked up for questioning
about a burglary.

ALSO TUESDAY . . .

-- SIMPSON CASE: O.J. Simpson's prosecutors may try to prove that Simpson killed
his ex-wife and her friend wearing cashmere-lined gloves she had bought him for
Christmas 1990, according to a CNN report.

-- MALL LEAFLETTING OK: In a case that arose from protests against the 1990 gulf
war, the New Jersey Supreme Court ruled 4-3 that enclosed shopping malls in the
state must allow the distribution of political leaflets.

-- TOY GUN DEATH: New York police officer Brian George was cleared of wrongdoing
in the Sept. 27 shooting death of Nicholas Heyward Jr., 13, who was playing with
a toy rifle when the officer mistook it for a real weapon.

-- BRUTAL KILLINGS: Nearly 60% of 151 anti-gay slayings reported in 29 states
and Washington, D.C., involved "horrific" violence "fueled by rage and hate,"
said a New York City Gay and Lesbian Anti-Violence Project study that began in
1992.

Successful surgery for Dole

American Red Cross president Elizabeth Dole was doing well after surgery in
Boston to clear an artery blockage in her neck. The 3 1/2-hour operation went
without incident and Dole, 58, wife of incoming Senate majority leader Robert
Dole, R-Kan., was listed in good condition at Massachusetts General Hospital.
Sen. Dole was with his wife. "We expect that she will recover fully and be able
to return to her regular work schedule in the next few weeks," said her surgeon,
Robert Ojemann. Contributing: Gordon Dickson, Gary Fields, Leo Mullen and
Deborah Sharp.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Maurice Harris, AP; PHOTO, b/w, Matt McKean, (Florence)
Times Daily via AP; PHOTO, b/w, AP

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              274 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      May 26, 1992, Tuesday, FIRST EDITION

Anger rises in Miami's Little Haiti

BYLINE: Deborah Sharpe

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 150 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


In Little Haiti - where blank walls are plastered with fliers that say ''Stop
the Racism, let the Haitians in'' - emotions ran high Monday after President
Bush ordered Haitian refugee boats returned home.

''I think Bush is racist,'' says Edner Derizal, 35, owner of Chez Moy
Restaurant. ''He doesn't like blacks; not just Haitians, blacks in general.''

Another source of anger: U.S. immigration policy that grants asylum to all
Cubans but denies it to many Haitians.

''It's not fair,'' says Clemencau Sanfort, 71. ''Bush shows discrimination
because he doesn't want the Haitians. Why doesn't he do this for the Cubans?''

But Carol Pierre, 37, says she supports Bush's policy: ''For me it is fair to
stop them because so many people die between here and Haiti.''

Pierre says the solution lies in changing Haiti, not opening the U.S. door to
all comers. ''They have to do something in Haiti.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD; See main story; 'Return to Haiti' other denounced //
Refugees taught English, trust

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              275 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      May 26, 1992, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

'Return to Haiti' order denounced

BYLINE: Deborah Sharp

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 535 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Haitian emigres face a tough time adjusting to their new homes here.

Dialing a telephone. Crossing on green and stopping on red. Drawing water from
an indoor tap. Finding help, not horror, at the sight of a uniformed police
officer.
''We have to teach them you can trust'' the police, says the Rev. Thomas Wenski,
whose Haitian Catholic Center holds classes for new arrivals.

Miami has been the focus of Haitian migration for years.

The city has a bustling neighborhood called Little Haiti, filled with shops,
restaurants, small businesses and clubs run by Haitian immigrants.

Wenski's students are from the refugee camps set up at the U.S. naval base at
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

The camps are already jammed to capacity with more than 12,500 Haitians.

Since a coup last September ousted President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, 34,475
refugees have been picked up fleeing Haiti's poverty and violence.

Unlike many of their countrymen, who have been returned home or remain in
refugee camps, Haitians at the Catholic Center were able to convince immigration
officials they left home for political, not economic, reasons.

Roseline Thervil, 31, says she doesn't understand why she was approved while
family members and friends at the tent city were denied.

''They took their names just like they did with me. I thought they were
coming.''

Israel Laurent, 24, says he was a student and a supporter of Aristide.

When the president left, Laurent became a target.

''The police were always around our house,'' he says. ''They were always
shooting. ... When I arrived in Miami, I felt saved.''

Five days a week, five hours a day, the refugees try to unravel the mysteries of
their new surroundings.

Most speak only Creole, similar to French.

English, repeated in endless drills, bewilders. In unison, the refugees
conjugate verbs and practice phrases:

- ''I am a good worker.''

- ''I have rights.''

Their teachers fill them in on life in the USA. They're amazed at being able to
call 911 for a fire truck, an ambulance, a police officer.

''In Haiti, you call the police and they'll tell you they have a flat tire and
they can't move,'' says teacher Roger Biamby.

Thervil left five children behind in Haiti. When her political problems
threatened her family, she scattered her children to the countryside and climbed
on a boat.

''When I was in Haiti, I was always worried. My head was hot with worry,'' she
says. ''But here, I feel calm.''

In class, the students practice English to the teacher's question: Where do you
live? ''I live in Miami,'' most say.

But Duque Siguay, 28, illustrates the flux of exile life: ''I live in Haiti.''

''Some of them want to go back,'' Biamby says.

''They say as soon as Aristide comes back, they'll return. Others say they'll
stay because there's no security in Haiti.''

The fate of fleeing Haitians
The U.S. Coast Guard has picked up more than 34,000 boat people fleeing Haiti
since a September coup. Most have been processed at the U.S. naval base in Cuba.
What has happened to the Haitians:
Returned to Haiti (1)     14,000
Held in Cuba              12,475
Granted U.S. asylum        8,000

(1) White House estimates

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC; b/w, Elys A. McLean, USA TODAY, Source: USA TODAY research
(Pie chart, Map); PHOTO; b/w, Tony Belizaire, Agence France-Presse

CUTLINE: SENT HOME: A woman and child in Haiti after being returned there Monday
under President Bush's order.

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD; See info box at end of text.

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              276 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     May 27, 1992, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Haitian policy called 'immoral' // Telling people to seek visas 'surrealistic'

BYLINE: Laurence Jolidon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1066 words

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti


On the U.S. Consulate building, behind a high wall and iron gates, hangs a
hand-printed notice: ''Closed for all services except for American citizens. No
immigrant visa services are available.''

The sign - written in English in a country where French creole is the language
and many people don't read - reflects the confusion among Haitians, and in
Washington, over the fate of the thousands of people who want to leave their
impoverished nation.

This is the consulate Haitians are being told in Voice of America broadcasts to
visit if they want to come to the United States legally as political refugees.

''What do you think would happen if I went to the U.S. Embassy?'' asks Vilson
Destin, 20, of Les Cayes, after being returned to Haiti Tuesday morning by the
U.S. Coast Guard. He had been on a 15-foot boat with 19 others that was
intercepted Sunday night - hours after President Bush ordered the Coast Guard to
turn back all refugee-laden boats.

In recent weeks, more than 12,500 refugees have been plucked from rickety boats
as they tried to flee to the USA. Most say they fear persecution from the
military regime that ousted elected President Jean-Bertrand Aristide in
September.

Bush's order ignited a howl of protests from refugee advocates. They are
threatening to sue to block the order, saying it violates U.N. conventions on
refugees.

Specifically, they say, the policy prevents Haitians from making a case for
asylum on grounds of being persecuted, as required by the U.N. treaties signed
by the United States.

''It's a surrealistic proposition,'' says Jean Claude Bajeaux, leader of Haiti's
Ecumenical Center for Human Rights, referring to the idea that Haitians go to
the U.S. Embassy.

The U.S. diplomatic compound ''is built like a high-security fortress. No
Haitian, intimidated and traumatized, would dare approach it,'' says Bajeaux, a
head of the Socialist Congress of Democratic Movements.

Meanwhile, U.S. government monitors are scouring Haiti's towns and countryside
to determine whether Haitians returned aboard Coast Guard cutters are being
mistreated - as Haitians in the USA and their advocates charge.

State Department spokesman Richard Boucher says embassy officers have contacted
more than 2,000 repatriated Haitians and ''in no case found evidence of
mistreatment connected to their repatriation.''

But violence is prevalent in Haiti. A gunman Tuesday killed a prominent
businessman whose brother was the leading campaign fund-raiser for the ousted
Aristide.

The slaying was at least the 16th in the capital area in the last week; all
appear to be tied to politics.

Meanwhile, 38 Haitians stopped at sea since Bush issued his order were returned
Tuesday by the Coast Guard, which burned their boat.

And today, 500 more are to be returned from Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, where the
Coast Guard had taken refugees picked up before the order.

''This is really a shameful day for our country,'' says Miami lawyer Ira
Kurzban, who works with the Haitian community. He's leading an effort to sue the
Bush administration by challenging the forced-return order.

But Sen. Richard Lugar, R-Ind., of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee,
defended the policy.

Determining which Haitians are economic refugees and which fear political
persecution, Lugar says, ''can best be done in Haiti, where the conditions can
best be seen.''

Says White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater: ''We simply have to be concerned
about the immigration rules for all people who want into this country from all
countries.''

Nevertheless, Bush's decision - in fact his entire policy on dealing with the
Haitians since Aristide was overthrown - is coming under growing criticism:

- Lionel Rosenblatt, executive director of Refugees International, says the
policy ''violates one of the fundamental international human rights provisions:
the right to political asylum or refuge.''

- Bill Frelick, senior policy analyst for the private Washington-based U.S.
Committee for Refugees: ''This creates a really frightening precedent ...
(countries) can return refugees to torture, to death, to execution, to sharks at
sea. In a sense it could be the end of asylum.''

But some of the harshest criticism has come from Congress.

''It's just an illegal, immoral thing that we're doing,'' says Rep. Charles
Rangel, D-N.Y. ''There's no precedent in history where a country can just stop
people from leaving and arbitrarily returning them.''

Haitians in the USA, especially in the Miami area, believe there is something
Bush should do - a naval blockade of the Caribbean nation, which shares the
island of Hispaniola with the Dominican Republic.

They say a blockade would force the junta to return democracy.

The South Florida Haitian community hopes Aristide will spur support for their
homeland and its refugees. He's now visiting the USA from exile in Venezuela. He
meets today with Miami business leaders.

One of the issues that further complicates the Haitian problem is that it has
triggered charges of racism in U.S. immigration policy.

Rangel, a member of the Congressional Black Caucus, says the policy wouldn't be
in place if the refugees weren't black or poor. ''It's a racial thing, it's an
economic thing and it's a political thing because it's an election year. People
don't want poor black folks coming here.

''Do you really believe if these people were coming here from Europe that they
would be treated this way?'' he asks.

That point was also made by Stephen Legomsky, a law professor at St. Louis'
Washington University. He tutored Gene McNary on immigration issues before
NcNary became commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Legomsky says a more subtle type of racism is involved, although he doesn't
think the administration's policies are racially motivated.

''But at the same time,'' he says, ''I don't think the American public would
stand for this policy if these were boatloads of refugees from Ireland or
Italy.''

But Fitzwater seems to dismiss any hint of racism when he says the policy ''is
not a question of not wanting any one nationality.''

The forced-return policy, Fitzwater adds, ''is consistent with the
Constitution'' and is driven by humanitarian reasons because ''people are dying
every day in these old ships that they're trying to take out.''

Contributing: Juan J. Walte, Deborah Sharpe, Jessica Lee, Johanna Neuman

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; color, Robert Sullivan, Agence France-Presse

CUTLINE: U.S. DELIVERY: Group of 38 Haitians intercepted at sea and returned
directly to Port-Au-Prince waits to be processed Tuesday.

TYPE: Cover Story

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              277 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     May 28, 1992, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Haitian refugee policy needs immediate change

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 312 words


President Bush's plan to force Haitian refugees back into the clutches of their
oppressors is a painful policy for a nation of immigrants to adopt.

It also is plain wrong.

Bush's policy evolved in two stages.

First, he and other hemispheric leaders ordered a partial trade embargo of
Haiti. Goal: restore democratically elected leaders ousted in a military coup.

Instead, deprivation drove refugee waves toward the USA. So Sunday Bush ordered
the Coast Guard to intercept them at sea and send them home.

Now the USA winces at the daily photos of U.S. ships herding rag-tag boatloads
back into the tyrant's maw. Port-au-Prince, the capital, has logged at least 17
politically motivated killings since May 20, according to news reports.

Bush should change course quickly.

He should grant Haitians asylum until democracy is restored.

To hasten that day, he should tighten the trade embargo that so far has left
Haiti's ruling class unscathed.

Too many goods still seep through from Europe and elsewhere - particularly oil
shipments crucial to the oligarchs' continued survival. Bush should press the
Europeans to join the embargo and extend it to bar oil.

Along the way, he also might nudge France - which left its former colony
poverty-stricken and poorly led - to help with the refugees those abysmal
conditions helped produce.

Bush also should start building international consensus, beginning with the
Organization of American States, for more stringent action if sanctions fail.

Instead, he contemplates a smaller step: increasing the pressure on Haiti by
banning from USA ports foreign ships that do business in Haiti.

That's good but hardly enough.

Haiti's problems are too severe and too entrenched for easy solution. But its
proximity makes those problems our own. Surely we can find a better way to solve
them than by turning our backs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; Today's debate is about HAITIAN REFUGEES and the hard
choices the USA must make in order to help them.; OUR VIEW; President Bush
should shelter Haitian refugees - even as he ups the pressure on Haitian
tyrants.

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              278 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      May 29, 1992, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Immigrant tide surges in '80s

BYLINE: Margaret L. Usdansky

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 292 words


The USA's largest 10-year wave of immigration in 200 years - almost 9 million
people - arrived during the 1980s.

The number is so large, it means that 43.8% of the nation's 19.8 million
foreign-born people came in the '80s, Census Bureau figures out today show.

The statistics are part of a package completing the release of social, economic
and housing data for the states and the District of Columbia.

Today's figures give the first look at nationwide trends in the '80s -
everything from income to commuting patterns.

The bureau has yet to profile immigrants by race, but it's clear that those who
arrived in the 1980s were overwhelmingly Hispanic and Asian.

''It's because of immigrants that the Asian population doubled,'' says Urban
Institute demographer Jeffrey Passel, and ''that the Hispanic population grew by
more than 60%.''

In the '80s, the number of:

- Chinese, the largest Asian group, doubled to 1.6 million.

- Mexicans, the largest group of Hispanics, grew by half to 13.5 million.

Experts say the rapid growth of specific minority groups helps explain some of
the tensions among them - and with the white majority.

''We're seeing increasing competition ... for political power, for resources
(and) for programs,'' says Passel.

The new immigrants boosted the foreign-born population - which includes those
who emigrated earlier in the century - to just under 8% of the total, up from
6.2% in 1980.

That percentage isn't large compared with the immigrant surge at the turn of the
century.

Then, foreign-born residents accounted for 1 in 7 people, or almost 15%.

But today's immigrants represent a range of racial and ethnic groups that would
have been unimaginable then - a time of much less tolerance.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              279 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      May 29, 1992, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Why fear immigration

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 238 words


Those who suspect immigration is changing the nation received fresh and powerful
evidence Thursday.

The census bureau reported that immigration during the past decade hit an
all-time high: 9 million new arrivals.

Europeans, who accounted for 89% of immigrants in the decade between 1900 and
1910, made up 10% of immigrants during the '80s. Today, the influx is
overwhelmingly Hispanic and Asian.

Sadly - and unreasonably - those numbers are more likely to inspire fear than
pride. The nation has a long history of hostility toward newcomers during its
periodic waves of immigration.

That hasn't changed.

A Roper poll in May found 54% think too many immigrants are allowed into the
country - up from 48% two years ago. Fifty-five percent said that immigration
should be frozen until new policies can be devised.

A key cause: fear that more immigrants mean fewer jobs for people here.

Those fears are misplaced. Immigrants fuel the economy, creating jobs.

Asian American-owned businesses, for example, increased nationwide from 187,691
to 335,331 between 1982 and 1987, a 79% growth rate exceeding that of any other
U.S. population group.

With an aging workforce, new blood and new brains are needed.

John F. Kennedy once said, ''There is no part of our nation that has not been
touched by our immigrant background.''

Cutting off immigration would sever an artery that has energized the nation for
200 years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; On another topic, USA TODAY says that fears of immigration
are overblown, as history shows.

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              280 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      June 15, 1992, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Community vs. Border Patrol // Storm of anger over fatal crash

BYLINE: Carolyn Pesce

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 768 words

DATELINE: TEMECULA, Calif.


Reporter Gloria Murillo rushed from her office here to cover what she thought
was a routine accident for the local Spanish-language shopper El Remate.

What she found was a bloody car crash caused by a high-speed federal Border
Patrol chase - and the bodies of her two children, struck and killed while
walking to school.

That was two weeks ago. Yet feelings of rage and questions surrounding the fiery
June 2 crash that killed five have only increased.

A federal judge in Los Angeles is expected to rule this week on a temporary
restraining order filed by the city to keep the Border Patrol out. The Border
Patrol says it would be the first time it was barred from a city.

More than 4,500 people have signed a petition calling for the closing of the
checkpoint at Temecula - a second ''rim'' to catch illegal immigrants missed at
the border.

''We've just started to fight this battle,'' says Mike Emilio, whose daughter
Monesa, 14, was one of the victims. ''We lost a child. That should not have
happened, and I never want to see another parent go through what I'm going
through.''

The Border Patrol - a division of the federal Immigration and Naturalization
Service - has been under scrutiny lately, criticized for high- speed chases and
alleged abuse of suspects.

This time the criticism is unwarranted, says Steven Kean of the patrol's San
Ysidro office. ''I don't think the people of Temecula have all the facts with
respect to this ... tragedy.

''They're overlooking these agents are community members, they have families
themselves, they contribute to the community and the economy.''

 That day, as students at Temecula Valley High School rushed to school, the
Border Patrol at the Temecula checkpoint on Interstate 15 began chasing
suspected illegal immigrants in a stolen Chevrolet Suburban.

They raced off the freeway, lights flashing and sirens wailing, trying to get
the 16-year-old driver of the car to stop.

The Border Patrol says its lights and sirens failed. Agents say they stopped the
chase - reportedly 90 miles an hour - a mile before the crash.

But the Suburban sped into an intersection near the high school, slicing an
Acura in half, killing John Davis, 46; his son, Todd, 18, and Monesa Emilio.

The car then slid into Gloria Murillo, 17, and her brother Jose ''Tommy''
Murillo, 16, walking together to school. One of the 12 occupants in the Suburban
later died in the hospital.

The driver has been charged with five counts of homicide.

In 1990, a pregnant woman was killed here during a chase. Residents have
complained for years of reckless pursuits through neighborhoods.

''Sooner or later something was going to happen,'' says El Remate publisher Elia
Esparza.

A series of coincidences put the victims at the scene of the crash. Todd Davis'
mother usually drove him to school - but his father had an early business
meeting and decided to drive.

Emilio's older daughter, Tina, was Todd's girlfriend, and was supposed to ride
with the Davises. Monesa went instead.

A woman driving her children to school saw Gloria and Jose walking but didn't
stop because she was running late.

White crosses are spray-painted on trees where the crash occurred, with the
message ''Go with God my friends.''

''We all have bruised hearts,'' says City Manager David Dixon, leading the fight
against the Border Patrol.

Students, especially those who witnessed the crash, can't understand why it
happened. ''I think everybody's still thinking about it,'' says Eric Ledee, 15.
''All of the sudden you realize how important your life is.''

There has been an outpouring of love for the families of the victims, from
groceries left on doorsteps to funds to pay for funerals. A student car wash
raised $ 500; $ 2,000 was raised by local businesses in just two hours; and
money keeps arriving in personal cards.

There is also a special unity here because the tragedy crossed ethnic and
economic lines: Emilio is a white, working-class contractor; Murillo is Hispanic
and a single mother; Davis was a prominent banker.

''Nothing's sacred when it comes to death,'' says Emilio.

And while there are residents who support the Border Patrol - and what it's
trying to do with limited money and manpower - the overwhelming feeling here is
that the accident didn't have to happen.

''They have to use judgment when there are kids,'' says Susan Norton, 36, a
secretary and mother of two. ''What's more important, catching illegal aliens or
killing people?''

''They can't weasel their way out of this,'' says Esparza. ''It might just be
little ol' Temecula that brings them down.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC; b/w, USA TODAY (Map, Calif.); PHOTO; b/w, Chris Martine, AP;
PHOTOS; b/w (5)

CUTLINE: COMMUNITY CONCERN: 'Sooner or later something was going to happen,'
publisher Elia Esparza says about Border Patrol chases. Her cousin lost a
daughter and a son in a June 2 crash. CUTLINE: MONESA EMILIO: Died in car crash
CUTLINE: GLORIA MURILLO: Killed while walking CUTLINE: JOSE MURILLO: Known as
'Tommy' CUTLINE: TODD DAVIS: Usually driven to school CUTLINE: JOHN DAVIS:
Killed with son Todd

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              281 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    June 17, 1992, Wednesday, FIRST EDITION

PHONE FRAUD

BYLINE: Eric D. Randall

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 87 words


Recent immigrants are often the victim of phone fraud, according to a survey
commissioned by Sprint and the U.S. Office of Consumer Affairs. In the next few
weeks, social-service agencies will distribute 140,000 brochures on preventing
phone fraud in San Francisco, Los Angeles, New York, Miami, Chicago and
Brownsville, Texas. Languages: English, Spanish, Chinese and Korean. The survey
found 14% of Asian and Hispanic immigrants have been victims of phone fraud or
know someone who has been victimized.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Moneyline

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              282 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      July 10, 1992, Friday, FINAL EDITION

'Skins owner's wife faces deportation

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 151 words


Deportation proceedings against Marlene Chalmers Cooke, wife of Washington
Redskins owner Jack Kent Cookie, have been instigated by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Cooke married Chalmers, his fourth wife, in 1990 when she was 37 and he was 77.
A Bolivian native, she came to the USA in 1975.

According to The Washington Post, the INS will issue a document calling for
Chalmers Cooke's deportation because of her past involvement with a drug
smuggling ring. She has filed an appeal.

In 1986, she pleaded guilty in a cocaine smuggling case and received a six-
month sentence after agreeing to cooperate with investigators. In 1988, she was
arrested on a felony charge of writing four bad checks. That charge was dropped
at the request of the U.S. attorney's office.

This spring, she reportedly accidentally shot herself in the hand at the Cookes'
northwest Washington, D.C., home.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Sportstalk

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              283 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    July 29, 1992, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

Lottery of a lifetime // 40,000 will win U.S. visas

BYLINE: John Larrabee

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 612 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


For the price of a postage stamp, Marie Connelly could win the dream of a
lifetime.

Connelly, 27, who trained as a physical therapist in her native Ireland, has
waited tables for five years. She and her husband, Michael, a construction
worker, came to the USA illegally - a status they desperately hope to change.

''If we were legal, it would mean a lot,'' she says. ''We could take any sort of
job, not just ones where they don't ask to see a green card. We could buy a
home, start a family.''

The Connellys will have their chance today, when they apply to the USA's
immigration lottery. Permanent visas will be awarded to 40,000 people - 16,000
of them Irish. Many of them already live and work here as illegal immigrants.

This is the second year the State Department holds the lottery, which is
restricted to immigrants from the Republic of Ireland and 35 other countries,
mostly European. By 1993, the program's last year, 120,000 visas will have been
awarded. Irish immigrants will receive more visas than any other group.

The program's goal is to open immigration to those turned away by the
Immigration Act of 1965. The law favored those with relatives here, most of whom
were from Third World countries.

Irish immigrants came by the tens of thousands before World War II, but the 1965
law cut legal immigration to an average of 800 a year.

With unemployment in Ireland at 20%, young people keep coming. By some
estimates, Boston alone has 30,000 illegal Irish immigrants. Most arrive with
vacation visas, then stay after their permits expire.

''Immigrants without family here have been shut out for years. This program is a
fantastic opportunity,'' says Sean Benson, an immigration
reform activist in New York.    Those who won last year's visa lottery

agree.

Construction worker Tom Glynn, 33, who has lived in Boston for seven years, says
a visa meant peace of mind. ''With a visa you can come and go in this country
without having to worry if they'll let you back in,'' he says.

Two years ago a visit home almost ended in catastrophe for Glynn. Customs
officials at Shannon Airport wouldn't let him board a plane to the USA because
his tourist visa had expired. He caught a plane to Montreal, where a friend
picked him up and drove him across the border.

Helen Curley, 29, a Galway native who arrived in 1985, agrees. ''It hasn't
changed my life yet, because there are so few jobs out there, but I know
eventually it will,'' she says. ''Without a visa, you have to look for jobs like
housecleaning and baby-sitting.''

Those who hope to win this year's lottery have a month to mail applications.
Winners will be selected randomly by computer: multiple applications mean
disqualification.

That's a big change from last year, when applicants got one day to file as many
applications as they could.

Applicants devised dozens of schemes to get in forms. Hundreds of couriers from
around the world, many carrying thousands of applications, converged on a post
office in Merrifield, Va., the address designated by the post office. State
Department officials had predicted 1.4 million applications; 5 million were
received.

36 countries compete

Some facts on the USA's immigration lottery:

- A total of 40,000 permanent visas will be awarded to immigrants from 36
countries.

- Applications open today. Deadline: Aug. 28.

- Winning applications will be selected randomly by computer.

- Multiple applications will mean disqualification.

CONTACTS
The State Department recorded-information line is 202-663-1600. Here is the
address for visa applications:
AA1 Program
P.O. Box 1993
Dulles, Va. 21301-1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 30, 1992

CORRECTION: A story Wednesday on the immigration lottery should have identified
a Boston construction worker as Albert Glynn. Correction ran 7/30/92.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, Marta Lavandier, AP

CUTLINE: IRISH IN BOSTON: Helen Curley, Pedrac Greney and Albert Glynn, from
left, won the immigration lottery last year. Says Curley: 'It hasn't changed my
life yet ... but I know eventually it will.'

THE NATION; See info boxes at end of text

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              284 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     July 30, 1992, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

CORRECTIONS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 38 words


A photo caption Wednesday switched identifications of Kurdish leaders Massoud
Barzani and Jalal Talabani.

- A story Wednesday on the immigration lottery should have identified a Boston
construction worker as Albert Glynn.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newsmakers

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              285 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    August 11, 1992, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Aid is waste of money

BYLINE: Sheldon L. Richman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 290 words


The Bush administration should not guarantee immigrant-absorption loans - or
provide any foreign aid - for Israel no matter what conditions the new Rabin
government accedes to.

Foreign aid transfers wealth from American taxpayers to Israeli bureaucrats.
Undoubtedly, each taxpayer could think of better ways to spend his own money.
Any American wishing to resettle Russian Jews in Israel can do so directly.

On Israel's end, the billions of dollars our guarantees would make possible will
be controlled by bureaucrats to build roads, bridges, sewage facilities and
housing. ''Boondoggle'' is written all over the project. As we should have
learned from communism's collapse, governments can't manage economies. Their
decisions are no match for entrepreneurs risking their own assets in a free
market.

Israel's state-dominated economy is so poorly run that almost half the
immigrants from the former Soviet Union are unemployed. Most of the rest are
underemployed: Physicists are sweeping streets, concert musicians drive taxis.
Conditions are so bad that the flow of immigrants has plummeted by 70%.
Out-migration exceeds immigration.

Why should giving Israel's government more money make it any wiser? Stubborn
economic planners never will give up as long as U.S. largess forestalls the
inevitable day of reckoning.

As the Institute for Advanced Strategic and Political Studies in Jerusalem says,
Israelis don't need handouts. They need capitalism. The investment and trading
opportunities that would be stimulated by property rights, personal liberty and
self-determination in a free-market context would benefit the Palestinians, the
Israelis and the whole region.

Economic freedom is the road to both riches and peace.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; Today's debate is on AIDING ISRAEL and whether it's in the
interests of the United States.; OPPOSING VIEW; Don't hand more billions to
Israeli bureaucrats; taxpayers could use the money at home.; Sheldon L. Richman
is senior editor, Cato Institute.

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              286 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    August 13, 1992, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Reliving newcomers' Ellis Island journey

BYLINE: Cathy Hainer

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 121 words


About 250,000 visitors - many of whom had ancestors who immigrated through Ellis
Island - are expected for an exhibit at the famed New York Harbor site as part
of its centennial celebration.

Fame, Fortune and Sweet Liberty, running Sept. 11-Nov. 11, features photos,
videos and a soundtrack to retrace the journey of two fictional immigrants from
their village to the German ports of Bremen and Bremerhaven , last stops in
Europe before heading to America.

Of the 33 million Europeans who emigrated between 1815 and 1915, 7 million came
through Bremen and Bremerhaven. And after its opening in 1892, Ellis Island is
where many first set foot in America.

Admission to the exhibit is free. Call 212-363-7770.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w

CUTLINE: HOPES AND DREAMS: A special Ellis Island centennial exhibit follows two
fictional German emigrants to the U.S.

LEISURE TRAVEL SPECIAL SECTION

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              287 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   September 8, 1992, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Customizing passport checks

BYLINE: Julie Schmit

SECTION: BONUS; Pg. 3e

LENGTH: 91 words

DATELINE: ENTERING THE COUNTRY


Passing through international airports soon may be as simple as showing your
hand. The Immigration and Naturalization Service this fall starts testing a
hand-imaging device in Toronto, Frankfurt, Newark and New York's Kennedy
airports. An infared camera takes an image of your hand - which is distinctive -
and codes the measurements on a magnetic strip on passports. Fliers stick their
hand in the machine. If the measurements match what's on their passport, they're
clear.

Time savings: 30 minutes off an average wait of 45 minutes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, Tim Murphy

CUTLINE: A SHOW OF HANDS: Hand-imaging device can shave 30 minutes off the
typical wait to enter a country.  It's being tested this fall at a number of
international airports.

BUSINESS TRAVEL BONUS SECTION; HOW TO SAVE TIME; Time.  It's both the business
travelers' enemy and friend.  There just isn't enough of it in a day. The travel
industry knows that. So it is doing everything it can to shave minutes - even
seconds - off your travel hassles. USA TODAY's Julie Schmit looks at what's
going on to save time:

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              288 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  September 9, 1992, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Bush promises to help Israel retain 'edge'

BYLINE: Jessica Lee

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 502 words


President Bush told the nation's oldest Jewish organization Tuesday that he'll
ask Congress to approve $ 10 billion in loan guarantees to help Israel resettle
Jewish immigrants from the former Soviet Union.

Speaking to the B'nai B'rith convention, Bush appealed for votes in a speech
many viewed as an apology for last year's statements in opposition to Israel's
policy of settling immigrants in occupied territories.

But he also suggested that he may support the sale of $ 5 billion worth of
sophisticated F-15 fighter planes to Saudi Arabia, which many Jews consider to
be Israel's enemy.

''No decision has been made,'' he said, but added, ''Consideration is being
given to this.'' The F-15 sale would boost jobs in the ailing U.S. defense
industry.

Bush, who was received politely but not enthusiastically, promised he won't
neglect Israel or reduce its ''qualitative edge'' in Middle East weaponry.

He reminded his audience that the gulf war removed a major threat to Israel's
security - a nuclear-armed Iraq. And he accused Democrat Bill Clinton of
waffling and wavering on his support of the gulf war.

Clinton, who has supported the loan guarantees, speaks to the convention today
by satelitte.

The loan guarantees, expected to be approved by Congress, are not outright
loans, but guarantees that allow Israel to borrow from international lenders at
favorable rates.

Bush was seeking to mend fences with the Jewish community after resentment
triggered by his earlier opposition to the loan guarantees.

Bush had said then-prime minister Yitzhak Shamir's policy of resettling Soviet
immigrants in occupied territories frustrated efforts to negotiate a Middle East
peace accord.

Israeli voters dumped Shamir in July, replacing him with Prime Minister Yitzhak
Rabin, whose reversal of Shamir's policy helped restart the stalled peace
process.

''In the past, some remarks of mine were misinterpreted,'' Bush said. Last year,
Bush referred to a lobbying effort in support of the loan guarantees, and said
he would oppose them against heavy odds, calling himself ''one lonely little guy
against 1,000 lobbyists.''

Tuesday, he said: ''I have gone on the record expressing my regret for any pain
those words caused.''

Jewish leaders welcomed the loan announcement and called Bush's regrets an
apology.

''He has apologized, we have to understand that,'' said Shoshana Cardin,
chairman of the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations,
an umbrella group of 48 national organizations.

But Bush also stressed there were hurt feelings on both sides. ''To accuse those
who may come to different conclusions on one or another public issue of
harboring anti-Semitism is to cheapen the term. And when those words, without
justice, have been aimed at me, I can tell you they cut right to the heart.''

Bush received about 30% of the Jewish vote in 1988. Jews make up only 4% of U.S.
voters but are concentrated in key states - New York, New Jersey, California and
Florida.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, Robert Giroux, AP

CUTLINE: IN WASHINGTON: President Bush peers into the audience after a speech to
B'nai B'rith. At left is Kent Schiner, president of the influential Jewish
group.

CAMPAIGN '92

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              289 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  September 10, 1992, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Asian immigrants changing face of rural USA

BYLINE: Margaret L. Usdansky

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 1286 words

DATELINE: TECUMSEH, Neb.


At first glance, this town of 1,702, with its white porches, green lawns and
rambling sidewalks, looks like any other in middle America.

But look again. At the gardens of exotic vegetables. At the shoes neatly stacked
on doorsteps. At the children playing on the front lawns.

Tossing balls and jumping rope with the descendants of German immigrants whose
families have lived here a century are the sons and daughters of Laotian
refugees.

More than 100 Laotians moved to Tecumseh and surrounding Johnson County in the
last decade - the first immigrant wave this corner of Nebraska has seen in more
than 100 years and just one example of the profound change Asian immigration
brought to hundreds of rural towns:

 - Almost 2,700 Hmong, tribespeople from Laos, have moved to La Crosse County,
Wis., where several Hmong clan leaders were resettled by church groups in the
early 1980s.

- More than 200 Cambodians live near Bayou La Batre, Ala., a community begun
when a few families moved from Mobile to make a living fishing in the Gulf of
Mexico.

- About 1,000 Vietnamese live in Garden City, Kan., where the refugee population
ballooned with the opening of two meat packing plants in the early 1980s.

The story of how these immigrants settled where they did is as old as the USA
itself.

Historians even have a name for it - chain migration, which begins with the
arrival of one family and grows as friends and relatives join them in increasing
numbers.

The 1990 Census is full of such examples, many in big cities that long have been
magnets for immigrants from all over the world.

But nowhere is the phenomenon more startling than in the towns that are now home
to Southeast Asians, many of them refugees, whose numbers tripled from 330,660
in 1980 to more than 1 million in 1990.

What happened in Tecumseh is typical.

The town's immigration chain began 30 miles southwest in Beatrice, when a church
sponsored a Vietnamese family. In 1980, the family moved to Tecumseh to work at
the Campbell's Soup Co. chicken processing plant.

Word traveled. Some of the family's Laotian friends heard about Tecumseh. Then,
another Laotian family heard. Then, that family's relatives heard.

By 1985, Laotians were moving to Tecumseh from across the USA. And by 1990,
Johnson County, with almost no minorities a decade earlier, was over 2% Asian.
Today, Tecumseh's elementary school is 17% Laotian.

 ''They just keep spreading out the news,'' says the Rev. John Kounthapanya, a
Laotian minister who serves the growing community.

The news is that Tecumseh is a town where adults who speak little English can
find jobs, where children are safe from crime and gangs, where two ministers and
a school superintendent work to ease inevitable tensions, and where prejudice,
though commonly expressed in private, is rarely exhibited in overt acts.

Friends ''told me this place better,'' says Soukanh Vongsaly, explaining why he
moved here from Bellevue, Wash., four years ago.

Vongsaly, who like many Laotian adults struggles with English, particularly
likes Tecumseh's people. ''When they drive past, they wave. Very different over
there,'' in Bellevue, a big Seattle suburb where food cost more and residents
waved less.

To walk around Tecumseh is to wonder how a place that has been so insular so
long, where out-of-towners draw stares and where restaurants close at 8 p.m.,
can absorb this much change so quickly.

So the adjustment hasn't always been smooth. Sometimes it is the Laotians' very
Americanism that irks Tecumseh natives. In a town where many locals buy their
automobiles secondhand, for example, the Laotians' affection for new cars has
fostered false rumors that they're exempt from taxes.

Sometimes the language barrier is a reminder of the differences.

''The only time it bothers me,'' says county clerk Kathleen Nieveen, ''is when
I'm typing up a title and they're talking in their language. And then they
giggle, and you think, 'Are they talking about me?' ''

And sometimes small differences can be deeply felt.

''They've got some different habits,'' says Johnson County Commission Chairman
Troy Walters.

''I rented to a Laotian family. When you walked in, you couldn't see much
difference from anyone else's home, except in the dining room they had a huge
white rug. That's where they sat and ate.''

Walters praises the refugees' hard work and prompt payment of bills. But he
worries.

''What would happen if every family here began bringing in one or two more
families?'' Walters says. ''You have a language barrier. You have a different
culture there altogether, and it's offensive to some people.''

In high school, a few boys would chant, '' 'Chink, chink, go back to your own
country,' '' recalls Loy Senesourinh, 20, a graduate of Tecumseh High. But over
the years relations have improved, and some of those same boys now greet her
with friendly hellos.

An uncle who visited Senesourinh from San Francisco a couple of years ago
couldn't get over how friendly it seemed here, she recalls.

 ''He said he'd just scratch his head and people would wave at him.''

Counties with most Asian growth

Here are the 25 counties with at least 1% Asian population in 1990 that had the
highest percentage growth in Asian population between 1980 and 1990:
County/state             1990          1980               Change
Hamilton, Kan.(1)          28             1               2,700%
Johnson, Neb.             107             5               2,040%
Habersham, Ga.            512            28               1,729%
Buena Vista, Iowa         396            25               1,484%
Marathon, Wis.          2,499           184               1,258%
Finney, Kan.            1,203           100               1,103%
North Slope, Alaska       285            24               1,088%
Fayette, Ga.            1,053            97                 986%
Gwinnett, Ga.          10,219           942                 985%
La Crosse, Wis.         2,667           261                 922%
Sheboygan, Wis.         2,061           219                 841%
Rutherford, Tenn.       1,706           185                 822%
Iberia, La.               843            97                 769%
Camden, Ga.               405            49                 727%
Ford, Kan.                663            84                 689%
Eau Claire, Wis.        2,124           281                 656%
Dakota, Neb.              358            48                 646%
Collin, Texas           7,480         1,032                 625%
Manassas Park, Va.        169            27                 526%
Osceola, Fla.           1,637           284                 476%
Manitowoc, Wis.         1,071           187                 473%
Culpeper, Va.             292            51                 473%
Burke, N.C.               794           145                 448%
Outagamie, Wis.         1,904           351                 442%
Del Norte, Calif.         450            83                 442%

1 - Asians who moved to Hamilton County in the 1980s have since left

Source: USA TODAY analysis of 1990 Census

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC; b/w, Gary Visgaitis, USA TODAY (Map, Neb.); GRAPHIC; b/w, USA
TODAY, Source:U.S. Census Bureau (Bar graphs); PHOTOS; b/w, Jeff Beiermann, AP
(3)

CUTLINE: AT HOME: 'When (neighbors) drive past, they wave,' says Soukanh
Vongsaly, right, in his garden with the Rev. Dan Gonnerman in Tecumseh, Neb.
CUTLINE: IMPROVED: Loy Senesourinh, 20, says in high school some students
insulted her but now are friendly. CUTLINE: WORD'S OUT: The Rev. John
Kounthapanya says Laotians come because immigrants 'just keep spreading out the
news.'

POPULATION TRENDS; See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              290 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    November 13, 1992, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Victims of war, hunger // Somalis trapped in U.S. system

BYLINE: Marilyn Greene

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 475 words

DATELINE: BALTIMORE


Jama Farah Muhammed eats the same food, wears the same jail clothing and follows
the same restrictive rules as the felons he lives with.

Yet Muhammed has been convicted of nothing.

His crime: Trying to sneak into the USA to escape war and starvation at home in
Somalia.

Caught without an entry visa, Muhammed, 24, was put in a Salisbury, Md., jail
that has a contract to hold ''guests'' for the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

He's been held there nearly a year, sharing his cell with a drug dealer as he
faces deportation to what relief officials call ''the worst humanitarian
disaster'' in the world.

Hundreds of thousands of Somalia's 6.5 million people have died from starvation
and war. About 4.5 million are estimated to be in danger of dying.

In the same Wicomoco County jail as Muhammed, Farhia Saied, 26, also shares
confinement with a convict.

Like the robbers and drug offenders they live with, Muhammed and Saied, the wife
of a former United Nations employee, wear bright orange jumpsuits and spend
their days reading or watching TV.

Muhammed's favorite program is The Young and the Restless. His handshake is a
grip of steel from hours of weight lifting.

''Before I came,'' says Muhammed during an interview here, ''I heard that
America likes to help us. I thought it might take a week or so, but I thought
they would accept me. Now I feel angry, because I live with criminals. But I am
not a criminal.''

Saied's husband is a refugee in Kenya; her children live with relatives in
northern Virginia. Daughter Fazia, 3, is a U.S. citizen because she was born
while Saied's husband was a student in Fresno, Calif. But Saied faces
deportation if her appeal for political asylum is turned down again.

Immigration courts have rejected claims by both that they are targets of
political persecution in Somalia because they're affiliated with the clan of
ousted dictator Siad Barre.

Prospects for Muhammed and Saied - among hundreds of Somalis seeking political
asylum - aren't good. In rejecting their petitions, courts say they're victims
of random violence and food shortages affecting all Somalis - but not entitled
to protection.

The United States offers temporary protection only to Somalis who were in the
country as of Sept. 16, 1991. Fewer than 400 fall under that protection, and
neither Muhammed nor Saied qualifies.

''Our government is blinding itself to the facts because it's afraid of opening
the floodgates,'' says Saied's lawyer, Don Verrilli. ''I think that's wrong, and
I intend to fight it.''

Somalia ''is an unsafe place to return anyone,'' says Bill Frelick of the U.S.
Committee for Refugees.

Human rights groups hope the Clinton administration will grant broader asylum to
Somalian refugees.

But Verrilli is not optimistic: ''My fear is it may be too late. A transition
takes time.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, Tim Dillon, USA TODAY

CUTLINE: WATCHING AND WAITING: Jama Farah Muhammed and Farhia Saied came to the
USA to escape the war and famine ravaging Somalia. Now, they sit in a Maryland
jail, awaiting possible deportation.

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              291 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   November 17, 1992, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

U.S. under pressure to carry bigger load

BYLINE: Marilyn Greene

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 496 words


Somalis, Chinese, Haitians and Yugoslavians are among thousands looking to the
United States for refuge after being driven from their homelands by war, famine,
political repression and ethnic strife.

But the United States is coming under increasing fire from humanitarian groups
for doing too little to absorb its share of the world's 16 million refugees.

''Bureaucratic considerations are driving our policy,'' says Arthur Helton,
director of a refugee project run by the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights.

The United States admits about 1 million people a year under various immigration
categories: refugees, political asylum seekers, students, visitors, relatives of
U.S. residents or citizens.

Millions of others scramble for 40,000 slots given out by lottery, said Duke
Austin of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service. And at least 3
million have slipped illegally into the USA, knowing they don't meet
requirements.

One category, Temporary Protective Status, was added in 1990. It grants entry to
a small number of people from a few troubled countries: Somalia,
Bosnia-Herzegovina, El Salvador, Kuwait, Lebanon and Liberia. About 200,000 have
been granted the status.

Helton says the Bush administration has been stingy with such measures because
''the notion is it's less expensive to protect people in the region than to
provide resettlement.'' But, Helton says, ''when you have been a victim of
atrocious persecution by your neighbor, you can't go home again.''

Helton and House immigration subcommittee Chairman Romano Mazzoli, D-Ky., want
the protection granted more broadly, particularly to all people from Yugoslavia,
not just Bosnians.

The U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees has asked the United States and other
Western nations to take refugees to ease pressure on Bosnia's immediate
neighbors. Croatia, the closest neighbor, is staggering under an influx of
700,000 refugees on top of its own 4.7 million population.

Austria and Germany say they'll take no more refugees. And the United States
last month agreed to accept only 1,000 refugees.

''We believe the first priority, particularly with the onset of winter, is to
use our resources to provide food, medicine and shelter for the 2.7 million
refugees in the former Yugoslavia and neighboring countries,'' says White House
spokesman Doug Davidson.

That's fine with groups like the Federation for American Immigration Reform, who
want the United States to put a three-year moratorium on all immigration, then
limit the annual total to 300,000. Immigration-control advocates say the United
States already has enough people - and problems - to take care of, and can ill
afford to shelter the rest of the world's poor.

''There are 2 billion wretchedly poor people in the world,'' says Garrett
Hardin, author of a new federation book, Crowding Out the Future. ''We can't
possibly be our brothers' keeper - particularly since their numbers are
increasing faster than ours.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

THE WORLD'S DISPLACED

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              292 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

               December 9, 1992, Wednesday, INTERNATIONAL EDITION

Japan: A recession haven for Americans

BYLINE: Elisa Tinsley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 292 words

DATELINE: TOKYO


The recent surge in the number of U.S. citizens moving to Japan for work is
tapering off, but officials say the economy still offers opportunities for
Westerners here.

Japan's Immigration Bureau, a division of the Ministry of Justice, says 16,694
Americans registered to work here in 1990, up from 7,085 in 1986.

But 1991 showed the first decline in years in the number of U.S. citizens
claiming they were entering Japan for work.

The number dropped by 5.4%; 18,622 U.S. citizens entered for work in 1991, down
from 19,630 the previous year.

While noting the recent decline in the number of U.S. citizens coming to Japan
for work, Osamu Sato, director of public affairs in the Immigration Bureau's
general affairs division, predicts continued growth.

''A lot of American people come to Japan to learn about the culture. But another
aspect is training. There are a lot of chain stores and restaurants that train
people here in Japan for their U.S. operations.''

Sato says the more than 42,000 U.S. citizens here still comprise the largest
group of non-Asian foreigners in Japan.

''The recession and unemployment in the States would tend to drive people to
look for work overseas,'' explains Robert Fox of the American Chamber of
Commerce in Japan.

''I think it's going to get more competitive in Japan for foreigners,'' says
Atsuko Horiguchi, an economist at the World Bank in Washington who worked here
in the 1980s. ''The more skills you have to offer, including the language, will
determine how you do there.''

Still, Elliott Robbins, 27, a native of Holden, Mass., who has spent five years
in Japan, three with the international telephone firm KDD, says it's been the
chance of a lifetime: ''I see it as a career stepping stone.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              293 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    December 18, 1992, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Immigrant wave boosts total to 8%

BYLINE: Margaret L. Usdansky

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 219 words


Nearly 5 million immigrants poured into the USA between 1985 and 1990 - a group
so large they account for 1 in 4 of all foreign-born residents, the Census
Bureau reports today.

The nation's foreign-born population is now 19.8 million - 7.9% of the total
population.

By comparison, almost 15% of the total U.S. population were immigrants at the
beginning of the century.

Today, ''There are a great many more national and linguistic groups'' among the
foreign-born population, says Brandeis University history professor Larry Fuchs.

Earlier this century, southern and eastern Europeans made up the bulk of
immigrants. The most recent wave of immigration is dominated by Asians and
Hispanics.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service says the three most common countries
of origin for immigrants who arrived in the late 1980s were:

- Mexico, former home of more than 1 in 10.

- The Philippines, former home of 1 in 12.

- Korea, former home to 1 in 18.

Among all residents who are foreign-born - regardless of when they entered the
country - Mexico is the most common country of origin. In 1990, 21.7% of
foreign-born residents were from Mexico, compared with 15.6% in 1980.

The Philippines, only the seventh most common country of origin among
foreign-born in 1980, was second in 1990.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              294 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  December 30, 1992, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

West sees top population gain

BYLINE: Margaret L. Usdansky

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 1264 words


For the second year in a row, Nevada led the nation in population growth, with a
3.5% jump in residents, says an annual Census Bureau estimate out today.

The figures, which estimate population change from July 1991 to July 1992, show
the USA overall grew to 255 million people, a gain of 2.9 million, or 1.2%.

Fully one-third of the country's growth was due to immigration, while two-
thirds came from natural increase - the excess of births over deaths.

''International migration is playing an increasing role'' in population
patterns, even in areas that usually attract few immigrants, says the Census
Bureau's Ed Byerly.

''Here is Kansas, gaining just as many (new residents) through international
migration as through migration from other states'' - 6,000 newcomers from each,
Byerly says.

- The West, home to nine of the nation's 10 fastest-growing states, including
Alaska and Colorado, led the regions with 1.9% growth.

The West has been the nation's fastest-growing region since at least the 1980s.
The South came second with 1.4% growth, while the Midwest recorded a 0.8%
population increase and the Northeast just 0.3%.

- Only Connecticut and the District of Columbia saw their populations shrink.
Even West Virginia - which lost more than 10% of its population during the 1980s
- gained residents in the last year. But five other states, including New York,
Massachusetts and North Dakota, would have lost people if not for immigration.

- For 12 states, including Florida and Nevada, migration from within the USA was
the most important source of population growth.

The shifts underscore the way economic factors drive population changes, says
Urban Institute demographer Jeff Passel. ''Places that are doing well
economically are growing, and the places that seem to be in trouble are
losing.''

University of Michigan demographer Bill Frey agrees: ''There's a real evacuation
of places that have hit the skids economically, like California.''

California - long the dream destination for many - saw 212,000 residents leave.
A state analysis shows neighboring states, especially Arizona and Oregon, have
gained from California's defense cuts and budget crises.

The Golden State owes most of its healthy 1.6% growth to 307,000 new immigrants
- almost a third of the USA's total immigration for the year.

State population growth
Nevada, whose population increased by 3.5% over the 12 months that ended July 1,
1992, was the fastest growing state, according to Census Bureau estimates. The
nation as a whole grew by more than 2.9 million -- 1.2% -- to more than 255
million. State populations as of July 1, 1992, and percentage change from the
previous year:
State                Pop.                  Chg.
Ala.              4,135,000                 1.1%
Alaska              587,000                 2.9%
Ariz.             3,832,000                 2.2%
Ark.              2,399,000                 1.1%
Calif.           30,887,000                 1.6%
Colo.             3,470,000                 2.7%
Conn.             3,281,000                -0.2%
Del.                689,000                 1.4%
D.C.                588,000                -1.1%
Fla.             13,488,000                 1.7%
Ga.               6,751,000                 1.9%
Hawaii            1,180,000                 2.0%
Idaho             1,087,000                 2.7%
Ill.             11,631,000                 0.8%
Ind.              5,882,000                 0.9%
Iowa              2,812,000                 0.6%
Kan.              2,523,000                 1.1%
Ky.               3,755,000                 1.1%
La.               4,287,000                 0.8%
Maine             1,235,000                 0.1%
Md.               4,808,000                 1.0%
Mass.             5,998,000                 0%
Mich.             9,437,000                 0.6%
Minn.             4,480,000                 1.1%
Miss.             2,814,000                 0.8%
Mo.               5,183,000                 0.7%
Mont.               824,000                 1.8%
Neb.              1,608,000                 0.8%
Nev.              1,327,000                 3.5%
N.H.              1,111,000                 0.6%
N.J.              7,789,000                 0.5%
N.M.              1,581,000                 2.1%
N.Y.             18,119,000                 0.4%
N.C.              8,843,000                 1.6%
N.D.                635,000                 0.2%
Ohio             11,018,000                 0.7%
Okla.             3,212,000                 1.2%
Ore.              2,977,000                 1.9%
Pa.              12,009,000                 0.4%
R.I.              1,005,000                   0%
S.C.              3,803,000                 1.2%
S.D.                711,000                 1.1%
Tenn.             5,024,000                 1.4%
Texas            17,858,000                 1.8%
Utah              1,813,000                 2.4%
Vt.                 570,000                 0.6%
Va.               6,377,000                 1.5%
Wash.             5,138,000                 2.5%
W.Va.             1,812,000                 0.5%
Wis.              5,007,000                 1.0%
Wyo.                488,000                 1.4%
USA             255,082,000                 1.2%

Source: U.S. Census Bureau

TRANSPORTATION
Deaths down, belt use up

Fewer people died on the nation's roads this year than in any year since 1962,
the federal government estimated Tuesday. The 1992 fatality rate, deaths
compared with miles traveled, is the lowest ever.

Seat belt usage rates
'82          11%
'92          62%

Traffic fatalities
'82          43,945
'92          39,500

Percentage of passengers using seat belts
State    Percent
Ala.    58%
Alaska    66%
Ariz.    73%
Ark.    55%
Calif.    70%
Colo.    50%
Conn.    71%
D.C.    59%
Del.    70%
Fla.    57%
Ga.    51%
Hawaii    83%
Idaho    53%
Ill.    65%
Ind.    56%
Iowa    71%
Kan.    70%
Ky.    41%
La.    47%
Maine    36%
Mass.    31%
Md.    75%
Mich.    54%
Minn.    53%
Miss.    24%
Mo.    70%
Mont.    71%
N.C.    70%
N.D.    30%
N.H.    50%
N.J.    68%
N.M.    66%
N.Y.    69%
Neb.    33%
Nev.     63%
Ohio    58%
Okla.    44%
Ore.    72%
Pa.    63%
R.I.    32%
S.C.    53%
S.D.    42%
Tenn.    58%
Texas    69%
Utah    50%
Va.    72%
Vt.    47%
W.Va.    34%
Wash.    73%
Wis.    59%
Wyo.    N/A%

Source: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHICS, b/w (2 Line graphs)

TYPE: Statesline

FROM USA TODAY'S NATIONAL NEWS NETWORK; U.S. CENSUS; See info boxes at end of
text

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              295 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   January 6, 1993, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Clinton to try to discourage Haiti exodus

BYLINE: Juan J. Walte; Bill Nichols

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 338 words


President-elect Clinton is expected to make an effort this week at persuading
Haitian refugees that it might be better for them to stay home.

Clinton, who discussed the issue with top foreign policy advisers Tuesday in
Little Rock, is preparing a policy statement aimed at discouraging thousands of
Haitians from boarding overloaded boats in hopes of finding asylum in the USA.

Clinton has criticized President Bush's policy of turning back Haitians at sea.

But he apparently is not seeking a major policy shift. He wants to find a way to
open the door for those with legitimate reasons for fleeing Haiti's oppressive
military regime while discouraging those trying to excape the country's poverty.

His differences with Bush's policy have created a growing perception among
Haitians that he'll ease access to the USA and triggered fear of a massive
exodus to south Florida, comparable to the Cuban Mariel boatlift in the late
1970s.

The issue has heated up since 159 Haitians confined at a U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service center in Florida went on a hunger strike Thursday.

They say it is unfair for the United States to deny them asylum while taking in
anyone fleeing Fidel Castro's Cuba.

Frank Sharry, head of the National Immigration Refugee and Citizenship Forum,
calls the Haiti-Cuba situations similar: ''Both governments have militarily
dominated regimes ... so it's unfair for one group to be celebrated as heroes
and the other to be deported.''

But INS spokesman Duke Austin said, ''Cuba does not accept its nationals back,
so if you don't have the avenue to return people ... then there really isn't any
option.''

More than 30,000 Haitians have fled and reports from the Caribbean nation
estimate 100,000 more are getting ready to risk their lives on the perilous
600-mile voyage to Florida.

An indication of how the situation could worsen: On Tuesday, a freighter
carrying 352 Haitians limped into Miami.

The U.S. Coast Guard boarded the 75-foot wooden boat near Miami's port area.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              296 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     January 8, 1993, Friday, FINAL EDITION

All Haitians owed entry

BYLINE: Julianne Malveaux

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 283 words


''Give me your tired, your poor ...'' reads the Statue of Liberty inscription.

Its presence has inspired millions of people from all over the world to come to
the United States. Cubans. White South Africans. Persecuted Chinese people.
Soviet Jews.

In nearly every case, these people are welcomed with open arms.

But when the tired and poor are Haitians fleeing political persecution and
economic depravity, they find not open arms but jails on the other end.

President-elect Bill Clinton takes a small step in the right direction when he
says he will not send boats of Haitians back to that country.

He can do more by ordering all Haitians admitted because there is no justice, no
democracy, in that country.

If Cubans who come here get automatic asylum, why don't Haitians?

Does it have anything to do with class, privilege, skin color? Is it easier to
turn a leaky boat away than a hijacked plane?

It splits hairs to ask whether Haitians flee for political or economic reasons.
Repressive politics and repressive economics go hand in hand. The per capita
income in Haiti is less than $ 300. Living conditions are harsh. Economic
necessities and political participation are scarce.

The United States has played no small role in Haiti's current political economy.
We spent millions of dollars propping up the wretched Duvalier regime and
facilitated the use of cheap Haitian labor in multinational agribusiness.

We must allow Haitian immigrants amnesty until democracy is restored in that
country. More importantly, we must take steps to undo the harm we have done in
Haiti so that fewer will risk their lives by fleeing their country in leaky
boats with crippled dreams.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; Today's debate is on HAITIAN REFUGEES and what the United
States should do about them.; OPPOSING VIEW; Grant refugees amnesty until
democracy is restored in Haiti.; Julianne Malveux is a San Francisco columnist
and lecturer.

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              297 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   January 13, 1993, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Florida on defensive for flood for refugees

BYLINE: Desda Moss

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 506 words


Florida officials, fearing an influx of Haitian refugees, are scrambling to
prepare contingency plans and seek federal assurance the state won't shoulder
the burden alone.

''We continue to try to express that Florida is already handling, and has
handled much more than, our share, that after (Hurricane) Andrew we are even
less able to take the additional burdens that would come on,'' Florida Gov.
Lawton Chiles said Tuesday.

The plans come despite news Tuesday that ousted Haiti President Jean- Bertrand
Aristide may return to his country, perhaps stalling an exodus of Haitian
refugees to Florida.

The state still is recovering from $ 20 billion in destruction caused by Andrew
in August.

Chiles, who has repeatedly said immigration is ''first and foremost'' a federal
responsibility, met with Pentagon officials Monday to discuss immigration plans.

He received guarantees there are facilities outside South Florida that could
house up to 100,000 Haitians.

State officials also are finalizing an emergency plan that could be activated by
executive order if the federal Immigration and Naturalization Service is
overwhelmed. It outlines possible sites for initial processing, transportation
and short-term detention of the incoming Haitians.

John Joyce, spokesman for the Florida agency coordinating the plan, says the
state hopes it won't have to use it if Aristide returns.

''That would be the best scenario we could ever hear,'' says Joyce.

Miami's Cuban-born Mayor Xavier Suarez says he's sympathetic to the plight of
Haitian refugees but has concerns about costs of mass immigration: ''I'm not
afraid of immigration from a personal stance, but as a government official, I
worry about the financial resources a massive migration will require.''

Many Haitians and their advocates denounce estimates predicting an exodus of up
to 100,000 Haitians.

''Haitians don't want to come to this country,'' says Steve Forester, a lawyer
with the Haitian Refugee Center. ''They want Aristide returned to power.''

Anthony Bryan, a professor of international studies at the University of Miami,
also says that fears of another Mariel - the 1980 boatlift that brought more
than 120,000 Cubans to south Florida's shores - are unfounded.

''I don't think people are going to pick up Haitians in boats like they did in
Mariel.''

Forester says the federal government's claim that most Haitian boat people are
''economic'' refugees, not political, is ''bunk.''

''It's one of the most politicized countries in the world.''

Louis Germain, executive director of the Haitian American Community Association,
says an influx of Haitians would not be welcomed by some Miamians.

''Certain people would not like to see them coming because they are black and
because they are poor,'' he says.

''But those who are complaining are the ones who will benefit most from their
presence. (Haitians) will take the menial jobs that no white American, no Cuban,
no Afro-American will do - picking fruit and vegetables, cutting sugar cane.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Kathy Willens

CUTLINE: TEARS FOR SON: Julia Petithomme cries at Miami's Haitian Refugee Center
after learning her son may have died when a freighter sank.

HAITI

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              298 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    January 22, 1993, Friday, FIRST EDITION

POLL: 63% oppose Baird // Clinton lobbies senators

BYLINE: Sam Vincent Meddis; Sandra Sanchez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 307 words


Zoe Baird, whose nomination as the nation's first female attorney general seem
assured by the Senate a week ago, wouldn't be confirmed by the public today.

A USA TODAY/CNN/Gallup Poll Thursday shows 63% of 600 people interviewed don't
think she should be confirmed because of her admission that she knowingly hired
two undocumented immigrants.

''Of course (the nomination) is in trouble,'' Sen. Carol Moseley-Braun, D- Ill.,
one of the first two women on the Judiciary Committee, said Thursday.

The poll also found:

- 59% say her breach of immigration law undermines her ability to enforce the
USA's laws; 33% disagree.

- More than half, 56%, say she felt herself above the law.

- 75% don't believe she was telling the truth about being unable to find
qualified legal workers to fill the jobs.

The margin of error is 5%.

Another indication of trouble: Senators say calls and mail from constituents are
running heavily against the nomination.

President Clinton continues to support her, but appears to be worried: He has
phoned senators on her behalf.

And spokesman George Stephanopoulos said, ''Right now, Zoe Baird is his
nominee.''

He said Clinton believes she will be an ''excellent attorney general.''

Baird insists she won't withdraw her nomination.

Several senators have voiced opposition, including Nancy Kassebaum, R- Kan., the
Senate's lone Republican woman, who decided to oppose her with ''deep regret.''

Moseley-Braun, like many other members of the panel, said she's reserving
judgment until the confirmation hearings conclude, likely next week.

Republican Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, considered a possible swing vote, said
her prospects for confirmation are ''very much up in the air.''

Committee questioning was expected to shift today to Baird's husband, Yale law
professor Paul Gewirtz.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              299 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

              February 10, 1993, Wednesday, INTERNATIONAL EDITION

SAILOR ARRAIGNED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 321 words


A U.S. Navy apprentice airman was arraigned Tuesday in Yokosuka, Japan, on
charges of killing a gay sailor in a case that has become a cause celebre for
gay activists. The accused, Terry M. Helvey, 21, of Westland, Mich., did not
enter a plea. The court-martial's next session is set for April 27. The October
slaying of Seaman Allen Schindler, 22, of San Diego, outraged gay activists, who
contend it was a hate crime encouraged by the military's opposition to gays.

ASIAN GANGS: Asian gangs are earning as much as $ 3 billion annually smuggling
an estimated 100,000 people a year into the USA, the Washington Post reported
Tuesday. The paper quoted field agents of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service as saying their Washington headquarters was not doing enough to stem the
flow of immigrants from Hong Kong, Taiwan and China. Gangs were charging
immigrants $ 30,000 each to sneak them in to the country.

WELFARE CUTS: States made deep cuts in welfare programs for the second straight
year in 1992, increasing hardships and possibly homelessness, the Center on
Budget and Policy Priorities said. From July 1989, the economic slowdown has
helped push welfare rolls to all-time highs. One in 10 Americans, more than 26
million, receives food stamps, and one in seven children receives benefits under
Aid to Families with Dependent Children.

ALSO . . .

MITCHELSON CONVICTED: Lawyer Marvin Mitchelson, best known for representing
celebrity clients in so-called "palimony" cases, was convicted on four counts of
tax evasion Tuesday, a day after filing for bankruptcy.

DEATHS . . .

JACKSON, Miss.: William Ewing "Slew" Hester, 80, a past U.S. Tennis Association
president and chairman of the U.S. Open, died Monday from rheumatoid arthritis.

NEW YORK: Eliot Janeway, 80, an economist and commentator on the interplay
between Wall Street and Washington, died Monday of diabetes and heart problems.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, AP

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              300 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 12, 1993, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Immigration-AIDS showdown looms

BYLINE: Marilyn Greene

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 528 words


President Clinton's promise to open U.S. borders to foreigners infected with the
AIDS virus shapes up as a fight rivaling the controversy over homosexuals in the
military.

The battle lines will be drawn next week, when Congress returns from recess.

"Unless you believe we have the AIDS crisis under control, I would advise you to
resist this potentially explosive policy change," Senate Minority Leader Robert
Dole, R-Kan., warned Health and Human Services Secretary Donna Shalala in a
letter this week.

Dole vows to oppose lifting the current ban, possibly by tacking an amendment
onto some piece of legislation in Congress. Sen. Jesse Helms, R-N.C., succeeded
in waylaying a similar proposal in 1987 with an appropriations amendment that
passed unanimously.

Rep. Barney Frank, D-Mass., who is openly gay, is on the president's side. He
says Clinton's policy represents "a triumph" for former Health and Human
Services director William Sullivan, who wanted to lift the ban in 1990 but was
overruled by the Bush administration. "Sullivan has finally found a president to
agree with him."

In three days this week, Dole's office received 301 calls on the issue, all but
six opposed to lifting the ban.

"The Clinton White House probably thinks they can sneak this through," says Dole
spokesman Walt Riker. "(But) once this is out, you'll see phones ringing off the
hook."

AIDS activists are preparing for congressional opposition: "We're concerned some
members will try to politicize it and keep the ban in effect," says Gregory
King, spokesman for the Human Rights Campaign Fund, a gay lobby with 75,000
members.

Clinton says he'll also allow in foreigners with leprosy and syphilis.
Tuberculosis still would justify exclusion.

The National Commission on AIDS estimates "well under 1,000" individuals
infected with the AIDS virus will enter the country annually, says spokesman Tom
Brandt. It's estimated about 1 million individuals in the USA are infected with
the AIDS virus. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta says
there are 242,146 AIDS cases.

Applicants for entry still will have to comply with stringent U.S. immigration
quotas and rules, including a requirement that an individual show he will not
become a financial burden to the
government. Exempted: those seeking political asylum.    Among the

first to benefit are more than 200 Haitians who qualify for political asylum in
the USA but have been held at the Guantanamo Bay Naval Base in Cuba because they
have the AIDS virus.

Based on averages, the tab for their treatment could run to $ 100,000 each.

But June Osborne, chairman of the AIDS commission, discounts the argument that
the new policy will be expensive: "Nobody is allowed into the United States
who's costly to the American taxpayers. HIV-positive people pose no special
risk, and shouldn't be treated any differently than anybody else."

But Dan Stein, director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, is
skeptical about the policy change: "If Clinton can't guarantee it's not going to
cost a single red cent in unreimbursed medical expenses, it's a no-brainer."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Agence France-Press

WASHINGTON

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              301 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 15, 1993, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Haiti's peace prospects rise with arrival of observer team

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 335 words


The stalled effort to restore democracy to Haiti gained new momentum with the
presence today of about 40 international human-rights observers _ including 15
Americans _ in the Caribbean nation. After months of resistance, Prime Minister
Marc Bazin's military-backed government allowed the mission last week. Jesse
Jackson, meanwhile, told Haitian hunger strikers at Guantanamo Bay Naval Base in
Cuba that he would begin fasting in the USA while pushing President Clinton's
promise to lift the ban on HIV-infected immigrants. Jackson, who said he would
join the 2-week-old hunger strike, visited the U.S. base where 267 Haitians,
many infected with the AIDS virus, are being detained.

ISRAEL ON PALESTINIANS: Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin is convinced
Palestinians will resume peace talks despite their disagreement over 400
deportees exiled to Lebanon. Palestinian negotiators said they would shun the
16-month-old peace negotiations with Israel until all the deportees return home.

CYPRUS ELECTIONS: Glafcos Clerides, 73, won a slim victory in Cyprus
presidential elections with a 1,988-vote margin. Clerides opposes a U.N. plan to
reunite Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot parts of the Mediterranean island
divided after a 1974 Turkish invasion.

NOBEL PEACE WINNERS: Half a dozen Nobel Peace Prize laureates, including South
Africa's Anglican Archbishop Desmond Tutu, are in Bangkok, Thailand, today
hoping to use their moral authority to focus attention on the plight of the 1991
winner, Burmese opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi, held under house arrest.

KABUL TRUCE: A Pakistani peace broker won a cease-fire in Kabul to halt fierce
artillery battles between the Afghan government and its guerrilla foes.

LITHUANIA VOTES: Former communist leader Algirdas Brazauskas won Lithuania's
first post-independence presidential election with 60% of the vote, according to
preliminary official results. Brazauskas, 60, was already acting president of
the former Soviet republic.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Elsewhere in the World

THE WORLD

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              302 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 19, 1993, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Senate defeats Clinton on AIDS-immigration ban

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 270 words


The Senate handed President Clinton his first legislative defeat Thursday,
voting to block him from lifting the ban on immigration by people infected with
the AIDS virus.

Even though Clinton has yet to act on the ban, the Senate's 76-23 vote would
turn the prohibition into law, thwarting any order from Clinton.

Clinton had promised during his campaign to change the policy that prevented
HIV-infected foreigners from visiting or immigrating, except under special
circumstances. Last week Health and Human Services Secretary Donna Shalala said
she was preparing an order for Clinton.

The ban was attached as an amendment to the National Institutes of Health
reauthorization bill, which passed on a 93-4 vote.

Clinton will "review it," said spokeswoman Dee Dee Myers. "I think the Senate
made a pretty strong statement about it."

The House must also pass the amendment for it to become law.

AIDS activists weren't overly optimistic about their chances in the House.
"There's a bit more opportunity there but it's certainly not guaranteed," said
Cornelius Baker, spokesman for the National Association of People With AIDS.

If the House approves the amendment, Clinton would find it difficult to veto the
bill. He promised to sign the bill that authorizes more money for women's health
research and lifts former president George Bush's ban on use of fetal tissue
from elective abortions in transplant research.

The amendment was a victory for Senate Republicans, who failed two weeks ago to
block Clinton from lifting the ban on homosexuals in the military. This time, 34
Democrats joined Republicans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CLINTON'S ECONOMIC PLAN

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              303 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    March 10, 1993, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Fear outruns reason

BYLINE: Raoul Lowery Contreras

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 401 words


A caller to a radio talk show recently asked me a troubling question: Why, in
supporting free trade with Mexico, did I have to spend so much time arguing its
benefits with conservative Republicans? After all, noted the caller,
"conservative Republicans are supposed to be for free trade."

Not only is the question troubling, but so is the answer.

If one is a true conservative, one must be for free trade. Along with a free
society and respect for private property, free trade is one of the three legs of
free enterprise.

A free society, by definition, must be open to migration from other countries,
albeit subject to controls. Here, some avowed conservatives begin to have
problems.

Immigration comes in two forms, legal and illegal, the definitions of which were
established in the 1920s by an overwhelmingly white, Northern European
Protestant population reacting to huge waves of Eastern European Jews and
Mediterranean Catholics who came here during the first two decades of the
century.

They passed restrictive immigration controls that virtually shut out more Jews
and Southern European Catholics. Asians, excluded for decades, continued to be
excluded.

But, since 1965, there has been a steady stream of immigrants from all over the
world, most from south of the border and Asia. To many, this has been a
disaster, a tide of helpless humanity that is catastrophically changing our
nation. Many would fortify the U.S.-Mexican border and shoot Mexicans trying to
cross. They blame those who do manage to cross for all of society's ills: budget
deficits, crime, welfare fraud and on and on.

Strangely, some of these critics also are opposed to the North American Free
Trade Agreement. But those who vehemently oppose illegal immigration from Mexico
should be strongly for NAFTA. Every study concludes that free trade will cause
the Mexican economy to be strengthened and grow, creating millions of jobs for
people who otherwise would come here illegally.

But these people are against illegal immigration from Mexico and against NAFTA.
There can be only one explanation for such a gigantic inconsistency of views and
for such a betrayal of basic conservative, free-trade philosophy.

You don't hear these people complaining about illegals from Ireland or about
free trade with Canada. They complain only about Mexico and Mexicans. They are
Mexophobes, which is spelled R-A-C-I-S-T.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; COMMENT; Raoul Lowery Contreras is a San Diego writer and is
on the editorial board of La Prensa San Diego and a former member of the
California Republican State Committee.

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              304 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     March 12, 1993, Friday, FINAL EDITION

House endorses AIDS immigrant ban

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 1004 words


The House on Thursday overwhelmingly endorsed a ban on immigrants infected with
the AIDS virus _ a second defeat for President Clinton, who may give up the
fight.

"The president has to work with Congress. He can't act unilaterally on issues
like this," said White House spokeswoman Dee Dee Myers before the House vote.
Clinton promised during the campaign to lift the ban on HIV-positive immigrants,
but the Senate last month handed him his first legislative loss with an
overwhelming vote to make the ban law.

The Senate attached the ban to a reauthorization bill for the National
Institutes of Health, which Clinton also has promised to sign. The House passed
the bill Thursday, then voted 356-58 to instruct its conferees to accept the
Senate language on the ban.

Supporters of the ban argued that allowing HIV-infected immigrants into the
country would endanger other Americans and exacerbate the health-care crisis
because the cost of caring for AIDS patients can top $ 100,000 a year.

House Democratic leaders had earlier conceded that the arguments were persuasive
for most members. "There's real concern about what the rules ought to be for
people who have AIDS who want to come to this country and may end up costing the
American taxpayers money," said Rep. Henry Waxman, D-Calif. -Maria Puente

BOSNIA WARNING: As U.S. military officials talk with NATO about possibly sending
troops to Yugoslavia, former secretary of State Lawrence Eagleburger was on
Capitol Hill, urging against such action and repeating the Bush administration
argument that the war there is basically "a European problem." Added
Eagleburger, "We must be very, very careful about putting troops on the ground
in Yugoslavia. I worry about incrementalism." RURAL HEALTH CARE: President
Clinton's health-care plan of managed competition can work in rural areas,
medical leaders were told at a forum in Little Rock. The biggest obstacles:
getting rural patients to clinics, doctors' offices and hospitals and getting
more medical personnel into rural areas. These hurdles can't be overcome by
money alone, says U.S. Surgeon General-designate Joycelyn Elders, currently
director of Arkansas' health department.

"We've got to train people all over how to use our system (and) to be more
responsible for their health," she said.

Clinton's vision of health-care reform is "managed competition" _ providing all
citizens with a basic benefits package through private or public HMO-style
plans.

Critics of managed competition have said it will only work in communities with
at least 180,000 residents because smaller towns can't support competing
hospitals, clinics and even competing physicians. Some states, like South
Dakota, have no city that large.

But competition could work differently in sparsely populated areas, where 27% of
the USA lives, proponents say. Instead, "managed cooperation," in which
localities pool together to pay for medical care, could increase access for
rural residents. Medical providers could compete in regular bidding processes to
cover remote areas. -Mike Snider

NRA LOBBYIST: A National Rifle Association lobbyist resigned after admitting he
spread unsubstantiated rumors that Attorney General-designate Janet Reno was
stopped on suspicion of drunken driving but not charged, the NRA said. David
Gibbons resigned as the NRA's director of federal affairs, said Jim Baker, the
organization's chief lobbyist. The organization also apologized to Sen. Joseph
Biden Jr., D-Del., chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee. The NRA opposes
gun-control legislation, particularly a five-day waiting period for handgun
purchases that President Clinton and Reno support. CLARIFICATION: Paul Begala,
political consultant to President Clinton, says he has voluntarily complied with
federal ethics regulations from the day he joined the White House a month ago as
a temporary full-time adviser.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Tim Dillon, USA TODAY; PHOTO, b/w, John Durick, AP

TYPE: Capital Line

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              305 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    March 17, 1993, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Coming to America

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 34 words


Top five U.S. destinations for legal Irish immigrants in 1991:
New York     1,143
Boston         503
Long Island    226

San Francisco 212
Philadelphia   126

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, color, Nick Galifianakis, USA TODAY, Source: Immigration and
Naturalization Service (Diagram)

TYPE: Snapshot

A look at statistics that shape the nation

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              306 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    March 24, 1993, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

High court sides with Saudis in torture suit

BYLINE: Tony Mauro

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 307 words


A North Carolina man who says he was tortured by Saudi Arabian police says he
will continue his fight for compensation from the Saudi government even though
the Supreme Court Tuesday dismissed his lawsuit.

The court ruled 6-3 that Scott Nelson of Raleigh, N.C., cannot sue the Saudi
government for damages in U.S. courts.

Nelson was imprisoned and beaten in 1984 after he tried to report safety hazards
at a Riyadh hospital he worked at.

He suffered nerve damage and other injuries that left him disabled when Saudi
police were called in.

Justice David Souter's majority opinion rejected Nelson's claim: "However
monstrous such abuse undoubtedly may be, a foreign state's exercise of the power
of its police has long been understood . . . as peculiarly sovereign in nature."

Nelson argued his suit should be allowed under an exception allowing suits based
on "commercial activity" in the United States. Nelson was recruited in the USA
by the Saudi hospital and signed his employment contract in Miami.

Nelson's reaction: The State Department should use diplomatic channels to get
him $ 10 million in compensation.

Everett Johnson, lawyer for the Saudi government, said Nelson should press his
claims in Saudi courts first.

Also Tuesday, the court ruled children can be put in detention centers without a
hearing if they are suspected of being illegal immigrants.

Childrens' rights groups had asked that children be released to family members
or religious groups willing to care for them.

There's no need for a "hearing to determine whether private placement would be
better so long as institutional custody is good enough," wrote Justice Antonin
Scalia.

The ruling mostly affects Central American children who cross the Mexican
border.

U.S. officials said about 200 are now in custody.

Contributing: Dennis Cauchon

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              307 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    March 25, 1993, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

VIETNAMESE IN THE USA // Tales of struggle and success // Contrasts mark
post-war refugee wave

BYLINE: Margaret L. Usdansky

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1269 words

DATELINE: WESTMINSTER, Calif.


South Vietnam's last minister of health stood on his balcony and surveyed the
chaos below.

It was April 29, 1975, and everywhere Ton-That Niem looked, he saw people
running, desperate to escape the approaching communists.

As the sky filled with smoke, Niem fled to the helicopter pad on a rooftop - one
of the last, lucky few to be airlifted to the U.S. Pacific Fleet and,
ultimately, to safety.

"The next day . . . Saigon surrendered," Niem recalls. "I cried, not only with
my eyes, but with my heart."

Saigon's fall sparked the largest refugee wave to this country since World War
II - an exodus that is an enduring legacy of the United States' long involvement
in Vietnam.

From 1975 to 1992, more than 824,000 Vietnamese made their way to the USA.

In the process, their growth rate in the 1980s was the fastest among the
nation's large minority groups - with many early immigrants living the American
dream and many later ones struggling just to survive.

"The number of businesses that have been created (by Vietnamese) in such a short
time is remarkable," says Ngoan Le, of the National Congress of Vietnamese in
America, an advocacy group. "In Westminster, San Jose, New York and Chicago, the
refugees have revitalized a number of neighborhoods."

Though Hispanics make up the nation's largest group of recent immigrants - 7.7
million came here legally in the last decade alone - Vietnamese are among the
nation's most noticeble, largely because of the suddenness of their arrival.

Nowhere is their impact more apparent than here in California's Orange County,
where more than 1 in 10 Vietnamese have settled, including former Minister of
Health Niem, now a psychiatrist.

Orange County, best known for its bedrock Republicanism, may seem an unlikely
place to end up with the largest Vietnamese community in the USA. But the
immigrants have built a Little Saigon - more than 2,500 Vietnamese-run
businesses selling everything from acupuncture to tax preparation.

On the surface, it looks like a total success. But the colorful storefronts
belie a complex community, for unlike a lot of Asians, most Vietnamese did not
come here by choice as immigrants, but as refugees, fleeing persecution.

And there are stark differences within the Vietnamese community. Half of all
Vietnamese households earn more than $ 38,205 - $ 3,000 more than the median for
the population as a whole. But Vietnamese are almost twice as likely to live in
poverty, 23.7% to 13.2%, and their families more than four times as likely to
receive welfare, 24.5% to 5.6%.

"When I came to this country it was by the force of events," says Niem. Still,
he was among the most fortunate: "As a doctor, I was lucky to be accepted for
retraining."

But many recent refugees had none of Niem's advantages, in Vietnam or in the
U.S. Many arrive scarred by the traumas of robbery and rape at sea, years in
political prisons or, in the case of Amerasians - children of Vietnamese mothers
and U.S. soldiers - years of rejection by their countrymen.

"The 1975 refugees have done well because they have some education," says
Nhu-Hao Duong, Orange County refugee coordinator. "The recent refugees come with
less education, very limited exposure to Western culture, and the majority come
from a rural background. The Amerasians, 80% are illiterate." The first wave:
1975

Although Mai Cong was a wealthy woman in Vietnam, she arrived in the USA with
only a 20-pound suitcase - all she and 130,000 other privileged Vietnamese were
allowed to bring during the frantic evacuation before the fall of Saigon.

One of the first Vietnamese refugees to arrive in Orange County in 1975, Cong
remembers searching the streets, hoping to find another Asian - from any
country. "Now I can't believe the number of Vietnamese-Americans."

Bolsa Avenue is one example. Little Saigon replaces a neighborhood dominated by
mobile homes and shabby apartments.

"In 1980, the rent in Little Saigon was 20- or 30-cents a square foot," says
refugee coordinator Duong. "About a year ago, it was $ 3 a square foot."

"The Vietnamese community has changed the way Orange County looks at things,"
Duong says. "Before, Orange County was kind of a bedroom community of Los
Angeles . . . well-to-do and uniform. With the existence of Little Saigon, we
are a very diverse community." The second wave: 1978-93

John Thai's journey to Orange County took years. He tried to escape in 1975, but
was caught and sent to a "re-education" camp. Four years later, he jumped a
fishing boat to Thailand. After seven months in a refugee camp, he made it to
the USA.

Thai, who produces a daily television news show in Vietnamese, was a "boat
person" - and his story and variations of it are the most common of new
Vietnamese immigrants.

More recently, the immigrants have been former political prisoners and
Amerasians, and more than 100,000 more are expected to arrive in the next couple
of years.

Both groups often carry emotional scars and arrive with unrealistic
expectations. Chin Phan, a former South Vietnamese army nurse, came to the U.S.
two years ago. Neither she nor her husband, a former political prisoner, can
find work, and the family lives on welfare.

"She likes very much America, but it's very hard to find a job, and she wants
very much to find a job because she has three children to support," Phan says
through a translator.

The stories of Amerasians also are ones of struggle. Many imagine they will find
their fathers here, but often with only their father's first name, fewer than 2%
actually make contact.

"I thought I would look for my father, that I could use a megaphone," says Khai
Nong, 22, an Amerasian. "Now, I know this country is very big. How can I?"

As the number of new refugees continues to climb, the USA is slowly moving
toward normalization of relations with Vietnam - giving some refugees hope that
one day political conditions could improve enough for them to return home.

Niem cultivates tropical Vietnamese plum and cherry trees. "This is a kind of
treatment for homesick," he says.

The Brokaw Report: Immigration - The Good, The Bad, The Illegal airs Sunday
night at 7 ET.

How Vietnamese compare

How the Vietnamese-American population compares to the U.S. average:

Median household income
Vietnamese    $ 38,205

U.S. average $ 35,000

People in poverty
Vietnamese    23.7%

U.S. average 13.2%

High school graduates (of people age 25/older)
Vietnamese    57.8%

U.S. average 76.2%
College graduates     (people age 25/older)
Vietnamese    12.5%

U.S. average 20.7%
Managers/professionals    (of employed people)
Vietnamese    8.9%

U.S. average 24%
Laborers     (of employed people)
Vietnamese    28.9%

U.S. average 15.5%

Largest populations in metro areas
Orange County, Calif.     71,822
San Jose, Calif.          54,212
Los Angeles               62,594
Houston                   33,035
Washington                23,408
San Diego                 21,118


The number of Vietnamese grew from 261,729 in 1980 to 614,547 in 1990, the
fastest-growing rate among major U.S. racial/ethnic groups:
Vietnamese        135%
Asian Indian      126%
Korean            125%
Chinese           104%
Filipino           82%
Hispanic           53%
Native American    38%
Japanese           21%
Black              13%
U.S. average       10%
White               6%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Marty Baumann, USA TODAY, Source: U.S. Census Bureau (Bar
graphs); PHOTO, color, Bob Riha, Jr., Gamma-Liaison

TYPE: Cover Story

See info boxes at end of text

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              308 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     April 1, 1993, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

FBI hunts 6th bomb suspect

BYLINE: Bruce Frankel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 548 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


The FBI has launched a global manhunt for an Iraqi-born suspect believed to be
the last of the core conspirators in the World Trade Center bombing.

A warrant was issued for Ramzi Ahmed Yousef, 25, on Wednesday after he was named
the sixth suspect in a new bombing indictment.

Investigators say he shared a Jersey City apartment with Mohammed Salameh, a key
suspect in the Feb. 26 bombing that killed six, injured more than 1,000 and has
led to $ 500 million in insurance claims.

"We have no idea where he is. He could be in the area. He could be anywhere,"
said Joe Valiquette, an FBI spokesman.

Wednesday's indictment charged Yousef and three others previously indicted -
Salameh, Mahmud Abohalima, 33, of Woodbridge, N.J., and Nidal Ayyad, 25, of
Maplewood, N.J. - in the World Trade Center bombing.

Yousef, traveling on an Iraqi passport, arrived in New York from Karachi aboard
a Pakistani Air flight on Sept. 1, 1992, said Immigration and Naturalization
Service spokeswoman Rosemary LaGuardia.

A review of his passport showed he left Iraq at the end of April and traveled to
Jordan for four days before flying to Pakistan. He paid a Pakistani Air official
$ 2,700 for a boarding pass, arriving without an immigration visa, she said.

At John F. Kennedy International airport, Yousef sought asylum, was given an
exclusion hearing date, and was released "due to our lack of detention space,"
LaGuardia said.

Immigration hearings were adjourned Dec. 8 and Jan. 24 for lack of a lawyer and
because Yousef's lawyer said he was in an accident, INS records show. A INS
judge issued a warrant for his arrest after he missed a hearing last week.

Yousef may have fled the USA days after the bombing with Abohalima, the alleged
mastermind of the bombing, investigators say. FBI agents returned Abohalima from
Egypt last week.

Defense lawyer Robert Precht said Salameh acknowledges knowing Yousef "on a very
casual basis." But Salameh says he was never Yousef's roommate, Precht said.

Salameh said Yousef was a passenger in a car he was driving when he had an
accident Jan. 24, Precht said. He said Yousef's use of Salameh's address was
"innocent."

Leonard Weinglass, a lawyer for Ayyad, has said Ayyad had rented a car for
Salameh after Salameh was in an accident. The two were briefly partners in a
candy business and shared a bank account, he said.

Salameh was arrested when he returned to a Jersey City rental company to demand
a $ 400 deposit for a rental van investigators say was used to carry the bomb
into the garage beneath the Vista Hotel, adjacent to the 110-story twin towers.

CBS News said Wednesday that officials are looking into whether the bombing was
in retaliation for U.S. raids in Iraq. Investigators are considering the
possibility that bombers targeted the Vista Hotel in retribution for a U.S.
missile attack on Baghdad's Al Rashid hotel Jan. 17, CBS Evening News said.

Investigators say that has been one theory since the blast.

Also, FBI Director William Sessions said, "We have no evidence that a large
group in the United States is preparing for a wave of terrorist attacks."

A letter threatening attacks by 150 "suicidal soldiers" on civilian, military
and nuclear targets has been tied to one bombing suspect in custody,
investigators say.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, AP

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              309 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    April 28, 1993, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Census: Languages not foreign at home

BYLINE: Margaret L. Usdansky

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 278 words


One in 7 U.S. residents speaks a foreign language at home, a sharp increase
since 1980 and a reflection of record immigration, the Census Bureau reports
today.

The new Census report - its first-ever detailed look at language - shows the
USA's 31.8 million foreign-language speakers communicate in 329 different
languages.

Most common: Spanish, spoken by more than 17 million people - 54% of those who
don't speak English at home.

That's 10 times as many as speak French, the second most common language, used
by 5.3% of foreign speakers.

Rounding out the Top 5: German, 4.9%; Italian, 4.1%; and Chinese, 3.9%.

Collectively, speakers of Asian languages account for 14.1% of foreign-language
speakers - mirroring increased immigration.

The language results come from the 1990 Census, which found 14% speak a foreign
language at home, an increase of 34% since 1980.

Other findings:

The number of people who speak European languages at home declined, as numbers
of German, Polish, Yiddish and Italian-speaking immigrants who came here decades
ago dwindle.

California, New York and Florida account for more than half of those who speak a
foreign language at home.

About 335,000 speak Native American languages; nearly half of those speak
Navajo.

33 Native American languages recognized by the Census aren't spoken by anyone.

Second language Most of the 31.8 million people who speak a foreign language at
home also speak English:
Speak English "very well"   56.1%
"Well"                      23.0%
"Not well"                  15.2%
"Not at all"                 5.8%

Language by state, 11A

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, color, Marty Baumann, USA TODAY (Pie chart)

See info box at end of text; See related stories; 11A

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              310 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    April 28, 1993, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

Language mirrors immigration // Provides key to nation's past, present

BYLINE: Margaret L. Usdansky

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 1827 words


Looking at the list of foreign languages spoken in the USA, says Rand Corp.
demographer Peter Morrison, is "almost like an archaeological dig" into the
nation's history.

"You go down and you find these different strata, with different generations of
immigrants," he says.

Indeed, today's new report from the 1990 Census - the bureau's first detailed
look at the 329 languages spoken in the USA - reflects the legacy of a century
of immigration, from the languages of Europeans, who dominated immigration
during the first half of the 1900s, to the languages of the newer immigrants
from Asia, Africa and Latin America.

A USA TODAY computer analysis of the report shows:

Most people age 5 or older who speak a foreign language at home also speak at
least some English.

Fifty-six percent, or 17.9 million people, say they speak English "very well,"
and 23% say they speak it "well."

With the help of relatives or foreign-language Census forms, 15.2% answer "not
well," and 5.8% - or 1.8 million people - say they don't speak English "at all."

Many European languages are becoming less common, as immigrants who came here
decades ago die. The number of German speakers fell 4%, to 1.5 million. Italian
fell 20% to 1.3 million. Yiddish plunged 33.5% to 213,000.

Languages from other parts of the world are becoming more widely used: Chinese
speakers rose 98% to 1.2 million. Tagalog, the language of the Philippines, rose
87% to 843,250. Kru, spoken in Africa, rose 169% to 65,800.

Often, speakers of particular foreign languages are concentrated in a few
states.
Almost half of the USA's 355,150 Arabic speakers live in California, Michigan
and New York. A majority of the 429,860 Portuguese speakers can be found in
Massachusetts, California and New Jersey.

Despite the diversity of language in this country, almost 90% of those who speak
a foreign language at home communicate in one of the 20 most common languages -
from Spanish, No. 1 with 17.3 million speakers, to Armenian, No. 20 with
149,700.

Many of the 309 lesser-spoken languages are used by very small numbers of people
in the USA. They include the 750 speakers of Papia Mentae, a Portuguese Creole
language, and the 73 speakers of Woleai-Ulithi, a Micronesian language.

The Census also found 256 speakers of Alabama, a Native American language, and
851 speakers of Caucasion, a family of 40 languages spoken in the Caucasus
region of the former Soviet Union.

The varying ability of immigrants to speak English often reflects how long
they've been in the USA.

For example, two-thirds of Italian-speakers say they know English "very well,"
compared with just 22% of speakers of Miao. That's the language of the Hmong, a
tribal people from Laos, most of whom immigrated to the USA after 1975.

But time is not the only determinant to English-speaking ability. Often, contact
with a larger, non-immigrant community is just as important.

Immigrants who live and work with others from the same country sometimes don't
end up learning much English.

Franz Kokott, an 83-year-old German immigrant, lives on the northwest side of
Chicago - with a lot of other German immigrants.

Although he's been in this country for 14 years, he speaks no English at all -
and says that it doesn't matter: Family members and friends translate for him,
when needed.

"I don't feel isolated or out of place when people talk English," Kokott says,
through his daughter-in-law. "I just smile and then I ask later what they said."

Contributing: Kevin Johnson Report highlights, 1A

U.S. immigration by decade The United States restricted immigration during the
1920s, but with lesser restrictions passed in the 1960s and 1980s, immigration
rose again: Decade (millions)
1910s       5.8
1920s       4.1
1930s       0.5
1940s       1.0
1950s       2.5
1960s       3.8
1970s       7.0
1980s       9.5

50 common languages Here are the 50 most commonly spoken languages in the USA
after English, the number of people who speak each language and the state with
the highest percentage of speakers of each language:
                         Number of     State with highest pct.
Language            Rank  speakers      of speakers

Spanish 1 17,339,172 New Mexico French 2 1,702,176 Maine German 3 1,547,099
North Dakota Italian 4 1,308,648 New York Chinese 5 1,249,213 Hawaii Tagalog 6
843,251 Hawaii Polish 7 723,483 Illinois Korean 8 626,478 Hawaii Vietnamese 9
507,069 California Portuguese 10 429,860 Rhode Island Japanese 11 427,657 Hawaii
Greek 12 388,260 Massachusetts Arabic 13 355,150 Michigan Hindi 14 331,484 New
Jersey Russian 15 241,798 New York Yiddish 16 213,064 New York Thai/Lao 17
206,266 California Persian 18 201,865 California French Creole 19 187,658
Florida Armenian 20 149,694 California Navaho 21 148,530 New Mexico Hungarian 22
147,902 New Jersey Hebrew 23 144,292 New York Dutch 24 142,684 Utah Mon-Khmer 25
127,441 Rhode Island Gujarathi 26 102,418 New Jersey Ukrainian 27 96,568 New
Jersey Czech 28 92,485 Nebraska Dutch 29 83,525 Pennsylvania Miao 30 81,877
Minnesota Norwegian 31 80,723 North Dakota Slovak 32 80,388 Pennsylvania Swedish
33 77,511 Minnesota Serbo-Croatian 34 70,964 New York Kru 35 65,848 D.C.
Rumanian 36 65,265 New York Lithuanian 37 55,781 Illinois Finnish 38 54,350
Minnesota Panjabi 39 50,005 California Formosan 40 46,044 California Croatian 41
45,206 Illinois Turkish 42 41,876 New Jersey Ilocano 43 41,131 Hawaii Bengali 44
38,101 New York Danish 45 35,639 South Dakota Syriac 46 35,146 Michigan Samoan
47 34,914 Hawaii Malayalam 48 33,949 New York Cajun 49 33,670 Louisiana Amharic
50 31,505 D.C.

Source: USA TODAY analysis of Census Bureau data

Languages at home, state by state

Here, by state, are the percentage of people age 5 and older who speak a foreign
language at home. Also shown, by state, are the four most commonly spoken
languages after English. Many foreign-language speakers use English at work or
school. The Census asks only about language use at home:
                Percentage speaking   Four most commonly spoken
State            foreign language      languages other than English

Ala.  2.9% Spanish, French, German, Chinese Alaska 13.8% Yupik, Spanish,
Tagalog, Inupik Ariz.  26.2% Spanish, Navajo, German, French Ark.  2.9% Spanish,
French, German, Thai Calif.  45.9% Spanish, Chinese, Tagalog, Vietnamese Colo.
11.8% Spanish, German, French, Korean Conn.  18.0% Spanish, Italian, French,
Polish Del.  7.4% Spanish, German, French, Italian D.C.  14.3% Spanish, French,
German, Chinese Fla.  21.0% Spanish, French, French Creole, German Ga.  5.0%
Spanish, French, German, Korean Hawaii 33.0% Japanese, Tagalog, Ilocano, Chinese
Idaho 6.8% Spanish, German, French, Japanese Ill.  16.5% Spanish, Polish,
German, Italian Ind.  5.0% Spanish, German, French, Polish Iowa 4.0% Spanish,
German, French, Thai Kan.  6.1% Spanish, German, French, Vietnamese Ky.  2.6%
Spanish, German, French, Korean La.  11.2% French, Spanish, Cajun, Vietnamese
Maine 10.2% French, Spanish, German, Italian Md.  9.8% Spanish, French, German,
Korean Mass.  17.9% Spanish, Portuguese, French, Italian Mich.  7.1% Spanish,
Polish, German, Arabic Minn.  6.0% German, Spanish, Norwegian, Miao Miss.  2.9%
Spanish, French, German, Choctaw Mo.  3.9% Spanish, German, French, Italian
Mont.  5.3% German, Spanish, Crow, French Neb.  5.0% Spanish, German, Czech,
French Nev.  15.2% Spanish, German, Tagalog, French N.H.  9.5% French, Spanish,
German, Greek N.J.  24.3% Spanish, Italian, Polish, German N.M.  55.1% Spanish,
Navajo, Keres, Zuni N.Y.  30.5% Spanish, Italian, Chinese, French N.C.  4.1%
Spanish, French, German, Chinese N.D.  8.6% German, Norwegian, Spanish, French
Ohio 5.7% Spanish, German, French, Italian Okla.  5.3% Spanish, German, French,
Cherokee Ore.  7.8% Spanish, German, French, Chinese Pa.  7.8% Spanish, Italian,
German, Polish R.I.  20.5% Portuguese, Spanish, French, Italian S.C.  3.6%
Spanish, French, German, Tagalog S.D.  7.0% German, Dakota, Spanish, Norwegian
Tenn.  3.0% Spanish, French, German, Chinese Texas 34.1% Spanish, German,
French, Vietnamese Utah 8.4% Spanish, German, Navajo, French Vt.  6.2% French,
Spanish, German, Italian Va.  7.9% Spanish, French, German, Korean Wash.  9.8%
Spanish, German, Tagalog, Chinese W.Va.  2.7% Spanish, French, German, Italian
Wis.  6.2% Spanish, German, Polish, Miao Wyo.  6.0% Spanish, German, French,
Arapaho

Source: USA TODAY analysis of Census Bureau data

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 15, 1993

CORRECTION: A 50-state chart in Wednesday's USA TODAY contained errors in the
percentages of people age 5 and older who speak a foreign language at home. For
correct percentages, please see April 29, 1993 Nationline.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, J.L. Albert, USA TODAY, Source: The Urban Institute (Bar
graph); PHOTO, b/w, Tim Boyle, AP

CENSUS REPORT; LISTENING TO THE USA; See info boxes at end of text; See related
stories; 01A, 11A

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              311 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      May 6, 1993, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Death may renew focus on AIDS ban

BYLINE: Bill Nichols

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 687 words


Funeral services for a 26-year-old Haitian refugee in Homestead, Fla., on Friday
may be a focal point for a campaign promise gone awry for the Clinton
administration - overturning the ban against HIV-positive immigrants.

Activists hope the death last week of Joel Saintil, one of 240 HIV-infected
Haitian immigrants held for 18 months at the U.S. Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba, will force President Clinton to act.

Saintil was one of 53 Haitians ordered paroled in late March by a federal judge,
over administration objections, because they had full-fledged AIDS.

The Haitians held at Guantanamo are the last of approximately 40,000 who fled
the island by boat after a 1991 coup.

Saintil died last week, after being paroled from Guantanamo. "It's unfortunately
the most heart-touching indication of what's so wrong with this policy," says
Roseann Micaleff, director of the Church World Service refugee program.

"With the care of his family he might be alive today."

Clinton, who relied on gay political support, promised repeatedly to end the
ban, illustrated most vividly by the Guantanamo camp, which costs about $ 55
million a year.

But so far, the White House will say only that it's studying the situation,
though the issue has reportedly divided the administration.

The major voice for overturning the ban reportedly has been Health and Human
Services Secretary Donna Shalala. Among those said to be opposed: White House
chief of staff Thomas "Mack" McLarty.

Those favoring the ban are pleasantly surprised to find Clinton has reversed his
views.

"HIV-positive immigrants ought to be denied entrance unless they can post a
couple of hundred thousand dollars in bond" to cover potential medical expenses,
says Dan Stein of the Federation for American Immigration Reform.

Meanwhile, refugee activists and lawyers for the Haitians pressure Clinton,
saying Guantanamo will only produce more political embarassment.

Those angry about Clinton's inaction are "the people who elected Bill Clinton,"
says Lisa Daugaard, a fellow with American Civil Liberties Union's immigrants
rights project.

"I've gotten notes that mass suicides might happen," says Michael Ratner, one of
the lawyers for the Haitians. "The people who are coming out, we talk to their
counselors and they say . . . they're coming out with what amounts to a
concentration camp mentality."

What Clinton faces:

U.S. District Judge Sterling Johnson, who has already ordered the sickest of the
Haitians receive humanitarian parole, is to issue a broader ruling this month on
the legal status of health conditions at the camp itself.

Indications point to a victory for the refugees, and in language critical of
Clinton.

The U.S. Supreme Court is expected to rule before it adjourns this summer on the
larger issue of whether Haitian refugees can be blockaded at sea.

Clinton also said he would end that policy, then decided to adopt the Bush
administration policy, saying he feared massive deaths of Haitians.

Activists and a steady stream of letters to the White House will continue to
highlight conditions at the camp.

The Haitians are being prescribed AZT and other drugs that can delay the onset
of full-blown AIDS.

But many refuse to take them, fearing they're being poisoned or used as guinea
pigs for unapproved drugs. Others don't believe they're sick at all.

Clinton, particularly in light of fierce opposition he has encountered in trying
to overturn the ban on gays in the military, reportedly is aware of the
political price he would pay in trying to overturn this ban as well.

And those pushing for Clinton to take action are not optimistic. Both the House
and Senate recently passed measures reaffirming the ban on HIV-infected
immigrants, with little administration opposition.

But activists hope that, if Johnson rules to close the camp, the White House
will not appeal and use the order as a way out of a political morass.

"The military wants it closed, the judge is going to say it's illegal and it's
clearly cruel," says Daugaard.

"There's no argument to keep it open other than the political one."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, USA TODAY (Map, Cuba); PHOTO, b/w, Bob Pearson, Agence
France-Presse

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              312 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      May 11, 1993, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Immigrants feel pain of Bosnian conflict // Miles from crisis, fears and
frustration

BYLINE: Kevin Johnson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 514 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO


The first phone call Admir Serifovic got through to Sarajevo in over a year
ended in a heart-breaking question.

Serifovic's mother, father and sister said food is short and their apartment in
the Bosnia-Herzegovina capital is in ruins. There is no electricity or water.
But their worst fear is running out of hope.

"My mother asked, 'Is something going to happen? Is the world doing anything to
resolve this?' " says Serifovic, 20, a Bosnian Muslim studying at Northeastern
Illinois University.

"I said, 'It's going to be better.' But I'm frustrated too that there doesn't
seem to be anything being done . . . the world is just sitting there."

In cities across the USA, immigrants from war-torn former Yugoslavia - which
include at least 2.5 million Croats and 1 million Serbs - anxiously follow news
from home.

One of the largest Serbian communities is here, where many immigrants say that
while they fear for the safety of loved ones, they're also frustrated by how
little Americans understand their country.

"I came here to work hard," says Stojan Vuksich, 71, a Serb who arrived in 1950.
"I never made trouble, only one speeding ticket since 1950. But now, all of a
sudden we are the black sheeps in society."

Vuksich, a retired machinist, says immigrants struggle to understand the
conflict - and explain it.

"I don't know who is acting as a human being over there. All three sides are
doing terrible things," says Vuksich. "But our kids, what are they going to
think? How do they feel when they . . . read the papers?"

The Rev. Dennis Pavichevich, 46, priest at the Holy Resurrection Serbian
Orthodox Cathedral, says immigrants can't escape the conflict.

The frustration of trying to reach relatives juxtaposed on the terror on nightly
TV leaves many dazed.

"It weighs heavily on our lives, on our heart and on our souls. There are people
dying, getting their throats slit, their homes burned, their property taken
away," he says.

Goran Janovic, a professor at Oregon State University in Corvallis, says the
worst is "going to sleep listening to the news, and . . . wondering if your
parents, your friends and your loved ones are still alive."

Janovic, who left Serbia last year, says his daughter, 16, was challenged last
week by a store clerk: "Are you a good Serb or a bad Serb?"

Soccer matches for Serbian teams have been canceled in Cleveland. Serbs and
Croats report receiving bomb and death threats.

In Chicago recently, Marko Karacic, 20, a college student of Croatian descent,
says he was leaving a health club when three Serbs accosted him.

"They had T-shirts on that said 'Croatians Suck', " Karacic says. "They started
insulting me. I'm like, 'Well, keep it to yourself.' "

They didn't. A brawl erupted between Serbs and Croats that brought the police.

Tamara Musafija-Jeknic, 27, grew up in Sarajevo and has desperately been trying
to contact relatives.

"I wish I knew the answer to the conflict," she says. "I really didn't believe
that such hatred existed. But I believe you cannot impose peace on people. They
have to want peace."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Anne Ryan, USA TODAY

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              313 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      May 18, 1993, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Land without crime - but at what price?

BYLINE: Armstrong Williams

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 423 words

DATELINE: SINGAPORE


Coming here from the District of Columbia is like visiting a different planet,
particularly concerning the issues of crime and law and order.

Crime is virtually non-existent. When an arrest is made, however, the
authorities mean business. A Dutchman living in Nigeria was arrested while on a
visit and charged with possession of drugs. He was convicted and sentenced to
death.

Anyone walking down the street can be arrested and fined for chewing gum. The
police are also tough on littering.

Males coming through customs or immigration are ordered on the spot to visit a
barber if authorities consider their hair to be too long. Immigrants who are
arrested on offenses such as possessing small amounts of marijuana are deported.

People who serve the public are pleasant and efficient. Everything seems in good
repair and working at top form. My Singapore Airlines plane landed on schedule
to the minute after a trans-Pacific flight.

Singapore has no poverty. Ninety-eight percent of the people own their own
homes. Health care is guaranteed by the government.

But then, Singapore is a police state. The price of having a crime-free society
in which everything works is that one faces restrictions at every turn.

All media are subject to censorship. Nothing appears on television unless
approved by the government as wholesome and educational. Anything having to do
with sex is taboo.

The upshot of all this is that bright young people in Singapore very often set
their sights on emigrating to the United States.

In exchange for strict law and order and a crime-free country, the average
citizen of Singapore must live in fear of authorities. The price of stepping out
of line or just being suspected of stepping out of line is high. Such a society
leaves little latitude for personal or artistic expression unless one's views
conform to those of the establishment.

Singapore is proof that it's still possible to eliminate many of the kinds of
social problems that are troublesome in the United States. The question is
whether Americans want to pay the price in official repression and enforced
social conformity.

It's admirable when the trains run on time and the planes take off and land on
time, but the price in terms of social disorganization that America pays for
personal freedom may not be high, all things considered.

Besides, as has always been said, America is an experiment in democracy - and
the experiment isn't over. Maybe someday we'll achieve efficiency without having
to pay the price of repression.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; COMMENT; Singapore is proof social problems can be
eliminated if you pay cost in repression; Armstrong Williams is a Washington
writer, talk-show host and public relations executive.

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              314 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      May 18, 1993, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Amerasians: Caught between cultures // Encouraged to come here, embittered by
problems

BYLINE: Margaret L. Usdansky

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 1111 words


Scorned in their country as less than true Vietnamese, they came to America
seeking the place they were told they belong.

But for many of the 17,000 children of Vietnamese mothers and American
servicemen who've arrived here since the 1987 Homecoming Act, hope has led to
disillusionment.

Not only has the homecoming promised by a special act of Congress failed to
materialize, but many Amerasians also have suffered after immigrating with
"fraudulent families" - unrelated Vietnamese who use them as tickets to America.

"In Vietnam, they say when Amerasians come, the Americans will like them and
will help them much, the fathers will look for them and Amerasians will have
houses and many things," says Thuy Le, 24, whose fraudulent family broke up
after arriving in Washington, D.C. "But it's not true."

The Homecoming Act acknowledged American responsibility for Amerasians by
encouraging them to come here and arranging their passage. In the process, it
created one of the country's newest and most unusual immigrant groups.

No one knows how many Amerasians were born during America's involvement in
Vietnam. But 17,000 Amerasians ages 17 to 31 and 48,000 of their family members
have come so far.

The State Department expects another 10,000 Amerasians and 20,000 family members
to immigrate - most of them by next year.

Most Amerasians know little English and less about American life. With limited
education, some expect they can "pick up" English because they are half
American. Others think a first name is all they'll need to find their fathers.

Few realize that many Americans have never heard the term "Amerasian." Few ever
meet their fathers. And ignorance of American race relations makes transition
especially difficult for the 10% to 15% of Amerasians whose fathers were black.

While some black Amerasians are clearly Asian in appearance, others are not.
"They all think I'm American," says Hung Nguyen, 24, of the black residents of
his Riverdale, Md., apartment complex. "They look at me, and I get scared," he
says through a translator.

Although Amerasians are sent to the Philippines for six months of classes,
including lessons in the use of American kitchens, the cultural gap is tough to
bridge.

"They're just in shock when they get off the plane from the Philippines," says
Anita Menghetti, a consultant on Amerasian resettlement. "These are people
who've never been more than 100 miles from home their entire lives."

Like many, Thuy Le left Vietnam because her family urged her to leave: "They
said 'Vietnam is not my country.' "

Cold as that sentiment may sound to Americans, it is common in Vietnam, where
local officials often harass Amerasians and their families, driving them out of
school or detaining them at police stations for questioning.

Le's foster parents weren't willing to leave their homeland. But they agreed to
a bargain becoming increasingly common in Vietnam. They arranged for another
family to pay the bribes local Vietnamese officials often demand of Amerasians
applying to immigrate. In exchange, Le claimed the family was her own so they
could come to America with her.

While there are no real numbers, officials say fraudulent family cases soared in
the past two years after new rules made it tougher for non-Amerasian Vietnamese
to come as refugees.

But eliminating fraudulent cases is tough, says State Department spokeswoman
Julie Reside, because few Amerasians have documents to prove their family
history. Officials often rely on physical appearance in determining who is
Amerasian; identifying Vietnamese relatives is even harder.

Reside says the State Department has heightened its scrutiny of applicants. But
a recent General Accounting Office warned the agency may now be inadvertently
turning away some legitimate Amerasians under the tougher standards.

Once here, fraudulent families often mistreat or desert Amerasians, says Peter
Daniels, coordinator of St. Anselm's, a private refugee resettlement agency. He
estimates 20% of the Amerasians in Orange County, Calif., come with fraudulent
families, and "each one of them breaks up eventually."

Le says her fraudulent family's attitude toward her changed abruptly once they
left Vietnam. "They treated me like a servant," Le says. Less than a month after
arriving, Le was so unhappy she moved out to live alone.

The poverty and discrimination Amerasians face in Vietnam makes them better off
here, Le says. But she knows she is lucky: With her high school education and
fluent English, she found a job as an outreach worker at a resettlement agency.

More common is the isolation of those Le helps. Except to attend English classes
or go to hotel or factory jobs, many never leave their apartments. "I don't know
any Americans except for the teachers at school," says My Trang Pham, 24.

Many wonder about finding their fathers, but obstacles are large. The Red Cross
Office of International Services has received about 500 requests for help in
finding fathers. Searches are completed about 10% of the time. In most cases,
the person searched for agrees to release their address. About 20% refuse; an
additional 10% have died.

Hung Nguyen's older brother Phan, 26, dismissed the idea of even trying. The
pictures and name his mother showed him back in Vietnam have long faded from
memory. "All the Americans, they all look alike," he says.

Amerasians, by definition

The term Amerasian can be used to describe children of Asian and American
parents born here or abroad.

But the 1987 Homecoming Act applies only to the Amerasians born in Vietnam
between 1962 and 1975 to Vietnamese women and American men.

It was easy for Amerasian children to immigrate if their American parent
sponsored them.

But many Amerasians don't know their father's name or have no contact. So
Congress made it easier for Amerasians to immigrate from areas where U.S.
servicemen were based.

A 1982 act enabled Amerasians in Thailand, Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos or Korea to
immigrate if they proved they had an American parent and a sponsor.

The 1987 Homecoming Act made immigration easier by accepting physical appearance
and testimony to prove American parentage.

Neither law covers Amerasians born in Japan or the Philippines, an omission some
Amerasians view as unfair.

Amerasian immigration Amerasians and family members admitted to the USA annually
since 1988:

Family
FY    Amerasians    members
'88     115           123
'89   2,825         6,900
'90   4,056        11,091
'91   4,913        12,807
'92   4,331        13,936

Source: U.S. State Department

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, color, J.L. Albert, USA TODAY, Source: U.S. State Department
(Line graph); PHOTOS, color, Barbara Ries (3)

IMMIGRATION; See info boxes at end of text

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              315 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  May 25, 1993, Tuesday, INTERNATIONAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

SHORTER LINES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 169 words


ALSO . . .

Officials Monday demonstrated an electronic card that will allow U.S. citizens
and some foreign nationals to enter the USA without waiting in the long
immigration lines that plague most U.S. airports.

PRIEST FREED: Former priest James Porter was released from a Minnesota jail
after serving four months of a six-month sentence for molesting a teen-age baby
sitter in 1987. Porter, 58, is awaiting trial in Massachusetts on charges of
sexually abusing children while he was a priest.

DEATHS . . .

PHILADELPHIA: Mieczyslaw Horszowski, Polish-born pianist who played with
conductor Arturo Toscanini and for popes Pius X and Pius XII, died at 100.

BEAVER, Pa.: James E. Ross, state senator who led the panel that investigated
the accident at the Three Mile Island nuclear plant in 1979, died of heart
failure at 72.

CORRECTIONS, CLARIFICATIONS . . .

In a photo on Page 1B in the May 22 edition, Vincent Damphousse is shown
celebrating after scoring Montreal's third-period tying goal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 9, 1993

CORRECTION: Story cited in correction not kept.

TYPE: Nationline

FROM USA TODAY'S NATIONAL NEWS NETWORK

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              316 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      June 7, 1993, Monday, FINAL EDITION

NYC latest port for Chinese

BYLINE: James Harney

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 184 words


The crew of a freighter crammed with nearly 300 illegal Chinese immigrants faces
criminal charges today, after at least seven people died fleeing the vessel that
ran aground off a New York City beach early Sunday.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service said the ship is the 24th refugee
vessel stopped in U.S. waters since August '91, and the third incident in two
weeks.

Coast Guard, police and fire rescuers said "chaos" erupted when the 300-foot
freighter Golden Venture slammed into a sandbar 200 feet off Rockaway Beach,
Queens, around 2 a.m.

Passengers, some in suits and some in underwear, jumped into the cold Atlantic
surf.

"It looked almost like the movie about the invasion of Normandy," said detective
Ming Li.

The INS confirmed seven deaths. Emergency officials said four drowned.

Two dozen were hospitalized, some escaped and about 200 were taken into custody.

They'd been at sea about 100 days, said INS' William Slattery.

Immigrants can pay up to $ 30,000 for passage.

Sgt. Doug Lee spoke to some. "They say American police are much nicer than
police in China."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, color, Michael Albans, AP

See related story; 03ACUTLINE JOURNEY'S END; Illegal immigrants try to ward off
morning chill Sunday on beach at Rockaway in Queens, N.Y., after their vessel
carrying about 300 ran aground.

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              317 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     June 9, 1993, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Ruling to free Haitians is yet another problem

BYLINE: Bill Nichols; Bruce Frankel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 408 words


The order Tuesday by a New York federal judge to free 158 HIV-positive Haitian
immigrants being held at a U.S. Naval base in Cuba was exactly what President
Clinton didn't need - another political tightrope he must carefully tread.

The language of U.S. District Judge Sterling Johnson - saying the 20-month
detainment resulted in the kind of "indefinite detention usually reserved for
spies and murderers" - was unflattering enough in itself for both Clinton and
former President Bush.

But Clinton now must once again weigh the delicate task of meshing his sometimes
contradictory political impulses in deciding whether to appeal.

White House press secretary Dee Dee Myers said the White House was reviewing its
options Tuesday night and might not decide for several days.

But recent indications are that Clinton and Attorney General Janet Reno likely
will let the order stand. But the choices are stark:

An appeal puts an unflattering spotlight on Clinton's campaign vow to end the
ban on HIV-positive immigrants.

Clinton is expected to sign a bill passed by Congress that reaffirms the ban. He
has also supported, before the Supreme Court, stopping Haitian refugees at sea,
a policy he also said he'd end.

An appeal also would enrage civil rights groups - and the Congressional Black
Caucus - already angered by the withdrawal of the Lani Guinier nomination. They
see Haitian policy as a means of redress.

Letting the order stand, which Clinton is expected to do unless it's feared that
decision would set a broad precedent, would let him uphold his campaign pledge
but say he was made to do it.

But it also may dismay the centrist factions Clinton has been trying to court.

"They better appeal. If they don't, they're just looking for political cover,"
said Dan Stein of the Federation of Americans for Immigration Reform.

The rickety, barbed-wire camp at Guantanamo Bay has been the subject of repeated
protests since Clinton was inaugurated, though Johnson has already ordered about
53 Haitians sent to the USA because their health was so frail.

And while the refugees, who would have been granted asylum except for their HIV
status, reportedly were dancing at the news, their supporters say only Clinton
can finally free them.

"I urge President Clinton . . . to welcome the Haitians into the United States,"
Jesse Jackson said. "We cannot make up for the time that they have lost. But we
can help them start anew."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Reuters

THE CLINTON ADMINISTRATION

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              318 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     June 9, 1993, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Minority majorities in one in six cities

BYLINE: Margaret L. Usdansky

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 1045 words


Minorities make up a majority of the population in nearly one in six cities, the
Census Bureau said today.

Blacks, Hispanics, Asians and Native Americans make up a collective majority in
100 of the 555 cities with at least 50,000 residents.

The arrival of 9.5 million immigrants during the 1980s - mainly from Asia and
Latin America - increased the diversity of many cities. Although growing numbers
of immigrants live in small towns, most settle in cities.

"It's what demographers call chain migration," says report co-author Jorge Del
Pinal. "Migrants don't go randomly to various spots in the USA. They use friends
and neighbors and relatives to locate their new residences."

Traditionally, those residences were in the nation's big cities, where jobs and
housing networks are well established. But increasingly, small cities attract
immigrants, too.

And as more minorities, both immigrant and non-immigrant, moved in, non-Hispanic
whites often moved out.

"What used to be white inner suburbs like Mount Vernon in New York and Compton
in L.A. have also begun to pick up signs of white flight the way the inner
cities did," says Population Reference Bureau demographer Carl Haub.

California is the capital of majority-minority cities, with 45, or almost half
the total, the report shows. And while most majority-minority cities are
dominated by one or two groups, a few, like Oakland, Calif., and Jersey City
have four-way splits, with sizable numbers of blacks, Hispanics, Asians and
whites.

Unlike the cities, most of the USA's 186 majority-minority counties have been
predominantly non-white for years. They include majority black counties in the
South, majority Native American counties on reservations and majority Hispanic
counties on the Texas-Mexico border.

Cities seeing a new majority Seventy-five of the cities of over 50,000 where the
Census Bureau says minorities are more than half the population:
City                      Pop.        Minority
  Florence-Graham, Calif.   57,147       99.2%
Compton, Calif.           90,454       98.5%
East Los Angeles, Calif. 126,379       97.2%
Huntington Park, Calif.   56,065       94.6%
Laredo, Texas            122,899       94.4%
East Orange, N.J.         73,552       93.8%
Lynwood, Calif.           61,945       93.6%
Inglewood, Calif.        109,602       91.5%
Brownsville, Texas        98,962       90.7%
Hialeah, Fla.            188,004       89.1%
Carol City, Fla.          53,331       88.7%
Monterey Park, Calif.     60,738       88.3%
Miami                    358,548       87.8%
Pico Rivera, Calif.       59,177       86.9%
South Gate, Calif.        86,284       86.3%
Gary, Ind.               116,646       85.9%
Camden, N.J.              87,492       85.6%
Baldwin Park, Calif.      69,330       84.8%
El Monte, Calif.         106,209       84.8%
Rosemead, Calif.          51,638       84.1%
Newark, N.J.             275,221       83.5%
Montebello, Calif.        59,564       83.2%
Irvington, N.J.           59,774       81.3%
Detroit                1,027,974       79.3%
Union City, N.J.          58,012       79.1%
McAllen, Texas            84,021       78.1%
Carson, Calif.            83,995       77.9%
Santa Ana, Calif.        293,742       76.9%
Alhambra, Calif.          82,106       75.7%
Paterson, N.J.           140,891       75.5%
Honolulu                 365,272       74.5%
National City, Calif.     54,249       74.0%
El Paso                  515,342       73.6%
Daly City, Calif.         92,311       72.6%
Washington, D.C.         606,900       72.6%
Passaic, N.J.             58,041       71.9%
Pomona, Calif.           131,723       71.8%
Oakland, Calif.          372,242       71.7%
Atlanta                  394,017       69.7%
Hartford, Conn.          139,739       69.5%
Richmond, Calif.          87,425       69.4%
Hawthorne, Calif.         71,349       69.3%
Oxnard, Calif.           142,216       67.7%
New Orleans              496,938       66.9%
Union City, Calif.        53,762       65.8%
Birmingham, Ala.         265,968       64.2%
Cerritos, Calif.          53,240       64.2%
Mount Vernon, N.Y.        67,153       64.2%
San Antonio              935,933       63.8%
Jersey City              228,537       63.4%
Norwalk, Calif.           94,279       63.3%
Los Angeles            3,485,398       62.7%
Trenton, N.J.             88,675       62.5%
Chicago                2,783,726       62.1%
Baltimore                736,014       61.4%
Salinas, Calif.          108,777       61.2%
Hacienda Heights Calif.   52,354       60.9%
Elizabeth, N.J.          110,002       60.3%
West Covina, Calif.       96,086       59.6%
Wilmington, Del.          71,529       59.5%
Houston                1,630,553       59.4%
Harrisburg, Pa.           52,376       59.3%
Malpitas, Calif.          50,686       58.1%
Monroe, La.               54,909       57.1%
Richmond, Va.            203,056       57.0%
New York               7,322,564       56.8%
Jackson, Miss.           196,637       56.6%
Stockton, Calif.         210,943       56.4%
Memphis                  610,337       56.3%
Albany, Ga.               78,122       56.2%
Corpus Christi, Texas    257,453       56.2%
S. San Francisco, Calif.  54,312       55.3%
Rialto, Calif.            72,388       55.2%
Port Arthur, Texas        58,724       54.9%
Pine Bluff, Ark.          57,140       54.5%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statesline

FROM USA TODAY'S NATIONAL NEWS NETWORK

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              319 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     June 9, 1993, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Hard to win in deportation court

BYLINE: Dennis Cauchon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 713 words

DATELINE: OAKDALE, La.


In Cajun country, behind the barbed wire fence, past the electronic doors, deep
inside the prison, in a room where the public never treads, there is a court.

The walls are white concrete. The only decorations are a U.S. flag in one corner
and a calendar on the wall.

The proceedings are rapid-fire, as many as 18 hearings a day before a single
judge. Defendants almost never win.

This is the court where foreign-born U.S. residents who have been convicted of
crimes are taken for deportation hearings.

The court is unlike any other in the USA.

It operates mostly in secret. No news reporter had sat in the court before, even
though the court is officially open to the public. Other than a Minnesota human
rights group and inmates' families, no member of the public has been in the
court.

"It's easy to forget these people," says Julie Stewart, president of Families
Against Mandatory Minimums in Washington, D.C. "But many cases are heartbreaking
and made even worse because the people have such few legal rights."

At Oakdale:

The judges are all white males.

Courtrooms are inside the prison walls. Defendants appear before judges dressed
in prison uniforms, sometimes in handcuffs.

Families seldom attend the hearings because the prison/court is hard to reach.
Many families arrive by bus from New York.

"It's extremely important to have the family to help show this is a worthy
person," says attorney Todd Nesom.

The defendants' biggest problem is finding a lawyer.

Despite the three active courtrooms at the prison, Nesom is the only immigration
attorney in town. And he's only part-time.

Most defendants can't afford attorneys, even if they can find them. And they
have no right to court-appointed attorneys.

Catholic Charities in New Orleans once helped. No longer. "Given our limited
resources, it's our policy not to get involved with drug offenders," says
Catholic Charities' Jane Foley.

Catholic Charities attorney Nancy Cotton says location - 3 1/2 hours from New
Orleans - is the real problem. "It's too far away," she says. The American Bar
Association's pro bono staff visited the court, but nothing came of it.

The government is always represented by a lawyer. The defendant, often speaking
through an interpreter, sits alone.

Minneapolis lawyer Sam Myers was part of the human rights group that visited
Oakdale and Krome Detention Center in Miami. In Krome, he saw a man represent
his Haitian niece, who mentioned in passing that her house had been shot at by
Haiti's secret police. The uncle didn't follow up.

"Any lawyer worth his salt would win that case," Myers says. "The uncle's
strategy was ingratiation, to show they were nice. The judge sat there, polite
as could be, and deported her."

Even with a lawyer, a case is hard to win. Rules of evidence are lenient. The
"beyond a reasonable doubt" standard doesn't apply. And judges have limited
power to let defendants stay.

Nesom turns down cases even when they can pay: "I tell them, 'I know you want to
hire me and I want to take your money. But you're going to be deported. No
question about it.' "

Deporting non-citizens after time served The number of foreign-born criminal
defendants - mostly drug offenders - deported since 1981 by the U.S. government
after serving their sentences:
            Drug offenses        Other crimes        Total
1981             161                200                361
1982             188                285                473
1983             336                617                953
1984             492                558              1,050
1985             823                868              1,691
1986             892                957              1,849
1987           2,714              1,619              4,333
1988           4,072              1,640              5,712
1989           5,501              1,807              7,308
1990           6,566              1,938              8,504
1991          10,159              2,772             12,931

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Nick Galifianakis, USA TODAY, Source: Immigration and
Naturalization Service (Line graph); PHOTO, b/w, Timothy A. Murphy

THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              320 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     June 10, 1993, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Rare sanity on HIV

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 296 words


A disgraceful saga is about to end.

After languishing behind barbed wire for 20 months, 158 HIV-infected Haitian
immigrants held at a U.S. naval base in Cuba were ordered freed by a New York
federal judge this week.

Those Haitians were caught in a nightmarish no man's land: free to come to the
USA on grounds of political asylum but barred from entry - illegally, says the
judge - by their HIV status.

The administration said Wednesday that the Haitians may now enter, and it plans
no immediate appeal of the ruling.

The judge's and Clinton's moves are a rare glint of sanity in a hysterical
debate over allowing HIV-infected foreigners to immigrate to the U.S.

Clinton pledged in his first weeks in office to overturn a policy barring
immigrants infected with HIV, but didn't act.

Congress then passed a bill that would cement the ban into federal law, so a
law, not just a presidential directive, would be needed to overturn it.

Despite his pledge, Clinton will probably sign the bill, because it also
includes money to aid medical research on breast and ovarian cancer,
osteoporosis, contraception and fertility - and AIDS.

The ban on HIV-infected immigrants will stand as a monument marking a national
surrender to groundless fears.

Here are the facts:

The Red Cross, World Health Organization and American Public Health Association
say foreigners pose no major health threat. The disease is hard to catch, and
the rate of HIV infection is lower in most other nations than here.

And because immigrants must show that they can support themselves without public
assistance, they would not present a health-care burden.

Let's hope the end to the deplorable Haitian immigrant episode signals the
beginning of a more enlightened attitude toward AIDS.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; On another subject, USA TODAY hails the decision to release
HIV-infected Haitians.

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              321 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     June 10, 1993, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

ACROSS THE USA: NEWS FROM EVERY STATE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 2349 words

DATELINE: ALABAMA MONTGOMERY


The state faces an Oct. 1 deadline to produce a plan remodeling Alabama's public
education system and the way it's funded, a judge ruled. Gov. Folsom plans a
special legislative session to review the plan. ALASKA
BETHEL - Albert Brown, 10, died after being accidentally shot in the head by a
girl, police said. The children were teasing each other, and Albert told the
girl - who didn't want him to come in the house - to shoot him if he tried to
get in again. The girl didn't know the gun was loaded, police said. ARIZONA
PHOENIX - Hispanic residents say a raid on a graduation party by INS officials
Saturday was discriminatory. The raid, prompted by neighbors' complaints, netted
two illegal immigrants. A local group has called for a citywide noncooperation
ordinance with the INS and the Border Patrol. ARKANSAS
LITTLE ROCK - A company owned by car dealer Herbert Jones Sr., 72, - charged in
the June 1 death of apartment manager Dan Baker, 45 - is the beneficiary of a $
750,000 insurance policy on Baker. If convicted, Jones can't collect, officials
say. CALIFORNIA
LOS ANGELES - City officials rejected a claim by ex-Police Chief Daryl Gates for
$ 364,595, money he says he spent battling the Police Commission to keep his job
after the Rodney King beating. The rejection allows Gates to sue. . . .
SACRAMENTO - 7-Eleven store owner Kevin Woo has found a peaceful way to disperse
crowds of teens, who gather outside his place at night: he pipes classical music
into the parking lot. The music "isn't these kids' style," neighbor Jo Weightman
says. COLORADO
PUEBLO - Federal civil rights probers will issue a report by late summer on
allegations by parents of a wheelchair-bound boy that he was singled out for
discipline due to their bias complaints against Highland Park Elementary. Pueblo
Dist. 60 associate Supt. Henry Roman said he's confident the school will be
cleared. CONNECTICUT
NEW LONDON - Death row inmate Michael Ross,33, claims to be on a hunger strike
until he's allowed to be castrated to control his sexual urges. Prison officials
said they've seen no evidence he's on a hunger strike. Ross was sentenced in
July '87 for the rapes and murders of four teen-age girls. DELAWARE
SMYRNA - David Buckson, designer of the Dover Downs horse track, wants to build
a dog track near here. The retired judge said it would be the only one between
Connecticut and West Virginia. State legislation is needed to OK wagering on
greyhound racing. D.C.
A firearm that can be camouflaged to look like a pager poses a serious threat to
D.C. police who may not be familiar with the weapon, officials said. Police
seized their first beeper gun Saturday. The .22-caliber firearms can be ordered
through the mail. FLORIDA
TALLAHASSEE - PSC members will spend $ 9,000 in taxpayer money to go to a
conference at Disney World Sunday through Wednesday. PSC Chairman Terry Deason
acknowledges the timing is bad: One PSC member is being investigated for
relationships with two utility staffers. GEORGIA
ATLANTA - Allen Ault, 56 - hired in '92 to troubleshoot the sex scandal at the
state's women's prisons - will be sworn in today as Dept. of Corrections chief.
He replaces Bobby Whitworth, shifted to the parole board in a top-level shakeup.
The first of 15 indicted prison officials goes to trial next week. HAWAII
HONOLULU - The state's hotel industry has agreed with Gov. Waihee's suggestion
that the state spend up to $ 350 million to buy the old Aloha Motors land as a
site for a stand-alone convention center. IDAHO
TWIN FALLS - Gov. Andrus will be the special guest Monday at the state AFL-CIO's
three-day convention. The union represents 23,000 workers statewide. Among items
on the agenda: the union's opposition to the Idaho Citizens Alliance's anti-gay
initiative. ILLINOIS
ROLLING MEADOWS - A 14-year-old girl who plotted to kill her father will spend
at least eight weeks in detention before being sent to another state for
pyschiatric care, Judge Julia Dempsey ruled. The girl had planned to fill a
needle with bleach, ammonia and rubbing alcohol and inject him. INDIANA
KOKOMO - Video cameras will be installed on school buses - but 44 of 50 will be
fake, officials said. Students won't know which are real but may be more apt to
behave anyway, officials reason. Real cameras would be rotated from bus to bus.
Cost: $ 10,000. IOWA
ST. DONATUS - Eight calves died of lead poisoning after chewing on a car battery
discarded near their grazing site. Farmer Kevin Knief said someone tossed the
battery in a ditch where the cattle could reach it. Loss: $ 4,000. KANSAS
TOPEKA - A state board suspended the license of Dr. William Knarr, who performs
abortions in Missouri and Kansas, until a hearing Saturday determines whether
he's medically competent. The board suspects he may have been impaired by drugs,
alcohol, or a physical or mental condition. KENTUCKY
MOREHEAD - Secretary of State Bob Babbage was being "a little too hasty" when he
called for the voting age to be lowered to 16 for state and local elections,
Gov. Jones said. Babbage said it would rejuvenate elections. Jones: Let's get
more 18- to 25-year-olds to vote. LOUISIANA
NEW ORLEANS - Officials are probing whether an overheated motor caused an
amusement park ride to catch fire June 4, injuring eight children and one adult.
They also want to know who put some tools in the machine and prevented the
safety mechanism from shutting down the ride. MAINE
AUGUSTA - The Legislature has OK'd a bill that would seek to control AIDS by
letting people ages 18 and older to get syringes from pharmacists,
manufacturers, veterinarians and medical supply dealers without a prescription.
Next: Gov. McKernan. MARYLAND
BALTIMORE - Union Memorial has won a two-year battle to open a open-heart
surgery unit. It will cost about $ 1 million to build the unit, which will
charge about $ 19,300 per open-heart operation. MASSACHUSETTS
BOSTON - Fire officials and Vietnamese community leaders will meet Friday to
discuss two suspicious fires - Tuesday and on May 20 - at buildings housing
Vietnamese residents. Tuesday's fire left 35 homeless. The May 20 fire killed a
girl, 11, and injured five people. MICHIGAN
LANSING - Michigan women wanting an abortion would have to wait 24 hours and be
given a pamphlet about the risks under a measure OK'd by a House panel. A
similar bill passed both chambers in '92 but the bill died because differences
couldn't be worked out. MINNESOTA
MINNEAPOLIS - University of Minnesota Medical School Dean David Brown resigned,
effective June 30, following controversies that led to five federal probes.
Among allegations being probed: The school's drug manufacturing business ignored
federal rules. MISSISSIPPI
JACKSON - A state commission voted to strip Oktibbeha County schools - on
probation since '91 for lapses in curriculum offerings - of accreditation. The
county school superintendent has asked for time to draft a merger plan with
Starkville schools. MISSOURI
KANSAS CITY - An appeals court rejected the effort of Police Sgt. Chester Rice -
suspended for five days in '91 for telling a co-worker she needed a chest rub to
cure her cold - to get $ 900 in back pay. Although he didn't sexually harass
her, he violated the police ethics code, the court said. MONTANA
KALISPELL - An audit of 482 state loggers and logging contractors has yielded $
1.4 million in additional taxes and penalties, excluding interest, the IRS said.
Most taxes were from invalidated deductions. The audit should be finished by
June 30. NEBRASKA
OMAHA - Brenda Smith, 36, who in '80 was the first black woman to become a law
enforcement officer in Nebraska, has been promoted to major in the Omaha Police
Dept. Also promoted to major: Barbara Hauptman, Steve Coufal and Jack O'Donnell.
NEVADA
CARSON CITY - Actress Debbie Reynolds' fledgling casino was recommended for a
six-month, slots-only license. Reynolds calls the Las Vegas hotel-casino "a
momma-poppa operation" and says she wants a theater and museum more than a
casino. NEW HAMPSHIRE
CONCORD - Concord Hospital has lost more than $ 1 million this year and is
weighing job cuts to make up for the shortfall, officials said. Officials cited
the lingering recession and the national trend of shorter stays. NEW JERSEY
LYNDHURST - Police are probing the discovery of a voodoo doll, eight decapitated
chickens and more than 100 candles in a cemetery. Officials said they probably
were left by members of the Caribbean-based Santeria sect, which ritually
slaughters animals. NEW MEXICO
SANTA FE - The Palace of the Governors - the USA's oldest public building - was
damaged after being struck by a vehicle driven by a boy, 14. Cost to repair the
383-year-old building: $ 250,000. The boy was not injured. NEW YORK
NEW YORK - Kenyada Nunn, 22, was charged with abandonment and reckless
endangerment after police said she left 10children - ages 18 months to 11 years
- alone in an apartment for 40 minutes to go pick up Chinese food. Two children
were hers; the others were nieces and nephews. NORTH CAROLINA
RALEIGH - The state Senate OK'd a lottery referendum after rejecting an attempt
to force senators to vote on it directly.. Next: the House, which has refused to
consider Senate-passed lottery measures in the last three sessions. NORTH DAKOTA

FARGO - The School Board cut $ 167,700 from music, physical education, art and
extra-curricular budgets and raised fees for students who take part in
after-school events and adult admission fees to school events. The board hopes
to trim $ 2 million from the budget. OHIO
COLUMBUS - State Rep. C.J. Prentiss will lead a seven-day hunger strike to
protest the Senate's removal of $ 6.3 million from the state budget for a school
breakfast program for poor children. Four other House lawmakers will join the
fast. OKLAHOMA
OKLAHOMA CITY - Rescue America - a group opposed to abortion - will hold its
national conference June 17-19 but won't discuss field activities planned. The
'91 Wichita conference led to arrests at clinics, while '92 protests lasted a
month after the conference ended in San Antonio. OREGON
SALEM - Gov. Roberts signed a bill making it a felony to block abortion clinics,
doctors' offices and licensed health services, citing the need to stop violence
where abortions are offered. The law carries maximum penalties of five years in
prison and a $ 100,000 fine. PENNSYLVANIA
WILKES-BARRE- Jim Post, 22, a quadriplegic honors student rejected 14 times by
state medical schools, was accepted by the Albert Einstein College of Medicine
in New York City. Post, injured in a Boy Scout diving accident, received his
acceptance the same day he received his 14th rejection. RHODE ISLAND
PROVIDENCE - Mayor Vincent Cianci Jr. says Rhode Island Hospital should pay $
1.1 million for air rights over a street where it wants to build a
walkway-connector to a medical mall. Hospital officials: They had a deal for $
30,000 and will go to court if necessary. SOUTH CAROLINA
GEORGETOWN - Solicitor Ralph Wilson will be excused from the trial of six state
troopers accused of covering up a '91 alcohol-related traffic accident because
he may be called as a witness for the troopers. Wilson said he has requested
that a team of lawyers from the state grand jury take over the prosecution.
SOUTH DAKOTA
PIERRE - Gov. Miller, 67, and his ex-executive assistant, Pat Caldwell, 39, are
trying to pin down a wedding date, aides say. Miller's first wife, Mary, died
four years ago. Caldwell worked for Miller when he was lieutenant governor.
TENNESSEE
OAK RIDGE - Whistleblower Charles Varnadore, 52, was granted $ 30,000 by a
judge, who ruled that Martin Marietta Energy Systems retaliated against the
ex-technician for his complaints against management. Varnadore had sought $ 10.8
million. Martin Marietta denies it retaliated. TEXAS
DALLAS - A shortage of state prison space is keeping female inmates in prison
longer than male inmates, officials say. Reasons: County jail time can't always
be applied toward parole eligibility; and men are transferred to state prisons -
where there's more space for them - every four months, as opposed to 16 months
for women. UTAH
SALT LAKE CITY - City Council OK'd a $ 412 million budget, which takes effect
July 1. Tax revenues could be $ 428,000 higher than projected, accountants say.
City officials will use part of the windfall to cover the $ 180,000 cost of
making parking on downtown streets free later this year. VERMONT
BURLINGTON - A 45-year-old former Vermont man sued the statewide Roman Catholic
Diocese claiming he was abused 40 years ago by a nun, whose name he doesn't
know, at St. Joseph's Asylum orphanage. He claimed "Sister Jane Doe" forced him
to touch her sexually. VIRGINIA
RICHMOND - The appointment of the state's first black bishop will be suspended
while the Episcopal Church conducts a probe into allegations of sexual
misconduct, officials said. The Rev. Canon Antoine Lamont Campbell denies the
allegations. WASHINGTON
SPOKANE - About 1,000 city and county workers went on strike - virtually
shutting down city government - for a cost-of-living increase higher than the 3%
offered. The county will likely go to court to force some workers back. WEST
VIRGINIA
HUNTINGTON - The Cabell County school board bowed to parental pressure and will
focus their sex-education program on abstinence. Also, 6th-grade girls and boys
will be separated for sex education classes, and all new materials will be put
up for public review at the beginning of the year. WISCONSIN
FONTANA - Rock star Axl Rose of Guns N' Roses owes $ 7,095 in property taxes to
Walworth County, but officials can't find him. The singer owns a 10-acre lot,
but property taxes haven't been paid in four years. WYOMING
CHEYENNE - 80 Campbell County families who lost their homes when the Rawhide
Subdivision was condemned in '87 - due to toxic gases from a coal seam
underneath Rawhide - can't receive damages from the county for emotional
distress, the state Supreme Court ruled. Only damages to the property itself is
compensable.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Across the USA

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              322 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     June 10, 1993, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Clinton will admit Haitian HIV patients

BYLINE: Bill Nichols

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 281 words


The White House Wednesday said it will not block the court-ordered release of
HIV-infected Haitian refugees being held at the U.S. Naval Base in Guantanamo
Bay, Cuba.

The refugees could start coming to new homes in the United States next week.

But Clinton spokeswoman Dee Dee Myers said the Justice Department might still
appeal U.S. District Judge Sterling Johnson's decision ordering the release.

And she said Clinton still plans to sign a pending bill that would bar
HIV-infected immigrants from entering the USA.

Legal experts say the administration wants to be sure the Guantanamo Bay ruling
has no broad application that could overturn an overall ban.

Lawyers for the 158 refugees, eligible for political asylum after fleeing
Haiti's 1991 coup, said they were sad their victory had taken so long.

"No one obviously can give these people back the 20 months that they've lived in
captivity," said Joseph Tringali. But the administration's actions "put an end
to this."

During his campaign, Clinton called for an end to the ban on HIV-infected
immigrants.

Myers said Clinton left the Guantanamo camp in operation after taking office
because he was complying with a policy begun by the Bush administration while
not necessarily agreeing with it.

Refugee advocates said Clinton is just as responsible for conditions Johnson
likened to an "HIV prison camp."

Said Roseann Micallef of the Church World Service: "Allowing that camp to
continue . . . was really unconscionable."

Also Wednesday: The administration won agreement with Canada, France and
Venezuela to back tougher sanctions, including an oil embargo, against the
military-backed government of Haiti.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

See related story; 02A

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              323 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     June 15, 1993, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Haitians head to new homes

BYLINE: Sally Deneen; Desda Moss

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 295 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Tearful relatives took nine refugees to new homes in southern Florida Monday
after their arrival from a Guantanamo Bay U.S. detention camp for HIV-infected
Haitians.

They were among 27 Haitians released from a squalid camp, which a federal judge
last week ordered closed.

Other refugees went to New York, where they start processing at the city's
division of AIDS services. Most today will visit Brooklyn apartments that will
become their new homes.

An additional 113 people at the Guantanamo Bay camp in Cuba are expected to
arrive in the USA over the next 10 days.

Rosa Urquiola of the Justice Department's Community Relations Service said most
have U.S. sponsors.

The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service found that the 158
asylum-seekers, including relatives of those testing HIV positive, held
well-founded fears of persecution. That's the standard asylum-seekers must meet,
but they were barred from entering the USA because they tested positive for the
virus that causes AIDS or had relatives who did.

All will remain in the country while they pursue asylum claims, joining more
than 260,000 asylum-seekers, including 10,734 Haitians.

"We had a very difficult time but we know we had a lot of people behind us,"
said Armelle Nelson, who arrived in Miami accompanied by daughters Emillene and
Kerlin.

They'd been at the camp more than a year. But her joy was tempered by her
concern for others left behind.

Meanwhile, the Haitian parliament moved Monday to recognize exiled President
Jean-Bertrand Aristide.

But its efforts could be stymied by the attachment of conditions that Aristide
has rejected - including an across-the-board amnesty for the top army officers
who ousted him in a September 1991 coup.

Contributing: Juan J. Walte

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              324 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                June 16, 1993, Wednesday, INTERNATIONAL EDITION

AZERBAIJAN POLITICS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 273 words


Azerbaijan's ex-communist elder statesman Geidar Aliyev made a comeback to power
in Baku Tuesday when he was elected parliament chairman.  Thirty-seven
parliamentarians voted for Aliyev and three against at a session attended by
President Abulfaz Elchibey. A day earlier, the U.S. Embassy advised U.S.
citizens to leave Baku. Four family members of embassy staffers flew to Turkey.

FRENCH IMMIGRATION: A draft law tightening rules of entry and residence for
foreigners in France went before parliament Tuesday, the conservative
government's latest move to crack down on immigration. The bill has outraged
human rights and anti-racism groups and the left-wing opposition.

CUBAN MILITARY: Cuba announced Tuesday that it has cut the size of its armed
forces because of the Communist island's desperate economic problems.  Cuban
officials also made a gesture of peace toward the United States, expressing
willingness to negotiate reparations for U.S. properties confiscated in the
1960s, the official Prensa Latina news agency said.

NEW U.S. COMMANDER: U.S. Army Gen. Gary Luck assumed command of the U.S. forces
in South Korea in a ceremony at Yongsan army garrison in Seoul. Luck succeeds
Gen. Robert RisCassi.

RUSSIAN AIRPORTS: Russia's Transport Ministry said it plans to build four new
international airports and double the capacity of Moscow's main airport to help
relieve stress on Moscow's Sheremetyevo-2 airport, used by most international
travelers. The new airports would be at Samara on the Volga River, Yekaterinburg
in the industrial Urals region, Novosibirsk in Siberia and Khabarovsk in the Far
East.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Elsewhere in the World

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              325 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     June 22, 1993, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Haitians' return upheld / Court says U.S. can turn back boats

BYLINE: Tony Mauro

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 348 words


The administration policy of intercepting Haitian refugees on the high seas and
returning them to their island homeland was upheld Monday by the Supreme Court.

The 8-1 ruling affirms a policy initiated by President Bush and adopted by
President Clinton, even though during the 1992 campaign Clinton called it "cruel
and unjust."

Haitian and refugee advocates reacted angrily and plan to protest today in
Miami.

"This is a sad day for every one of us whose ancestors first came here by boat,"
said Harold Koh, who represented refugees before the court.

"It's a shameful . . . racist policy - analogous to returning Jews to Nazi
Europe," said Steve Forester of Miami's Haitian Refugee Center.

Associate Attorney General Webster Hubbell applauded the ruling, and said the
administration would give Haitians "meaningful opportunity" to seek asylum by
applying at the U.S. consulate in the Haitian capital of Port-au-Prince.

President Reagan first allowed Haitian boats to be intercepted in 1981, but the
would-be immigrants were screened.

After the overthrow of Haitian President Jean-Bertrand Aristide in September
1991, nearly 40,000 Haitians tried to escape, many in unsafe boats.

President Bush stemmed the tide with a policy - announced in May 1992 - that
turned back boats without reviewing individual cases.

Clinton's criticism of the policy gave Haitians hope, but as president he
continued it to avoid a new wave of refugees.

The high court took note of the "human crisis" involved, but said neither laws
nor treaties limited the president's power to repatriate the aliens.

Neither treaty or immigration law "places any limit on the president's authority
to repatriate aliens interdicted beyond the territorial seas," wrote Justice
John Paul Stevens for the majority.

Justice Harry Blackmun dissented angrily:

"What is extraordinary in this case is that the (president), in disregard of the
law, would take to the high seas to intercept fleeing refugees and force them
back to their prosecutors - and that the court would strain to sanction that
conduct."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              326 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      June 25, 1993, Friday, FINAL EDITION

New page in English-only debate

BYLINE: Sally Ann Stewart

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 496 words


When U.S. District Judge Alfredo Marquez administers the oath of citizenship to
76 Hispanic immigrants in Tucson, Ariz., July 2,
no doubt he'll tell them the same old story.    "He always tells

the story about when he was a kid and he helped his parents study for their
citizenship test," says Bill Johnston, officer in charge of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service's Tucson office. But Marquez's tale will have a new
twist. He'll preside over the first citizenship ceremony conducted mostly in a
foreign language - Spanish. The Pledge of Allegiance will be in English.

"We have (a ceremony) every month but this month; we're going to have an
additional ceremony in Spanish," Johnston says. "These people are going to
become citizens; they're going to sit through a ceremony. It might as well be in
a language that makes it more
meaningful."    That's exactly the problem, says Bill Anderson of

U.S. English, a Washington, D.C.-based group that aims to make
English the only language for government business.    "If we can't

talk to each other, we'll end up firing guns at each other," Anderson says. "And
if you don't believe me, look at what's going
on in Yugoslavia."    Last year, a federal court in Arizona

rescinded the state's English-only law. Disputes have cropped up nationally,
notably in Dade County, Fla., which is 50% Hispanic.

In April, when the Dade County Commission repealed an 8-year-old English-only
ordinance, Palm Beach lawyer and gubernatorial hopeful
Anthony Martin filed a lawsuit, scheduled for trial July 1.    "In

Florida, we have a constitutional amendment . . . which makes English the
official language of the state," and local governments
can't override that, Martin says.    Metro-Dade spokeswoman Kim

Miller says repealing the ordinance means public information brochures and
notices will be printed in a variety of languages. Public meetings still will be
conducted in English.

"Dade County is now more than 50% Hispanic," Miller says. And she argues that
tourists will appreciate the language diversity.

No way, Martin says. "Anyone who comes to Dade County and encounters the Banana
Republic linguistics here becomes an immediate convert," he says. "This issue
has awesome political mileage."

As for the Tucson citizenship ceremony, Anderson's group has asked INS
Commissioner Chris Sale and members of Arizona's congressional delegation to
cancel the event.

U.S. Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., has long opposed the English-only movement. And
Johnston says he's not budging. "If it's successful, I intend to have ceremonies
in whatever language they
want it in," he says.    Besides, Joseph Garcia, a Tucson Citizen

columnist, says residents aren't joining in the controversy: "Spanish was spoken
here in Tucson long before any English word was heard."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              327 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     July 7, 1993, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

English: Kids' language of choice // Immigrants' children are abandoning native
tongues

BYLINE: Deborah Sharp

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 683 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Erik Gonzalez just finished his second year of high school Spanish, struggling
with bewildering verb forms in the language his parents brought from Cuba.

"I feel more American, but Cuban in a way, too - especially at holidays," says
Gonzalez, 16, who wants to be a doctor. "I'm 50-50."

More comfortable speaking English than Spanish, this Miami-born son of immigrant
parents is far from alone.

Children of the USA's most recent immigrants - Latin Americans and Asians - not
only prefer English, but many are abandoning their parents' native tongue,
according to a major new study.

"English is alive and well," says study author Alejandro Portes, a sociology
professor at Johns Hopkins University. "What is in danger is the parental
language."

Despite fears by some that waves of immigrants will engulf the primacy of
English, Portes found that 99% of second-generation youngsters in Miami speak
the English language well or very well.

In San Diego - the other location surveyed - 90% reported the same level of
competency.

"It's a pleasant surprise," says Bill Anderson of U.S. English, dedicated to
preserving English as the USA's dominant language. "We're charged by our
opponents as being racists and culture-killers . . . but culture is much deeper
than language, and this (study) would indicate that's true."

But Portes says his study of 5,000 eighth- and ninth-graders also uncovered some
distressing trends.

Reports of discrimination were rare among Cuban-American youngsters in heavily
Hispanic Miami, but other immigrants' kids weren't as lucky:

In south Florida, 66% of Haitian youngsters reported discrimination.

In San Diego, 65% of Mexican children felt discrimination. For Filipinos, it was
63%. For Vietnamese, 66%.

Portes says for many Cuban-American youths in Miami, the researchers' question
about discrimination was an alien concept.

"Never," says Gonzalez, about experiencing discrimination. "Not at all."

But when researchers asked the same question in schools in Little Haiti, the
concept was all too familiar, Portes says.

"There was laughter," he says. "The children were telling us, 'What planet do
you come from?'"

Some students say prejudice has at times forced them to pretend they're not
Haitian-American.

But Gonzalez was incredulous at the notion of denying his parents come from
Cuba: "I'm proud of it," he says.

Says Karen Denis, 13, who'll start eighth grade at Miami's St. Mary's school
next fall: "If you tell some people you're Haitian, they might turn against you,
or have nothing to do with you. Sometimes, kids will laugh at my parents or call
them names. They say we do voodoo or something."

She and her friends prefer English, at times to the dismay of their
Creole-speaking parents: "They think because I speak English at home, that I've
changed, that I don't appreciate being Haitian," says Samantha Charles, 13.

Adds Denis, who dreams of going to college and becoming a business executive:
"Creole is a complicated language. I don't speak it as well as my parents do."

Says sociologist Portes, who was 17 when he came to the United States from Cuba
in 1960: "Bilingualism among the second generation is on the way out."

English and immigrants Children of immigrants know and use English more than the
languages of their parents' homes, a new study found. Johns Hopkins professor
Alejandro Portes interviewed 5,000 8th- and 9th- graders with immigrant parents
in New York and San Diego:

Good knowledge of Engish
Cuban-American (1)     99%
Haitian-American       95%
Filipino-American      97%
Mexican-American       97%
Vietnamese-American    61%

Good knowledge of parents' language
Cuban-American (1)     89%
Haitian-American       31%
Filipino-American      29%
Mexican-American       80%
Vietnamese-American    42%

Percentage prefering English
Cuban-American (1)     94%
Haitian-American       87%
Filipino-American      88%
Mexican-American       44%
Vietnamese-American    61%

1 -- Private school

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Sam Ward, USA TODAY, Source: USA TODAY research. (Bar
graph); PHOTOS, b/w, Tom Salyer

THE USA; MELTING POT

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              328 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     July 8, 1993, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

10 men indicted in New York bomb plot

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 881 words


A New York federal grand jury indicted 10 men - including a new suspect - on
charges they conspired to bomb the United Nations, a federal building housing
the FBI and two Hudson River tunnels linking New York and New Jersey. Eight were
arrested last month after FBI agents caught some mixing explosives for a bomb. A
ninth was arrested last week in Philadelphia. The 10th suspect - identified only
by his first name, Wahid - is still at large.

HALTED AT SEA: A Coast Guard cutter intercepts one of three freighters found
carrying 659 undocumented Chinese in international waters off San Diego.
Authorities were awaiting instructions from the State Department before taking
further action. President Clinton last month announced a crackdown on smuggling
of illegal immigrants.

CARDINAL KILLING ARRESTS: Mexican officials said they can't confirm reports six
members of a San Diego gang have been arrested in connection with the May 24
slaying in Mexico of Roman Catholic Cardinal Juan Jesus Posadas Ocampo. Mexico's
Los Angeles delegate, Juan Miguel Ponce Edmonson, who handles extradition
requests, said U.S. officials have not reported arresting any of the suspects
Mexico is seeking to extradite.

INTRUDER KILLED: Wendell Bittle, staying at his Heber Springs, Ark., Radio Shack
after it was burglarized two nights in a row, shot and killed a teen-age
intruder on the third evening, police said. Some of the stolen items were found
at a home where the youth was staying, police said. Authorities haven't decided
whether to charge Bittle, 52.

ELDERS NOMINATION: Conservative groups denounced President Clinton's nomination
of Joycelyn Elders to be surgeon general, but liberals called the attacks
"blatant mischaracterizations." Jan Parshall of Concerned Women of America said,
"The president who wants his appointees to look like America has apparently
forgotten what America looks like." Elders would replace Antonia Novello.

CORRECTION: A story Wednesday should have said The American Association of
Retired Persons has no position on the nomination of Joycelyn Elders for surgeon
general.

MILITARY MILESTONES: Rear Adm. Louise Wilmot became the first woman to command a
U.S. naval base. "I'm ready, I'm willing and I'm able," she said as she took
charge of Philadelphia Naval Base, which includes the Philadelphia Shipyards.
And, Air Force 1st Lt. Jeannie Flynn ended seven weeks of flight training on her
way to become the first female Air Force fighter pilot. She still faces water
survival training and has to learn to fly the F-15E Strike Eagle.

ALSO WEDNESDAY . . .

PELTIER LOSES: A federal appeals court in St. Louis rejected Native American
activist Leonard Peltier's bid for a new trial on charges he murdered two FBI
agents on the Pine Ridge Reservation in Wounded Knee, S.D., in 1975. Peltier,
48, is serving two life sentences.

MANDELA VISIT: African National Congress leader Nelson Mandela raised $ 160,000
in Chicago, organizers said. Later stops on his fund-raising tour: Indianapolis,
Atlanta and Los Angeles. Police arrested a man with a rifle in an apartment
across from where Mandela spoke. The man, not identified by police, was held for
questioning.

AIDS DEATH: The third of the six patients infected with the AIDS virus by
Florida dentist David Acer died Monday, a funeral home said. A coroner's
spokesman said John Yecs Jr., 36, of Akron, Ohio, had pneumonia.

WHO SAID THAT? A bunch of dummies were gathered in Fort Mitchell, Ky., for the
19th annual convention of ventriloquists at the Vent Haven Museum.

87.1% of flights are right on time

U.S. airlines in May posted their second-best on-time performance since the
government began collecting the data 5 1/2 years ago. Top performance: 87.9% in
September 1991.

The Department of Transportation's report for May showed 87.1% of flights by the
10 largest carriers arrived on time - within 15 minutes of schedule. That's 0.5%
more on-time arrivals than May 1992 and up 8.6% over the 12-month average.
Delays due to mechanical problems are not included. The carriers mishandled 4.63
bags per 1,000 passengers in May, 14.8% more errant bags than a year ago.

Consumers had 399 complaints against the aviation industry in May - down 26.7%
from April and 18.5% fewer than a year ago.
Flights that                         Complaints per
arrived on time                      100,000 fliers
Southwest          92.3%             Southwest           0.06
Northeast          91.2%             Delta               0.31
TWA                89.8%             USAir               0.58
America West       89.4%             Northwest           0.62
USAir              89.1%             United              0.65
Alaska             86.8%             American            0.70
United             85.9%             American West       1.18
American           85.6%             Continental         1.54
Continental        84.7%             TWA                 2.09
Delta              82.5%

Contributing: Sandra Sanchez and Gary Fields

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Source: Transportation Department (Chart); PHOTO, b/w,
U.S. Coast Guard via AP; PHOTO, b/w, Carol Francavilla, AP

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION; FROM USA TODAY'S NATIONAL NEWS NETWORK

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              329 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                July 14, 1993, Wednesday, INTERNATIONAL EDITION

IDENTIFYING VICTIMS

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 188 words


British police hope to identify the 13 British citizens still unaccounted for in
the fire at a Texas cult compound with DNA tests on the 42 unidentified bodies.
Tissue samples will be sent to England in a week.

IMMIGRATION TALKS: The U.S. Coast Guard imposed a news blackout on three
smuggling ships crammed with more than 650 Chinese immigrants being detained off
Mexico's Pacific coast, citing "sensitive negotiations" on their fate. The
restrictions were introduced after Mexico declared it was up to the USA to
resolve the six-day-old crisis and that Mexico stood by its rejection of a U.S.
request to accept the immigrants.

DEATHS . . .

NAPLES, FLA.: Dr. Mark L. Morris, a veterinarian who developed diets for dogs
and cats, died at age 92. He developed dog and cat foods known as Science Diets.

GARDEN CITY, MICH.: Marion "Gundella" Kuclo, a witch who held seances, passed
folklore on to children and sponsored tours of houses she said were haunted,
died of cancer. She was 63. Kuclo claimed to be a descendant of the green
witches of Scotland of the 15th and 16th centuries. Contributing: Gary Fields.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Nationline

FROM USA TODAY'S NATIONAL NEWS NETWORK

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              330 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    July 14, 1993, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Curb immigration flood

BYLINE: Dan Stein

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 295 words


Immigration has suddenly jumped off the back burner and has emerged as one of
the most important issues confronting the USA. For years, public opinion polls
have been telling us that the American people believe legal immigration levels
are too high and that illegal immigration is out of control.

The sudden attention that immigration has been receiving is due to many factors.
The most important is the unprecedented number of immigrants, legal and illegal,
who are settling in the USA each year. Depending on estimates of illegal
immigration, between 1.2 million and 1.5 million newcomers settle here annually.
This influx is occurring irrespective of the ability of communities to absorb
the new settlers, the costs associated with immigration (and they are enormous),
the strain on schools, public health facilities, housing or labor markets, or
the environment.

Proponents of the status quo like to point to the USA's "immigrant tradition" to
justify the current extreme levels of immigration. However, we need to take a
closer look at what the tradition really is. Between 1820 (when records began to
be kept) and 1965, average annual immigration was 297,000. Contrast that with
current levels, and you realize there is nothing traditional about trying to
absorb the equivalent of a major metropolitan area each year.

To their credit, the American people have directed their unhappiness at the
policies and the people who make immigration policies, not at immigrants
themselves. Public disapproval of immigration policies is as legitimate as
disapproval of tax policies or the budget deficit. Immigration policy is, after
all, a public policy and is supposed to serve the interests of the USA.

Clearly, the American people do not feel it does.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; Today's debate is on IMMIGRATION and what direction our
national policy should take; OPPOSING VIEW; The USA can't absorb the volume of
newcomers pouring into the country; Dan Stein is executive director of the
Federation for American Immigration Reform.

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              331 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    July 14, 1993, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Immigrants still stuck at sea

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 785 words


Mexican officials are continuing to reject a request by the U.S. government to
accept more than 650 Chinese immigrants detained off the Mexican coast.

With the diplomatic standoff becoming a growing source of embarrassment for both
countries, Coast Guard officials in southern California said they would issue no
further information on the rickety vessels or the passengers' condition until
further notice.

The news blackout is due to "sensitive negotiations" between the countries,
according to State Department spokesman Michael McCurry, who wouldn't elaborate.

The Coast Guard boarded and detained the vessels last Wednesday in international
waters off the Mexican state of Baja California, and conditions on board have
been described as increasingly tense and unsanitary.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

IMMIGRATION

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              332 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    July 14, 1993, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

'Lower classes' sentiment steeped in history

BYLINE: Margaret L. Usdansky

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 1457 words


Benjamin Franklin complained German immigrants who refused to speak English were
turning Pennsylvania into "a colony of aliens."

Woodrow Wilson claimed Poles and Italians lacked intelligence.

Theodore Roosevelt favored requiring immigrants to learn English - and returning
those who didn't.

Fear that immigrants might make America un-American isn't new: Anti-immigration
sentiments started before the Declaration of Independence was signed. Ever
since, almost every immigrant group - except the English - has met suspicion,
hostility and sometimes hatred.

The recent backlash against immigration is blamed on fears that America's
culture and economy will be destroyed by newcomers - the same fears always
cited, experts say.

A nation of immigrants has rarely liked the newcomers who followed.

"There's always been this tremendous tension . . . between that apprehension
that the outsiders will somehow contaminate what the insiders have, and the need
for immigrants to do things like clear the woods . . . take jobs in the fields
and factories," says historian Lawrence Fuchs.

Adds American University sociologist Rita Simon: "Popular opinion is
consistently anti-immigrant. . . . Today we hear about the browning of America.
The message is we've got to be careful. We're going to lose what is distinctive
about America."

Laws governing immigration date to the 1790s, when James Madison argued that
anyone who wanted U.S. citizenship should renounce allegiance to their former
nations.

But as each new wave of immigrants has arrived with different languages, customs
and religions, new objections were heard.

When Germans formed tightknit rural communities in the early part of the 19th
century, concerns were raised about the use of foreign languages in America.

The arrival of large numbers of Irish in the 1840s and '50s worried Americans
who believed it was impossible for citizens to remain loyal to democracy and
follow the pope.

In the 1880s, a huge influx of southern Europeans and eastern Europeans - widely
viewed as racially and culturally inferior to the earlier northern European
immigrants - arrived and met a wave of anti-immigrant feeling.

In 1911, a 42-volume report of the U.S. Immigration Commission included chapters
titled "Immigration and Crime" and "Immigration and Insanity."

"The illiterate, the unclean, morally and physically, the un-American, the
criminally inclined, yea, the lower classes of aliens form the dangerous portion
of our municipalities, and are becoming a menace," the Junior Order United
American Mechanics told the panel.

The passage of a series of restrictive laws began with prohibitions on
immigration of Chinese workers in 1882. By 1924, a strict quota system almost
brought immigration to a halt, and it did not begin to open up again until 1965.

Now, in the face of new calls for controls, Simon says the same fears about
immigrants are resurfacing.

"The notion is, whether they are the Italians, the Greeks, the Jews, the
Mexicans or the Chinese, these groups, whoever they are, will never assimilate,"
says Simon.

 Immigration: Tracking the quest for freedom Political repression, poverty and
desire for a better life have fueled immigration to the USA. About 9.5 million
people immigrated to the USA in the 1980's - the largest number in a single
decade. A look at major waves of immigration and how legislation has affected
the number of people who arrive:

1840's and 50s

Irish: About 1.5 million came following the potato famines

Germans: Economic depression, political unrest bring about 4

million. 1870s-1900

Scandinavians: Poverty, shortage of farmland bring about 1.5 million 1880s-1920s

Poles: Poverty, political repression, cholera bring about 1 million.

Jews: Religious persecution in Eastern Europe bring about 2.5

million.

Austrians, Czechs, Hungarians, Slovaks: Poverty, overpopulation

bring about 4 million.

Italians: Poverty, overpopulation bring about 4.5 million. 1910-1920

Mexicans: Mexican revolution, poverty bring first wave of 700,000 1970s-1980s

Dominicans, Haitian, Jamaicans: Poverty, unemployment, repression

bring nearly a million. 1980's

Salvadorans, Guatemalans: Not allowed to claim asylum, thousands

have been allowed to remain while awaiting new adjudication hearings.

Nicaraguans: Policies still allow people fleeing Sandinista government

to get special asylum consideration

Mexicans: Mexico has provided most legal - and illegal - immigrants to U.S.

for past 30 years. Undocumented Mexicans are about 70% of USA's

estimated 6 million illegals.

Vietnamese: Vietnamese Amerasian children born 1962-76 and fathered by a

U.S. citizen may immigrate, along with guardians, next of kin, spouses

and children.  17,000 were admitted in 1992. A 1982 law allows immigration

of children of U.S. citizens born in Cambodia, Korea, Laos, Thailand, or

Vietnam after 1950 and before October 22, 1982. Vietnamese "boatpeople"

are admitted as refugees.  More than 500,000 have been granted permanent

residence status.
                     1950's          335 immigrants
               1960's        4,340
               1970's      172,820
               1980's      280,782

1989

Chinese: Since 1989, Chinese claiming persecution under China's

one-child-only policy are entitled to "special sensitivity" to

their asylum claims.  Also, after the Tiananmen Square massacre in

1989, Chinese students were granted special asylum. Now all Chinese

in the country before 4/11/90 can apply for permanent residency. 1990's

Haitians: U.S. Coast Guard vessels can intercept boats of fleeing

Haitians on the high seas and force them to return. But Haitians

who entered illegally before January 1, 1981 may get permanent

resident status.

Irish: Congress set aside 40% of visas in 1990-93 immigration lotteries

for Irish. Ironically, not enough entered to meet the 19923 quota.

Hong Kong: Hong Kong is designated as a separate state with a yearly

10,000 visa limit through 1993, plus up to 12,000 more for employees of

U.S. businesses there 1991-93.

Soviet Jews/Evangelical Christians: A 1990 law expanded refugee status for

Jews and Christians from the former Soviet Union.

Tibetans: Displaced Tibetans could claim up to 1,000 visas per year through

1993. None have.

Soviet Scientists: 750 former Soviet scientists may be admitted each year

through 1996 ahead of other former USSR applicants.

Millionaires: Anyone investing at least $ 1 million in U.S. and creating at

least 10 jobs enters under special job skills category. In 1992: 59.

1875: First limits on immigration passed 1882: Chinese immigration prohibited,
more restrictions placed on

immigration 1910: Hungarian family awaits processing at ellis Island in New York
1921: First immigration quotas (by country) announced 1948: Refugee Relief Act
brings in homeless Europeans, Soviets.

Will be used later for Hungarians, Chinese, Cubans and 1965: Quotas by
hemisphere replace limits by country. 1980: Cuban refugees fleeing Communism
crowd a shrimp boat on arrival to

Key West, Fla., 1980

Cubans: Cubans can become permanent legal residents one year after

reaching U.S. territory (even if they came illegally). Cubans who entered

USA illegally 4/14 to 10/10 1980 may obtain permanent residency.
                     1930's        9,571 immigrants
               1940's       26,313
               1950's       78,948
               1960's      208,536
               1970's      264,863
               1980's      144,578

1986: Immigration and Reform Act created means for aliens living in U.S.

since 1982 to become legal citizens, led to legalization of many

agricultural workers. major beneficeraries: Mexicans (3 million

have become legal since 1987), Cubans, Haitians. 1991: 1,827,167 immigrants (1)
(1) - 1991 number inflated by the legalization of many immigrants

under the amnest portion of the 1986 Immigration Control and Refugee

Control Act

 Refugees admitted
                               '84                          '91
Africa                           2,704                        4,564
East Asia                        49,154                      37,063
East Europe/Soviet Union         10,497                      46,726
Latin America/Caribbean          152                          5,107
Middle East                      5,242                        5,895

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Stephen Conley and Marty Baumann, USA TODAY, Sources: USA
TODAY research; Immigration and Naturalization Service; Senate Subcommittee on
Immigration and Refugee Affairs (Line graph, chart, bar graph); PHOTO, b/w,
National Park Service; PHOTOS, b/w, AP (2)

IMMIGRATION; IMMIGRATION BACKLASH IN THE LAND OF LIBERTY; See info box at end of
text; See related story; 01A

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              333 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    July 14, 1993, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

American dream conquers troubles for the newcomers

BYLINE: Desda Moss

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 466 words

DATELINE: ARLINGTON, Va.


In South Vietnam, the home of his birth, Lung Van Nguyen endured five years in a
prison-like re-education camp, had to check in with police daily, and found his
children denied a chance at college.

Now, in the home of his choice in this quiet suburb near Washington, D.C.,
Nguyen's daughter is free to pursue her dream of becoming a dentist. His son can
become a computer programmer.

Le Vang Van, 61, who spent seven years in a Vietnamese re-education camp,
arrived in the U.S. five months ago with even more bitter memories.

"We worked hard in the field. Not enough food, no medicine," he says. "Here,
it's free. No problem with the communists."

Refugees say that - despite the need to adjust to a new culture or to overcome
hostility from many Americans - their lives have improved vastly. The cliche
still stands: They feel lucky to be here.

The new immigrants, in fact, aren't likely to call themselves victims of
discrimination. And what they have encountered, they say, pales beside the
situations they left behind.

Ragaa Ezzat, 24, said she had a compelling reason to leave Egypt two years ago
to seek political asylum. She moved to Arlington two years ago, leaving parents
behind to face an uncertain future.

"In Egypt, they hate Christian people there. They kill Christian people," she
says.

Now, she does what she could not do at home: openly practice her faith without
fear of persecution.

Ezzat, a waitress, says she doesn't follow immigration issues, but she knows of
the Egyptian sheik whose followers have been linked to the World Trade Center
bombing.

"I think he's a very dangerous man," she says. "He wants religion to control the
country. Not like here."

Since the first waves of Vietnamese refugees settled in Arlington in the late
1970s, the county has gained more than 30,000 immigrants, most from Asia and
Central America.

"Our population is highly educated and includes a lot of people who have
traveled or lived in other countries, so it tends to be a place that welcomes
people from other cultures," says Marikay Crangle, supervisor of Arlington
County's refugee services.

Inside Arlington's oldest public school, where hundreds go to learn English,
Inaam Mansoor, the program director, surveys a class that resembles a small
assembly of the United Nations.

"Our students speak more than 50 languages," says Mansoor. Among signs of
diversity:

In 1990, about one in five county residents was foreign-born, up 63.5% from
1980.

One in four spoke a language other than English.

Three of four new residents was Hispanic during the last decade. The county's
23,089 Hispanics are now the largest minority group.

Despite finding a better life in the USA, Peruvian-born Katty LaTorre, 22, does
have one grievance:

"Too expensive," she says with a sigh.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, USA TODAY

IMMIGRATION

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              334 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    July 14, 1993, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Price of immigration alienates taxpayers

BYLINE: Margaret L. Usdansky

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 453 words


A recent press release from the Carrying Capacity Network, a group concerned
about population growth, warns immigration will cost taxpayers $ 450 billion in
the next decade.

A study by Los Angeles County found that recent immigrants accounted for almost
a third of the county's net costs.

Such dramatic figures, widely cited by advocates of reducing immigration, are in
line with public opinion reflected in poll after poll. Most Americans feel
certain that immigration hurts the economy more than it helps - 64% to 28%, says
a USA TODAY/CNN/Gallup Poll.

But most academics who study the issue say the reality is less clear cut. To
date, there is just as much evidence to suggest immigration is a boon to the
economy as there is to suggest that it is a drain.

"The jury's still out, and the studies are inconclusive," says University of
Chicago demographer Marta Tienda.

Previous research turned up little evidence that immigration burdened taxpayers
or cost native-born workers jobs during the 1970s. But economists and
demographers are just beginning to examine 1990 Census data for clues to what
happened during the 1980s.

"Ten or 15 years ago, it looked like immigration was probably not very harmful,"
says demographer Frank Bean of the University of Texas-Austin. "Whether or not
that's still true today, we don't know."

Among the reasons for the current uncertainty, analysts say, are a dramatic rise
in the number of immigrants during the 1980s and a slowdown in the growth of
jobs and household income at the end of the decade.

Such changes raise the possibility that immigration may have played a different
economic role during the 1980s than it did during the 1970s.

But even Harvard University economist Richard Freeman, author of a recent study
that suggests immigration may have lowered the wages of unskilled native-born
workers, says the data isn't conclusive.

What most mainstream analysts say they are certain of is that studies that
purport to measure all the costs and benefits of immigration - from the use of
public schools and welfare, to the payment of taxes and the effect of new
workers on local labor markets around the USA - are suspect.

"That research base just doesn't exist," says Princeton demographer Tom
Espenshade.

But Donald Huddle, a Rice University economist and author of the Carrying
Capacity Network report, insists his report proves that current levels of
immigration are hurting native-born Americans. Still, most analysts remain
convinced there's little evidence to draw such a conclusion.

Says Bean: "The advocacy groups on both sides are far too quick to seize on
numbers that support their side rather than look at how good the numbers are."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

IMMIGRATION; See related story; 01A

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              335 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     July 15, 1993, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

65% want immigration cut back

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 201 words


Anti-immigration sentiment in the USA is strongest among whites, Southerners and
those with lower incomes, less education and conservative views, according to a
USA TODAY/CNN/ Gallup Poll.

Those groups are more likely to back cutting or halting immigration, see
immigrants as a drain on taxpayers, and to believe immigrants increase crime and
threaten American culture.

"They bring different values and that's why we have more crime and drug
problems," says Mary Goldsmith, 37, a homemaker in Brandenburg, Ky., one of
those surveyed.

Nationwide, the poll found 65% of 1,002 adults favor a reduction in immigration
- the highest such finding since World War II.

66% of whites favor reducing immigration; so do 56% of non-whites.

42% of those making less than $ 20,000 a year want to stop immigration, compared
with 18% of those making more than $ 50,000.

In the South, 74% favor a reduction; in the West, by comparison, 59%.

Only 42% of immigrants want to reduce immigration. But hostility increases with
succeeding generations: 54% of first-generation immigrants, and 61% of
second-generation, favor a reduction.

The poll was conducted July 9-11. Error margin: 3 percentage points.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

IMMIGRATION; IMMIGRATION BACKLASH IN THE LAND OF LIBERTY; An explosion in new
immigration - both legal and illegal - is sparking a growing backlash. The
opposition raises new questions about border policies, worrying those committed
to retaining the USA's diversity.; See main story; 08A

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              336 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     July 15, 1993, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Texas // Minorities soon to be a majority

BYLINE: Mark Potok

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 351 words

DATELINE: DALLAS


Driven largely by immigration from Mexico and the high fertility rates among
Hispanics, Texas is expected to become a "minority-majority" state - the second,
after California - by 2020.

"The state is in a transition period from Anglo-dominated government to
multicultural, diverse government," says Dallas Councilman Domingo Garcia,
chairman of the National Democratic Committee's Latino caucus. "And it is going
to be a rocky transition."

But unlike California, Texas - despite a long history of racial intolerance -
has not produced a strong backlash against immigration, yet.

Marguerite Rivera Houze of the governor's office of immigration and refugee
affairs says Texans don't fear that borders are being overrun. "There has always
been that traffic across our borders . . . I can't say everything is hunky-dory
in Texas. But I don't think it's reached the critical mass that it has in
California."

A study published this year by the independent Center for Immigration Studies
projects that by 2020, Anglos - non-Hispanic whites - will be less than half of
Texas' population.

Currently, 61% of Texans are white; 26% Hispanic; 12% are black.

The number of immigrants, after first dipping following the 1986 amnesty law,
has been rising steadily.

In 1983, 46,480 people legally immigrated to the USA through Texas ports. In
1989, that number began to climb, reaching 212,600 by 1991.

At the same time, illegal immigration - believed to be far higher than legal
entry - also was climbing fast. The U.S. Border Patrol's El Paso sector, the
second largest after San Diego, reported 211,306 apprehensions between October
1992 and this month, compared with 192,099 during the same period the year
before.

"A record," says chief agent Sylvestre Reyes, attributing the increase to a bad
economy in Mexico and good job prospects here.

One big problem facing Texas: It will need more money to educate the increasing
number of older immigrant children entering schools.

 Do Mexican immigrants benefit the USA?
1985             44%
Today            29%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ARTT: GRAPHIC, b/w, J.L.ALBERT, USA TODAY, PHOTO, b/w, Source: USA
TODAY/CNN/GALLUP national telephone poll of 1,002 adults July 9-11. Margin of
error is plus or minus 3 percentage points (Bar graph); PHOTO, b/w, AP

IMMIGRATION; IMMIGRATION BACKLASH IN THE LAND OF LIBERTY; An explosion in new
immigration - both legal and illegal - is sparking a growing backlash. The
opposition raises new questions about border policies, worrying those committed
to retaining the USA's diversity.

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              337 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     July 15, 1993, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

New York // Haitians proud: 'We try hard'

BYLINE: Bruce Frankel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 340 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Far from the leaky boats filled with desperate faces of refugees, the face of
the nation's largest Haitian community is different: Proud, hard-working and
determined.

That aura fills the barber shops, the bakeries and the botanicas in Brooklyn
where religious objects, magic charms and herbs are sold and Creole is spoken.

"No matter how they are portrayed on TV, I'm proud to say I'm Haitian. We try
hard," says Marie Jackson, 41, a beautician visiting the St. Jacques Botanica.

After 23 years as a resident, she soon will be a "proud" U.S. citizen.

But Livingston Moore, a state Supreme Court officer, says the new immigrants who
have taken over his neatly kept block aren't "like my grandfather," who came
from St. Vincent, West Indies, in the 1920s. "The first thing he did when he got
the chance was become a citizen and vote," says Moore, 50, who is black.

The complaint doesn't trouble Paula Hyppolite, an insurance broker: "I don't
want to become 100% Americanized. I want to keep my origins. Haitians have a
purity of soul."

Haitians - half of the nation's 1 million live in the New York area - say they
face a double discrimination: first as blacks, then as Haitians.

"That gives us our drive. Just because of prejudice, you can't sit back. You
have to go out there and strive," says Hyppolite, 33.

The community is well-organized and tightly knit by a reverence for its culture,
language and history. It thrives on political discourse - especially on
returning President Jean-Bertrand Aristide to power.

Otherwise, says Elizabeth Aivars of the mayor's office of immigrant affairs,
Haitian immigrants "are like any other immigrant group."

Haitians have generally fared well in New York, with recent immigrants earning
about $ 5,000 less than the $ 25,000 average of the city's 2.8 million
households.

"We don't give up easily," says Patrick Jean Pierre, 34, the news director of
Radio Soleil D'Haiti.

Do Haitian immigrants benefit the USA?
1985             29%
Today            24%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ARTT: GRAPHIC, b/w, J.L.ALBERT, USA TODAY, PHOTO, b/w, Source: USA
TODAY/CNN/GALLUP national telephone poll of 1,002 adults July 9-11. Margin of
error is plus or minus 3 percentage points (Bar graph); PHOTO, b/w, Carol
Halebian

IMMIGRATION; IMMIGRATION BACKLASH IN THE LAND OF LIBERTY; An explosion in new
immigration - both legal and illegal - is sparking a growing backlash. The
opposition raises new questions about border policies, worrying those committed
to retaining the USA's diversity.

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              338 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     July 15, 1993, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Florida // For Cubans, success, conflict

BYLINE: Deborah Sharp

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 331 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Miami's Cuban exiles have rewritten the American dream - complete with Spanish
accent.

In a county that's nearly 50% Hispanic, the Cubans who began arriving in the
1960s now hold unprecedented power: Miami's mayor, the head of the Dade County
schools and two members of Congress are Cuban-Americans.

"America has always been the land of opportunity," says millionaire banker
Carlos Arboleya, 64, who arrived in 1960 with $ 40. "They gave me the
opportunity, and I ran with the ball." Adds Octavio Visiedo, 42, chief of Dade
schools: "This is a country that is very willing to give people a second
chance."

But achievement hasn't come without conflict. Given favored status as refugees,
Cubans face resentment from other immigrants - most notably Haitians - and ill
will from blacks and "Anglos" who feel displaced in a bilingual workplace.

The success of the Cubans, who number 564,000 in Dade County, can be traced to
several factors, says Damian Fernandez of Florida International University:

Many early refugees were of the elite, with money and education.

In the 1960s, jobs existed in a high-growth USA.

Many early arrivals got special government help.

A strong network eased the way for later refugees. Miami Mayor Xavier Suarez,
44, recalls starting life in the USA in a cramped apartment with eight siblings,
all wearing donated clothes. They slept in shifts at a neighbor's.

"I was from a family that was middle class, but in the U.S., we became working
class," says the mayor, who earned a Harvard law degree.

But the future may be less rosy.

Although Cubans have the highest education and income of America's Hispanics,
their dropout rates are climbing. And economic status is falling for the
elderly. Says Fernandez, 35: "There's this myth about 'The Golden Exile.' " But
"some of those trends are not quite as golden."

Do Cuban immigrants benefit the USA? Those responding yes:
1985             31%
Today            19%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, J.L.ALBERT, USA TODAY, PHOTO, b/w, Source: USA
TODAY/CNN/GALLUP national telephone poll of 1,002 adults July 9-11. Margin of
error is plus or minus 3 percentage points (Bar graph); PHOTO, b/w

IMMIGRATION; IMMIGRATION BACKLASH IN THE LAND OF LIBERTY; An explosion in new
immigration - both legal and illegal - is sparking a growing backlash. The
opposition raises new questions about border policies, worrying those committed
to retaining the USA's diversity.

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              339 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      July 26, 1993, Monday, FINAL EDITION

'SNL' gang fashions a family film

BYLINE: Edward Moyer

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 436 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


"Didn't make sense to me at all," says Dan Aykroyd of Saturday Night Live
producer Lorne Michaels' idea to follow his hit Wayne's World with a film about
the Coneheads - the mass-quantity-consuming aliens created in 1977 for SNL.

Aykroyd couldn't see the "three- or four-joke, three-minute TV bit" as a movie
"families can relate to." But ex-SNL writer Tom Davis insisted there was a story
with the broad appeal Aykroyd desired. After all, the Coneheads are a family,
complete with teen daughter and built-in generation gap that could be played up.
They're also, in a sense, immigrants - what could be more timely?

It had been Michaels' inspiration to shipwreck them in suburban America on SNL:
"like, 'What if they try to fit in here?' " Aykroyd recalls. "Lorne and me -
coming down to the U.S.  from Canada - we could kind of relate to that 'cause it
said 'alien' on our green cards."

For the film, Michaels suggested the family be menaced by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and peppered the cast with past and current SNL-ers.

So here Aykroyd, 41, sits with co-star and fellow co-founding Not Ready for
Prime Time Player Jane Curtin, 45, stumping for Coneheads. You can tell these
two are fond of one another, but their styles couldn't be more different.

Aykroyd talks. He's the kind who can rattle off the complete dialogue to Earth
Versus the Flying Saucers in 17 dialects and do all the sound effects while
expounding on the socio-economics of film.

Curtin sits quietly bemused.  She has a sweet smile which she turns up just a
notch to tip you off to a wry remark, as when she answers a question about
future plans: "I'm getting my real estate license."

The two recall what it was like working with the new batch of jokesters: "Easy,"
Curtin says, "We all went to the same school, and you know what to expect and
you know they're going to deliver." School?  "Saturday Night Live."

Aykroyd: "The College of Saturday Night Live, yeah."

The more leisurely pace of filming - as opposed to the freak-out of live TV -
also made for nice bonding. Curtin: "You did get a chance to sit in your chair
with your cone on and . . ."

Aykroyd: "Socialize . . ."

Curtin: "and make small talk, and small talk with these people is so funny . .
."

But despite the conceptual twists and good times on the set, can a film with
characters from 16 years ago really be compared to '90s-hip Wayne's World?
Aykroyd hedges his bets:

"Well, I hope that the people who appreciated the Coneheads back then come. . .
. And if those parents can convince their kids to go see it. . . ." Mass
quantities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Murray Close

See related story; 03D

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              340 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    August 10, 1993, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Border toll worth a try

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 288 words


Why not charge a $ 1 toll at all U.S. border crossings? Because, say critics, it
would be hard to collect, turn border agents into moneychangers, punish honest
travelers and create air-polluting traffic jams.

The mayor of El Paso, Texas, even told a congressional subcommittee the fee
would encourage illegal immigration, ignite an economic decline and force Mexico
to devalue the peso.

Goodness! Moreover: Preposterous.

This fee isn't some wild imposition. Rather, it's a sensible response to urgent
budgetary needs.

Sen. Dianne Feinstein of California, the idea's current champion, estimates it
would generate $ 400 million a year, to be given to various immigration
services. That's $ 40 million more than the entire 1993 Border Patrol budget.

Feinstein's idea isn't a new one. Sen. Alan Simpson of Wyoming made a similar
proposal 11 years ago.

The idea has plenty of precedent. Travelers arriving by air or sea already pay a
$ 5 Immigration and Naturalization Service charge and a $ 5 Customs charge. And
three years ago, Congress ordered the INS to experiment with a fee-collection
project at border crossings. Since then, a pilot program on the northern border
in Washington state has been a considerable success.

The fee is imperfect, of course. But if it works a hardship on commuters, offer
a discounted pass. If it deters the poor, allow waivers.

As to the Texas mayor's larger fears of economic decline, pollution and illegal
entry: Forget them. The economic forces at work on the border and driving
immigration are greater than this fee; so are the border's environmental
problems.

A transborder toll won't solve all our immigration problems, but neither is it a
Pandora's tax. Give it a shot.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; Today's debate is on ENTERING THE USA and whether a
border-crossing fee should be charged; OUR VIEW; A small border-crossing toll
makes perfect sense, dire predictions notwithstanding.

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              341 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     August 23, 1993, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Report adds to debate on Hispanic progress

BYLINE: Margaret L. Usdansky

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 1548 words


By almost any measure, from education to poverty to jobs, the USA's 22 million
Hispanics are less well off than non-Hispanics. And they are especially
disadvantaged compared with non-Hispanic whites.

But today's Census Bureau report on Hispanics is sure to fuel the growing debate
over whether they lag behind because so many are recent immigrants, or because
U.S.-born Hispanics aren't catching up. Hispanics are expected to outnumber
blacks and become the nation's largest minority group by 2010.

Some social scientists say the evidence suggests Hispanics are becoming
entrenched among the disadavantaged, permanently behind non-Hispanics in the
USA. Others say Hispanics - about 40% of whom are immigrants, and almost 30% of
whom are children of immigrants - simply haven't had enough time to close the
gap.

"There's some conflicting evidence," says Jeffrey Passel, a demographer with the
Urban Institute. "The second generation appears to be improving, but there are
some hints that the third generation isn't making gains above that."

This murkiness stems from more than differences of opinion. Research has not
kept pace with the rapid growth of the Hispanic population, which rose by 53%
during the 1980s, driven largely by immigration.

In fact, most of the debate over Hispanic progress has revolved around studies
of Mexican-Americans, who account for almost two of every three Hispanics in the
USA. The Census Bureau's report, based on a survey of more than 57,000 Hispanic
households, doesn't distinguish between immigrants and U.S.-born Hispanics.

The report examines five Hispanic groups: Mexicans, Cubans, Puerto Ricans,
Central and South Americans and "Other Hispanic," a catch-all category including
Hispanics from Spain and those who don't fit into other categories.

How groups of Hispanic immigrants do in the USA closely reflects the resources
immigrants bring with them, says Michigan State University sociologist Ruben
Rumbaut.

Newcomers from many countries that have contributed heavily to recent
immigration - including Mexico, El Salvador and Guatemala - tend to be less
educated and less affluent than most Americans.

Smaller numbers of recent arrivals from countries like Bolivia, Chile and
Venezuela tend to be highly educated professionals. But the Census Bureau counts
them under the broad category of South and Central Americans, masking those
groups' achievements.

So to answer the question of how well different Hispanic groups are doing in the
USA, Rumbaut says, it is necessary to consider where they started.

Salvador Lazaro, a Mexican immigrant who came to Los Angeles 13 years ago, says
his story is "one in a million." But it illustrates just how well some
immigrants have done.

Lazaro, 42, who has a sixth-grade education, started as a busboy at Frank's
Charbroiler diner. After working for two owners, he was able to save enough to
buy the restaurant.

Today, he and his wife, Gloria, put in 14-hour days. Gloria says her goal is to
make sure her children don't have to work as hard as she and Salvador. "I tell
them all the time that if they go to school and get college degrees, they won't
have to struggle like we did."

Rumbaut says there is evidence that second-generation Mexicans make signicant
progress, compared with their immigrant parents. Many European-immigrant groups
now considered part of the "mainstream" lived in this country for four
generations before doing as well as the average American, he says.

But Rumbaut says he is disturbed by recent studies that suggest some second- and
third-generation Hispanics do less well in school than Hispanic children who
came to this country as immigrants. Whether Mexicans and Central and South
Americans will catch up, as many Cubans have, Rumbaut says: "It's unclear."

Author and researcher Linda Chavez has no such hesitation. Her studies show that
young, U.S.-born Mexican-American men are almost as likely to complete high
school as their non-Hispanic, white counterparts. Although they lag behind in
college education, Chavez says she believes they are catching up.

The problem with the Census Bureau's report, she says, is its failure to
distinguish between immigrants and U.S.-born Hispanics.

"Because there's this constant flow" of new immigrants, Chavez says, "the
snapshot looks the same every year. As every group does move up the ladder, a
new group moves in to take their place."

University of Arizona political scientist John Garcia disagrees, saying there is
"a legacy of Mexican-origin kids doing poorly in school regardless of whether
they're foreign-born or native (U.S.) born."

He blames, in part, the growing segregation of Mexican-American students in
predominately Hispanic schools, where low expectations reinforce poor
performance.

If the socioeconomic gap between Mexican-Americans and non-Hispanics has been
closing at all, he says, "it's been very slow."

Jorge del Pinal, head of the Census Bureau's Ethnic and Hispanic Branch, says
the debate over Hispanic progress is emerging as the central controversy in
Hispanic scholarship.

While the view that Hispanics are not closing the gap is probably more prevalent
than the belief that they are, del Pinal says, "Probably, the truth is somewhere
in between." Contributing: Jonathan T. Lovitt

Hispanics in the USA Hispanics lag behind non-Hispanics, particularly white
non-Hispanics, in education, income, employment and home ownership, a new Census
Bureau report shows. About 40% of the 22.1 million Hispanics in the USA are
immigrants. Hispanics can be of any race. How Hispanics are faring:

Mexicans largest Hispanic group Percentage of Hispanics who say they are:
Mexican                     63.6%
Central, South American     14.0%
Puerto Rican                10.6%
Cuban                        4.7%
Other Hispanic               7.0%

Puerto Ricans poorest group Those under the poverty level:
White non-Hispanics                   9.4%
Non Hispanics                        12.8%
All Hispanics                        28.7%
Puerto Rican                      39.4%
Mexican                           29.5%
Central, South Amer.              24.6%
Cuban                             18.0%
Other Hispanic                    20.6%

Puerto Rican households earning the least
White non-Hispanics             $ 32,311
Non Hispanics                   $ 30,706
All Hispanics                   $ 22,688
Cuban                           $ 26,593
Central, South Amer.            $ 24,157
Mexican                         $ 22,477
Puerto Rican                    $ 17,967
Other Hispanic                  $ 27,110

Mexicans least educated group Education level of adults 25 and older:
                            Less than     High school,   Bachelor's
                      5th grade     some college   or more
White non-Hispanics             .9%           83.4%         23.2%
Non Hispanics                  1.4%           81.5%         22.3%
All Hispanics                 11.8%           52.6%          9.3%
Central, South Amer.        8.1%           61.7%         16.0%
Cuban                       6.5%           62.0%         18.4%
Mexican                    15.2%           45.2%          6.1%
Puerto Rican                6.6%           60.5%          8.4%
Other Hispanic              5.2%           70.9%         14.2%

More Hispanics unemployed People 16 and older unemployed and looking for work:
White non-Hispanics                6.5%
All Hispanics                     11.3%
Non Hispanics                      7.5%
Puerto Rican                   12.3%
Mexican                        11.7%
Central, South American        10.8%
Cuban                           9.4%
Other Hispanic                  9.1%

More Hispanics live in single-parent households
                               Married      Female-headed    Male-headed
White non-Hispanics              83.6%            12.5%           3.8%
Non Hispanics                    78.9%            16.8%           4.3%
All Hispanics                    68.2%            24.4%           7.4%

Fewer Hispanics own homes Households that own their home:
White non-Hispanics                   69.7%
Non Hispanics                         65.8%
All Hispanics                         39.9%
Cuban                              50.4%
Mexican                            43.7%
Central or South American          26.5%
Puerto Rican                       24.1%
Other Hispanic                     52.7%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, J.L. Albert, USA TODAY, Source: U.S. Census Bureau;
PHOTO, b/w, Bob Riha Jr., Gamma-Liaison

U.S. CENSUS; See info box at end of text; See related story; 01A

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              342 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     August 30, 1993, Monday, FIRST EDITION

IMMIGRATION RAIDS

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 153 words


Federal court arraignments are today for 13 people arrested in raids on
suspected New York City hideouts of Asian organized crime rings involved in the
smuggling of Chinese into the USA. Details weren't released. The arrests
Saturday followed the capture in Hong Kong of Kwok Ling-kay, 27, reputed leader
of the Fuk Ching gang. That is the syndicate believed responsible for smuggling
Chinese aboard the Golden Venture, which ran aground in New York in June. Ten
passengers drowned.

SOUTHWEST VIRUS: A hantavirus that has killed at least 25 people "is spread over
a wider area than we thought," New Mexico deputy state epidemiologist Ron
Voorhees told a health conference in Gallup. Most of the cases have been in the
Four Corners area of New Mexico, Arizona, Utah and Colorado. But Voorhees said
the virus, with a 50% mortality rate, probably would prove endemic in other
areas. Written by Paul Leavitt

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION; FROM USA TODAY'S NATIONAL NEWS NETWORK

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              343 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   September 10, 1993, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Calif. seeks to screen immigrants' licenses

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 943 words


The California Assembly approved a measure Thursday that would require people to
prove they are in the country legally in order to get a driver's license. The
Senate passed a similar measure but now must consider House changes. Gov. Pete
Wilson, who has been criticized for proposing "anti-immigration" legislation,
says he'll sign it. The bill, believed to be unprecedented among states, also
would require disclaimers that a license cannot be used to establish eligibility
for a job, voting or welfare. Opponents said it would put more unlicensed,
uninsured drivers on the street and discriminate against anyone appearing to be
foreign. "If you're the classic blond, Californian surfer-type you're not going
to be hassled by the motor vehicle department, but if you're Latino you're going
to be hassled," says Lisa Navarrete of the National Council of La Raza.

CROWN HEIGHTS: Attorney General Janet Reno postponed a decision on possible
federal civil rights charges in the 1991 racial rioting in New York's Crown
Heights neighborhood. Reno, who was expected to say there would be no
prosecutions, agreed to hear new arguments from New York prosecutors. "I am
always willing to hear from anybody on legal and evidentiary issues in order to
make sure that all views are properly considered," Reno said.

WACHTLER CASE: Sol Wachtler, former chief judge of New York state, was sentenced
to 15 months in a federal prison for stalking and threatening his former
girlfriend, Joy Silverman, and her daughter. Wachtler, 63, blamed his bizarre
two-year harassment of them on a "sick and aberrational" attempt to restore the
woman's need for him.

HATE LAW DUMPED: The Washington Supreme Court struck down the state's hate-crime
law, saying it violates the First Amendment. The ruling dismissed charges
against David Talley, who burned a cross in his Seattle yard as a mixed-race
couple considered buying a house next door.

ASSISTED SUICIDE: A Detroit judge rejected Jack Kevorkian's argument that the
state's new law against assisting suicide was unconstitutional. Arraignment was
set for Sept. 24 on charges the retired pathologist assisted in the Aug. 4
suicide of Thomas Hyde Jr., who had Lou Gehrig's disease. Although the new law
provides up to four years in prison, prosecutors have said they won't seek a
prison term if Kevorkian is convicted. He has been present at 17 suicides.

'HOME ALONE' LAW: Illinois Gov. Jim Edgar signed into law a measure providing a
three-year prison sentence to a parent who leaves a child under 13 unattended
for 24 hours. In April, David and Sharon Schoo of St. Charles pleaded guilty to
misdemeanor charges for leaving their daughters, ages 5 and 10, home while they
vacationed in Mexico. The Schoos, sentenced to probation, gave up parental
rights.

DAVIDIAN PLEA: In the first criminal conviction stemming from the Branch
Davidian shootout, Kathryn Schroeder, 34, pleaded guilty to a reduced charge of
forcibly resisting a federal officer and agreed to testify against 11 other cult
members scheduled for trial Nov. 8 in Waco, Texas. She had been charged with
murder and conspiracy. A 51-day standoff with federal agents came to a fiery end
April 19 with the death of about 80 followers of David Koresh.

ALSO THURSDAY . . .

TAMPERING CASE: Gail Levine, 62, whose husband was fired by Pepsi 18 years ago,
was convicted by a federal jury in Denver of putting a syringe in a Diet Pepsi
can at an Aurora store during the Pepsi tampering scare in June.

CROP REPORT: U.S. farm officials pegged the nation's corn crop at 7.23 billion
bushels, down 24% from last year's record; 3% lower than forecast last month.
Blamed: Midwest floods and Southeast drought. Corn, a livestock feed, is the
nation's largest and most important crop.

FAITH HEALING: Boston prosecutors said they won't retry David and Ginger
Twitchell, a Christian Science couple who won an appeal of their manslaughter
convictions for using only spiritual healing to treat their son for a bowel
obstruction. The 2 1/2-year-old boy died in 1986.

BLACK BAPTISTS: The Rev. T.J. Jemison, leader of the National Baptist Convention
U.S.A. Inc., the nation's largest black denomination, said he would support the
Rev. W. Franklyn Richardson of Mount Vernon, N.Y., to succeed him next year.
Jemison is ineligible for another term.

MOM CHARGED WITH MURDER: Gail Savage, 31, of Wauconda, Ill., was charged with
murder in the deaths of her three children. The deaths, over three years, were
first attributed to sudden infant death syndrome. Authorities said she
suffocated them because their crying annoyed her.

The humor's not lost on NASA

At the Mars Observer mission office in Pasadena, Calif., gallows humor has set
in as the hunt continues for the missing spacecraft, not heard from since Aug.
21.

One wag even taped to a wall a milk carton picturing the missing probe with the
caption: "Have You Seen Me?" - a takeoff on a tactic used in the search for
missing children.

Ernie Allen, president of the National Center for Missing and Exploited
Children, understands: "We try not to get too serious and somber; we're not
going to get mad at NASA and we hope they recover their probe." Also:

The countdown began at Cape Canaveral for Sunday's 7: 45 a.m. ET launch of
Discovery, delayed five times. CNN plans live coverage.

NASA named Air Force Lt. Col. Eileen Collins of Elmira, N.Y., as the first
female shuttle pilot. She will fly Discovery on a mid-1994 mission to rendezvous
with Russia's Mir space station. A cosmonaut will be among the crew.

Contributing: Steve Marshall, Sandra Sanchez, Gary Fields and Sam Vincent Meddis

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Reuters; PHOTO, b/w, AP; PHOTO, b/w, Eric Draper, AP

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION; FROM USA TODAY'S NATIONAL NEWS NETWORK

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              344 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  September 23, 1993, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Disparities grow among USA newcomers

BYLINE: Margaret L. Usdansky

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 663 words


With an influx of highly educated, affluent arrivals during the 1980s,
immigrants in the USA increasingly include the privileged as well as the
struggling, a Census Bureau report released today shows.

The report, the first in 30 years to compare immigrants by country of birth,
found that the 8.7 million immigrants who arrived between 1980 and 1990 are more
likely to have a college degree than people born in the USA.

But they are also twice as likely to be poor.

For some immigrants, that poverty is temporary, the report suggests. Immigrants
who have lived in the USA for a decade are more than a third less likely to be
poor than immigrants who have been here three years or less.

But the numbers also reflect growing disparities among different groups.

The most dramatic findings concern large numbers of immigrants from Asia and a
much smaller group from Africa. Both groups are more likely to have a college
degree and to hold managerial or professional jobs than people born here.

These highly successful groups tend to be forgotten in the debate over the costs
and contributions of immigrants, says University of Texas demographer Teresa
Sullivan. "When people think about immigrants they're thinking about low-income
workers. . . . Their stereotype is reflecting only part of the reality."

The report profiles immigrants from 38 countries, allowing comparisons of recent
immigrants with the 11.1 million immigrants who arrived before 1980 and the
228.9 million native-born Americans.

The immigrants profiled range from Laotian refugees, more than 40% of whom live
in poverty, to Indian immigrants, whose median household income of $ 48,320 well
exceeds the $ 30,176 of households headed by people born here.

Immigrants who arrived before 1980 are more likely to be self-employed than
native-born Americans. Self-employment is most common among immigrants from
Europe and Asia - 9.8% and 8.6%, respectively - compared with 7.4% of
American-born workers.

Ability to speak English varies widely. Immigrants from Africa and Europe report
the least difficulty speaking English, while immigrants from Central America and
Mexico report the most.

The report indicates immigrants from Europe, Asia and Africa have higher incomes
than those born in the USA, and are better off than immigrants from Latin
America.

Median household income is $ 35,318 for Asian immigrants, $ 30,907 for African
immigrants and $ 30,892 for European immigrants. But immigrants from Africa and
Asia also have larger households than people born here, so those incomes support
more people.

Europeans, many of whom came to the USA before 1950, are the only group of
immigrants whose households are smaller than those of people born here.

The regional disparities in income also reflect other factors, including race,
says Urban Institute demographer Jeff Passel. Almost 40% of African immigrants,
for example, are white, with household incomes much higher than those of black
African immigrants, Passel's research shows.

Another explanation for the affluence reported for Asians and Africans is that
they come from far away and have to be relatively well off to pay their way
here. Expense isn't such a barrier for immigrants from Mexico or Central
America.

"It's much more expensive to get here from India than it is to get here from
Mexico," Passel says.

New immigrants educated, poor Immigrants who came to the USA between 1980 and
1990 are more likely to be educated, but they are also more likely to be poor.
Education: Those 25 and over with a bachelor's degree or more.
 New immigrants    23.7%
U.S. natives      20.3%
Old immigrants    18.7%

Median household income
 New immigrants    $ 30,553
U.S. natives      $ 30,176
Old immigrants    $ 24,240

Poverty: 4-person households (incomes less than $ 14,343).
 New immigrants    26.2%
U.S. natives      12.7%
Old immigrants      12%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Nick Galifianakis, USA TODAY, Source: Census Bureau (Bar
graph)

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD; See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              345 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 12, 1993, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Brutal realities dashing Koreans' dreams / Shop owners often victims of violence

BYLINE: John Ritter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 1009 words


Bo Hua Cha worked on a tough street, chasing a dream shared by countless other
Korean-American shopkeepers: a better life for her kids.

Like generations of immigrants, the Chas forged a fierce work ethic and
entrepreneurial savvy into modest success.

But Cha's death two weeks ago was one more reminder of the dark side of the
ethnic experience. The 50-year-old mother of four was shot as she stood behind
the counter of her tiny Washington, D.C., dry cleaning store.

The year's eighth robbery-murder at an Asian-American-owned store drew outrage
from the city's Korean community - and soul-searching akin to that of
well-chronicled incidents in New York, Los Angeles, Chicago and other cities.

Koreans, gaining footholds once held by Jews and ethnic whites, are colliding
with the realities of race and poverty.

"Don't think we're unique in American history," says Sung Soo Kim, head of New
York's Korean American Small Business Service Center. "We're just latecomers,
and in society's pecking order, all comers peck latecomers."

Korean immigration may be recent, but the workaholic, upwardly mobile shopkeeper
is already an urban stereotype. Of the nation's nearly 600,000 Korean
immigrants, 18% are self-employed, highest proportion of any foreign-born group,
Census Bureau figures show.

Koreans start in poor, high-crime areas because it doesn't take much capital.
They use savings, maybe loans from friends. Some go under. Others would move to
the suburbs but can't afford to.

David Kim, 26, is opening a grocery store in northwest Washington, where his
parents have had stores for years. He's aware of the danger.

He installed an alarm system, $ 15,000 worth of bullet-proof Plexiglas and an
employee outside to screen customers.

But he sees opportunity: with no supermarkets, unmet demand for fresh meat and
poultry.

"Not many younger people stay in the business. But we know our customers. We
have a lot of experience down here."

Bo Hua Cha's daughter, Min Chung, says her parents had been robbed before and
"constantly feared for their lives. No normal American would want to set up
business where they did. That's how stuck we are. We have to make money."

In Washington, plagued by gang warfare and the nation's highest murder rate, 60%
of small-business owners are Korean-Americans. If violence is random, some will
be victims.

Elsewhere, disputes between Korean merchants and customers erupt out of cultural
ignorance and racial tension. In Los Angeles, rioting after last year's Rodney
King verdicts was vent for resentment of Korean outsiders. In New York, a Korean
grocer's altercation with a Haitian customer in Flatbush was blown into a
lengthy, bitter boycott.

"Merchants think customers are thieves," says Karen Gunn, a black mediator hired
by Chicago's Korean American Community Services. "Customers think Korean
merchants want to come in, be carpetbaggers and rip them off."

Blame ignorance, to a point. The Korean who opens a store in a poor neighborhood
may speak little English and know nothing of Amercian-style customer relations.
His perception of blacks may be skewed by pimp-and-prostitute videos he watched
in Asia. He's vigilant about shoplifting, but not hip to merchandise-return
practices.

His mostly black or Hispanic customers may see him as disrespectful and
unresponsive. They wonder how he can open a business when they can't. They
assume he's making scads of money - and taking it home to the suburbs.

Keep in mind, says Elaine Kim, Asian studies professor at University of
California at Berkeley, "in Korea they didn't usually do these things. Chinese
didn't do laundries in China. It's adaptive strategy."

It's also filling a niche. "Koreans came in as Jews, supermarkets and other
ethnic whites, Greeks and Italians were leaving," says Edna Bonacich, ethnic
studies professor at University of California at Riverside. Their kids wanted
careers, not a mom and pop.

Bo Hua and Chong Won Cha came in 1972 with the first Asian influxes after
immigration reform. For years they cleaned restrooms, washed dishes and waited
tables before opening a Baltimore grocery. Four daughters grew up working in
family enterprises.

"The biggest goal was getting us through college so we'd get good jobs and not
have to go through what they did," says Min Chung, 22, a University of Virginia
graduate and department store manager.

Liquor store owner Chang Pak worries who'd care for his kids if he were shot.
Why does he stay? "It's a living," he says.

Pak wants tougher police enforcement, and he compares the merchant killings to a
spate of fatal carjackings a year ago. "When police focus on it, it stops," he
says.

Washington police added Korean detectives and street cops, says spokeswoman Lt.
Beverly Alford. But merchants were angry last week when it took a detective an
hour to respond to a 911 robbery call.

City officials urge Korean merchants to give more to their communities, to see
"they have to do more than just learn the language and price items," says
Kathleen Hom, the mayor's assistant for Asian affairs.

The consensus is that this is desirable and inevitable, but for some it "implies
we're responsible for the murders ourselves," says Jeannie Cho, a Washington
lawyer whose parents run a small business.

Others say Koreans' efforts to hire blacks and Hispanics and support local
programs won't change the economic disparity creating racial friction.

"I don't think the underpinnings of this issue are cultural," says Joe Hicks of
the Southern Christian Leadership Conference of Greater Los Angeles.

Hicks saw the months of rancor after the shooting of a 14-year-old black girl by
a Korean-born grocer in 1991. He saw the TV footage of armed roof-top Korean
merchants protecting their property during riots that ultimately claimed nearly
200 of their businesses.

"Tensions aren't getting any better," Hicks says. "I remember when it was
between Jewish shopkeepers and black folk. Now it's taken on a nastier racial
taint because of so much despair and hopelessness."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, color, Jym Wilson, Gannett News Service; PHOTOS, color, Matt
Mendelsohn, USA TODAY (2)

IMMIGRATION; ASIANS IN AMERICA; Asian-Americans, the nation's fastest growing
major immigrant group, have found enormous and well-documented success in the
USA. But the realities of life in America often are more complex. Asian women
from many countries are arriving in record number, seeking equality at work and
at home. Koreans, building businesses in troubled urban areas, are finding a
difficult, often violent, reception. A closer look:;

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              346 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 12, 1993, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

For women, land of opportunity / Many are lured by hopes of economic, personal
equality

BYLINE: Margaret L. Usdansky

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 851 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Jennifer Ong came to the USA for school. Yuko Franklin came for love. Hiromi
Suzuki came in search of better opportunities for women.

Their stories differ, but each helps explain why a longtime trend appears to
have reversed, so that women now outnumber men among recent Asian immigrants to
the USA.

Last year, says the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service, there were 155
Filipino women for every 100 Filipino men immigrating here.

For Koreans and Japanese, women outnumbered men 145-100. For Chinese immigrants,
it was 122-100.

Although men traditionally have outnumbered women immigrating to the USA from
all over the world, the new trend among Asians is particularly striking: Once,
Asian men outnumbered female Asian immigrants at least 3-1 or 4-1 says
demographer Jeffrey Passel of the Washington, D.C., Urban Institute.

"They (men) were brought in as either miners, railroad workers or agricultural
workers . . . so you had these bachelor communities," he says.

Sociologists offer several explanations for the shift, including new laws
encouraging nurses to immigrate and marriages of Asian women and U.S. servicemen
and students.

In addition, the rapid growth of low-skill, service jobs may make it easier for
women to find work in hotels or nursing homes, than for male immigrants to get
jobs in fields such as construction.

But a growing number of middle-class Asian women also seem to be coming here in
search of something more ethereal: greater equality at work and at home.

When Hiromi Suzuki left Japan for California in 1979, she planned to study to
become an English teacher, gain work experience and then return home. But when
she went back to Japan in 1986, the transition was hard.

"I felt too much stifled," Suzuki recalls. "You had to play a softer role."

During one job interview, Suzuki was puzzled to watch her potential Japanese
employer blush red with embarrassment. It took a moment to realize her error:
direct eye contact, a possible sign of a sexual come-on.

"I had been in America 5 1/2 years," Suzuki says, "and I forgot how to see
people in a Japanese way."

So in 1988, Suzuki returned to San Francisco.

"I miss people, but I never miss Japan," she says. "I feel like I can be myself
here."

For some Asian women, immigrating means escaping the roles prescribed by their
societies, such as the expectation that they should be married by a certain age.

Jennifer Ong didn't come to California from the Philippines with escape in mind,
but in some ways her stay here has become one. Ong went to the University of San
Francisco in 1986 to study. After graduation, she found a job as a reporter for
the Philippine News. Ong says she stayed partly because of better job
opportunities, partly because life here affords her more personal freedom.

In the Philippines, if you don't marry, "you live with your family until your
hair turns gray," she says. "Here, it's all right if you don't want to get
married until you're 40."

Ong believes many Filipino women in her graduating class decided the greater
equality here outweighs the lure of home. Staying in the U.S. seemed to hold
less appeal for the men, Ong says.

"Some of them belong to a certain social class," she explains. "Here, they feel
like they're nothing. In the Philippines, if they go to a certain social club,
people know who they are."

But for some women, adjusting to the new life they seek can be difficult.

Yuko Franklin, now president of Nobiru-Kai Japanese Newcomer Services in San
Francisco, came to the USA in the early 1970s with her husband, an American
student she met in Tokyo.

"Until (Japanese women) actually come here and live, they have a stereotyped
expectation of what the U.S. will be - women's lib, freedom and individualism,"
says Franklin.

"Mentally, you understand you have to be more independent. . . . It's hard to
change."

Franklin speaks from experience. Once in San Francisco, her husband returned to
school and asked her to support him.

In her first job, Franklin worked as a medical secretary in charge of bill
collection.

A shy woman, Franklin could hardly have drawn an assignment less suited to her
personality. But the experience taught her a valuable lesson about the necessity
of direct communication in America.

"In Japan," Franklin says, "you don't really express your feelings in words."

U.S. population growth rates Percentage growth from 1980-90:
Asians             108%
Hispanics(1)       53%
Native Americans   38%
Blacks             13%
Whites              6%

(1) Hispanics can be of any race

Immigration gender gap Women outnumber men among recent Asian immigrants,
especially those from the Philippines, Korea and Japan. Female immigrants per
100 males in 1992:
Philippines        155
Korea              145
Japan              145
Taiwan             122
China              122
Thailand           117
Vietnam            111
Cambodia           109
India              108
Laos               101

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, color, J.L. Albert, USA TODAY, Source: U.S.  Immigration and
Naturalization Service (Bar graph); GRAPHIC, color, J.L. Albert, USA TODAY,
Source:U.S.  Census Bureau (Bar graph); PHOTOS, color, Linda Sue Scott (2)

IMMIGRATION; ASIANS IN AMERICA; Asian-Americans, the nation's fastest growing
major immigrant group, have found enormous and well-documented success in the
USA. But the realities of life in America often are more complex. Asian women
from many countries are arriving in record number, seeking equality at work and
at home. Koreans, buildingbusinesses in troubled urban areas, are finding a
difficult, often violent, reception. A closer look:; See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              347 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 12, 1993, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

11,000 asylum cases pending

BYLINE: Steve Marshall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 304 words


In June, the U.S. Supreme Court helped squeeze off the flow of Haitian refugees
when it upheld their forced return to their homeland.

More than 40,000 Haitians have fled their impoverished Caribbean homeland - the
Western Hemisphere's poorest - since a 1991 military coup ousted President
Jean-Bertrand Aristide.

The U.S. asylum cases of about 11,000 are pending, said the Immigration and
Naturalization Service's Duke Austin.

Just last month, said Coast Guard spokesman Rob Wyman, the Coast Guard rescued
40 Haitians off a boat that capsized in bad weather.

Under Operation Able Manner, the Coast Guard's interdiction program that went
into effect in January, the rescued refugees were returned to Haiti, a fate that
has befallen most since the mass exodus began.

"We're trying to prevent massive loss of life," Wyman said Monday.

But those working for the refugees think otherwise.

"What Clinton should be doing is using our Coast Guard to stop oil from getting
to Haiti's dictators," said refugee lawyer Steve Forester at the time of the
high court's ruling.

Despite campaign criticism of then-President Bush's policy toward refugees from
Haiti, the Clinton administration continues that approach.

Bush's policy dated to a May 1992 order, directing the Coast Guard to intercept
Haitian refugees and force them to return home.

Bush said the policy was intended to discourage Haitians from boarding crowded
boats to make the trip.

U.S. officials adopted the policy after determining that because of overflowing
conditions at the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, they could no longer
review refugee applications on boats in the Caribbean.

Another sore point, keeping HIV-positive Haitian refugees at Guantanamo Bay, was
alleviated in June, when a federal judge ordered them into the USA.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TURMOIL IN HAITI; See main story; 02A; See related stories; 01A

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              348 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    November 5, 1993, Friday, FINAL EDITION

For many Laotians, culture clash overwhelming

BYLINE: Sally Ann Stewart

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 490 words

DATELINE: FRESNO, Calif.


As the head of this city's Lao Family Community social services agency, Pao Fang
sees firsthand the difficulties Laotian immigrants have adjusting to life in
this sprawling western American city.

"Everything is completely different," Fang says. "The way you live, work, go to
school, go to the doctor."

Those vast differences between living in Laos and living in the USA help explain
why Laotians have the highest poverty rate - 40.3% - of any of the nation's 38
immigrant groups numbering at least 100,000.

The survey also shows Laotians have one of the lowest median household incomes -
$ 19,671. Most of the USA's 171,577 Laotian immigrants have come here since
1975.

The poverty common among Laotians reflects not only their recent arrival, but
their relatively low levels of education. More than 62% of Laotian adults lack a
high school diploma, and only 5% have a college degree.

Many Laotians settled here because they could get jobs on nearby farms. Many
also settled in Minneapolis-St. Paul. Most came here with little money or
education after the United States pulled out of the war in southeast Asia.

Bounnho Chounramany says it's no surprise his community of refugees is the
nation's poorest immigrant group.

"The Lao community have too many children," says Chounramany, 57. "Eight or 10
children, and they can't make education for them."

Chounramany has plenty of personal experience to back up his opinion. The father
of eight earns only $ 400 a month as a part-time security guard.

"The Lao start further behind than most immigrant groups," says Bruce Kennedy,
chief of the state's Refugees and Immigration Programs.

The first obstacle is language, Kennedy says.
"We're not only introducing them to English, but to the concept of . . . formal
schooling," he says.

But problems don't vanish when Laotians learn English.

Chikong Ung, 18, graduated from high school last year and has been earning $
4.75 an hour as a baker ever since.

Meantime, he shrugs off his mother's constant admonitions to go to college and
become an electrical engineer.

"It's just that I've been through 12 years of school already," Ung says. "I
don't care about making money."

Like many here, Phone Lasavath, 39, has too many children to afford day care so
she can work outside the home.

Lasavath and her five children live on federal assistance in an apartment house
where children run through a courtyard covered with clotheslines.

She wants her children to complete their education, but she's uncertain how:
"It's up to them if they want to."

Neighbor Shay Moua, 17, says that attitude is what confuses Lao teen-agers and
keeps them in the cycle of poverty.

"All the time, they say, 'Go to school' but they don't know how hard it is,"
Moua says.

It's so hard to straddle both cultures that Sophie Di, 18, says many young women
her age get pregnant.

"Then you don't have to do anything but watch the kids," she says.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Robert Hanashiro, USA TODAY

CENSUS REPORT ON IMMIGRATION

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              349 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    November 5, 1993, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Asian Indians find U.S. to be land of opportunity

BYLINE: John Larrabee

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 544 words

DATELINE: WALTHAM, Mass.


The freezer at the Sangham House market is stocked with Indian entrees - curry,
peas pulav, and samosa - all packaged in microwave containers for the workaholic
professional who has no time to cook.

Chandan Bando, an immigrant who opened the Indian grocery five years ago, knows
his customers. Asian Indians are coming to the USA in greater numbers than ever
before, and many are taking the fast track up the economic ladder.

"They're established," Bando says. "They're educated, they have good jobs, and
they're working hard."

His assessment is right on target, according to U.S. Census data. Asian Indians
have a median household income of $ 48,320 - the highest of any major immigrant
group and well above the overall national median of $ 30,176.

Still, not all Indians are well off. Almost 22% of Indian immigrants live in
poverty.

The flow of Indians here, once barely a trickle, is now a steady stream. More
than 450,000 have migrated here since 1970, 10 times the number in the previous
150 years.

"People are coming here because they no longer see the United States as an
unknown country," says Harish Dang, a brokerage firm executive and host of a
weekly Indian radio show on Boston's WRCA.

"They feel closer to America than the United Kingdom because that's where so
many cultural influences are coming from now."

Indian immigrants often credit their success to strong family and religious
values. Other factors:

Many Indian immigrants can speak or read English before they arrive here. It's
India's second official language.

Many already have college degrees and professional training when they arrive.

Most Indians aren't refugees; they come by choice. The well-off are more able to
afford the costly journey.

Indian immigrants often settle in suburban communities and rarely form ethnic
enclaves. That's partly because they don't share a single culture: India is home
to dozens of ethnic and religious groups.

The new wave of immigration has sparked the growth of Indian marketplaces in New
York City, Paterson, N.J., and other cities.

Waltham's Moody Street typifies the trend. The downtown business district was on
a downhill slide several years ago. Now nine Indian businesses are squeezing out
the second-hand shops and adult bookstores.

Shopkeepers say they like Moody Street because it's near several major highways
- a quick trip for most of the 15,000 Indian immigrants in the Boston area.

Says Bhushan Kumar, owner of the Little India restaurant: "They come here from
everywhere - Boston, Rhode Island, New Hampshire."

Indian immigrants are blending into the American mainstream, but many still hold
on to their native culture.

Amarjit Singh Buttar, who holds a state management job in Connecticut, is active
in Democratic politics, serves as a justice of the peace, and has campaigned for
town council in Vernon, Conn.

At the same time, he wears a long beard and turban, symbols of his Sikh
religion, and teaches his children to speak Punjabi at home. He also has been an
active supporter of a Sikh separatist movement that the Indian government has
tried to suppress.

"Now I don't believe I can ever go back," he says. "It's worse for my children.
They can't see with their own eyes what the country is like."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Jim Rogash, AP

CENSUS REPORT ON IMMIGRATION

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              350 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    November 5, 1993, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Immigrants' status: Many factors in the mix

BYLINE: Margaret L. Usdansky

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 1846 words


Some of the immigrants who came to America in the 1980s were met not with open
arms, but with resentment and misunderstanding as debate raged over the impact
of 9.5 million new residents in a decade - a record.

But a new Census Bureau report sheds some light where there has been a lot of
heat. The report, the largest review of immigrants ever undertaken, ultimately
both challenges and confirms some stereotypes about the nearly 20 million people
in the USA who were foreign born.

Interpreting the numbers can be tricky: The status of immigrant groups has a lot
to do with when they arrived here and what skills and education they brought
with them.

For example, the study says European immigrants are less likely to have a
college education than immigrants from Asia, South America or Africa.

But it also finds that Europeans have higher household incomes than the other
groups.

Those numbers seem contradictory. The explanation lies in when most members of
the groups arrived.

The typical European immigrant arrived before 1950 and is older than the average
immigrant from Asia, South America or Africa, many of whom came in the 1980s.

And, since college attendance has grown in recent decades - in the USA and
abroad - young immigrants are far more likely to have a degree than older
adults.

But despite fewer degrees, the European immigrants are better off economically
because they've been here longer and have become established.

Among the factors to consider when comparing groups:

Household and family income: Highly educated immigrant groups and those commonly
in managerial and professional jobs have high incomes. But the number of people
in a household has a big effect, too.

Filipino immigrants, for example, have the second-highest median household
income - $ 45,419 - of the groups surveyed. But they also have many households
with at least five members. And 30.9% of all Filipino families have at least
three workers in them - higher than any other group.

Poverty: Poverty is closely tied to how long immigrants have been here, with
groups here longest far better off.

Immigrant groups with the highest poverty rates tend to be mainly recent
arrivals, and many - including Laotians and Cambodians, the groups with the
highest poverty rates - are also refugees who fled with little wealth.

Education: Education reflects the quality and length of schooling in countries
immigrants come from. But it also says something about who is able to immigrate
from a particular place.
For instance, immigrating from far-off places - such as India or Africa -
requires an expensive airline ticket and can usually only be afforded by members
of the well-educated middle- and upper-classes. Cost is not such a barrier for
immigrants coming from closer places, making it easier for less educated people
from places such as Mexico and Central America to come to the USA.

How immigrants, native-born Americans compare

A new Census report shows how the 38 largest immigrant groups in the USA compare
with native-born Americans in education, income, Englist language skills and
employment. Also shown are the 10 immigrant groups with the highest percentages
or income in each category:

8.6% of population is foreign born
            U.S. born             228,942,557
      Foreign born            19,767,316
      Total                  248,709,873

Immigrant groups larger than 100,000
Rank         Place of birth               Total
1           Mexico                   4,298,014
2           Philippines                912,674
3           Canada                     744,830
4           Cuba                       736,971
5           Germany                    711,929
6           United Kingdom             640,145
7           Italy                      580,592
8           Korea                      568,397
9           Vietnam                    543,262
10           China                      529,837
11           El Salvador                465,433
12           India                      450,406
13           Poland                     388,328
14           Dominican Republic         347,858
15           Jamaica                    334,858
16           Soviet Union               333,725
17           Japan                      290,128
18           Colombia                   286,124
19           Taiwan                     244,102
20           Guatemala                  225,739
21           Haiti                      225,393
22           Iran                       210,941
23           Portugal                   210,122
24           Greece                     177,398
25           Laos                       171,577
26           Ireland                    169,827
27           Nicaragua                  168,659
28           Hong Kong                  147,131
29           Peru                       144,199
30           Ecuador                    143,314
31           Yugoslavia                 141,516
32           Guyana                     120,698
33           France                     119,233
34           Cambodia                   118,833
35           Trinidad and Tobago        115,710
36           Hungary                    110,337
37           Honduras                   108,923
38           Thailand                   106,919

Hold bachelor's degree or higher
U.S. born                  20.3%
Foreign born               20.4%
India                      64.9%
Taiwan                     62.2%
Iran                       50.6%
Hong Kong                  46.8%
Philippines                43.0%
Japan                      35.0%
Korea                      34.4%
Thailand                   33.2%
France                     31.9%
China                      30.9%

Median household income
U.S. born                  $ 30,176
Foreign born               $ 28,314
India                      $ 48,320
Philippines                $ 45,419
Hong Kong                  $ 42,033
Taiwan                     $ 38,966
Iran                       $ 35,836
Portugal                   $ 35,053
Japan                      $ 34,999
United Kingdom             $ 34,339
Guyana                     $ 34,243
Greece                     $ 33,500

Families in poverty
U.S. born                   9.5%
Foreign born               14.9%
Laos                       41.3%
Cambodia                   40.1%
Dominican Republic         33.4%
Mexico                     27.4%
Honduras                   25.5%
Vietnam                    23.8%
El Salvador                22.5%
Guatemala                  21.5%
Haiti                      20.9%
Nicaragua                  20.8%

Families with 5 or more persons
U.S. born                  10.1%
Foreign born               22.8%
Laos                       60.9%
Cambodia                   56.3%
Mexico                     47.7%
El Salvador                41.6%
Nicaragua                  41.2%
Vietnam                    39.8%
Guatemala                  39.8%
Haiti                      33.4%
Dominican Republic         32.2%
Philippines                31.8%

Don't speak English 'very well'
U.S. born           2.3%
Foreign born        47%
El Salvador         72.4%
Cambodia            72.3%
China               72.1%
Laos                72.0%
Guatemala           70.7%
Mexico              70.7%

Dominican Republic 68.7%
Vietnam             66.2%
Nicaragua           65.5%
Korea               62.0%

Hold managerial, professional jobs
U.S. born                  26.8%
Foreign born               22.2%
India                      48.3%
Taiwan                     47.4%
Iran                       41.9%
Hong Kong                  40.9%
France                     40.2%
United Kingdom             39.9%
Japan                      38.7%
Canada                     37.9%
Hungary                    35.2%
Germany                    32.7%

Hold service-industry jobs
U.S. born                  12.7%
Foreign born               18.1%
El Salvador                34.1%
Haiti                      33.9%
Guatemala                  31.3%
Honduras                   29.8%
Thailand                   26.6%
Jamaica                    26.4%
China                      24.5%
Peru                       24.1%
Nicaragua                  23.2%
Dominican Republic         23.0%

Work as machine operators, laborers
U.S. born                  14.5%
Foreign born               18.6%
Laos                       41.1%
Portugal                   35.9%
Mexico                     32.2%
Dominican Republic         31.1%
Cambodia                   29.2%
Guatemala                  27.6%
Ecuador                    26.8%
El Salvador                26.8%
Nicaragua                  24.2%
Honduras                   23.7%

Are self-employed workers
U.S. born                  7.0%
Foreign born               6.8%
Korea                      18.0%
Greece                     14.7%
Hungary                    12.5%
Iran                       12.0%
France                     10.2%
Soviet Union               10.1%
Italy                      10.1%
Canada                      9.5%
Germany                     9.1%
Yugoslavia                  8.7%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Stephen Conley, USA TODAY, Source: Census Bureau (Bar
graph, pie chart)

CENSUS REPORT ON IMMIGRATION; IMMIGRATION DEMOGRAPHIC REPORT; More than 9
million people immigrated to the USA in the 1980s. Now a report by the Census
Bureau shows who the immigrants are, and documents the struggles of many new
arrivals and the successes of those who have been here for generations; See info
box at end of text

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              351 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    November 26, 1993, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Brown, delegates visiting S. Africa

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 300 words


Commerce Secretary Ronald Brown leads a trade mission to South Africa today - a
turnaround from previous U.S. sanctions imposed before Pretoria dismantled its
racial apartheid policies.

Brown, the first black Commerce secretary, said it's a mission "of particular
pride and hope." The 25-member delegation will spend 10 days looking at
black-owned enterprises for possible U.S. investment.

IMMIGRANT PLAN: The Clinton administration will encourage about 10 million legal
immmigrants to become U.S. citizens in a bid to counter anti-immigrant
sentiment, The New York Times reports today. The administration's efforts could
enfranchise millions who have lived in the USA for years. When immigrants become
citizens, they gain the right to vote, hold public office and serve on juries.

REVOLVING DOOR: Already, top Clinton aides are seeking greener pastures in
private industry. Roy Neel, Clinton's deputy chief of staff, reportedly has been
offered nearly $ 500,000 a year to head the U.S. Telephone Association, a trade
group for phone companies. Howard Paster, congressional liaison, says he has
several offers. The president pledged to close the "revolving door" through
which federal officials obtain lucrative jobs in private companies and then
lobby former colleagues still in government. But Clinton's rules block them only
from lobbying the White House - not Congress or federal regulators.

POLITICAL BEDFELLOWS: Political odd couple James Carville, 49, and Mary Matalin,
40, tied the knot in a French Quarter wedding in New Orleans. It is her third
marriage and his first. Carville ran President Clinton's successful campaign.
She helped run President Bush's. The 150 wedding guests included: conservative
personality Rush Limbaugh and Clinton aide George Stephanopoulos.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD; WASHINGTON; USA TODAY'S SPECIAL REPORTS FROM THE
CAPITAL

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              352 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   November 30, 1993, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

NOT GOING BACK

BYLINE: Jack Carey

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 215 words


Waiting outside immigration offices in San Juan, Puerto Rico, to make their
formal appeals for political asylum, eight Cuban athletes said Monday they had
each plotted with a best friend, sometimes months in advance, to escape
returning to their Communist homeland after the Central American and Caribbean
Games. Thirty-nine Cubans athletes and officials had defected as of Monday.

HONOR FOR RAFER: Rafer Johnson, the 1960 Olympic decathlon champion, was named
winner of the Theodore Roosevelt Award, the highest honor bestowed on an
individual by the NCAA. Johnson was a star in basketball and track at UCLA in
the 1950s.

ARNIE'S BACK: Arnold Palmer, shut out in The Skins Game last weekend, goes for
his third consecutive title, and fourth in five years, in The Senior Skins Game
Jan. 29-30 at Mauna Lani Resort in Hawaii. He'll face Jack Nicklaus, Lee Trevino
and Ray Floyd.

STEROIDS DISCOVERED: Two members of the Russian team sent to the Powerlifting
World Championships in Jonkoping, Sweden, were caught by Swedish customs
carrying large quantities of anabolic steroids, the Swedish news agency TT
reported Monday.

NEW HOME: American Winner, who won the Yonkers Trot and Hambletonian in record
time, will stand stud at Hanover, Pa., beginning in 1994.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, color

TYPE: Sportsline

A QUICK READ ON THE TOP SPORTS NEWS OF THE DAY

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              353 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  December 15, 1993, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Research shows rapid strides

BYLINE: Margaret L. Usdansky

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 306 words


Although social scientists have just begun to study evidence from the 1990
Census, most agree there is little proof so far that immigrants today are less
likely to learn English than previous generations were.

Research shows that new immigrants make rapid strides in English during their
first years in the USA, says Princeton University demographer Thomas Espenshade.
"If you found somebody who had been here 20 years and didn't speak English, they
wouldn't be representative of the typical immigrant."

In fact, the percentage of foreign-language speakers who describe themselves as
speaking English "very well" grew slightly during the 1980s to 56.1% - even
though the decade saw a record influx of 9.5 million immigrants. The proportion
who say they don't speak English at all rose from 5.3% to 5.8%.

Work by sociologists Guillermina Jasso of New York University and Mark
Rosenzweig of the University of Pennsylvania suggests the share of immigrants
who did not know any English was larger in 1900 than in 1980.

But they also found that Hispanics - the largest group of foreign-language
speakers today - learn English more slowly than previous generations of Germans
did when they made up the largest group of foreign-language speakers at the turn
of the century.

"That's a troubling thing," Jasso says. One likely factor, she believes, is that
Spanish speakers today are more likely to live in neighborhoods where their
native language is widely spoken, compared with earlier waves of German
immigrants.

Immigrants who live in "language enclaves" learn English less rapidly, Jasso
says, because they are better able to work, shop and socialize in their native
tongue. "They do pay a price" for not learning English, Jasso says. But with a
larger community that speaks their language, "the price they pay is less."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CENSUS REPORT; See main story; 09A

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              354 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  December 15, 1993, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

2.9 million households learn to live in linguistic isolation

BYLINE: Margaret L. Usdansky

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 1095 words

DATELINE: SOUTH RIVER, N.J.


This bedroom community is home to more than 13,000 people, but Maria Pinto can
talk with only 1,369 of them - fellow immigrants who speak Portuguese.

Pinto is one of approximately 8.4 million U.S. residents cut off from mainstream
society because no adult in their family speaks English fluently.

The data, part of the Census Bureau's first attempt to measure linguistic
isolation, show that 2.9 million U.S. households don't have a family member age
14 or older who speaks English well.

The number represents 38% of the 7.7 million households headed by immigrants,
though only 3.2% of households nationwide.

Amid growing concern about immigration, it shows how many immigrants quickly
pick up the language of their adopted land - and how a smaller group survives
without learning much English at all. "You don't need that many speakers to run
a non-English-speaking community," says University of Illinois at Urbana
sociologist Gillian Stevens.

Over half of the nation's linguistically isolated households use Spanish, new
data from the 1990 Census shows. But 18% converse in an Asian language. The
remaining 28% speak another language, often a European one.

For Pinto, life in South River is circumscribed. After walking her 7-year-old
son to school each day, she spends much of her time at home. She shops at a
local Portuguese grocery and takes her 10-year-old daughter along to the bank to
help translate.

English classes are offered by the school system, but only in the evenings when
Pinto would rather be home preparing supper for her family. "We don't see many
people," she says through a translator. "We keep to ourselves."

Pinto has lived in the United States since August 1992, too short a time to
gauge whether she will ultimately master English, or remain among the group of
parents who need a translator to attend parent-teacher conferences at South
River's Willett Elementary School.

While most children at Willett learn English quickly, many of their parents lag
behind, teachers at the school say. The staff at Willett has plenty of families
to observe. Fully 18.7% of South River residents are immigrants, compared with
7.9% nationwide. Over 9% of South River households are linguistically isolated,
almost three times the national rate.

The larger the group of immigrants, the easier it is to get by without English,
says Willett bilingual teacher Denise Drzyzgula. In South River, Portuguese is
the most common foreign language, spoken by almost 11% of residents. Portuguese
parents "don't need to learn English," Drzyzgula says. "The kids learn English .
. . eventually they become the translators."

"There's a Portuguese priest. There's a Portuguese club. There are Portuguese
stores, and there are Portuguese bars," says former Willett teacher Alda Maltez,
who came to the United States from Portugal as a child. There are even
Portuguese job networks through which new immigrants with few English skills
find factory and construction work.

But when it comes to teacher conferences, doctor visits or legal problems,
Portuguese won't suffice, so Maltez often acts as translator.

"People call to ask can we go with them somewhere, can we make a call to find
out what's going on," she says. "That's the way you do it, whoever speaks
English has to help out."

But many new immigrants dislike relying on friends or children as translators.

Bulgarian refugee Stoyne Tioumbelektchieff moved from New York City to South
River partly because he wanted to escape the temptation of living and working in
a neighborhood with fellow Bulgarians. "I wanted to speak more English," he
says.

Aside from one other Bulgarian couple in South River who helped
Tioumbelektchieff find an apartment and a job, there was no one else in town he
could communicate with unless he learned to speak English.

After three years in the USA, Tioumbelektchieff doesn't need a translator for a
parent-teacher conference. Every day, he practices English by reading
newspapers, watching television and talking with his sons. "I want to talk with
people," he says.

But sometimes very cohesive small groups of people can get by comfortably
without knowing English. South River's Ukrainian community is one example. Nadia
and Alex Muravski, Pentacostal refugees of Urkrainian descent, came to South
River in 1975. Over the past several years, they sponsored a few new Ukrainian
families, who in turn brought in others, each one providing initial help with
rent, furnishings and advice.

Today, the count of Ukrainian families is about 20 and growing. Nadia Muravski
often acts as translator for the newcomers, and her husband serves as minister
of a local Pentecostal church.

While the children are learning English rapidly, Nadia Muravski says, many of
the older adults are not.

Some of the newcomers miss their native land, she says. "But they aren't lonely
because they have the church . . . We all know each other."

Linguistic diversity in the USA

The latest Census found that 2.9 million U.S. households - 3.2% of the nation's
total - are linguistically isolated. This means, in these households, no person
above age 14 speaks English fluently.

What they speak:
Spanish          1.6 million
Asian language    .5 million
Other             .8 million

Though not all linguistically isolated, 31.8 million people above age 4 speak a
language other than English at home. The 10 most common languages in 1990 and
the percentage of change from 1980:
             Number     Change
Spanish        17.3   +50.1%
French         1.7     +8.3%
German         1.5     -3.7%
Italian        1.3    -19.9%
Chinese        1.2    +97.7%
Tagalog         .8    +86.6%
Polish          .7    -12.4%
Korean          .6   +127.2%
Vietnamese      .5   +149.5%
Portuguese      .4    +19.0%

South River, N.J. Nearly 30% of the 12,788 residents above age 4 speak a
language other than English at home, compared with 13.8% nationwide. What they
speak:
Portuguese             1,369
Polish                   831
Spanish                  473
Slavic                   279
Hungarian                198
Russian                  191
Italian                   95
German                    65
French                    55
Chinese                   34
Indic                     34
Other                     13

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Julie Stacey, USA TODAY, Source: U.S. Census Bureau (Map,
New Jersey, Bar graph); PHOTOS, b/w, Robert Deutsch, USA TODAY (3)

CENSUS REPORT; See info box at end of text; See sidebar; 09A

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              355 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  December 29, 1993, Wednesday, FIRST EDITION

CLINTON ON THE ROAD

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt; Sandra Sanchez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 336 words


President Clinton today heads to Hilton Head, S.C., for Renaissance Weekend, an
annual gathering of business executives, policy experts and politicians to
discuss social and political issues. He visited his dentist Tuesday in Little
Rock. "They said I was doing a beautiful job with my brushing and flossing," he
said, then celebrated with fudge and frozen yogurt. The Washington Post,
meanwhile, reported that Clinton, while Arkansas governor in the 1980s, donated
his old underwear and other used clothing to charity, taking tax deductions that
may have exceeded fair-market value guidelines.

IMMIGRATION COSTS: Florida will sue the federal government for reimbursement of
medical, education and other costs of services for illegal immigrants, Gov.
Lawton Chiles said. He put the cost at hundreds of millions of dollars. The suit
also will seek to force federal authorities to strictly enforce immigration and
naturalization laws.

Twins to represent March of Dimes

Cincinnati twins Jacquelin and Neil Burch, 6, were named 1994 March of Dimes
National Ambassadors - the first time in the foundation's 55 years twins were
chosen. They were three months premature, born with a third sibling, Courtney,
who died at eight months. The twins spent three months in intensive care due to
respiratory distress and collapsed lungs. Now healthy kindergartners, their
duties include a Jan. 1 ride in the Tournament of Roses Parade. They "put a
human face on these health problems," said March of

ALSO TUESDAY . . .

DOLPHINS TRAPPED: Marine mammal specialists unsuccessfully tried to free four
bottlenose dolphins trapped by ice in the Shrewsbury River near Sea Bright, N.J.
Rescuers will try again today.

ABDUCTION ARRESTS: Mark Anthony Rantissi and Brian James Tomasello, both 21,
were arrested in Walnut Creek, Calif., in the Dec. 21 kidnapping of Ruth Garrett
Mayer of Antioch, whose husband owns jewelry stores. She was released Dec. 24.
Two others are being sought.

Contributing: Adam Nagourney

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w

TYPE: Nationline

NATION AND THE WORLD; FROM USA TODAY'S NATIONAL NEWS NETWORK

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              356 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     January 3, 1994, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Population of USA up to 259,353,627

BYLINE: Margaret L. Usdansky

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 136 words


The population of the USA rose by 2.7 million in 1993, with almost one third of
the growth due to immigration, according to the Census Bureau's annual New
Year's Day projection.

The number of new immigrants - 895,000 - was the largest to enter the USA in a
12-month period since 1914.

The official Jan. 1, 1994, count: 259,353,627 people.

Along with immigration, the new figure is based on projections of:

4.1 million births.

2.3 million deaths.

Net return during 1993 of 60,000 citizens living abroad, including armed forces.

The population is up 4.3% over the 1990 Census count of 248,709,873.

The 1993 population gain means about 7,397 people were added to the USA a day -
308 per hour, about 5 per second.

Births and deaths are expected to stay about the same in '94, say Census
experts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              357 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   January 27, 1994, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Immigrants feeding the faith / Assimilation, with Islamic values intact

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 736 words

DATELINE: GARDEN GROVE, Calif.


Fifteen years ago there were two Islamic mosques in southern California; today
there are more than 50. Ten years ago, 500 people showed up for Friday services
in the mosque here; now there are more than 1,500 worshipers.

This month, the first mosque in the region built in the traditional style - dome
and minaret - opened in Los Angeles; three more will open in the next few years.

Southern California has become home to the nation's largest and fastest-growing
Muslim population, most of them immigrants from
South Asia, the Middle East, Southeast Asia and Africa.    "They're

here for the same reasons that so many other immigrants have come to Los
Angeles, and California in general - for economic reasons, family reunification,
and because of war or political turmoil (in their home countries)," says
Jonathan Friedlander, a sociologist at the University of California, Los
Angeles, who is studying Muslim immigration.

"They're not here to change American society - they're more afraid American
society will change them."

Muslims say they have much in common with America's dominant Judeo-Christian
culture, with its emphasis on family, work and tolerance.

"We recognize and respect Christian and Jewish values, because they are not very
different from Islamic values," says Shamin Khan, an Indian-born teacher at the
Orange Crescent School, one of many Islamic elementary schools in the region.
"Our task is to give non-Muslims the message of what we really are."

What they are not, community leaders say, is terrorists or religious fanatics.
They see no conflict between American democracy and Islam, and they have no
desire to alter the secular character of America's institutions.

"In many ways, Islam reiterates basic American values," says Salah Abdul-Wahid,
a documentary filmmaker and a leader in the Los Angeles Muslim community. "We
are trying to integrate Islamic values into the discussion of what it means to
be an American."

Assimilation is the goal. "But it is assimilation on our own terms, not by
giving up our religion," says Muzammil Siddiqi, director of the Islamic Society
of Orange County, the largest mosque in the county.

"I have no problem with my children's culture being American, as long as their
values remain Islamic," says Nahid Ansari, 31, an Iranian-born immigrant. Her
husband, Levent Akbarut, is Turkish-American; their three American-born children
attend an Islamic elementary school.

No one knows for sure how many Muslims live in the region, but some estimates
put the total - counting American-born Muslims - at 250,000.

Orange County has at least 30,000, and as many as 90% are foreign-born, says
Ihsan Bagby, director of the Islamic Resource Institute, a think tank in Los
Angeles.

He and other researchers say most foreign-born Muslims in the region are
educated, middle-class, white-collar professionals.

They have little in common but their religion and knowledge of Arabic, which
Muslims learn as the language of the Koran. More are from South Asia - India,
Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh - than from Arab countries, but they span
the spectrum of race,
ethnicity, language and culture.     They have largely avoided

nativist resentment, partly because they are not perceived as drains on society
and are widely dispersed in the region and less
visible than other immigrants.     Immigrant Muslims do get crank

calls, taunts, even threats after terrorist incidents or when the United States
is in conflict with Islamic countries. But their experiences mostly mirror those
of other immigrants before them.

"The hardest thing to adjust to, for any immigrant, is the isolation of American
society," says Valerie Curtis Diop, an American-born convert to Islam and
immigration lawyer in Los Angeles.

Plus, religion makes special demands of Muslims. They are expected to pray five
times daily, facing east toward Mecca. They are expected to carefully check food
ingredients to ensure there are no pork byproducts. In a society that celebrates
alcohol, they are prohibited from imbibing. And in a culture saturated with
sexual images, they struggle to keep their teen-agers from too much
intermingling with the opposite sex.

"There are difficulties here; it is not a paradise, but at the same time there
is freedom to live and practice Islam the way we want to," says Siddiqi.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, color, Chris Martinez

ISLAM IN THE USA; See related stories; 01A, 02A, 06A

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              358 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 1, 1994, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Ruling tangles policy on Chinese immigration / Approval of asylum foils
Clinton's crackdown vow

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 670 words


The Clinton administration's promised crackdown on illegal Chinese immigration
has run up against a federal judge's ruling that China's coercive
family-planning policies may be grounds for asylum.

The result is that American policy on asylum as it applies to Chinese is as
confused as it was during the Bush administration - and could remain so for
months or years while the issue is debated in the courts.

"There's an urgent need for the Clinton administration to come back with a clear
statement on its policy," says Dan Stein, head of the Federation for American
Immigration Reform, which advocates reducing immigration.

China tries to force couples to have just one child, a policy that has raised
legal questions in the USA.

"The administration has dropped the ball . . . and as a result they're losing
control of the policy," he says.

The Justice Department is trying to decide whether to appeal the ruling, which
involves the asylum claim of one of 285 illegal Chinese immigrants found on the
smugglers' vessel Golden Venture last June.

The government insists the ruling applies to just one case. But other judges may
be influenced by it, and lawyers representing other Chinese say they intend to
raise it.

Stein says that means the ruling - the first-ever judicial pronouncement on the
issue - is a "disaster" and an open invitation to would-be Chinese asylum
seekers.

Immigrant-rights groups agree the ruling may encourage would-be immigrants, but
hail the decision as a victory for human rights.

"Clinton will have to take a position now - are human rights really a priority
or is he going to coddle China as he accused Bush of doing," says Craig
Trebilcock, who represents Chinese asylum-seekers.

But the ruling won't immediately help hundreds of Chinese asylum-seekers still
in jail.

"It's an administrative abdication (by) sending the issue to federal court . . .
but it means these people will remain in limbo for months or years," said Arthur
Helton, head of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights.

The ruling was issued last month by federal District Judge Thomas Ellis in
Alexandria, Va., in the case of Guo Chun Di, 28.

Guo, being held in a Virginia jail, says he fled because he and his wife wanted
two more children. When they resisted orders to be sterilized, he said,
officials confiscated their property and destroyed their home.

An immigration judge found Guo's story plausible but denied him asylum based on
a 1989 Board of Immigration Appeals ruling. That ruling says that persecution
under a coercive population control policy does not constitute grounds for
political asylum.

The Justice Department argued Guo was not singled out for special persecution,
that Congress didn't intend for family planning policies to be grounds for
asylum, and the 1989 case should be the precedent for deciding such cases.

But Ellis, who was appointed by President Reagan, said involuntary sterilization
is "an egregious infringement on the fundamental right to procreate," and Guo's
opposition to China's policy constitutes "political opinion" that makes him
eligible for asylum.

Moreover, Ellis said U.S. policy on this issue had been hopelessly muddled
during both the Bush and Clinton administrations - with nine inconsistent
government pronouncements since 1988.

"Taken together, they amount to an administrative cacophony undeserving of
judicial deference," Ellis said.

The cacophony may continue. Last summer, Clinton promised significant reform in
the nation's overwhelmed political asylum system, including a crackdown on
smugglers. Since then little has happened in either the White House or the
Congress.

Attorney General Janet Reno was supposed to clarify administration policy last
year, but in December declined to do so, saying the cases presented to her
weren't good ones on which to base policy.

"Clinton made promises about significant reforms but internally everything's
gone to pieces," Stein said. "They're making no one happy and getting nothing
done."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Michael Albans, AP

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1994 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              359 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    January 3, 1995, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Hometown associations are a lifeline for El Salvador / 'Foreign aid for free';
ties to native culture

BYLINE: Gale Holland

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 837 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Schoolchildren in the Salvadoran village of Nueva Guadalupe know where to find
Los Angeles: The city's name is stamped on the newly sanded desks donated by
townspeople in exile here.

The rebuilt desks are one product of a "hometown association" movement that is
sweeping the Salvadoran community of Los Angeles, the largest Salvadoran
population outside the capital city of San Salvador.

Since the Central American nation's civil war began winding down four years ago,
at least 27 hometown groups have formed here to rebuild the country - village by
village.

"We know our people are poor and suffer," said Elvis Cruz, a leader of the Nueva
Guadalupe group.

The hometown associations hold picnics, raffles and dances to fund
reconstruction projects like cleaning up dirty water systems, opening homes for
the elderly, rebuilding schools, carving out soccer fields and building sports
facilities.

"What they're forming is actually a community that transcends borders," said Leo
Chavez, professor of anthropology at the University of California at Irvine.
"For the hometown, it's a way to get foreign aid for free. And for the immigrant
here, it's a way to get rooted, so people do not become lost souls."

Hometown associations are nothing new - Mexican immigrants have formed upward of
50 over several decades - but the Salvadoran groups have a special urgency.

The United States recently extended Salvadorans' immigration status, but, with
California in an immigrant-bashing mood, their welcome clearly is wearing out.

"The ones who forced us to leave Salvador now want to force us to go back," said
Omar Corletto, leader of a hometown association for Santa Elena, population
25,000. "If we are a problem this is a problem they have created."

The associations' contributions, typically $ 1,000 to $ 10,000 a year, are
peanuts compared with the direct payments immigrants make to families back home.
Those payments long ago surpassed coffee exports as a principal source of
capital in the limping Salvadoran economy.

But the groups are ambitious. They have formed an umbrella organization with a
local immigrants' rights group, El Rescate, to study economic development in
four target towns in El Salvador.

Also on the drawing board: a transnational credit union to provide financing -
and recapture the enormous money transfer fees now seeping away to private
banks, wire and check cashing services.

"The idea is to add the investment, so the towns have money coming in steadily
from these venture businesses, whatever they are," said El Rescate official
Jaime Flores.

Politicians, here and in El Salvador, are beginning to awaken to the groups'
growing clout, members say.

"The political parties definitely will seek the support of the associations, so
they can physically rebuild the towns and the parties can take all the credit
for it," said Flores.

Some associations are heading for the big time. The Santa Elena group has jumped
onto the information superhighway, with a computerized data base, a non-profit
tax status for soliciting corporate funds and a formal accounting system. The
group's parties are held in hotel ballrooms with crystal chandeliers.

"The revolution in communication and cheap transportation allows immigrants to
remain in constant touch by telephone and e-mail," said Michigan State
University sociologist Ruben Rumbaut.

In a storefront in Pico-Union, "little Central America" here, Nueva Guadalupans
gathered one evening for a fund-raiser. The dance hall, which doubles as an
English school, was surrounded by street corner drug-peddling and fading
Victorian grandeur. A sign above the door still advertised the five-and-dime
that was formerly in the space.

In the kitchen, women and children tended a steaming silver tureen of tamales. A
long-haired Snow White look-alike wandered across the linoleum floor hawking
T-shirts to finance her seat on the Salvadoran Rose Parade float.

Several teen-agers in hip-hop clothing rose to dance to an American disco song.

The music shifted to the Latin cumbia beat, and the teen-agers dropped back to
their seats.

The moment illustrated a paradox for association members. While they strive to
give El Salvador a future, their children sink deeper into the American culture.
Soon they may reach the point of no return.

Group leader Juan Jordan said cultural education, including Indian dances, music
and costumes, are an important part of his group's parties.

Jordan's 17-year-old daughter, Blanca, who was lolling on the couch reading Anne
Rice's Interview with a Vampire, said she loves the cultural evenings - to a
point. "I'd like to go to El Salvador for vacation, but not to live," she said.

Even without the lure of return, the associations loom large in Salvadoran
immigrant life. The ties of the immigrant to homeland and culture have always
been "such a profound part of who we Americans are as a people," said Chavez.

"We love our town. It's like how you love your kids," said Corletto. "We will
never forget."

LOAD-DATE: January 04, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, b/w, Bob Riha Jr., Gamma-Liaison (2)

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              360 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   January 12, 1995, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Visa rules could sideline top foreign prospects

BYLINE: Rod Beaton

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 464 words


Some of the best prospects in baseball will not be able to play in the minor
leagues this season as long as the major league strike lasts.

The players union had its strike certified in December by the Labor Department.
As a result, the Immigration and Naturalization Service will not grant a visa
required of any foreign player signed to a major league contract.

Players from Puerto Rico or U.S. Virgin Islands are excepted, but any other
foreign player who is on a major league, 40-man roster cannot play in the majors
as a replacement player, or in the minors.

"This could hurt the development of these players," New York Yankees general
manager Gene Michael says.

This group includes some of the most promising talents in the game: slugging
outfielder Ruben Rivera of the Yankees, Houston outfielder Bob Abreu, San Diego
first baseman Roberto Petagine, New York Mets infielder Edgardo Alfonzo and
outfielder Jose Malave of Boston. Each was likely to open this season in the
minors. Instead, each will sit.

The P1 visa is required for any foreign player on a major league contract. They
are renewed annually, this year for Jan. 3-Oct. 31. None is being granted during
the strike. No players denied the visa can work in the USA, as a replacement
player or as a minor leaguer.

It is yet to be determined if clubs can option Americans and Puerto Ricans from
their 40-man rosters to the minors. They were able to do so during the strike
last year, but attitudes have changed. "We haven't decided yet," says Gene Orza,
the union's No. 2 official. "The executive board at the end of the month will
decide if we will authorize that."

Minor league teams will be raided for replacement players, if the majors use
them. Now they will take another hit, denied top foreign prospects.

U.S. and foreign players not on a major league roster will be able to play in
the minors this season. The foreign ones receive an H2 visa. There are
approximately 700 of these (the numbers vary slightly annually) shared by the 28
big-league teams for use in the minors only. They cannot be called to the
majors.

"It is right there on the certificate. No one on the H2 level can be used to
break a strike," George Pfister of the commissioner's office says.

Rivera, Abreu and other prospects on major league contracts would have to shift
to an H2 visa, issued to foreign citizens who are minor leaguers.

But to do so they'd have to be dropped from the 40-man roster and clear waivers.
Most, if not all, would be claimed by other teams, so they will not be
outrighted. They will sit, without pay.

"The Players Association is supposed to be in business to advance the careers of
players," Mets general manager Joe McIlvaine says. "Young players do not advance
their careers by sitting."

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Bill Setliff

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              361 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   January 18, 1995, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Cuba, U.S. begin Round 3 of immigration negotiation

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 329 words


The United States and Cuba reopen immigration talks today, as newly empowered
congressional Republicans seek to tighten the U.S. economic embargo against the
communist-ruled island.

This is the third in a series of New York talks that have helped stabilize the
immigration situation. It reached crisis proportions last summer when Cubans
fled in droves aboard makeshift vessels.

The talks prompted speculation about a thaw in relations, but that was clouded
by November's Republican congressional victories.

Bipartisan opposition to Cuba is strong, and officials expect some proposals to
win congressional approval.

Rep. Lincoln Diaz-Balart, R-Fla., a nephew of Cuban President Fidel Castro's
former wife, has introduced legislation to head off Cuba's admission to
international financial institutions and to bar the U.S. purchase of sugar from
countries that buy sugar from Cuba.

WALLENBERG ANNIVERSARY: Sweden commemorated Swedish diplomat Raoul Wallenberg,
who saved thousands of Hungarian Jews from Nazi death camps then disappeared 50
years ago after being taken away by Soviet troops occupying Budapest.
Researchers trying to trace the fate of Wallenberg, credited with saving
thousands of Jews by issuing them false Swedish passports, have made little
progress since the collapse of the Soviet Union. Authorities in Moscow insist
the Swede died of a heart attack in Moscow's Lubyanka prison on July 17, 1947.

BOSNIA FIGHTING: Bosnia's shaky truce came under increasing strain as heavy
fighting between Bosnian government troops and Serb foes flared in the Bihac
pocket.

POPE'S PLANE: Pope John Paul II, on an ambitious Asian tour, left Papua New
Guinea and headed for Australia. His departure for Sydney was delayed 25 minutes
by a mechanical problem that forced his plane to abort takeoff.

COLOMBIAN KIDNAPS: Kidnapping has become a $ 350 million industry in Colombia,
with four victims snatched daily for huge ransoms, officials say.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, AP

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD; WORLD ROUNDUP

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              362 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   February 1, 1995, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Southwest border businesses feel ponch of peso's plummet

BYLINE: Sandra Sanchez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 501 words

DATELINE: BROWNSVILLE, Texas


Polish-born Samuel Silberman managed to keep his fabric business going through
peso devaluations in 1952, 1982 and 1987.

But now he's afraid the once-flourishing concern will become a casualty of
Mexico's peso crisis.

"Business is not only slow, it's completely paralyzed," says Silberman, 76,
owner of Feders Fine Fabric shop.

Sales are down 70% since Dec. 20, when Mexico devalued the peso. Silberman has
had to close his store in McAllen, Texas, is shutting a second Brownsville shop,
and is hard-pressed to keep two others open.

"Seventy percent of my customers come from Mexico, and now they're just not
coming," he says.

Border cities like Brownsville, just across the International Bridge from
Matamoros, Mexico, offer evidence that Mexico's peso devaluation will hurt
Americans too.

Thus, President Clinton's peso bailout is being greeted with palpable relief.

"It's good news," says Bob Lackner, president of the Brownsville Downtown
Development Corp. and owner of an 88-year-old family jewelry store. "This
package will restore confidence in Mexico to foreign investors."

In Brownsville, merchants report sales are down 40% to 60% since the peso's
plummet began. Now, signs scattered throughout the city say,"No Acceotamos
pesos," or "We won't take pesos."

Complaints that business is off are being voiced across the Southwest.

Also, crime is rising and more illegal immigrants are being arrested for
crossing into the USA.

Main causes: a mild winter in the Southwest and border crackdowns in places like
San Diego, which force immigrants to seek less heavily patrolled crossings.

But, "The overall economic situation in Mexico and other countries definitely is
a contributing factor," says Border Patrol spokesman Rob Daniels.

-- In Tucson, more than 18,871 would-be immigrants were arrested in January,
breaking an all-time sector record, says Daniels. A year earlier, there were
9,903, nearly half as many.

-- In El Paso, where stepped-up patrols previously curbed illegal crossings
drastically, arrests rose 18% in January over December.

Drug smuggling and petty crimes are at high levels, says El Paso Border Patrol
spokesman Doug Mosier.

In Brownsville, police Sgt. Dan Bennett says thefts and robberies are on the
upswing, and "river bandits" now prowl the Rio Grande to rob and rape
unsuspecting immigrants trying to cross the Mexican-U.S. frontier.

Hotels have signs warning tourists to beware of robbers. They urge patrons to
activate car alarms.

Meanwhile, Betty Maradiaga, 25, who runs a popular used-clothing store, says the
ripple effect from the peso problem makes it impossible for her to offer steady
work even to minimum-wage employees.

"I tell them, 'I have work for you this week, but I don't know after that.' "

Not everyone is complaining. Moises Torres-Ruelas, 53, traded dollars for pesos
so he could pay the equivalent of $ 10,000 for a tractor in Matamoros, instead
of $ 12,000 in the USA.

"It's better for me to buy in Mexico," he says.

LOAD-DATE: February 02, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, USA TODAY (Map); PHOTOS, b/w, by Brad Doherty (2)

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              363 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     March 7, 1995, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Rush on for citizenship

BYLINE: Sandra Sanchez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 162 words

DATELINE: SAN ANTONIO


A burst of citizenship applications from long-time legal residents is being seen
in states along the Mexican border.

"Anti-immigrant sentiment . . . has been propelling" the trend, says Arturo
Vargas of the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials.

Californians approved Proposition 187, which denies services to undocumented
workers, in November.

Since then, Immigration and Naturalization Service offices have been swamped
with requests from residents:

-- In Texas, Oklahoma and New Mexico, applications rose 75% in January to 4,844
from 2,769 a year earlier.

-- In California, applications rose 166% to 26,696 from 10,016 in January 1994.

Many applicants see citizenship - and the voting rights that come with it - as a
way they can help curb anti-immigrant sentiment.

"If we don't vote then we don't have a voice or rights," said Guatemalan Roberto
Sola, 49, as he was applying for citizenship. "We have to voice our opposition."

LOAD-DATE: March 08, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

See related story; 03A

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              364 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     March 14, 1995, Tuesday, FIRST EDITION

Union, Expos dispute visa use

BYLINE: Rod Beaton

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 10C

LENGTH: 209 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


The Major League Baseball Players Association says it plans to fight the
Montreal Expos about visas that will permit players who are not U.S. citizens to
play for Canadian teams in replacement games in the USA.

The Expos say the union has no case.

Montreal officials dealt with the Immigration and Naturalization Service and
received clearance to use foreign players on the B-1 (tourist) visa. "I believe
these guys aren't eligible for the B-1," says Gene Orza, the union's associate
general counsel. "The B-1 is not for minor league baseball players coming in and
earning a living."

Expos President Claude Brochu says "(Orza) is dead wrong."

The B-1 does permit a foreign national to visit to transact business in the USA.
Brochu says the players were cleared as a matter of immigration reciprocity
between the U.S. and Canada. "It is not a loophole; it's the law," says Brochu.

The Toronto Blue Jays are the other Canadian team. Their situation might be
muddled because they play home replacement games in Dunedin, Fla. Ontario labor
laws prohibit the use of replacement workers.

"We plan to talk to the INS and (Department of) State about players being abused
here," Orza says. "I believe we'll see the loophole will not be a loophole."

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              365 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     March 24, 1995, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Charge border-crossing fee

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 366 words


Scores of tough questions permeate the immigration debate. But whether to charge
fees for crossing the U.S. border isn't among them. Indeed, this sensible,
practical idea is growing increasingly inevitable.

Last year, border inspectors processed 500 million people, up more than 10% from
the year before. Funds to handle that explosion of travelers are urgently
needed, and border fees can provide them.

Moreover, the practice is already firmly established. The United States already
charges a $ 14.50 fee at airports and seaports to help cover customs and
immigration services.

That's need and precedent, so it's no wonder the idea finally is catching on.
This year alone, Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., and
President Clinton have proposed charging a nominal fee -- as little as $ 1 per
person or vehicle -- on all land entries.

Even these small amounts could raise hundreds of millions of dollars to improve
border-crossing points by financing more inspectors, larger facilities and more
efficient inspections.

The proposals differ in significant ways. In the face of criticism from northern
lawmakers, the Clinton administration changed its plan to allow local
communities and states to decide whether to charge a crossing fee. Simpson and
Feinstein would impose the fee nationwide.

The senators have it right. Under the Clinton plan, most northern communities,
which do not have congested borders, would reject the fee. Most crowded southern
ones would adopt it. Result: a fee on Mexican visitors but not Canadian ones.

Critics fear the fee will inhibit cross-border shopping, punish cross-border
commuters and violate the spirit of the North American Free Trade Agreement. But
if shoppers can't afford $ 1 to cross the border, they aren't going to be missed
in the shops and malls. Moreover, every fee proposal allows commuters to
purchase discount passes. And it is sheer fabrication to say a nominal fee will
derail the massive benefits of free trade.

In the end, there's no reason why those who use the border shouldn't pay a
slightly larger share of the cost of maintaining and improving it. None, that
is, except tightfisted selfishness.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; Today's debate; BORDER FEES; OUR VIEW; A user fee makes
sense. The money can be used to improve facilities and pay inspectors' salaries.

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              366 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    April 5, 1995, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Planning has visas on the way

BYLINE: Rod Beaton

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 341 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


Planning, not always evident in major league baseball, will make a difference
for foreign players trying to get to Florida or Arizona for the full run of the
new, streamlined spring training.

Foreign players usually need 3-4 weeks to obtain the visas most of them need to
play professional baseball in the USA and Canada.

The process this year should take half that. In fact, union associate general
counsel Gene Orza thinks most players could be in camp by Friday.

"Everyone got their work done ahead of time," says Dodgers farm director Charlie
Blaney. "In conference calls, all clubs were instructed to get ready for this.
It is not like we're all starting from scratch."

Last year, the Players Association had the strike officially certified by the
U.S. Labor Department. The Labor Department then notified the U.S. Immigration
and Naturalization Service to withhold P1 and H2 visas required from
professional ballplayers.

The process is now being reversed. Monay, Orza sent the Labor Department a
letter saying the union voluntarily ended the strike. "There are two or three
players we had to work out special procedures for because they are unsigned free
agents, but everybody else was expected to have their visas by late today," says
Orza.

Bill Murray, director of baseball operations, noted Orza's action and says he
thinks expedited visas will be shipped out to the appropriate consulates by
today at the latest. "The government is trying to cooperate as much as
possible," Murray said. "(Baseball) is such a high visibility thing."

Teams are elated they will have their foreign players sooner than feared. In a
real-players spring training reduced from six weeks to three, every day counts.

"Hopefully, we'll have our guys the beginning of next week," says Dan O'Dowd,
Indians director of operations.

Not all foreign players need visas.

Many veterans have been around long enough to have obtained green cards,
pre-empting the need for a visa. "With a lot of veteran guys, (visas) are not a
problem," says O'Dowd.

LOAD-DATE: April 06, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              367 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     April 6, 1995, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

English unites the nation

BYLINE: Mauro E. Mujica

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 386 words


What if you were to move to Taiwan, but you couldn't speak Chinese? You would
struggle to master the language, but you would not expect the Taiwanese
government to accommodate you in English.

In contrast, non-English speakers in the United States are offered a cornucopia
of government services -- from voting ballots to driver's license exams to
citizenship swearing-in ceremonies -- in foreign languages. This linguistic
welfare sends new immigrants the message that it is not necessary to know
English to take advantage of our nation's opportunities and become part of the
great melting pot.

I speak from experience. I myself am an immigrant and learned firsthand how
important it is to know English to succeed.

Our government currently operates without any language policy. Lacking
guidelines, there is a move afoot by misguided bureaucrats to provide some
government services in other languages.

For example, this year Los Angeles plans to publish all its public notices in
six foreign languages, doubling its printing costs to $ 1 million annually. Last
year, the IRS published and distributed 500,000 tax forms and instruction
booklets in Spanish. For all of that, only 718 returns were filed.

These actions defy logic. Will government officials expand such programs to
accommodate all 327 languages spoken in the United States today, even though an
overwhelming 97% of the population share English as their common language?

Twenty-one states have adopted legislation making English their official
language; 10 more states have similar legislation pending. In Congress, Rep.
Bill Emerson, R-Mo., is sponsoring H.R. 123 to make English the official
language of the federal government. The legislation already has 157 co-sponsors.

Instead of encouraging multilingual government, we should adopt common-sense
legislation such as H.R. 123 that:

-- Makes English the official language of government, except in the judicial
system, health care and emergency services.

-- And recommends that any money saved go to help pay for classes that teach
English as a second language.

The bill would not prevent anyone from speaking in other languages in private
business or private conversation.

Passage of official English legislation will promote unity, cut wasteful
spending and empower immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: April 07, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; Today's debate; OFFICIAL ENGLISH; OPPOSING VIEW; Catering to
non-English speakers wastes tax money. Help them to learn the language.; Mauro
E. Mujica is the chairman and CEO of U.S.English.

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              368 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     April 6, 1995, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Will we ever get over our fear of foreign languages?

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 461 words


Is the United States in danger of becoming a Tower of Babel?

Fearmongers peddling "official English" say it is. And they've persuaded 21
states and countless municipalities that they're right. All have made English
their "official" language. Montana and South Dakota are the latest. Ten other
states and Congress are weighing whether to join the parade.

Not a small accomplishment when your argument relies on fear, not fact.

In some places, official English amounts to little more than toothless pandering
to anti-immigrant sentiment. In others, the laws are mean-spirited attacks on
the rights of businesses to advertise as they see fit, barring non-English
signs, or on services that help newcomers become full participants in society,
eliminating English education programs. All give implicit license to other acts
of discrimination.

And to what end? Fear of foreign speakers is older than the nation, rising in
times of war, economic stress and increased immigration. Yet no calamity has
occurred.

Benjamin Franklin saw it more than 250 years ago in Colonial Pennsylvania: "Few
of the English understand the German language, and so cannot address them either
from the press or pulpit." There were so many German speakers at the time of the
Revolution that the Articles of Confederation were published in German as well
as English. But German is gone.

A Marylander who sailed to New York in 1744 complained: "I never was so
destitute of conversation in my life. . . . I heard nothing but Dutch spoke all
the way."

Sojourner Truth, born a slave in a Dutch-speaking community two centuries ago,
didn't know a word of English at age 10. Without benefit of official-language
laws, she became a brilliant speaker and evangelist -- in English. Dutch died
out.

In 1780, John Adams proposed an official academy to "purify, develop and dictate
usage of" English. The Continental Congress rejected the idea as undemocratic
and a threat to individual liberty -- sound judgment then and sound judgment
today.

It's a disgraceful tradition: New York once barred 1 million Yiddish-speaking
citizens from voting. California disfranchised Chinese. Nebraska, in an
anti-Kaiser frenzy, expelled German and any other foreign language from its
elementary schools.

And it's unnecessary. The vast majority of immigrants are assimilating quite
nicely. More than 95% of first-generation Mexican-Americans are proficient in
English; by the second generation, most have totally lost their parents' native
tongue. Tens of thousands of immigrants are on waiting lists for overenrolled
adult English classes.

The urge to succeed drives most immigrants to learn English quickly. Laws that
make the language "official" only deny our history and surrender to our fears.

LOAD-DATE: April 07, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; Today's debate; OFFICIAL ENGLISH; OUR VIEW; 'Official
English' is the latest overreaction to other languages. After 250 years, you'd
think we learn.

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              369 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     April 18, 1995, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Passport offices being 'swamped' by applicants

BYLINE: Gene Sloan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 220 words


Planning a trip abroad? Better apply for a passport pronto or risk long delays.

"We're swamped and we're not even in the busy season yet," says Bill Collins of
the passport office in New York.

The crunch is nationwide, says Suzanne Lawrence of the State Department, which
expects to issue a record 5 million-plus passports this year.

It urges new and renewal applicants to allow at least five weeks for processing.

Same-day service for walk-ins is practically a thing of the past in offices like
New York.

And mail-in applications that used to take two weeks to process are taking about
twice that long, officials say.

Reasons for the boom:

-- Sky-high international tourism. A record 8.7 million Americans are expected
to visit Europe this year, for example, despite a falling dollar.

-- More renewals for expiring 10-year passports, which the State Department
began offering in 1983.

-- A rush of resident aliens who are becoming citizens in the wake of planned
welfare reform and California's Proposition 187 on immigration.

"When (resident aliens) become citizens, very often the next step is to get a
passport," says Lawrence.

First-time applicants must apply in person; renewals may be done by mail.

For more information, call the State Department's 24-hour passport line,
603-334-0500.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              370 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     May 3, 1995, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Cuba policy shift opens Guantanamo Bay doors

BYLINE: Bill Nichols

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 267 words


The United States made a major shift in immigration policy Tuesday, allowing
nearly 21,000 Cubans at Guantanamo Bay to enter the USA and returning boat
refugees to Cuba from now on.

The joint U.S.-Cuban agreement reverses the Clinton administration vow last
summer that refugees detained at the naval base in Cuba would never be admitted
on U.S. soil.

The action provoked outrage among some prominent Cuban-Americans. "It undoes 35
years of U.S.-Cuba policy. We've always had special consideration for
individuals who are fleeing Communist aggression," said Rep. Ileana
Ros-Lehtinen, R-Fla. "It further legitimizes an illegitimate regime."

The State Department's senior Cuba specialist, Dennis Hays, requested
reassignment in protest, as did his deputy.

The administration defends the policy on two fronts:

-- The Pentagon fears violence at Guantanamo, and has concerns about the
continuing cost of housing the refugees: $ 1 million a day.

Gen. John Sheehan, commander-in-chief of the U.S. Atlantic Command, said he
could foresee a "distinct possibility" of U.S. troops or Cubans being hurt at
Guantanamo.

-- Administration officials believe this agreement helps prevent another Cuban
exodus.

"Cubans must know that the only way to come to the United States is by applying
in Cuba," said Attorney General Janet Reno at the White House.

Cubans returned to Cuba still may apply for U.S. visas there.

Reno stressed that their entry would not mean a net increase in Cuban
immigration, but would count toward the 20,000 Cubans the United States already
has promised to admit each year.

LOAD-DATE: May 04, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              371 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     May 3, 1995, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Cuba shift called only good option

BYLINE: Bill Nichols; Lee Michael Katz

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 556 words


The Clinton administration could not have been clearer.

There was no way Cuban boat refugees housed at the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo
Bay, Cuba, would be allowed into the USA, the government said last summer.

"Do not risk your lives. It is too dangerous," Attorney General Janet Reno told
potential refugees last August. "You will not be processed . . . for admission
to the United States."

Tuesday, Reno announced that all but a relative few of the 20,916 Cubans still
being held at Guantanamo now will be allowed to immigrate to the USA.

The administration believes that this 180-degree turn, along with the new policy
of returning Cuban boat refugees to Cuba in the future, is worth any short-term
political embarrassment because it helps avoid any future immigration crises
like the one that provoked last summer's absolute declarations.

Another factor in the turnaround was Pentagon fears of a potential explosion of
violence and frustration in Guantanamo, where a tense population would be faced
with no way out.

Criticism, however, was fierce over the change, which came in a joint U.S.-Cuba
statement Tuesday:

Sen. Jesse Helms, R-N.C., chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee,
said the United States "now will work in partnership with Castro's brutal
security apparatus."

Florida Sen. Bob Graham and Gov. Lawton Chiles, both Democrats, supported the
policy change but Sen. Connie Mack, a Republican, called the idea of returning
refugees "very disturbing."

Dennis Hays, the State Department official who headed the U.S. delegation on
talks with Cuba on migration issues, asked to be reassigned in protest against
the policy.

Secretary of State Warren Christopher Tuesday told Hays "he knew he felt deeply
about that decision and he respected it," State Department spokesman David
Johnson said.

In Miami's large Cuban community, there was joy about the Guantanamo refugees'
release but also anger that others would be turned back.

"That is sweet icing on a very bitter cake," said Jose Basulto, whose Brothers
to the Rescue helps save rafters adrift in the Florida Straits. "It's a disgrace
to this country that is supposed to be the pinnacle of freedom," he adds.

The White House argues that a greater disgrace would have been to allow a
combustible mixture at Guantanamo to ignite.

Gen. John Shalikashvili, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, is said to have
warned forcefully of the dangers of turning the 6,000 troops stationed at
Guantanamo into a permanent security force.

Cuban refugees who are returned to Cuba would still be able to apply for visa to
the USA and U.S. consular officers will monitor how they are treated, Reno said.

The administration maintained that this agreement does not mark any easing of
U.S. economic sanctions against Cuba or a new softening of relations with
Castro.

"I don't believe the overall relationship is affected," said Undersecretary of
State Peter Tarnoff.

But in Miami, there was a strong feeling among many that a fundamental change in
the relationship had occurred.

"I'm very disappointed in the president," said Margarita Ruiz, 43, a popular
radio announcer who is set to run for Miami City Council. "The minute you start
negotiating with a dictatorship, you legitimize it and make it stronger."

Contributing: Deborah Sharp in Miami

LOAD-DATE: May 04, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, USA TODAY (Map); PHOTO, b/w, Lynne Sladky, AP; PHOTO,
b/w, J. Scott Applewhite, AP

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              372 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      May 4, 1995, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Refugee reversal good first step in new Cuba policy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 419 words


President Clinton finally faced a political reality: You can't please everyone
all of the time when it comes to Cuba or its refugees.

After several missteps, the administration produced, at last, a policy reversal
that makes sense -- free the 21,000 Guantanamo refugees while simultaneously
warning all future rafters they'll be sent back.

While not perfect, the plan offers fast and equitable fixes to combustible
problems.

In Guantanamo, it defuses a brewing tempest. With summer heat already at hand,
U.S. officials feared violence among refugees detained at the American naval
facility. These people left Cuba with the expectation that they would be welcome
in the USA. Inequitable though it may be, that was the law when they left and it
should still apply.

The camp shutdown also offers big savings. After spending over $ 135 million
upgrading facilities to cope with the overflow crowd, the United States still
spends $ 1 million a day on operations, Defense Secretary William Perry said.

The Guantanamo solution doesn't please all, especially Haitian refugees and
their supporters. They recall that only 633 of more than 21,000 Haitian boat
refugees won U.S. asylum.

That is indeed inequitable. It's also an argument for Clinton's other reversal,
ending free entry for Cuban refugees. Its reason for being ended with the Cold
War.

Cubans picked up at sea still can make their case for asylum, like all other
refugees. But they no longer automatically win legal status as U.S. residents a
year and a day after reaching U.S. soil.

Why not? Because the U.S. can't provide a haven for everyone who wants to come,
and a desperate Cuban is no different from a desperate Haitian, Bosnian or
Rwandan.

By rewriting the rules of immigration, Clinton began a much-needed redefinition
of U.S.-Cuban interests.

The next logical step is economic. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman
Jesse Helms has introduced legislation to tighten the economic noose that cuts
Cuba off from U.S. trade.

That's the wrong tactic at the wrong time. Making life harsher in Cuba merely
fuels the rush to Florida. Just like China, just like Vietnam, Cuba can best be
tamed not by intimidation but by trading.

Short of invasion, there's no more lethal weapon against Castro's stranglehold
than dropping the embargo and removing Castro's excuse that the U.S., not
communism, is responsible for Cuba's failures.

Clinton was right to change his mind on Cuban immigration. Now he needs to
rethink economic relations.

LOAD-DATE: May 09, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              373 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      May 4, 1995, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Repercussions in Miami over Cuba refugee policy

BYLINE: Deborah Sharp

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 698 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


The kind and amount of fallout from a secret treaty to bring 20,000 Cuban
refugees here, and turn back all new rafters, depends on where you're standing
in this often-splintered city.

Today, Cuban exiles plan a rally to protest the Clinton administration's pulling
away a 35-year-old welcome mat for Cubans fleeing the island.

Immigration-control groups resent President Clinton's plan to admit Cubans
detained at the U.S. naval base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

Local officials are resigned to trying, as they have unsuccessfully in the past,
to collect from the federal government the costs of absorbing more immigrants in
Miami.

"The city of Miami is not responsible for the people arriving from Guantanamo,"
says City Manager Cesar Odio. "That is a federal responsibility, and they'll
have to send dollars down here to make sure Jackson Memorial Hospital (a public
facility) and the school system can cope."

In Washington, officials were busy defending Clinton's change on exile
repatriation.

State Department spokesman Nicholas Burns said, "The Cuban government has
committed itself to take no action against those migrants returned to Cuba."

"We have to protect our borders," said White House press secretary Mike McCurry.
"We have to find ways to deal with Cuban migration."

But Rep. Dan Burton, R-Ind., chairman of the Western Hemisphere subcommittee,
said the plan "is nothing short of bloodcurdling."

Officials said Clinton agreed to bring in the Guantanamo refugees to blunt a
looming threat of violence at the U.S. naval base, where Cuban and Haitian
refugees are held.

Cubans were sent there last August when they were intercepted at sea after Fidel
Castro opened the exit doors as Cuba's economic crisis worsened.

The Haitians, now numbering 449, are left from a Coast Guard drive last year to
intercept rickety boats loaded with USA-bound refugees. Most will be returned to
Haiti.

The Clinton plan allows about 14,000 Cuban single men to join more than 6,000
married Cubans and children preparing to leave.

"We've been waiting for this for the longest time," refugee Luis Montalvo told
an Associated Press reporter at the base.

Easing the impact:

-- The agreement doesn't mean a gain in the number of Cubans allowed into the
USA. The United States had promised to take in 20,000 Cubans a year, and the
Guantanamo arrivals count toward that quota.

-- About 500 Cubans a week have been arriving from Guantanamo for months:
children, families, the ill and elderly - released for humanitarian reasons.
That pace is expected to continue for 10 to 12 months, until the camp is empty.

"We're going to be able to handle the additional kids from Guantanamo, since
we've been getting them for the last several months anyway," says the Dade
County school system's Henry Fraind. "We just stuff them in class."

Taxpayer Enos Schera, a member of a group hoping to pass in Florida a version of
California's Proposition 187 cutting aid to immigrants, says he feels betrayed
by the new policy. Last summer, he says, the administration promised no refugees
would get to the USA.

"It's insane. President Clinton and Janet Reno lied to us," says Schera, whose
Dade Citizens United lobbies against immigration and bilingualism.

Schera says the government could have saved the $ 1 million a day tab for
running Guantanamo by sending the Cubans home right away.

Miami's exile community is equally unhappy, but for very different reasons.
Exiles say the pact with Castro sells out freedom-seekers.

"Not only is this a concession to the Cuban government, but it's a denial to any
individual who is seeking freedom from that dictatorship and tyranny," says
Francisco Hernandez, president of the Cuban American National Foundation.

The group intends to pull sponsorship of exiles. It was raising $ 25 million to
supplement federal resettlement aid.

Says Hernandez: "We could not in good faith continue to deal with the
administration that has lied to us."

Most cuban detainees are men

Who the more than 20,000 Cubans detained at the U.S. Naval Base, Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba, are:
Men          17,600
Women         2,350
Children        850

LOAD-DATE: May 09, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Nick GALIFIANAKIS, USA TODAY, Source: U.S.  Navy (Pie
chart, map); PHOTO, b/w, Marta Lavandier, AP

THE NATION; See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              374 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      May 12, 1995, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Protesters take issue to the streets in Miami, Tampa

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 293 words


Law enforcement officials and weary commuters are bracing for more
demonstrations by Cuban exiles who've been snarling traffic from Miami to Tampa
this week.

Protesters, angered by a new U.S. policy to send back Cuban rafters intercepted
at sea, have blocked traffic on major thoroughfares during morning and noon rush
hours.

A Cuban coalition Thursday vowed to bring traffic to a standstill for a full day
next week.

"We apologize for those inconveniences, but we feel our voice has been heard,"
said Ramon Sanchez of the Cuban National Commission. "We hope the U.S.
reconsiders its policy in light of these protests."

The renewed threats came after nine more refugees were picked up from a sinking
sailboat Thursday. Under a new U.S. policy, they're likely to be sent back to
their communist homeland because only those who express a "credible" fear of
persecution will be interviewed by immigration officers. It's a dramatic
reversal of a 30-year policy of routinely granting political asylum to Cuban
refugees.

On Tuesday the Coast Guard returned the first group of 13 rafters to a naval
base about 40 miles from Havana.

"They feel betrayal on the part of Clinton," says Ernesto Betancourt, an
international consultant. "I think this is going to die down . . . When there is
a traffic jam, even the people within the Cuban community who sympathize are
missing appointments."

Miami police arrested three people Wednesday; four others were arrested by
Metro-Dade police this week.

"I don't think we have any sense of how long it might last," says police
spokesman Raymond Lang says. "I'm hoping it will run its course. While this is
an emotional issue, they're getting such a negative reaction, they're truly
hurting their own cause."

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              375 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      May 12, 1995, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Amid intrigue, a search for cultural identity

BYLINE: James Kim

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 5D

LENGTH: 458 words


On vacation, I once encountered a drunken man, mumbling and oddly gesticulating
on a subway. With tears lining his wan foreign face, he was clearly in the kind
of pain that transcends the physical.

No one seemed to notice him, much less care. He seemed so absorbed with his
demons, it shook me when he smiled, waved. I turned away.

I was reminded of him as I read Chang-rae Lee's Native Speaker. In an absorbing
first novel, Lee shrewdly sketches the lines immigrant families must cross to
become American families, to feel free of the sense of alienation etched on that
face in the subway.

For its exploration of cultural identity, Native Speaker has drawn comparisons
to Ralph Ellison's classic Invisible Man, and has generated a well-deserved
critical buzz.

To his credit, Lee, 29, offers far more than the predictable story: immigrant
family works hard to make new life in new country. Masterfully written - you can
almost taste Lee's Manhattan - Native Speaker delves deep into the ambiguity and
emotional morass engulfing narrator Henry Park.

The son of a Korean green grocer, Park has much to grapple with. His son has
died recently in a tragic accident. His father died a few years earlier.

His Caucasian wife has left him, leaving a poetic list of his deficiencies. His
work, as a corporate spy, has suffered.

His latest assignment, however, proves cathartic. Park is assigned to spy on a
rising Korean-American politician, John Kwang. A man "effortlessly Korean,
effortlessly American," Kwang inspires Park like no one before and finally
forces him into a painful appraisal of his very essence.

Sort of a father-country figure, Kwang is a complex, deeply ambitious character.
And Native Speaker delivers a delicious account of his downfall - and Park's
decisive role.

Their confused relationship neatly captures the rage and sorrow, love and hate
so many Americans feel for their country of origin.

Fittingly, the novel's most moving image features an emotionally wrecked Park
precipitating a New York City riot, laced with racial hate and politics,
defending a doomed Kwang, done in by his own cruelty and misguided values.

Ultimately, Native Speaker is a broad reflection on the fragility of society's
primal forces - marriage, blood, race, love. Lee writes with tremendous insight
and respect for such forces, avoiding cliched sentimentalism.

And yet he leaves readers with a lingering hope, a faint smile, a new
appreciation that there are native speakers from many countries, each with
stories equally compelling. "They speak . . . not simply in new accents or notes
but in the ancient untold music of a newcomer's heart, sonorous with longing and
hope."

Rarely are such stories so wonderfully rendered.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, John Bauguess; PHOTO, b/w

TYPE: Books; Book Review

Native Speaker -- Chang-rae Lee -- Riverhead Books, $ 22.95, 324 pp.

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              376 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      May 16, 1995, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

In Miami, backlash over Cuban protest

BYLINE: Deborah Sharp

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 482 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Protesting Cuban exiles, claiming betrayal by President Clinton over his
restrictive immigration policy, now face a backlash from other Miamians who have
little sympathy for their cause.

A vocal majority in the Cuban community is furious over Clinton's decision to
return Cuban rafters to their homeland, reversing a 35-year-old open-door
policy. Last week a series of traffic-snarling protests against the policy
sparked heated confrontations and angered many Miamians.

The hostility has led Cuban exile leaders to scale back plans for a work
stoppage today from all day to two hours.

The Rev. Willie Sims, a community leader, said he has fielded scores of calls
from blacks angry at "preferential" treatment given the protesters.

While there have been isolated arrests, there hasn't been a wholesale crackdown
on the disruptive demonstrators.

"We're looking at a level of tolerance from a system that's proved to be
intolerant to any black demonstrations," said Sims, pastor of the Greater New
Faith Missionary Baptist Church. "It's definitely reopening old wounds."

The Clinton policy is designed to stop waves of rafters and end the crisis at
the U.S. naval base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. About 20,000 Cubans detained there
are being allowed into the USA.

A poll for The Miami Herald confirms that the Cubans' views aren't widely
shared:

-- 77% of whites and 78% of blacks say Clinton was right. Only 35% of Cubans
agree.

-- Only 36% of non-Hispanic whites say rafters have the right to be admitted to
the USA, compared with 88% of Cubans.

-- 63% of non-Cuban Hispanics, 65% of other whites and 75% of blacks say
Miami-area police treat Cuban-American protesters better than they would treat
African-Americans staging similar demonstrations. Only 49% of Cubans agree.

Adora Obi Nweze, president of the local NAACP, said the issue also encompasses
media coverage and political clout.

"We see all these agencies treating Cubans differently than the way the rest of
us are treated," Nweze says. "We're beginning to feel that none of the rest of
us exist."

Meanwhile, two Cuban-born men from Miami were being held Monday as possible
smugglers after their boat was found with 24 Cuban refugees aboard, including a
dead woman, in the Florida Straits.

The incident sparked a flurry of rumors in Miami, where the refugees' family
members said Cuban government forces fired on the departing boat.

But U.S. Attorney Kendall Coffey said investigators "definitely ruled out"
bullet or knife wounds as the cause of death for the woman, 22.

Last week's traffic-stopping protests brought back memories of Miami in the
1980s, when ethnic divisions rocked the city. On highways already notorious for
sometimes deadly exchanges, frustrated motorists shouted insults at the Cubans.
Talk radio callers dubbed the prostrate protesters "Cuban speed bumps" and vowed
to run them over.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Lauren Crigler, AP

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              377 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                 May 17, 1995, Wednesday, INTERNATIONAL EDITION

France's far-right party gives extremists a home

BYLINE: Nathaniel Harrison

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 687 words

DATELINE: PARIS


Horrified by the recent killing of a Moroccan immigrant, who was pushed into the
Seine and left to drown, France now is coming to grips with a virulently
anti-Semitic underclass and its links to mainstream extreme-right politicians.

The death on May 1 of Brahim Bouarram, 29, during a rally of the National Front
of Jean-Marie Le Pen, sparked a dispute here over the effect of words on deeds
-- not unlike the debate currently under way in the USA in the wake of the March
20 bombing of a federal building in Oklahoma City.

Le Pen, a volatile, tough-talking ex-paratrooper who advocates cutting
unemployment by sending home some 3 million mostly North African immigrants, won
a record 15% of the vote in a first round of presidential elections last month.

Le Pen caused outrage in France -- and was forced to pay a court fine of one
franc in 1990 -- when he called the Nazi gas chambers "a point of detail in the
history of the Second World War." His party, however, does not overtly espouse
anti-Semitism, nor does the National Front, which has no representatives in the
Assembly, have any real power.

Le Pen initially denied any connection between the killing of Bouarram and the
National Front rally. But it later emerged that three skinheads arrested in the
case, one of whom confessed to slapping Bouarram during a verbal altercation by
the river, had been transported from eastern France in a bus chartered by the
National Front.

Front officials insist the three had no formal connection with the movement and
had merely taken advantage of transportation to Paris that had been offered to
all who wanted to come to the capital on the May Day holiday.

But the incident illustrates the approach-avoidance relationship between the
National Front and the estimated 500 to 1,500 hardcore skinheads here.

While the Front, anxious to shore up it electoral credibility, has tried to
distance itself from the violent excesses of the skinheads, it nonetheless
provides an ideological setting where they feel at home.

In recent years, according to police, the Front has gone further and called on
skinheads to help with security at big rallies.

Sociologist Angelina Poralva of the research center CADIS says many skinheads
start out dabbling in the politics of either the National Front or smaller,
neo-Nazi groups here.

But more often than not, she says, they grow disillusioned with the Front, which
they find too moderate, and move to its fringes. "They are intensely
ideological, but they are not at all political," she explains, saying they are
incapable of building a cohesive movement.

"They have no clear goals. They have no political projects that could be
distinguished from the National Front."

These fringe elements generally are fired principally by a hatred of Arabs and
Jews, which they articulate with greater fervor than any other extremist
movement here, and look for inspiration in National Socialism, police
investigators and researchers say.

Unlike their counterparts in Britain and Germany, French skinheads tend not to
be the disadvantaged adolescent sons of an abused working class.

Instead, Peralva says, their average age is 25 and they usually come from
middle-class families fallen on hard times.

"Many of them in fact come from backgrounds that were once comfortable, but are
now on the decline. The father, perhaps, may have had a small business that
failed."

Embittered by the loss of their status, they lash out at immigrants and other
convenient scapegoats. Not surprisingly, they hover around the National Front,
where they find a movement with an expanding electoral base that likewise wants
to boot out immigrants.

While skinhead violence exists throughout Europe, columnist Gerard Dupuy wrote
last week in the newspaper Liberation, "in all the other countries of Europe,
such extremists -- known for their brutality and their taste for violence -- are
manifestly outside political life.

"In France, the National Front's search for respectability has never led it to
clearly delineate such a boundary . . . and the extremists are considered part
of the family."

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Laurent Rebours, AP

FOCUS ON EUROPE

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              378 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      June 9, 1995, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Clinton protects gun law

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 261 words


President Clinton pledged Thursday to "fight and veto if necessary" any
Republican repeal of any part of the anti-crime law passed last year. On the
White House lawn, with 263 officers being sworn in from around the country,
Clinton said he would fight repeal of the ban on assault weapons - and demand
enough federal money to protect his goal of hiring 100,000 officers.

IMMIGRATION FLAP: A Senate subcommittee Thursday rejected a 50,000-a-year limit
on refugees allowed into the USA, a day after the idea was endorsed by a
national commission and President Clinton. But the Senate Judiciary immigration
subcommittee is expected to approve a $ 1-per-person fee to pay for border
crossing improvements as part of its bill to control illegal immigration.

FOREIGN AID: Foreign aid would be cut by $ 3 billion over three years and three
key foreign policy agencies dismantled under a bill approved, 222-192, Thursday
by the House. President Clinton has said he would veto any such measure.

JFK RECORDS The FBI sent the National Archives 12,316 more pages of documents
Thursday on the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, including files on
the FBI's probe of mob figures. The documents will be made public June 14.

TAX REFORM: Senior House Democrats broke with the Clinton administration
Thursday, and joined the GOP in calling for overhaul of the current income tax.
"It's time for massive, radical change," Minority Leader Dick Gephardt, D-Mo.,
told the Ways and Means Committee. Gephardt says he will unveil his proposal
next month.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

IN WASHINGTON

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              379 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    June 14, 1995, Wednesday, FIRST EDITION

INS COMPLAINT

BYLINE: Gary Fields

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 316 words


Hispanic workers for the Immigration and Naturalization Service say widespread
discrimination denies them promotions, fair pay and training. A complaint filed
with the INS by Jesus Quintanar, and accompanied by 50 supporting letters,
details racial and sex discrimination claims. Among charges: Hispanic officers
are "blackballed" for reporting discrimination; Hispanic female workers are
"harassed" for not socializing with supervisors; Hispanic officers are referred
to in demeaning terms. The INS has 180 days to respond. INS officials refused to
comment.

TOO SMART: Thomas Talbot's IQ is only 73, but it is three points too high for
New Hampshire medical officials to declare him retarded, a ruling that makes him
ineligible for the medical care he would need after a heart transplant. Without
a guarantee of such care, he won't get a heart. Talbot, of Tilton, N.H.,
suffered heart failure two weeks ago and is at Children's Hospital in Boston.
"We feel very badly for Thomas," said Robin Kenney of Region IV Developmental
Services, which is handling the case for the state. "For a year now, we've been
talking to him, and try as we might, we have not been able to find him
eligible."

BACK TO SCHOOL: A 6-year-old boy suspended from Agnes Little Elementary School
in Pawtucket, R.I., for bringing a butter knife to cut his cookies will be
allowed to return to school, state officials ruled. The 10-day suspension would
have kept the boy from attending his kindergarten graduation. Principal Audrey
Cunha called police and suspended the boy June 6 after the knife, which he said
he brought to cut his cookies with, fell from his pocket. State Education
Commissioner Peter McWalters defended the school district's "zero tolerance"
weapons policy but said it needs to be enforced with flexibility and on a
case-by-case basis.

Contributing: Jeannine Lee and Carrie Dowling.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              380 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     June 22, 1995, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Senate votes to let states drop helmets

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 942 words


The Senate Wednesday voted to drop penalties against states that don't require
motorcyclists to wear helmets. Currently, the 25 states that don't require
helmets must spend 1.5% of their highway funds on safety-education programs.

"The federal government has blackmailed the states long enough," said Sen. Ben
Nighthorse Campbell, a Colorado Republican and a motorcyclist who doesn't like
helmets. Proponents say helmets have saved thousands of lives. Opponents say
it's a states-rights issue. The bill, which still must be considered by the
House, retains requirements for seat belts and lower speed limits for big trucks
and buses. The Senate Tuesday voted to abolish the 55-mph national speed limit
for cars.

JUDGE CONVICTED: The U.S. Supreme Court reinstated the conviction of U.S.
District Judge Robert Aguilar on charges of telling a gangster the FBI had been
wiretapping him. The court let stand an appeals court ruling that overturned a
separate conviction of obstructing a grand jury by lying to the FBI. Aguilar,
64, of San Jose, Calif., could go to prison but can remain a judge unless
impeached.

IMMIGRATION BILL: Legislation to cut legal immigration by one-third and stem
illegal immigration by building a 14-mile, triple-fence along the
California-Mexican border was introduced in the House. The bill, by Rep. Lamar
Smith, R-Texas, head of the House subcommittee on immigration, is the major
reform package this year. It also would double the Border Patrol to 10,000
agents, hasten deportations and create a computer database for employers to
verify that workers have valid Social Security numbers.

KILLING SPREE: Darnell Collins, 33, accused in a five-day killing spree that
resulted in seven deaths in two states, was fatally shot by police during a
high-speed chase, authorities said. Police said the spree began in Atlantic
City, N.J., after Collins' ex-girlfriend told his parole officer he violated a
restraining order. He served nine years for armed robbery.

FEDERAL LANDS DISPUTE: Nevada Gov. Bob Miller vetoed a bill that would have
required federal law officers to get permission from sheriffs before enforcing
state law on federal lands. Miller said cooperation is needed among law
agencies. He rejected sponsor John Carpenter's argument that "it's a
states-rights thing."

HATE NOTE: New York City schools chancellor Ramon Cortines, bowing to the Board
of Education, agreed to bar four students from attending their high school
graduation because they wrote an anti-Semitic note to Jewish teacher Stacy
Mitgang. He initially said the students had been punished enough. That outraged
Norman Thomas High School teachers, who threatened to boycott graduation.

TOURIST KILLING: A Miami jury reached a verdict in the murder trial of Anthony
Williams, 21, who is accused of the April 1993 robbery and beating death of
German tourist Barbara Meller-Jensen. The verdict, however, will remain sealed
until a different jury reaches a verdict in the trial of co-defendant Leroy
Rogers, 25. The killing of Meller-Jensen and nine other foreign visitors to
Florida within a year prompted moves to help protect tourists.

HOME AT LAST: P.J. Allen, the 22-month-old boy who was the last young bombing
victim hospitalized in Oklahoma City, went home. P.J. was among the children in
the second-floor day-care center of the federal building destroyed by a bomb on
April 19. Among his injuries: extensive burns, ruptured eardrums and an arm
broken in three places.

STRANDED SHIPS: Federal safety investigators today will board Celebration when
it docks in Freeport, Bahamas, to examine why backup systems didn't keep the
cruise ship from losing power after a control room fire Sunday. None of the
1,760 passengers were hurt. In Hawesville, Ky., workers freed the American Queen
paddle-wheeler, which became mired in mud on its maiden voyage Sunday.

EXECUTIONS: Missouri executed Larry Griffin, 40, by injection for the 1980
drive-by shooting of Quintin Moss in St. Louis. Moss had been questioned but not
charged in the slaying of Griffin's brother, Dennis. Texas executed Karl
Hammond, 30, by injection for the 1986 rape and murder of an FBI office
secretary in San Antonio while on release under supervision after a rape and
burglary conviction.

ALSO WEDNESDAY . . .

-- SHUTTLE PROBLEM: NASA workers are studying a helium gas leak in Atlantis'
steering system that could delay Friday's launch on a mission to dock with the
Russian space station Mir. Also: There's only a 30% chance of favorable weather
at Cape Canaveral for the launch at 5: 08 p.m. ET.

-- ABORTION LAW: A New Orleans federal judge temporarily blocked Louisiana from
enforcing a new law that requires a woman seeking an abortion to wait 24 hours
after receiving state-mandated materials.

-- TROOPER SLAYING: Former Alabama state trooper Joe Duncan, 40, was sentenced
in Selma to 25 years in prison for the 1987 gunshot slaying of his girlfriend,
Elizabeth Cobb, 31, the nation's first female trooper slain on duty.

Walsh inquiry turns to acquaintance

Police investigating the 1981 slaying of 6-year-old Adam Walsh, a crime that
helped spark a crusade for missing children, have an interview with a family
acquaintance. John Mohanan said his son, Michael Monahan, 34, has an interview
with police, but "I don't know what they want." He said police told him his son
is not a suspect. Police aren't commenting but said in court papers last week
they are still investigating. John Mohanan, a Walsh family friend, was called in
1981 to identify Adam's remains.

Contributing: Carrie Dowling, Jay Tokasz, Gary Fields and Jim Specht.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, b/w, AP (2); PHOTO, b/w, David Longstreath, AP

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              381 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      June 30, 1995, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Portrait of the USA's new immigrants

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 570 words


Where immigrants settle These are the top 10 cities where immigrants are
settling, and the countries they come from.

New York City(1) Manhattan 23,695
Dominican Republic   41.2%
China                16.9%
Philippines           3.5%
Ireland               2.6%
Ecuador               2.1%

Brooklyn 40,436
Dominican Republic    10.8%
Ukraine                8.7%
Poland                 8.4%
China                  8.0%
Jamaica                6.7%

Bronx 16,588
Dominican Republic     42.5%
Jamaica                11.4%
Guyana                  4.9%
Ireland                 4.6%
Honduras                3.5%

Flushing 21,150
China                  15.6%
Dominican Republic     11.4%
India                   6.5%
Colombia                6.4%
Ecuador                 4.9%

1 -- The Postal Service defines these four portions of New York City as separate
cities.

California San Francisco 13,139
China        23.5%

Philippines 12.1%
Vietnam       8.2%
Ukraine       6.8%
Hong Kong     6.2%

San Jose 10,933
Vietnam       36.1%
Philippines   12.5%
Mexico         8.3%
India          7.4%

Los Angeles 32,163
Mexico        18.4%
El Salvador   17.2%
Guatemala      8.4%
Armenia        7.1%
Philippines    6.8%

Chicago 24,736
Poland        32.6%
Mexico        19.1%
China          5.9%
Philippines    5.0%
India          3.5%

Houston 17,355
Mexico        21.8%
El Salvador   14.0%
Vietnam       13.6%
China          7.9%
India          5.3%

Miami 21,561
Cuba                27.9%
Nicaragua           10.1%
Haiti                7.8%
Colombia             6.1%
Dominican Republic   5.2%

Note: 1993 is the latest year for which detailed breakdowns are available.

About 60.7 million legal immigrants have entered the USA since the 1820s Peaks
and valleys Immigration reached a high in the 1900s when 10.4 of every 1,000
U.S. citizens were immigrants. The immigration rate per 1,000 U.S. residents:
1990s   4.7

National origin of immigrants changing While at the turn of the century, the
greatest number of immigrants were Europeans, in the 1990s Hispanics and Asians
predominate. 1901-1910
Total:      8.8 million
Europe        91.6%
Asia           3.7%
Other          2.5%
Caribbean      1.2%
Mexico          .6%

Central and
South America   .3%
Africa          .1%

1951-1960
Total:      2.5 million
Europe        52.7%
Other         18.4%
Mexico        11.9%
Asia           6.1%

Central and South America 5.4%
Caribbean      4.9%
Africa          .6%

1991-1993
Total:        3.7 million(2)
Mexico            34.8%
Asia              27.9%
Europe            12.6%

Central and
South America     11.3%
Caribbean          9.0%
Africa             2.3%
Other              2.1%

2 -- Include illegal immigrants granted amnesty

LOAD-DATE: July 02, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Julie Stacey, USA TODAY, Source: Immigration and
Naturalization Service (Line graph, Charts, Bar graphs); PHOTO, b/w, Michael
Schwarz, USA TODAY

SPECIAL REPORT; IMMIGRATION; THE NEW IMMIGRANTS; Immigrants are entering the USA
at a record pace, with the 1990s on track to become the busiest decade for
immigration in almost a century. Here's a look at the 880,014 legal immigrants
who arrived in 1993 -- who they are, where they're from and where they're going.
Not covered in the study; Illegal immigrants; Complete text of charts not
available for database -- please see microfiche.

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              382 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      July 3, 1995, Monday, FINAL EDITION

We don't need immigrants

BYLINE: Dan Stein

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 439 words


America needs a "time out" or pause in immigration. The reason is simple: We are
in the middle of the largest sustained flow of immigration in American history.
We need a time out to ask ourselves "Why?"

Why do we need more immigration? Why add 100 million more people?

-- Do we need more people? Are we underpopulated? Not likely.

-- Is there an acute labor shortage now in the United States? No one believes
that.

-- Not enough traffic? C'mon!

-- Too much prime farmland or wetlands to pave over, water tables too high in
California and Florida, too much wildlife in what's left of our national parks?
What do you think?

-- Too much beachfront property going undeveloped? You find it.

-- Do we need immigration to improve public education? Been to L.A. or Miami
public schools lately?

-- Does immigration reduce the U.S. crime rate? Not a chance.

-- How about to improve medical care? Give me a break.

-- Do we need immigration for our national security? Obviously not.

-- Are we too homogeneous to be a legitimate nation? We're pretty diverse now.
How would you say things are going?

Bottom line: We don't need immigration now, so why have it? We once needed
immigration to settle a wilderness, and later to fuel the labor needs of the
early industrial revolution. That ended with the Model T. For 20 years, we've
had a high immigration rate without asking this basic question: Why do it at
all?

America's great strength has been the American people and our innovative spirit,
and our self-reliance. We once had abundant resources and favorable geography
that enabled our people to prosper as we developed the nation.

The cultural inheritance and commercial foundation laid down by the Framers and
early settlers proved a durable template to absorb periodic groups of immigrants
as they were needed.

Today, we don't need immigrants, but they come anyway.

Current law runs an immigration system that lets immigrants in because a
relative came earlier - very nepotistic. This process, called pyramiding chain
migration, works like a chain letter, multiplying numbers and creating huge
backlogs.

Other evidence is emerging as well: Nepotism means immigrants come because of
who they know, not what they know. Result? Immigrants are more likely than
natives to be less skilled, less educated, rely more on welfare, be in jail and
cost more than they contribute.

A moratorium or pause in immigration would stop an endless flow of newcomers
long enough to peer into the future, catch our breath and change course.

We need this national debate. We owe it to our children and grandchildren, if
not ourselves.

LOAD-DATE: July 04, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

THE EDITORIAL PAGE; Today's debate; STOPPING IMMIGRATION; OPPOSING VIEW; Drug
tests can steer young people away from danger. The court had it right; Dan Stein
is executive director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform; See
related stories; 08A, 10A

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              383 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      July 3, 1995, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Newcomers encounter disparate greetings / 'Civil war' in Los Angeles, but civil
in New York

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 1336 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


If giving birth to quintuplets is no longer the medical miracle it once was,
it's still a fairly extraordinary event likely to bring hearty congratulations
for the happy parents.

Unless you happen to be Mexican immigrants living in Los Angeles.

Then you might hear insults from strangers on the street. Or be attacked in
letters to the editor. Or snarled at by callers on talk radio.

Marcella and Ramon Quezada heard all that, and more, after their five babies
were born in a San Fernando Valley hospital in February.

They are both legal immigrants, employed, not on welfare, and with full health
insurance. But some Angelenos nonetheless assumed they were illegal aliens who
had produced five more children for taxpayers to support.

"People I've never met assume I'm on welfare and tell me they don't want their
tax dollars going to pay for my kids," Marcella Quezada says.

Welcome to Los Angeles, Quezada quints. Too bad you weren't born in New York
City.

In the aftermath of California's passage of Proposition 187 targeting illegal
immigrants, differences between the nation's two largest and most
immigrant-dense cities have become striking.

When it comes to newcomers, especially Hispanics, Los Angeles' attitudes can be
downright toxic - with politicians leading the angry chorus.

Now, the people who conceived Prop. 187 are turning their attention to the
nation's 10 million legal immigrants.

"In L.A., the situation is approaching civil war," says Glenn Spencer, head of
Voices of Citizens United, a leading pro-187 group now campaigning against legal
immigration. "We're being invaded by Mexico. Massive (legal) immigration is
creating a critical mass. And the legals have aligned themselves with the
illegals."

But in New York City, people and politicians are not upset about immigration,
even when it's illegal.

"If you come here and you work hard and you happen to be an undocumented status,
you're one of the people we want in this city," Mayor Rudolph Giuliani said last
year - a remark that the mayor's aides still refer to when asked about
Giuliani's attitudes.

Of course, immigrants have no illusions that every New Yorker is thrilled about
their presence. Still, given New York's tough reputation, they don't report
feeling more targeted than any other group.

"Generally, nobody likes foreigners, but in the U.S. (that attitude) is less
than other countries and (even) less in New York," says Arkady Kheyman, 47, a
Belarussian Jew who came to New York four years ago with his family as refugees.

A matter of numbers

The explanation for the coasts' differing attitudes lies, in part, in the
numbers.

A USA TODAY analysis of data from the Immigration and Naturalization Service
shows that between 1991 and 1993, immigration to California averaged about
226,000 people a year, compared with about 142,000 a year to New York.

Plus, about half the 3 million illegal immigrants who were legalized under a
1986 amnesty law live in California; 6% live in New York.

And among still-illegal immigrants, California has far more: About half the
estimated 4 million illegals are in the Golden State; 15% are in New York.

"There's greater anti-immigrant sentiment in California because there's a larger
illegal population there," says Rep. Elton Gallegly, R-Calif., who calls
Giuliani's embrace of illegal immigrants "stupid."

In addition, historians say the states' divergent attitudes are based on a
variety of factors, including politics, historical patterns, economic trends,
clustering of immigrants, familial relationships, even mode of transportation.

"Remember, California is the state that tried to close the border to the Okies
and Arkies in the 1930s, until the feds said they couldn't," says Roger McGrath,
a historian of California at the University of California, Los Angeles.

Plus, Los Angeles just isn't all that used to immigrants.

"L.A. used to be the most WASPish city in the country, with the least number of
foreign-born," says Steven Erie, political scientist at the University of
California, San Diego, who studies ethnic politics.

But that's changed as millions of immigrants have poured into Los Angeles over
the past three decades.

"The mythical California isn't what (natives) see anymore," says Harry Pachon of
the Tomas Rivera Center, a Hispanic think tank in California. "It's easy for
them to say: 'Why do we have problems? It's those Mexicans.' "

New Yorkers, with a 300-year history of immigration, are more sanguine.

"Without question, we believe here that New York is a city of immigrants," says
ex-mayor Ed Koch. "We are all aware of the cultures and traditions and we love
it."

In New York, it seems everybody is an immigrant - or has a relative who's an
immigrant, or works with an immigrant or rides the subway with an immigrant.

In Los Angeles, everybody is a newcomer, too - but until recently, most of them
were from elsewhere in the USA.

New Yorkers also have been less affected by recession and economic insecurity
than Angelenos, and far more preoccupied with white/black race relations than
native/non-native relations. In Los Angeles, African-Americans often side with
whites against Hispanics - and a slim majority of black voters favored Prop.
187.

"In New York, it's impossible to capitalize on race in the context of
immigration because one-third of black (residents) are foreign-born," says
Margie McHugh of the New York Immigration Coalition.

A tough political issue

The contrasts between the two cities are most striking in their politicians.

Besides Giuliani, former governor Mario Cuomo was one of the nation's leading
defenders of immigrants, a man who frequently cited the positive influence of
his immigrant parents, extolled the country's immigrant heritage.

Cuomo's successor, Republican Gov. George Pataki, has said little about
immigrants, except to complain about the cost of illegal immigration.

In California, scores of elected officials in both parties, led by Republican
Gov. Pete Wilson, constantly worry about the cost of immigration in general and
of illegal immigration in particular. Wilson used the issue to get re-elected,
and now promises to make it a theme of his presidential campaign.

"When the governor is not very tolerant of immigrants, it trickles down," says
Robert Almanzan of the Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund in Los
Angeles. "People . . . have a sense it's OK not to be tolerant."

That worries Asian immigrants like Ann Ling Mok, 38, who was born in Hong Kong,
and legally immigrated to Los Angeles by way of Canada.

"I'm disappointed to observe the deterioration in attitudes," Ling Mok says. "We
seem to be taking a step backward."

In contrast to Giuliani's pro-immigrant stance, Los Angeles Mayor Richard
Riordan won't discuss immigrants and didn't take a position on Prop. 187.

"The mayor of the most immigrant city in California doesn't want to speak about
immigrants - what does that say?" says Arturo Vargas, head of the National
Association of Latino Elected Officials. "The silence of politicians . . .
allows (critics) to fill the vacuum."

Immigration to Calif. and N.Y.

The number of legal immigrants, including illegal immigrants granted amnesty,
and the estimated number of illegal immigrants in California and New York in
1991-1993:
          California      New York
Legal      1,329,503       489,197
Illegal    2,000,000       600,000

Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service

ABOUT THIS PROJECT

To study recent immigration trends, USA TODAY database editor Paul Overberg
analyzed computer tapes containing details on each of the nation's 2.2 million
legal immigrants in 1991-93. The tapes, from the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, show each person's sex, age, marital status, occupation, nation of
birth and ZIP code of intended residence. The ZIP codes were converted to cities
by matching them to a U.S. Postal Service ZIP code database. Not covered:
illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: July 04, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Marcy E. Mullins, USA TODAY, Source: Immigration and
Naturalization Service (Bar graph); PHOTO, b/w, Michael Schwarz, USA TODAY;
PHOTO, b/w, Terri Thuente, Los Angeles Daily News; PHOTO, b/w, Matt Mendelsohn,
USA TODAY

SPECIAL REPORT; IMMIGRATION; THE NEW IMMIGRANTS; In the nation's two most
immigrant-dense communities, reactions to immigrants are as different as the
cities themselves; Anger in Los Angeles, more acceptance in New York. In other
cities, seeing large numbers of immigrants for the first time, there is a
growing awareness; See info boxes at end of text; See related stories; 08A, 10A

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              384 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      July 3, 1995, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Newcomers encounter disparate greetings / 'Secondary migrants' calling Atlanta
home

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 1077 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA


For most of this city's 150-year history, "immigrants" have meant newcomers from
somewhere else in the USA.

Not anymore. As Atlanta feverishly prepares to welcome the world for the 1996
Summer Olympics, it seems large sections of the world already have discovered
Atlanta.

By New York or Los Angeles or Miami standards, the number of immigrants coming
to Atlanta isn't very impressive; immigrants have gone from less than 1% of the
672,000 people in the greater metro Atlanta area in 1950 to about 4% of the 2.8
million population in 1990, the Census found.

But for a place that never has been a primary destination for immigrants, the
numbers are remarkable and define a kind of immigration that many cities -
especially in the South - are seeing for the first time.

Unlike traditional immigrant arrivals, Atlanta's immigrants often are "secondary
migrants" who went to another city first, then relocated to Atlanta because it
offered jobs. As the word spread to friends and relatives, the immigrant stream
continued to grow.

"We thought the town of Houston had moved here," jokes Lino Dominguez, editor of
El Mundo Hispanico, the area's largest Spanish-language newspaper. "Since the
collapse of the oil economy in Texas, people began to flock here and they
haven't stopped."

Henry and Graciella Ceron and their sons are the faces of this immigrant
Atlanta.

"I love Georgia," says Henry Ceron, 41, a butcher. "I see all the American
places. . . . But when I see Georgia, I say this city is the best place for the
future."

Henry and Graciella, 36, are Mexican-born. He is legal, thanks to the 1986
amnesty for illegal immigrants. She is still in a kind of legal limbo, waiting
to receive permanent status, as are their two oldest sons. Their three youngest
sons were born in the USA.

Henry crossed the border illegally in 1980, then paid a smuggler to bring his
wife and older boys. They lived in Houston for six years, but fled for jobs in
booming Atlanta.

"I want (my sons) to be Americans. I want them to be Georgians," Henry Ceron
says.

Despite his enthusiasm for Georgia, Georgians have met the Cerons and other new
immigrants with ambivalence:

-- State lawmakers passed an "official English law" requiring government
business to be done only in English. The measure was vetoed by the governor, but
is likely to resurface when lawmakers return in January.

-- De Kalb County schools, the largest district in the state, had to hire more
staff and set up a special "newcomer center" to handle unprecedented numbers of
foreign-born students - now 8% of 80,000 students overall. This year, the center
had more than 1,800 newcomers speaking 29 languages.

-- Competition between native whites and blacks for political and economic power
has expanded to include competition with immigrants. Elected officials are loath
to discuss this, but an undercurrent of tension exists, especially between
immigrants and blacks.

"There's a lot of competition with blacks for economic power and political
power," says Norbert Oses, a Cuban immigrant and outgoing president of the
Hispanic Chamber of Commerce. "There's some tension sometimes. . . . It's not
perfect, but nobody is."

Unlike the situation in other cities, where immigrants cluster in ethnic
enclaves, Atlanta's immigrants live across the metro area.

So rather than the immigrants transforming Atlanta, it's more likely Atlanta is
transforming the immigrants - which is the way it should be, says House Speaker
Newt Gingrich, who represents a district here.

"The key is teaching the values of American civilization . . . and welcoming
people who come to be an American," he says.

"It's a two-way relationship," says Josephine Tan, president of the Asian
American Chamber of Commerce. "Immigrants have created economic development . .
. (and) because most intend to stay, they have adapted to the lifestyle of this
country."

Mexican-born Vicente Bautista owns a Mexican restaurant and acts as a notary for
immigrants in Gainesville, a poultry-processing town 45 minutes north of Atlanta
that has attracted thousands of Hispanic immigrants.

"Jobs are the magnet," Bautista says. "In my unscientific survey, about 80% of
the male working force (in chicken plants) are from a town near Durango City,
Mexico."

At Fieldale Farms, one of the larger plants, the number of Hispanic workers is
increasing - it's now 35% - while the number of black workers is shrinking, to
less than 15%, a company spokesman says.

Paula Guerrero, 35, is typical of immigrants Bautista knows. A worker at a
nearby chemical lab, she came to Bautista for help translating an IRS letter.
Mexican-born, she's awaiting her green card, and she wants to be a citizen and
send her children to college.

"There is not much work in California. I came here (eight months ago), I look
for a job and I find one in a few weeks," she says. "Three of my brothers are
already here."

Still, some immigrants compare their lives to those of black Georgians in times
past.

"We're living as if we were black in Georgia in the 1960s," says Roddy Padilla,
a Puerto Rican trying to organize Hispanics. "Maybe 10 years ago people were not
prejudiced against Hispanics, but now they are."

But more often, immigrants say, they are simply ignored.

The Rev. Carlos Garcia, pastor of Our Lady of the Americas church, where many
Hispanic immigrants attend, predicts the indifference will continue, for the
time being.

"People in Atlanta are only thinking of the Olympics," Garcia says. "After that,
maybe they will think about the immigrants."

Recent migration hot spots

Atlanta isn't the only city suddenly seeing an increase in the number of
immigrants. Across the country, cities that traditionally have not been
immigrant magnets watched their foreign-born populations soar between 1991 and
1993. A sampling:

-- Waukegan, Ill.: up 60%

-- Rochester, Mich.: up 54%

-- Lincoln, Neb.: up 29%

-- Bellevue, Wash.: up 26%

-- Lexington, Ky.: up 26%

-- Cambridge, Mass.: up 24%

-- Nashville, Tenn.: up 16%

Mexican immigration

Top destinations of the 1.3 million Mexican immigrants(1) in 1991-1993(1):
 Calif.   699,990
Texas    242,648
Ill.      58,710
Ariz.     50,777
Fla.      47,149
Nev.      34,626
Wash.     24,449
Ore.      19,829
N.M.      16,775
Ga.       13,617

(1) - Includes people legalized under the 1986 amnesty. Source: Immigration and
Naturalization Service

LOAD-DATE: July 04, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Marcy E. Mullins, USA TODAY, Source: Immigration and
Naturalization Service (Bar graph); PHOTO, b/w, Michael Schwarz, USA TODAY

SPECIAL REPORT; IMMIGRATION; THE NEW IMMIGRANTS; In the nation's two most
immigrant-dense communities, reactions to immigrants are as different as the
cities themselves; Anger in Los Angeles, more acceptance in New York. In other
cities, seeing large numbers of immigrants for the first time, there is a
growing awareness; See info boxes at end of text; See related stories; 08A, 10A

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              385 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     July 5, 1995, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Immigrants eager to be called 'Americans'

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 1955 words


Many immigrants believe the USA is a racist country. That their homelands are
better places to raise children. That at home, they were safer from crime in
societies that espoused better "moral values."

Yet the nation's immigrants, a USA TODAY/CNN/Gallup Poll finds, want very much
to be "Americans."

As Congress prepares to debate sweeping new restrictions on legal immigration
and anti-immigrant sentiment builds in many quarters, immigrants say they're
eager to embrace the American dream and sink happily into the melting pot.

The poll - the first comprehensive national poll of immigrants - finds that
two-thirds of those surveyed would stay in the USA even if it were possible for
them to live as well financially at home.

"This puts the lie to the anti-immigrant rhetoric spewing from the
restrictionist camp," says Frank Sharry, head of the National Immigration
Coalition in Washington, which advocates for generous immigration policies.
Immigrants want "the opportunities and freedoms . . . our society presents."

But the poll also shows that immigrants are not monolithic.

Those who have been in the USA for shorter periods are more likely than other
immigrants to perceive racism in U.S. society, to want to return home and to
prefer the moral values of their own cultures.

"In my country, there are stricter standards for raising children," says Luis
Llanos, 25, a Colombian who came in 1985. "More responsibilities."

Not surprisingly, the poll shows that many immigrants favor keeping immigration
at current levels.

But fully one-third of immigrants believe immigration should be decreased, and
one-quarter back a proposal to stop immigration for five years.

"There are too many for the economic conditions," says Bashir Malik, 50, a
Pakistani transferred to the USA in 1992 by his employer, Pakistani Airlines.
"If you have saturation, you should stop for a while."

Dan Stein of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, the leading
restrictionist lobby, agrees: "How can we begrudge the rest of the population
wanting a shutoff when even one in four immigrants support it?"

The interviews with 732 immigrants were conducted in English, so the survey
sample does not precisely reflect all immigrants in the country, some of whom -
especially the most recent immigrants - do not speak English well.

Despite that, as the only survey of its kind, the poll "provides unique insights
into the perspectives that immigrants have about life in the U.S," says Gallup's
David Moore.

Critics of immigration often say immigration should be reduced because the
newcomers seem "different" from their own immigrant relatives.

"The recent wave is different from my parents, (who) were so proud to be
American," says Rita Bellock, a New Yorker. "A lot of the new ones are here
because they can make a living."

Even some immigrants believe the worst of others.

"They don't have values anymore, nobody wants to work," says Robert Dublin, 48,
an immigrant from Guyana living in Brooklyn. "They don't want to start from the
bottom and come up."

All of these things may be true of individual immigrants, but the poll finds
many public perceptions are erroneous:

-- Immigrants want to be U.S. citizens.

More than two-thirds of those surveyed already are naturalized citizens. Of the
remainder, 58% are planning to become citizens.

"Things are better if you are a citizen, you can vote," says Altin Shehu, 22,
whose citizen father brought him and his family from Albania in 1993.

-- Immigrants want to fit into American society.

Six in 10 say it's better for immigrants to blend into American culture, even if
that means giving up some aspects of their own backgrounds.

Still, immigrants often are torn about giving up the past. "It's not easy to try
to become American and keep up with your own customs or culture," says Krzysztof
Galka, 32, a Polish refugee who arrived in 1984. "Most try . . . forgetting one
and going with the other."

-- Immigrants believe in the American dream even more than the general public.

Ninety-three percent of immigrants say that people who work hard to better
themselves can get ahead in the United States. Only 85% of the general public
agrees with that.

"Where we come from . . . you get discouraged because you work so hard everyday,
and you're just stuck. America is different - all you have to do is work hard,"
says Eduardo Moreno, 38, who was born in the USA but raised in Mexico.

Today, Moreno and his Mexican wife, Veronica, own Ole Tortillas, a $
12-million-a-year business in Atlanta that sells tortillas across the South.

-- Most immigrants say they're not isolated from ordinary Americans.

Two-thirds of immigrants say that only a few or none of the people they spend
the most time with are immigrants from the same country.

Rosendo Diaz-Peterson, 59, an immigrant from Spain and a professor at Drake
University, has studied how cultures assimilate newcomers.

"It's a two-way street," Diaz-Peterson says. Assimilation "will not happen if
immigrants are not accepted. If they are accepted, (differences) will disappear
in no time."

ABOUT THIS PROJECT

Work on the USA TODAY/CNN/Gallup Poll of 732 English-speaking immigrants began
more than two years ago, when USA TODAY/CNN/Gallup polls began asking all
respondents their immigrant status. People who identified themselves as
immigrants and agreed to be re-interviewed account for three-fourths of the
respondents to this poll. The rest of the respondents come primarily from
neighborhoods identified as having a high or medium proportion of immigrants.
Polling was done by phone May 25 to June 4.

Because all interviews were conducted in English, the survey sample will tend to
overrepresent immigrants who come from English-speaking countries or who have
lived in the USA for several years. (The Census Bureau estimates that one-fourth
of immigrants speak English "not very well" or not at all.)

The poll's margin of error is plus or minus 4 percentage points, with the margin
ranging from 7 to 12 percentage points for subgroups.

The admissions process:

How the 880,014 immigrants in 1993 gained admission to the USA: -- 62% -- family
relationship to citizen or legal permanent resident: Includes spouse, minor
child, adult child, spouse of child, grandchild, stepchild, spouse of stepchild,
child of stepchild, parent, sibling, spouse of sibling, child of sibling. Also
includes illegal immigrants legalized after they received amnesty under a 1986
law, their spouses and their children. -- 15% -- job: Immigrant has a job or job
offer in the USA, or has extraordinary ability, is outstanding professor or
multinational executive, has advanced or bachelor's degree or special skills. A
total of 10,000 unskilled workers are allowed. All can bring spouses and minor
children and eventually other family members if they become citizens. -- 15% --
refugees: Immigrant outside the USA granted admission because of persecution in
homeland, including Cubans, Haitians, Indochinese and Jews from the former
Soviet Union. All can bring spouses and minor children and eventually other
family members if they become citizens. -- 3.7% -- visa lottery: Immigrants from
certain countries underrepresented in total immigrant stream, granted admission
after winning visa in computer lottery of up to 55,000 visas. All can bring
spouses, minor children and eventually other family members if they become
citizens. -- 3% -- special circumstances: Amerasians, ministers, religious
workers, displaced Tibetans, employees of U.S. government abroad, employees of
the Panama Canal, employees of U.S. firms in Hong Kong, retired employees of
U.S.-based international organizations, foreigners serving in U.S. armed forces,
juvenile court dependents, millionaires who promise to invest and create jobs,
registered nurses, children born abroad to alien residents. All can bring
spouses and minor children and eventually other family members if they become
citizens. -- 1.3% -- asylum: Immigrant in the USA granted political asylum
because of persecution in homeland. Can bring spouses and minor children and
eventually other family members if they become citizens.

Immigrants' images of their lives in the USA Immigrants say the USA is a place
of great economic opportunity and political freedom for themselves and for their
children, a USA TODAY/CNN/Gallup Poll shows. But half say they don't feel as
safe here as they would in their homeland, and many question the morals of
American society.

Almost all feel welcome
  Feel welcome     90%
Feel unwelcome    7%

Asians most likely feel discrimination Some have felt discriminated against
specifically because they were not born in the USA. By place of origin:

Felt discrimination No discrimination
Europe/Russia            23%                76%
Asia                     60%                39%
Latin America            44%                56%
Caribbean                55%                45%

Jobs, family top reasons for coming
Better job         26%
Family             23%
School             19%

Political/ religious freedom 15%

Most had relatives living here upon arrival
Relatives here   67%
No relatives     33%

Many spend time with non-immigrants How many friends/relatives are immigrants
from the same country:
A few/none        67%
More than half    32%

PERCEPTIONS OF AMERICA People who work hard to better themselves can get ahead
in this country.
       Immigrants    All
Agree       93%       85%
Disagree     5%       14%

The USA is a melting pot in which people of different countries combine into the
American culture.
Agree       75%
Disagree    20%

The USA is a racist society.
Agree       40%
Disagree    55%

USA vs. HOMELAND: WHICH IS BETTER? Most prefer USA
USA              77%
Birth country    16%

... even if homeland had same standard if living
USA              66%
Birth country    29%

... but nearly half of immigrants here 10 years or less prefer their homeland
                      Prefer USA       Prefer birth country
up to 10 years in USA       44%                   46%
11-20 years in USA          60%                   38%
21 + years in USA           76%                   19%

Most agree USA is better for ... Job opportunities for immigrants
Better in the USA        82%
Better in birth country   6%
Same in both places       9%

... and their children
Better in the USA        86%
Better in birth country   5%
Same in both places       6%

Political freedom
Better in the USA        75%
Better in birth country   5%
Same in both places      17%

Fair treatment under the law
Better in the USA        66%

Better in birth country 15%
Same in both places      14%

Raising children
Better in the USA        54%

Better in birth country 35%
Same in both places       4%

Homeland scores higher in ... Safety from crime
Better in the USA        34%

Better in birth country 49%
Same in both places      11%

Moral values
Better in the USA        33%

Better in birth country 48%
Same in both places      13%

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Nick Galifianakis, USA TODAY, Source: A USA
TODAY/CNN/Gallup national telephone poll of 732 adult English-speaking
immigrants conducted May 25-June 4.  Margin of error +/-4 percentage points for
the entire sample. By country of origin, the margin of error ranges from +/-7 to
+/-12 percentage points.

SPECIAL REPORT; IMMIGRATION; THE NEW IMMIGRANTS; The nation's immigrants have no
illusions the USA is perfect, but a USA TODAY/CNN/Gallup Poll finds they cherish
American freedoms -- and embrace the American dream.; See info boxes at end of
text.

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              386 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  July 21, 1995, Friday, INTERNATIONAL EDITION

INS issues citizenship rules for foreign-born children of Americans

BYLINE: Evelyn Tan Powers

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 782 words


After a four-month delay, the Immigration and Naturalization Service has issued
regulations on how to implement a new citizenship law for foreign-born offspring
of Americans.

The new law, P.L. 103-446, mandates a speedy process for foreign-born offspring
- under age 18 - of U.S. citizens living abroad to get certificates of
citizenship.

Under the law, the following people can complete that process with just one
visit to the USA:

-- Applicants whose U.S. parent or grandparent spent five years in the USA, at
least two of those years when they were under age 14.

-- Children adopted by Americans living abroad. The regulations just issued by
the INS apply only to biological offspring of Americans, not children adopted by
Americans abroad. INS currently is working on procedures for adopted children,
expected to come out by August.

The law was passed by Congress on Oct. 15, 1994, and had been set to go into
effect March 1, 1995. But INS did not issue regulations for implementing the law
until July 7. This week, the INS began mailing application packets to the first
target group of applicants, says E.B. Duarte of the main INS office in
Washington.

That group is made up of 17-year-olds, some of whom are close to having the
window of opportunity for U.S. citizenship shut on them. That's because P.L.
103-446 requires the entire application process to be done before one turns 18.

Concern now is focusing on one group that has been left out in the cold: people
who turned 18 in the period between March 1, when the law took effect, and July
7, when regulations appeared. Michael Adler, who heads the citizenship
committees of both the World Federation of Americans Abroad and the Association
of Americans Resident Overseas, is incensed at the delay.

"The law was enacted Oct. 25 last year. It gave them four months to get their
ducks in order," she says.

Right now, it's anybody's guess whether applicants who have just turned 18 have
irretrievably lost out on U.S. citizenship. "I don't know if relief is available
for them," Duarte says. "Recommendations have been presented to our office and
(the INS') general counsel."

Adler, who lives in France and has tracked changes in citizenship law for more
than a decade, does not mince words. "It's INS' fault," she says. "That's why
I'm enraged."

Paris resident Phyllis Michaux's granddaughter, Juliette Michaux, turned 18 on
March 28 and thus will not benefit from the new regulations. But "I'm not
getting all excited about it," Michaux says. "She can get a green card through
her father (Michaux's French-born son, Robert, who was recently reinstated as a
U.S. citizen). She'll have first priority."

But for some other foreign-born offspring - those under age 18 - of U.S.
citizens, the regulations are good news. Kristi Carroll Lorin, an American who
lives outside Paris, foresees another happy chapter in her love story that began
in 1968, when a Frenchman named Pierre Lorin espied her across a swimming pool
in Provence. They married two years later.

With Adler's help - plus some advice from a staffer in the Pittsburgh office of
Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa. - Lorin filed applications on July 14 for her
French-born children, Julian, 17, and Lisanne, 15. The Pittsburgh office of INS
told her the process could be completed by the end of July.

"It is going to work, and I'm thrilled," she says.

Although the regulations are a small victory, Adler says certain unresolved
issues continue to rankle.

The WFAA calls the required FBI fingerprint checks for children over 14 "a
needless and demeaning" rule.

Adler also points out that 17-year-olds whose cases are pending will be dropped
if they turn 18 before the processing is complete. "Where is this friendly
government?" Adler says. "We're going to have to make a big noise . . . or we're
going to have to go to court. We shouldn't have to do that to make something
happen."

Getting U.S. certificate

How to apply for a certificate of U.S. citizenship:

-- Pick up an application packet from any INS office in the USA. If you're
overseas, write to: Immigration and Naturalization Service, 425 I Street, N.W.,
Washington, D.C. 20536. The packet has an N-600 application form with an
addendum based on the new law, two fingerprint cards and a list of INS offices.

-- Fill out the N-600 form and attach supporting documents, including those
proving U.S. citizenship of your parent or grandparent.

-- Pay $ 100 fee.

-- Applications may be filed in the USA or mailed from abroad. The INS has up to
60 days to process an application. Upon approval, the INS officer will
administer the oath of allegiance and issue the certificate of citizenship.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LIVING OVERSEAS; HELPING INFORM U.S. CITIZENS ABROAD; See info box at end of
text

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              387 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      July 28, 1995, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Hamas official held by U.S. immigration

BYLINE: Lee Michael Katz

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 212 words


U.S. officials are seeking to deport a leader of the Palestinian group Hamas as
part of a recent crackdown on domestic and international terrorism.

Immigration and Naturalization Service officials said Thursday they were holding
Mousa Abu Marzouk, Hamas' political director.

Marzouk has a residency permit and home in the USA.

He was recently expelled from Jordan; Reuters said he had been in Syria and
Iran.

INS spokeswoman Carole Florman said it wants to bar Marzouk for "participation
in terrorist activities."

Israel is deciding whether to ask the United States to extradite Marzouk, said
Israeli Embassy spokesman Dan Arbll.

As a Hamas leader, Marzouk has been a "principal orchestrator of terrorist
attacks against Israelis," Arbll said.

Marzouk was detained at New York's Kennedy airport Tuesday after his name was
found on a "Watch List" of aliens not allowed entry.

Marzouk's lawyer, Stanley Cohen, said the charges are "ridiculous" and that
Marzouk is "a person who has lived quietly and successfully for 14 years in the
United States."

But author Steven Emerson, said Marzouk is "a key player" in Hamas fund-raising
and other activities here and abroad.

Hamas has claimed credit for numerous attacks against Israel to block Mideast
peace.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              388 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   September 12, 1995, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Marijuana use rises in 12-17 age group

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt; Sam Vincent Meddis

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 924 words


Marijuana is increasingly popular among young people, a federal study out today
confirms. The 1994 National Household Survey on Drug Abuse says that among
people ages 12-17, marijuana use nearly doubled from 1992 to 1994. In 1992,
nearly 4% in that age group reported using marijuana within the past month. The
findings "should serve as a wake-up call to parents," says White House drug
policy director Lee Brown. -- Sam Vincent Meddis

BORDER FENCE: Construction will begin within two weeks on a 10-foot-high,
1.3-mile fence along the U.S.-Mexican border near Sunland Park, N.M., an area
officials say is fraught with crime. "Border violence is a very real threat,"
said Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner Doris Meissner. "The
targets can include everyone from Border Patrol agents to illegal immigrants,"
she said. Opponents say building the barrier is an insult to Mexico.

NEW 'ALMANAC': Most of the USA will have a warm, wet winter, with above-normal
snowfall in mountainous areas, says The Old Farmer's Almanac. The 104th edition,
out today, also predicts a cool spring, warmer-than-usual summer and a warm, dry
fall. People going to the Summer Olympics in Atlanta should take an umbrella.
Heavy showers are predicted the first three days, off-and-on showers the rest of
the time. The 1996 edition of the Almanac, published in Dublin, N.H., retains
the traditional hole in the upper left corner, originally used to hang it in
outhouses.

BOMBING TRIAL: Lawyers for Oklahoma City bombing defendants Timothy McVeigh and
Terry Nichols say moving the trial 100 miles to Tulsa, as prosecutors have
mentioned as a possibility, is not acceptable. The defense insists the trial
must be moved out of state. Two defense suggestions: West Virginia and
California.

SEXUAL PREDATORS: Washington state can continue to keep sexual predators locked
up even after their terms expire while the state appeals a ruling that the law
is unconstitutional, a Seattle federal judge ruled. Judge John Coughenour last
month said the law punishes criminals twice for the same offense and denies the
due process. But he agreed Monday to let the state keep 31 men incarcerated
until an appeals court decides the first challenge, brought by Andre Brigham
Young, 54, convicted of raping six women.

INTERNET STING: An on-line invitation to buy stolen computer data led to the
arrest of six computer users in four states, the U.S. Secret Service said.
"Operation Cybersnare" sought computer users who were dealing in stolen cellular
telephone and credit-card data worth millions of dollars, the Secret Service
said.

MOM TO PRISON: Waneta Hoyt, 49, was sentenced in Owego, N.Y., to 75 years to
life in prison for murdering her five children, whose deaths between 1965 and
1971 had been blamed on sudden infant death syndrome. They were suffocated. The
investigation began in 1992 when a prosecutor came across a 14-year-old medical
journal article about the deaths. In her confession, later recanted, Hoyt said,
"I know something was wrong with me." Hoyt was convicted in April. At
sentencing, she maintained her innocence. "I didn't kill my children," she said.
"I loved all my kids and I will love them until the day I die."

VAN EXPLOSION: Five people, including three children, were killed at a shopping
center in Essex, Md., in a fiery series of explosions so strong that they blew
their van's glove compartment a half mile away, police said. "Investigators
found some explosive material around the car," said Baltimore County Police
Capt. Brian Uppercue. Witnesses said all that remained of the van was its frame.
"It looked like a Caravan with the roof ripped off, doors blown off, bumpers
blown off," said Albert Kellner. The explosion was under investigation. The
victims' names weren't released.

ALSO MONDAY . . .

-- FATAL HELICOPTER CRASH: Two Seattle nurses were killed when their medical
helicopter plunged into Puget Sound on a flight to Bainbridge Island to help a
woman in labor. The pilot is missing and presumed still strapped in the
Italian-made Augusta 109 helicopter, which sank in 700 feet of water. Cause of
the crash wasn't known.

-- SHUTTLE PROBLEM: The Endeavour crew's deployment of a 12-foot-diameter disk
was delayed two hours by radio problems. The disk is used for a semiconductor
experiment. It will be retrieved Wednesday.

12 receiving presidential medals

Former surgeon general C. Everett Koop is among 12 people receiving the
Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civilian honor.

Koop, 78, was a pediatrician and conservative opponent of abortion when named to
the post by President Reagan in 1981. Koop is being honored for consistently
"putting sound medical advice ahead of ideology," the White House said. Others
receiving the medal at a White House ceremony Sept. 18:

Joan Ganz Cooney and Peggy Charren, both advocates for children's television;
William Coleman Jr., former Transportation secretary and chairman of the board
of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund; black historian John Hope
Franklin; federal judges and civil rights advocates A. Leon Higginbotham Jr. and
Frank Johnson Jr.; former senator Gaylord Nelson, D-Wis.; urban designer James
Rouse; and Hollywood executive Lew Wasserman.

Honored posthumously will be former United Auto Workers union president Walter
Reuther, who died in 1970, and Willie Velasquez, founder of the Southwest Voter
Registration Education Project, who died in 1988. Contributing: Gary Fields and
Kevin Johnson.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, AP; PHOTO, b/w, Michael Okoniewski, AP; PHOTO, b/w, USA
TODAY

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              389 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  September 14, 1995, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

RUTHLESS RUSSIAN 'MAFIYA' // Extortion now the least of its illegal activities

BYLINE: Bruce Frankel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1075 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


The reputation of Brighton Beach, an immigrants' neighborhood, shadows it as
much as the elevated subway tracks on Brighton Beach Avenue.

In Russia, Eastern Europe and cities around the world, Brighton Beach is famous
as the U.S. hub of the Russian mafiya - an amorphous, multi-billion dollar
global criminal network. It is the most thriving export of the post-Soviet
economy, as brutal as it is innovative. And the mafiya is spreading.

"They're the biggest, most brutal, potentially most-sophisticated and
far-reaching criminal organization," says Gerard Burke, who is leading a task
force on the mafiya for the Center for Strategic and International Studies.

U.S. authorities are shocked by its rapid and ruthless expansion from extortion
rackets - in emigre neighborhoods in New York, Denver, Seattle and Toronto among
others - into a complex, far-flung criminal network of heroin trafficking,
prostitution, health-care fraud, billion-dollar gas tax scams and
money-laundering.

Just this week in Los Angeles, federal agents busted one of the most diversified
Russian crime gangs seen so far. In August, federal prosecutors in New Jersey
indicted 15 Russian immigrants as part of a $ 140 million gas tax scam - the
biggest in U.S. history.

The mafiya was nurtured in the black markets of Russia, Armenia, Chechnya,
Ukraine, Azerbaijan and Uzbekistan. Its followers were taught to connive and
survive by the corrupt Communist Party, and sometimes by the torturous prisons
of the gulag.

They learned well.

The Russian gangsters, for example, didn't invent the gas tax scam, but they've
come close to perfecting it.

Until recent changes in the law intended to stifle them, the mafiya bought motor
fuel from a supplier and then created an elaborate daisy chain of companies to
buy and sell the fuel. One of these, the "burn," would supply receipts showing
the motor fuel tax was paid. But when the government went to collect taxes, the
"burn" company - often nothing more than a post box - had vanished.

Profits are financing rackets and buying real estate in California, Florida and
New York, luxury car dealerships in Europe, and banks and resorts in the
Caribbean.

The money is also going in a loop from Russia to North America and back.

A new Canadian police intelligence report says more than $ 1 billion a month is
pouring from Russia to the United States, Canada and other money laundering
havens. Then much is sent back to Russia.

U.S. officials said earlier this year that billions of dollars in cash - most of
it in crisp $ 100 bills - was shipped back last year.

Authorities say the $ 100 bills are used for bribery, to help camouflage
widespread counterfeiting of other $ 100 bills, and to aid in smuggling goods
across borders.

Car dealers in Moscow say it's commonplace for gangsters to drop a stack of $
100 bills to buy a brand new $ 150,000 armor-plated Mercedes.

Many worry that the marriage of the international Russian mafiya and corrupt
bureaucrats is destabilizing the fledgling democracies in Eastern Europe and the
former Soviet Union.

"The biggest and most fundamental question is whether democracy will survive,"
says Burke, who is also chairman of The Parvus Co., an international business
security firm.

In Brighton Beach, many say stories about the Russian mafiya's presence there
are tabloid fictions.

A stout waiter at the Winter Garden restaurant on the boardwalk in Brighton
Beach, a short distance from Coney Island, shrugs off the annoyingly familiar
questions with a firm exit gesture and an old Russian saying: "Sugar, sugar,
sugar. And still my coffee isn't sweet."

He forgets Naum Raichel, a convicted extortionist who was shot three times in
the chest by two men last year as he was leaving the Winter Garden, which he was
then building. And the same day, police say, Raichel's brother, Simeon, was
severely beaten on a street in Berlin.

One of the most prominent fears in the law enforcement and intelligence
community is that Russian gangsters could get control of nuclear materiel and
sell it to terrorists. By 1993, Germany had arrested more than 100 people for
smuggling nuclear components from the former Soviet Union.

The FBI and other agencies are encouraged, however, that just one year after FBI
Director Louis Freeh raised a national alarm and traveled to Moscow to open a
two-man bureau there, law enforcement's efforts to work with Russian
counterparts are paying off big-time.

The FBI's prime example:

The arrest June 8 of Vyacheslav Kirillovich Ivankov, 56, one of Russia's most
powerful mobsters, at his Brighton Beach apartment. His trial on charges that he
tried to extort $ 8.5 million from two Russian investors is scheduled to begin
next month.

Though well-known to Russian officials as an authoritative and influential vory
v zakone, or thief-in-law, an honored category of criminal, he entered the
United States on March 8, 1992 unnoticed by the State Department. Ivankov was
sent here by an elite crime gang council in December 1991 to look after Russian
organized crime interests and scout new "business opportunities," officials say.

But his lawyer, Barry Slotnick, says Ivankov was targeted by Russian police
because he "has been a freedom fighter against the Communist system" and the
KGB.

While Russian organized crime gangs are not ruled by a "godfather," Ivankov's
arrest was important because it deprived one of the largest groups evolving here
of a powerful boss, says James Kallstrom, head of the FBI's New York office. "He
was top dog on the watch."

Col. Yuriy Petrovich Gogolev, of the Russian equivalent of the FBI, says the
FBI's information shows that Russian crime bosses traveled to Brighton Beach to
get Ivankov's advice and blessings for criminal activities in at least 14 other
countries, including Canada, Germany, France, Israel, Estonia, Senegal and the
Bahamas.

The mafiya's stranglehold of banking and business in the former Soviet Union is
now undisputed. But law enforcement officials are divided over whether it's a
structured organization and just how much success authorities have had in
combatting it here.

"Better late than never," says Stephen Handelman, author of Comrade Criminal, a
new book that details the explosion of organized crime since the downfall of
communism.

"While law enforcement was trying to figure out whether there was a problem, the
Russian Mafia was spreading rapidly across North America."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, color, Bob Strong (2); PHOTO, b/w, Bob Strong

TYPE: Cover Story

Criminal network thriving in New York neighborhood; Billions in $ 100 bills were
sent back to Russia last year, officials say; See sidebar; 02A

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              390 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 5, 1995, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

In America, pope urges social justice

BYLINE: Susan Page; Bob Minzesheimer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 683 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, N.J.


Pope John Paul II arrived on his fourth U.S. visit Wednesday with a plea to
Americans to continue welcoming immigrants, protecting the poor and seeking
social justice.

President Clinton and Hillary Rodham Clinton greeted the pontiff upon his
arrival in drizzling rain at Newark International Airport.

The pope, looking vigorous even after a nine-hour flight from Rome, walked
slowly down the steps from the Alitalia jumbo jet dubbed "Shepherd One." He also
was greeted by eight cardinals, three Cabinet members, two governors and 2,000
Catholic schoolchildren waving tiny, soggy gold-and-white Vatican flags.

Declaring himself a "pilgrim of peace," the pontiff, 75, also provided a preview
of his major address to the United Nations today. He called for reform in the
international body on its 50th anniversary.

The pope embraced the United Nations as "an instrument devoted to peace," saying
it is "indispensable" in a world undergoing profound transformation.

"Should it not be strengthened as the guarantor of peace, justice and
humanitarian concern?" he asked at the packed Sacred Heart Cathedral.

John Paul II's five-day U.S. tour also will include vast open-air Masses at New
York's Central Park, New Jersey's Giants Stadium and Baltimore's Oriole Park at
Camden Yards.

In the mostly Hispanic immigrant neighborhood surrounding the huge Gothic
cathedral here, cheers went up from the crowd of about 2,000 people upon hearing
the pope's piped-in remarks on immigration.

"From its beginning until now, the United States has been a haven for generation
after generation of new arrivals," the pontiff said.

"It is my prayerful hope that America will persevere in its own best traditions
of openness and opportunity."

Polls show public resentment of immigrants is at an all-time high. Both Congress
and the Clinton administration are seeking to cut back both legal and illegal
immigration.

Clinton told the pontiff that he would find "an America striving to build on our
ideals of peace and charity, justice and tolerance."

The president and the pope also met privately for nearly 30 minutes, discussing
prospects for peace in various world hot spots, including Bosnia. "We have to
make peace there," the pope declared.

The Clintons also attended an evening prayer service at the cathedral, where the
pope drew a cheering, standing ovation upon entering. It took the pontiff eight
minutes to make his way down the center aisle, as he stopped often to grasp
hands and bless worshipers.

"It was breathtaking," said Helen Cahill, 77, of Fairview, N.J. "I hope his
prayers for peace and everything come true in my lifetime."

The pope moved slowly but did not use a cane and did not appear to limp. On the
plane ride across the Atlantic, he joked to reporters, "The pope is still
alive," a reference to widespread speculation about the state of his health.

When they first met two years ago, John Paul II publicly pressed his opposition
to abortion beside a plainly uncomfortable Clinton. This time, White House
officials said, abortion wasn't mentioned.

Instead, the pontiff's remarks seemed aimed at congressional proposals to limit
immigration and cut anti-poverty programs.

"It would indeed be sad if the United States were to turn away from that
enterprising spirit which has always showed the most practical and responsible
ways of continuing to share with others the blessings God has richly bestowed
here," the pontiff said.

PAPAL ITINERARY
Today: Addresses U.N. General Assembly. Celebrates Mass at Giants Stadium in
East Rutherford, N.J.

Friday: Celebrates Mass at Aqueduct Racetrack in New York City. Evening prayer
at St. Joseph's Seminary in Yonkers, N.Y.

Saturday: Celebrates Mass in New York's Central Park. Prayer service at St.
Patrick's Cathedral. Attends dinner with bishops.

Sunday: Celebrates Mass at Oriole Park at Camden Yards in Baltimore. Leads
parade in downtown Baltimore. Meets leaders of Catholic Relief Services at
Basilica of the Assumption. Visits Our Daily Bread soup kitchen. Meets with Vice
President Gore. Departs for Rome.

LOAD-DATE: October 06, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, color, AFP; PHOTO, b/w, Richard Drew, AP

JOHN PAUL II'S VISIT; See related story; 08D; See info box at end of text.

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              391 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 5, 1995, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Air crash test: Currents stronger than thought

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 951 words


Air currents from a Boeing 727 flying 4.2 miles ahead of a USAir jetliner that
crashed last year were stronger and closer than originally believed,
investigators said Wednesday. National Transportation Safety Board officials
said 16 hours of flight tests over five days simulated conditions at the time of
the crash of Flight 427 near Pittsburgh on Sept. 8, 1994. Some results of the
tests - completed Saturday at the FAA research center in Pomona, N.J. - will be
announced Nov. 15 when hearings on the crash reconvene in Washington, D.C. The
crash of the USAir Boeing 737 killed all 132 people aboard.

RABIES WARNING: Health officials are warning people to be aware of all
encounters with wildlife. The advisory was prompted by the death Tuesday of
Maria Fareri, 13, of Greenwich, Conn., of rabies from a bat scratch or bite she
didn't even notice, officials said. She was hospitalized Sept. 25 in Valhalla,
N.Y. As a precaution, 50 people in close contact with Maria were immunized.
Rabies in humans is very rare but always fatal once symptoms appear.

UNDOCUMENTED ENTRIES: Nearly 400,000 people enter the USA illegally each year,
one-third more than previous estimates, says the Washington-based Center for
Immigration Studies. Its comparison of 1994 and 1990 Census data suggests the
foreign-born population grew by 4.5 million, said John Martin, director of the
center, which advocates reducing immigration. During the four-year period,
immigration officials estimate 3 million people were granted legal residency,
leaving 1.5 million who entered illegally.

SEX-LAW STUDY: Warning people that a dangerous sex offender released from prison
is in their community aids in capture if the person commits a new crime, a
Washington State Institute for Public Policy study found. But while Washington's
5-year-old "community notification" law has hastened apprehensions, it hasn't
reduced repeat offenses. Sex offenders publicly named under the law were free
for a median time of 25.1 months before committing new crimes. For those not
subject to the law: 61.7 months.

WAR ON DRUGS: Law officers without a search warrant can't scan homes with
heat-sensing equipment to detect suspected criminal activity, a Denver federal
appeals ruled in a case from Wyoming. The court said "technical wizardry" - in
this case a thermal imager to detect growing marijuana - doesn't free officers
from the Constitution's requirement they obtain a search warrant based on
probable cause to believe a crime was committed. The ruling is counter to
decisions in four other federal appeals districts.

DOG BURNED: New York police charged two boys, ages 10 and 14, with animal
cruelty in the Sept. 25 torching of Granpa, a Siberian husky mix. The dog is
recovering from severe burns. Family members, who did not want to be identified,
say drug dealers did it because Granpa's barking scared away customers. The
Bayside Veterinary Center in Queens got $ 16,000 in donations for Granpa's
treatment.

UNABOMBER SEARCH: Federal authorities trying to identify the Unabomber - blamed
for 16 attacks that killed three and injured 23 since 1978 - have subpoenaed
high school records of up to nine 1970s-era students in the Chicago suburbs of
Skokie and Niles, the Chicago Tribune said. It said FBI agents have a list of
potential suspects who stood out as disgruntled, antisocial or eccentric. Agents
also are studying yearbooks and asking ex-teachers about students. Agents will
review records at Northwestern University in Evanston, where the Unabomber may
have attended lectures on science technology in 1977.

ALSO WEDNESDAY . . .

-- HELICOPTER CRASH: Searchers found the body of one of four crew members whose
Navy helicopter crashed into the Atlantic Tuesday, 50 miles off Virginia Beach,
Va. The search continued for three others. The H-46 Sea Knight helicopter from
the amphibious assault ship USS Guam was on a training flight. Cause of the
crash wasn't known.

-- WRONG-TURN SLAYING: A 16-year-old youth is the sixth suspect charged with
murder in the death of Stephanie Kuhen, 3, whose family's car was shot up when
it mistakenly turned down a gang-dominated Los Angeles street. Like his
co-defendants, the unidentified teen also is charged with five counts of
attempted murder.

-- BOMBING AID: More than $ 12 million has been spent on relief after the April
19 Oklahoma City federal building bombing that killed 169 and injured more than
500, the United Way said. The Red Cross spent the most: $ 4,524,839.

-- EXECUTION: In the 100th execution since Texas resumed capital punishment in
1982, Harold Joe Lane, 50, was put to death by injection for the 1982 killing of
supermarket cashier Tammy Davis, 17, during a Dallas robbery.

-- SLICED PENIS: Domingo Morales, hospitalized in New York after his penis was
severed Monday, says he cut himself making a guitar. Morales, 67, told police an
enraged prostitute did it, but says he lied for fear of ridicule. The organ,
found in a kitchen container, can't be reattached.

-- KITTY LITTER CREATOR DIES: Edward Lowe, who invented Kitty Litter in 1947,
died at a Sarasota, Fla., hospital. He was 75. The cause of death wasn't given.

St. Louis boy rescues runaway bus

The principal of Bellerive School in Creve Coeur, Mo., credited fifth-grader
Larry Champagne III of St. Louis with quick thinking for grabbing the wheel and
hitting the brakes of a runaway school bus whose driver collapsed from a stroke
Tuesday. Five of the 20 students were slightly hurt. The bus hit guard rails and
a pickup truck. Larry, 10, said his grandfather had given him driving tips.
Driver Ernestine Blackman is in serious condition.

Contributing: Patricia V. Rivera

LOAD-DATE: October 06, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w; PHOTO, b/w, FBI via AP; PHOTO, b/w, St. Louis Dispatch via
AP

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              392 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 27, 1995, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Selena's killer given life prison sentence

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 928 words


A Houston jury Thursday sentenced Yolanda Saldivar to the maximum - life in
prison - for the gunshot murder of Tejano singer Selena Quintanilla Perez.
Saldivar, 35, must serve at least 30 years before she's eligible for parole.
Prosecutors say Saldivar, founder of Selena's fan club and manager of her
boutiques, killed the singer March 31 after being accused of embezzling $
30,000. The defense said Saldivar meant to kill herself, not the Grammy-winning
pop singer she idolized.

RAPE CHARGE: Boyd Weekley, 24, was charged with raping one of two boys he is
accused of abducting off a Benton Township, Mich., street Oct. 14. The brothers,
ages 11 and 3, said the older child was raped Tuesday at a New Orleans motel.
The boys, sons of Texas migrant workers, were found Wednesday at the motel where
Weekley was arrested. Police said the other boy wasn't sexually abused but was
beaten in the face. Weekley, an ex-convict from Sioux Falls, S.D., is being held
on kidnapping charges. He had been free on bond on a charge of fondling a Sioux
Falls girl.

DEPORTATIONS: Immigration officials deported 48,361 foreigners in the 12-month
period ending Sept. 30. The figure includes a record 31,244 criminal aliens,
people convict ed of serious crimes, and 17,117 sent back for non-criminal
causes such as violating immigration laws. Officials credit the increase to more
hearings in jail so an inmate is deported immediately when the sentence expires.
Also, hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants, mostly Mexicans, voluntarily
leave when caught. Many return to the USA.

AIDS BITE: Centers for Disease Control officials confirmed that a 91-year-old
man was infected with the AIDS virus when he was bitten by a prostitute, the
Sun-Sentinel in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., reported. It is the first case of
blood-to-blood HIV transmission through a human bite to be confirmed.
Researchers say blood, not merely saliva, was responsible for the transmission
because Naomi Morrison had bleeding gums when she bit Elmer Hutto violently on
the left hand, left arm and right leg. The CDC has never confirmed a case of HIV
infection through saliva alone.

ABORTION SUIT: Planned Parenthood officials filed a class-action suit against
the American Coalition of Life Activists and Advocates for Life Ministries. The
abortion-rights group seeks $ 200 million in damages from the two Portland,
Ore.-based groups, whose leaders say violence against abortion providers is
justifiable. Planned Parenthood cited violence that has killed five since 1993.

CRACK SENTENCES: Attorney General Janet Reno said punishing crack cocaine
offenders 100 times more severely than powder cocaine offenders isn't fair, but
she did not say how the law should be changed. She said it's too early to say if
last week's federal prison disturbances resulted from inmate anger over
Congress' veto of a proposed change in sentencing guidelines that would have
treated crack and powder cocaine offenses equally. She had urged that veto.

ATLANTA PRIDE: Zoo Atlanta unveiled Bulawayo, the first lion cub born there
since the mid-1970s. He's named for a Zimbabwe town where his father, Zulu, was
born. Bulawayo weighed 2 1/2 pounds when born Sept. 14. He's now a healthy 9
pounds. He is being hand-raised by zookeepers because his mother, Claserie,
didn't have the necessary parenting skills, officials said. Zoo Atlanta is
participating in a project to manage a self-sustaining, genetically diverse
captive population of African lions.

ALSO THURSDAY . . .

-- SERIAL KILLER: William Suff, 44, was sentenced to death for strangling 12
prostitutes near Riverside, Calif., between 1989 and 1991. He is suspected in 10
other slayings.

-- SIMPSON QUESTIONS: O.J. Simpson's grilling Monday by civil lawyers was
postponed at least 2 1/2 weeks by a Los Angeles judge who set a Nov. 15 hearing
on whether to keep Simpson's answers sealed. Simpson was acquitted Oct. 3 of the
stabbing slayings of his former wife and her friend.

-- OLD TREE: Georgia transportation officials abused their authority in pushing
to bulldoze a 300-year-old oak tree in Albany with no regard to its historical
significance, a federal judge said. The judge halted the road-widening project
until state officials research the tree's history.

-- ATHEIST LEADER ALIVE: Despite persistent rumors, American Atheist leader
Madalyn Murray O'Hair is not dead, said board member Ellen Johnson. She said
O'Hair, 76, has been on a business trip.

-- TAP WATER ALERT: Environmental groups released a survey saying some U.S. tap
water has high levels of radon and possible toxic levels of arsenic. The groups
are urging tougher federal standards. A utilities association called the
criticism alarmist.

No. 1 deadbeat dad: No ties to kids

Jeffrey Nichols, whose $ 580,000 delinquent child-support bill made him the
nation's most notorious deadbeat dad, tells CBS's 60 Minutes Sunday that during
his high-living odyssey he didn't even think of the children as his. "My lawyer
in Florida thought this was great," Nichols says. "But it was crazy." He stopped
paying $ 8,000-a-month child support to his ex-wife, Marilyn Kane, in 1990, but
says he's remorseful. As a precious metals consultant, he earned several hundred
thousand dollars a year and had a lavish lifestyle with a new wife, who later
died of cancer. Nichols, 47, of Charlotte, Vt., is jailed in New York until he
pays at least $ 68,000.

Contributing: M. David Goodwin, Patricia V. Rivera, Steve Marshall, Carrie
Dowling, Maria Puente, Gale Holland and Kevin Johnson

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w; PHOTO, b/w, Tannen Maury, AP; PHOTO, b/w, CBS News via AP

TYPE: Nationline

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              393 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   November 1, 1995, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Reburial puts Asian fears to rest // Remains of kin brought to USA for
reinterment

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 860 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Wooden crates packed with precious cargo arrive from the Far East three or four
times a week.

They breeze through Customs with little paperwork and are whisked away to their
final destination: cemeteries.

In a little-known offshoot of the Chinese immigration wave, human bones and
ashes exhumed from graves in the Far East are arriving in the Bay Area in record
numbers. This rush to rebury is caused primarily by impending communist rule in
Hong Kong.

Immigrants fear the new regime will dig up graves to make way for construction.
Space in Hong Kong already is at such a premium that burial plots are leased for
seven years only.

For the many Chinese who believe good treatment of the dead is an insurance
policy for the living, the prospect of disturbed graves is terrifying.

In fact, caring for grave sites is so much a part of Chinese culture that three
days are set aside each year to honor the dead. Today busloads of Chinese will
flock to cemeteries for the last memorial day celebration of the year.

Reburials are a result of the Chinese immigration boom. The Chinese
traditionally bury loved ones together, close to home. In pre-communist China,
the Chinese who died here were shipped back. Now migration is reversed.

And that has created a lucrative market for cemeteries eager to cater to Chinese
immigrants willing to pay $ 2,000 to $ 10,000 for good burial plots.

"For them it's a very sacred belief," says Clifford Yee, general manager of
Green Street Mortuary. "They want to make sure their deceased are at rest."

Every week, dozens of employees from Bay Area funeral homes head for the airport
to pick up remains. Mortuaries that handled reburials once a month in 1988 now
do it 10 times a month.

Many Chinese who bring family remains here are among the affluent wave of
immigrants fleeing Hong Kong because of the uncertainty that Communist rule will
bring when the British colony reverts to mainland China in 1997. More than
225,000 Chinese have legally settled in the USA in the past three years, 27,250
of them from Hong Kong.

"There is a fear of roads being built through cemeteries and graves being dug up
because they do that now in mainland China," says Hampson Lum, president of the
Chinese Consolidated Benevolent Association.

Luke Dok-Shuen Sit shudders at the thought. His parents, Shuk Leung and Chan Kam
Mun Sit, and his wife, Katherine, are buried in Hong Kong. He wants them here,
reburied in two of the six family plots he's already purchased.

"I am Christian and I believe that, once I die, my soul will go back to heaven,"
says Sit, who immigrated in 1987. "But, psychologically, you want to see
something in front of you."

It's much easier to enter the U.S. dead than alive. Overseas cemeteries are
notified by local mortuaries. Urns containing ashes are padded with Styrofoam.
Bones are placed in stainless-steel boxes. Everything goes into a wooden crate
and is shipped by air.

A death certificate is the only visa needed to get remains into the USA. Customs
officials say shipments are opened only if they appear suspicious.

Once here, the bones are counted to make sure the skeleton is whole. There are
206 bones in a human body.

Cemetery operators are vigorously targeting the Chinese market. They're
advertising in Chinese publications and listing in the Chinese Yellow Pages.

Prime spaces on Skylawn Park's slopes outside San Francisco are sold out. The
non-profit Chinese Cemetery Association boosted prices 40% two years ago. It has
formed a committee to hunt for more space.

The 13.5-acre Golden Hill Memorial Park opened in nearby Colma in 1993 to meet
the demand of Chinese immigrants. It boasts that a feng-shui expert helped with
the design.

In Chinese mythology, feng-shui, which means wind-water, symbolizes the spirits
that inhabit natural landscape. The spirits are said to bring fortune, peace,
longevity and happiness to a person's descendants.

The ultimate burial site is on a high mountain, surrounded by tall cypress and
pine trees, with an ocean view.

Skylawn is perched on a 1,000-foot-high hill overlooking Half Moon Bay and the
Pacific Ocean. Several entrances, fountains and ornamental archways greet
visitors. A top-of-the-line set of four plots at the highest point of Skylawn's
newest cemetery costs as much as a luxury condominium: $ 175,000 to $ 287,000.

But most Chinese settle for more reasonably priced plots. "Eventually, we will
run out of cemetery space in the Colma area," Yee predicts.

Colma, the Bay Area's cemetery central, is conveniently plunked between the
airport and Chinatown.

Thomas and Tina Ng will be among the thousands of Chinese who will honor the
dead today with elaborate incense-burning ceremonies and buffets.

The remains of Tina's father Sik Yong Wong, buried since 1975 in China, were
exhumed, cremated and brought here a year ago to be united with those of his
wife Fang Wah Chung in an 11-plot family site at Hoy Sun Cemetery.

"Now when we visit the cemetery, we can pay our respect to both of them," says
Thomas Ng, 62, a San Francisco fire commissioner. "It's better to pay respect to
the dead ones as a whole family."

LOAD-DATE: November 03, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, b/w, Fred Mertz (3)

THE NATION

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              394 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   November 28, 1995, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Budget impasse could threaten the economy, Greenspan warns

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 408 words


A failure by Congress to reach a balanced budget agreement could lead to a
"sharp increase" in the cost of mortgages and other interest rates, Federal
Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said Monday. "I think the reaction could be
quite negative" in the financial markets, Greenspan said during a Senate banking
committee hearing. Congressional leaders are expected at the White House today
for what could become a first round of talks on terms of a seven-year balanced
budget deal. President Clinton has said he could live with a seven-year plan if
certain priorities, among them Medicare, Medicaid, education and the
environment, are protected.

For months, Republicans have been arguing that failure to work out a budget deal
could hurt financial markets and ultimately raise the cost of borrowing.
Greenspan's comments, made in response to questions by Sen. Pete Domenici,
R-N.M., chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, served to further bolster the
GOP's arguments.

CUBAN IMMIGRATION TALKS: Hundreds of Cubans who have received U.S. visas have
been unable to emigrate because the service fees charged by the Cuban government
are excessive, the State Department said Monday. "We believe these fees should
be reduced," spokesman Nicholas Burns said as U.S. and Cuban officials opened
two days of talks on immigration issues in New York. Before departing for the
United States, each Cuban migrant is required to pay a total of $ 750 for a
medical exam, a passport and an exit visa. A minimum of 20,000 Cubans are
guaranteed U.S. residence visas annually under an agreement reached last year;
Cuba makes about $ 15 million in hard currency from the transactions. Cuba says
the services provided are expensive and the fees are down 15% from the previous
level.

WHITE HOUSE CHRISTMAS: Christmas at the White House unofficially began Monday
afternoon as Hillary Rodham Clinton stepped out on the South Lawn to accept the
family's Christmas tree. This year's tree, an 18 1/2-foot Fraser fir from Ashe
County, N.C., rolled up to the White House on a painted green cart drawn by two
Belgian horses named Fred and Dick. Ron Hudler, who donated the tree, said it
would stay vibrant throughout the holiday season. "It's going to look great.
It's going to smell great, and it's going to last forever," he said. The
Clintons will return from their trip to Europe on Sunday to a transformed White
House, bedecked with trees and holiday ornaments.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD; IN WASHINGTON

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              395 of 395 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

               January 31, 1996, Wednesday, INTERNATIONAL EDITION

U.S. visas the prizes in world lottery

BYLINE: Evelyn Tan Powers

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 319 words


One of the world's most eagerly awaited lotteries is coming up, and 55,000 lucky
people will hit the jackpot.

Their prize is not a pile of money but eligibility to apply for a permanent
resident visa in the USA in 1997.

There is no application fee or special application form. But the lottery,
formally known as the State Department's Diversity Immigrant Visa Program (or
DV-97), isn't open to everyone.

The program resulted from a 1990 law to broaden the range of countries from
which U.S. immigrants are drawn. Thus, people from countries that send many
immigrants to the USA need not apply. Ineligible for 1997:

-- In Asia. China (mainland and Taiwan), India, Philippines, Vietnam, South
Korea.

-- In Europe. United Kingdom (except Northern Ireland). Canada, Mexico, Jamaica,
El Salvador, Colombia, Dominican Republic.

-- In the Americas. Canada, Mexico, Jamaica, El Salvador, Colombia, Dominican
Republic.

Natives of Hong Kong and Northern Ireland are eligible.

An applicant should write on a plain sheet of paper his or her full name (last
name underlined); birthdate and birthplace; name, birthdate and birthplace of
spouse and children; mailing address; and native country (if different from
birthplace).

The application must be signed and accompanied by a recent photo (1 1/2 inches
square) with the applicant's name printed on the back. Entries must be received
between Feb. 12 and March 12 only. Winners will be notified by mail after July
1.

For information, call 202-663-1600, send a fax to 202-647-3000 (code 1103) or
contact a U.S. diplomatic post.

The visa lottery has spawned a cottage industry of "consultants" claiming they
can help people's odds.  But, Richard Loconte of the New York City Department of
Consumer Affairs, says, "The form is simple, (and) we provide information on how
to fill it out. There's not much else that can get you into the lottery better
or faster."

LOAD-DATE: February 06, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Gannett Company, Inc.
