
                               1 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 28, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Arizona's ugly immigration law reflects price of inaction

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 557 words


Rarely does ignoring a pressing problem -- be it medical, financial or that
ka-thunk in your car -- make it go away. And so it is with illegal immigration.

Three years after comprehensive immigration reform collapsed in Congress, the
nation's southern border remains porous. About 10.8 million illegal immigrants
still make the USA their home, and businesses across the nation hire them in
droves. Many states and communities, fed up with Washington's inaction, have
taken immigration enforcement into their own hands -- often with draconian
measures of dubious constitutionality.

The latest, and perhaps ugliest, is the law enacted in Arizona last week that
requires local police to question the legal status of anyone they "reasonably
suspect" of being in this country illegally. That's an open invitation to racial
profiling of Hispanics, and it has set off protests from the Phoenix statehouse
to the U.S. Capitol.

Legal challenges might ultimately overturn the law, but they'll do nothing to
dent the legitimate frustrations behind it. Arizona and other border states bear
the brunt of the nation's failed immigration policies. It's sad, but not
surprising, that 70% of Arizonans favored the law, according to a Rasmussen poll
earlier this month. Even during the recession, illegal immigrants made up nearly
10% of the state's labor force.

Arizona taxpayers spend hundreds of millions of dollars to educate and provide
medical treatment for illegal immigrants and their children. And violence by
smugglers and Mexican drug cartels has reached such proportions that Arizona's
U.S. senators last week called for the National Guard to protect the state's
southern border.

The tool that Arizona lawmakers fashioned to address those problems is crude by
any measure, though not quite as crude as critics claim. It specifically bars
ethnic profiling, and it does not give police authority to stop people
arbitrarily on the street and demand their papers.

But in practice it's hard to believe the law won't lead to harassment of
citizens and legal residents. Rep. Brian Bilbray, R-Calif., suggested on MSNBC
that along with "behavior," police will look at someone's "type of attire ...
right down to the shoes" to determine if they raise suspicions.

Supporters have yet to explain satisfactorily just what will give police
reasonable suspicion that someone they stop, say for a traffic violation, is an
illegal immigrant. And, in fact, one way to stop police questions is to present
some specified form of government ID -- an idea that smacks of having to carry
your "papers" to be safe. But only if you happen to look Hispanic.

Just the prospect of the law, scheduled to take effect in about three months, is
sowing suspicion of police in migrant communities, which could prevent people
from reporting crimes or cooperating with investigations.

And all just because of stubborn opposition in Congress to reasonable
compromise. The outlines of a solution have long been recognized: sealing the
border, sanctioning employers, allowing temporary workers, and providing a path
to citizenship for illegal immigrants already here who work, stay out of trouble
and pay taxes.

Until Washington makes the tough decisions to fix the nation's intolerable,
unjust and mostly ignored immigration system, bad solutions like Arizona's will
just keep on filling the vacuum.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Web Bryant, USA TODAY, Source: Pew Hispanic Center (Bar
graph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 30, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Arizona immigration law steps in right direction

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 511 words


With illegal immigrants coming  to the U.S. from all directions, it's heartening
to see someone, somewhere is fed up and finally going to do something about it
("We're protecting our citizens," Opposing view, Border control debate,
Wednesday).

Sure, special interest groups, friends and relatives of illegal immigrants and
those who support them in any way, such as employers, will strenuously object.
They will demonstrate amid cries of discrimination and racial profiling. But the
fact remains that  something needs to be done.  When Washington continues to
demonstrate an inability to deal with the crisis, isn't it a state's right and
duty to protect its citizens? If the federal government fails  to recognize the
scope of the problem,  then states must take the initiative.

So congratulations to Arizonans.  You have a governor and Legislature with your
best interests at heart.

Jack McDonald

Salt Lake City

Measure is a disgrace

It shames me, a resident of Arizona for 21 years, to think of the  new
immigration law going into effect. It is deplorable that our elected officials
have put this state in a bad light ("Arizona's ugly immigration law reflects
price of inaction," Our view).

Why would people of a different color or  who speak another language want to
come here? The harassment and profiling that are  bound to take place will rot
Arizona into a wild state of disgrace and confusion.  It will lose millions of
dollars from tourism, sporting events and entertainment.

The lawmakers who  voted for this bill should be removed from office in our
coming elections.  We can restore our pride on Election Day. Until that happens,
I will do my part to make sure our people are educated on all the ballot issues.

John Chiazza

Gilbert, Ariz.

Fix immigration system

The immigration debate has once again raised its angry head. The argument is
that immigration laws are broken and need to be fixed. What is broken: the
enforcement of existing laws, controls on the border, immigration courts,
worksite verifications, enforcement and fines, verifiable identification and
work permits, the length and cost of legal immigration, and the number of visas
issued.

We have had seven amnesties, and problems continue.

I work with many immigrants who  legally immigrated and sponsored their
families. My college roommate, a U.S. citizen, can't sponsor her husband of 35
years, an engineer, because in the terrible Michigan economy, she can't prove
financial support, and he can't find employment. But she doesn't cheat and bring
him here illegally. We need to respect those who have followed our immigration
laws while also recognizing the problems that exist in the process.

First, we must fix the problems with our immigration system and enforcement.
Then, we should offer a one-time chance at legal immigration through the
existing legal pathways of family or employer sponsorship.  Employers say the
immigrants do the jobs Americans won't, and families say illegal immigrants have
a right to stay. It is time to  accept responsibility for those beliefs.

Doreen Suran

Bellevue, Wash.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Ross D. Franklin, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 26, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Obama to add 1,200 troops at border;
Guard hike follows GOP push, Ariz. flap

BYLINE: Alan Gomez and Richard Wolf

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 406 words


A month after Arizona passed an immigration law that reignited a national
debate, President Obama is sending up to 1,200 National Guard troops to help
secure the U.S.-Mexico border.

The troops will be a "bridge to longer-term enhancements" on the Southwestern
border, helping with intelligence and surveillance while additional Border
Patrol agents are trained, Obama's national security adviser, James Jones, said
in a letter to Senate Armed Services Chairman Carl Levin, D-Mich.

Obama will also request $500 million for border protection and law enforcement,
Rep. Gabrielle Giffords, D-Ariz., said.

The decision came to light after Obama met with Senate Republicans to discuss
immigration legislation -- a package that could be difficult to pass this year
without Republican support, White House spokesman Bill Burton said.

Asa Hutchinson, the first Homeland Security undersecretary for border security
under President Bush, said, "The numbers that they're going to add will help,
but it's not going to fix the problem."

Frank Sharry of America's Voice, a group that supports tighter borders as well
as a way for illegal immigrants to earn citizenship, said Obama seemingly gave
in to Republican leaders without assurance on more comprehensive immigration
legislation. "Talk about one step forward and two steps back," Sharry said.

Roy Beck of NumbersUSA, a group that wants to reduce legal and illegal
immigration, was pleased but called the action a minimal response and based on
politics.

"I think the White House people are watching the polls and seeing how incredibly
popular the Arizona law is," Beck said. The law requires police to check
immigration status if they suspect that someone they detain is in the country
illegally.

Janet Murguia, president of the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic civil
rights organization, said the decision to focus first on border security rather
than fix immigration law was "deeply disappointing."

Arizona's Republican senators, John McCain and Jon Kyl, pointed to the 6,000
troops President Bush sent in 2006 as an example of the manpower needed.

Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer said Obama's decision is "a very significant and
important shift" in his border-security policy. Brewer, a Republican, said her
signing of the law "clearly ignited the talk of action in Washington for ...
border states." She added, however, that more must be done.

Contributing: Kevin Johnson in Washington, The Arizona Republic.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 9, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Hispanics moving out of Arizona;
Officials: Immigration law makes them unwelcome

BYLINE: Alan Gomez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 364 words


Arizona's tough new immigration enforcement law is fueling an exodus of
Hispanics from the state seven weeks before it goes into effect, according to
officials and residents in the state.

Though no one has precise figures, reports from school officials, businesses and
individuals indicate worried Hispanics are leaving the state in anticipation of
the law, which will go into effect July 29.

Schools in Hispanic areas report unusual drops in enrollment. The Balsz
Elementary School District is 75% Hispanic, and within a month of the law's
passage, the parents of 70 students pulled them out of school, said District
Superintendent Jeffrey Smith. The district lost seven students over the same
period last year, and parents tell Smith the law is the reason for leaving.
"They're leaving to another state where they feel more welcome," he said.

The measure, signed into law April 23 by Republican Gov. Jan Brewer, requires a
police officer to determine people's immigration status if they are stopped,
detained or arrested and there is "reasonable suspicion" they are in the country
illegally.

About 100,000 illegal immigrants left Arizona after the state passed a law in
2007 that enhanced penalties on businesses that hired them, according to the
Department of Homeland Security.

Businesses serving the Hispanic community say business is down, signaling that
illegal immigrants are holding on to cash in anticipation of a move, said David
Castillo, co-founder of the Latin Association of Arizona, a chamber of commerce
for nearly 400 first-generation Hispanic business owners. "It's devastating,"
Castillo said.

Jorge Vargas plans to move to New York because his air-conditioning business
relies mostly on Hispanics. "My business is completely dead," he said.

Juan Carlos Cruz, an illegal immigrant who has worked in plant nurseries for 20
years, plans to move. "If I were alone, I'd try to stay. But I have a family,
and I have to find a place where we can live with more freedom," Cruz said.

Brewer spokesman Paul Senseman said it's difficult to gauge how many people are
leaving because of the law. "If ... fewer people are breaking the law, that is
absolutely an accomplishment," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 12, 2010 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A path to citizenship already exists for immigrants

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 511 words


I am compelled to challenge the assertions in the second-to-last paragraph of
USA TODAY's editorial on Arizona's illegal immigration law.  The editorial
claims that most Americans support a balanced approach that includes a path to
legal status for illegal immigrants. Show me  the data that support this
statement ("Suing Arizona hurts chances for immigration overhaul," Our view,
Immigration debate, Wednesday).

The reason  the so-called balanced law failed a few years ago was because
outraged Americans protested. Most Americans believe illegal immigrants already
have a path to legal status. That path is to return to their home country and go
through the legal process of immigration set forth in our laws.

In the 1980s, we bought the con that amnesty would lead to secure borders.  We
are not buying it again.

Phil Hunt

Phoenix

Profiling already occurs

I support the  U.S. Justice Department filing suit against  Arizona's
immigration law.

I was born in Arizona and have lived in the state for 55 years. I served my
country in the Navy and worked for the U.S. government  before retiring. I have
been  continually harassed at our border patrol checkpoints, including times
when I was  working for the government.

Twice I have been pulled over  for going 57 mph on a 55  mph highway after being
passed by other vehicles with light-skinned drivers. It offends me when this
happens. I am an American of Mexican descent, dark-skinned with a beard.  Do not
tell me that racial profiling will not happen once this law takes effect; it
already has been happening for years.

However, I agree that something has to be done about illegal immigration.  It
needs to be stopped at the border. Then our lands will not be trashed, and we
will be safer in  our homes.

Rudy Ruiz

Hereford, Ariz.

Hooray for Arizona

Since our last shot at "immigration reform" in the mid-1980s, when Washington
granted amnesty to millions of  illegal immigrants and then ignored  its side of
the bargain to prevent more, Congress has adopted a policy equivalent to the
military's "don't ask, don't tell" policy, which basically is "don't make a
stink, and we'll pretend you're not there."

This way, Republicans get cheap labor for their corporate contributors, and
Democrats get their voting bloc.  Both parties could get away with this policy
as long as no one made a stink  about it. Well, now someone has, and the voters
they have taken for granted are saying, "Enough is enough."

Our representatives are showing more concern for the citizens of another nation
than they are their own.

Civil rights groups tell us the law is unfair because it targets Latinos.  Well,
of course it will target Latinos. They are the ones illegally crossing the
border each year. To violate a country's laws, exploit its welfare, educational
and medical systems, and then to complain of unfair treatment is a little
hypocritical, don't you think?

I say "Hooray!" for Arizona. At least the people of one state  have grown tired
of waiting for Washington to do what it was created to do -- serve America.

Greg Huskey

Escondido, Calif.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Ross D. Franklin, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 26, 2010 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Mexico gears up for Ariz. law;
Shelters brace for deportees, many migrants thinking twice

BYLINE: Chris Hawley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 708 words


MEXICO CITY -- The other side of the border is also preparing for the
implementation of Arizona's new immigration law, which could lead to a surge of
deportees back to Mexico.

Migrant shelters along the border in Mexico say they're bracing for new arrivals
after the law goes into effect Thursday.

Mexico's government has added more workers to its consulate in Phoenix to assist
detained Mexicans. Migrants who have been deported say they're watching to see
how the law is enforced before deciding whether to try again to cross the border
illegally into Arizona.

"On the plane, everybody was talking about the law," said Ernesto Gonzalez, a
deportee who arrived here last week on a U.S. government flight from Tucson.
"Everybody knows it's coming."

Arizona's law makes it a state crime to be in the country illegally. It requires
police to check a person's immigration status when the person has been involved
in another offense and the officer has reasonable cause to suspect the person is
in the country illegally. The check can be made only during the course of a
lawful police action, such as a traffic stop or investigation of a crime.

The law also allows Arizona citizens to sue police departments if they feel the
new law is not being enforced -- a provision related to so-called "sanctuary
cities," where local government officials refuse to enforce
anti-illegal-immigration laws.

The Obama administration and several rights groups have sued to stop the law
from taking effect. The Mexican government has filed a "friend of the court"
brief supporting the lawsuits.

In Nogales, Sonora, the state shelter for migrant children added 50 beds to the
100 it already had, Director Maria Isabel Arvizu said. The San Juan Bosco
shelter in Nogales also is expecting more migrants, Director Francisco Loureiro
said.

"All of us are getting ready for people to come back," Arvizu said.

The Mexican Foreign Ministry declined to comment on preparations for the law.
But El Universal newspaper reported that the consulate in Phoenix increased its
consular-protection staff from eight to 11 and is distributing pamphlets to
inform Mexicans about the law.

Across Mexico, radio talk shows, blogs and the news media have turned Arizona
Gov. Jan Brewer into a household name.

On Friday, a morning show on Televisa aired a comedy skit in which an actor
dressed as Brewer rampages through Mexico City with a stun gun, zapping people.
The country's newspapers have been running articles daily about the legal battle
over the law.

Academics in Mexico say they are paying attention to the Arizona law and similar
proposals in other U.S. states, said Victor Manuel Sanchez, a researcher at the
Latin American Faculty of Social Sciences, a graduate school in Mexico City.

"It's going to have an effect on the ways people migrate," Sanchez said.

The Mexican government has also made changes to its own immigration laws after
some rights groups, such as Amnesty International, claimed it was mistreating
illegal immigrants in its country.

This month, Mexico increased the punishment for migrant smugglers from a maximum
of 12 years in prison to 16 years.

And the Mexican Interior Ministry said it will step up efforts to protect
migrants here in response to a report by the United Nations that accused Mexico
police of robbing migrants and extorting bribes from them.

However, Mexico retains Article 67, a law that requires local Mexican
authorities to check the immigration papers of all foreigners who come to them
for help.

Many Mexicans coming off the deportation flight here  last week said the risk of
being punished as criminals under the Arizona law was making them think twice
about trying to get back into the state.

"I think people are going to think harder about it and decide not to risk it
because it's scary to think that you'll be tried as a criminal and they'll want
to put you in jail," said Francisco Juarez, who jumped a border fence into
Arizona on Tuesday and was caught minutes later by the Border Patrol.

Others, though, said nothing would stop them. "My wife is up there. My whole
life is up there," said Efren de la Paz, 34. "Of course I'm going to try again."

Contributing: Sergio Solache.

Hawley is Latin America

correspondent for USA TODAY

and The Arizona Republic.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Ross D. Franklin, AP
PHOTO, B/W, Sergio Solache, USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Sergio Solache, USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: WORLD

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 5, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Let's hope nation will fend off threats to civil liberties

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 414 words


U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton's recent ruling involving Arizona's new
immigration law  will certainly end up in the U.S. Supreme Court  ("Ariz.
reactions range from relief to rage," News, July 29).

It is disturbing and disconcerting that issues involving civil liberties in this
country, such as immigration and gay marriage, are causing so much hatred,
prejudice and division.

Our Founding Fathers drafted the Constitution to protect  American citizens from
threats to their civil liberties that at the time were mainly from external
sources. Let's hope we can count on the wisdom and foresight of these same
Founding Fathers, and the rights guaranteed in our Constitution, to now protect
us from ourselves.

Jay A. Mercier

Sunny Isles Beach, Fla.

Attack issue at its source

In his piece "The crisis is real," Dan Stein, president of the Federation for
American Immigration Reform, is quick to point out how much illegal immigration
costs, but he isn't placing the blame where it belongs (Opposing view, Arizona
law debate, Friday).

I wonder how many white-collar  workers have lost their jobs to illegal
immigrants. Now, by comparison how many have lost their jobs to outsourcing to
countries such as India  or Indonesia? I'm guessing a lot. The immigration
debate is a smoke screen for where jobs are really going.

If you want to end illegal immigration, simply revoke the business license of
any employer hiring  illegal immigrants. It's that simple.  Of course, many of
those business owners are conservative Republicans, so I don't see that
happening soon. The debate is just window dressing.

Christopher Klein

Cottage Grove, Ore.

Secure the border

A majority of good Americans  seem to be frustrated that their voices are not
being heard -- yet. However, we will be present at the November elections.

I do not have any prejudice toward  Latinos, but I do object to the lack of
immigration reform by our politicians in both parties. I also am tired of the
"race card" being used  regarding illegal immigration.  What part of  the word
"illegal" do many people not understand? Illegal involves doing something
against the law; it's not about being a particular race or having a certain skin
color.

President Obama could have  secured the borders and forged the reform that we
all want.  Instead, the federal government filed a lawsuit against Arizona. We
all know that Obama is looking for Latino votes in November and beyond, rather
than doing right by the majority.

Peter Schor

Lincoln, Calif.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Mark Ralston, AFP/Getty Images

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

High court rule on immigration?

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 141 words


Our Twitter followers shared their thoughts on whether the Supreme Court should
uphold Arizona's immigration law. Comments edited for clarity and grammar.

The Supreme Court should uphold Judge Bolton's decision to block parts of
SB107, which allows Arizona authorities to arrest anyone suspected of being an
illegal immigrant. Immigration is a federal jurisdiction.

--@arizonascge

Yes. Immigrants should come in the country legally.

-- @slimpickens2916

The federal government isn't doing anything  to stop illegal immigration, so the
states that are the most impacted by it should. California won't do anything,
though; they seem to love illegal immigrants.

--@lgs612

No, Arizona's law  does not help resolve the reason immigrants  are coming here
illegally in the first place.

-- @Chasapple

Join us next week @USATOpinion for another Twitter discussion.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 24, 2012 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Justices to consider Arizona's tough illegal-immigration law;
Case's outcome could affect Nov. elections

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 929 words


Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer said she didn't know what she was starting when she
signed her name to the state's landmark immigration bill roughly two years ago.

"I knew that it was going to be momentous -- but to this extent, I had no
realization," Brewer said.

On Wednesday, the Republican governor  will be sitting in the gallery of the
U.S. Supreme Court as the justices consider the fate of Arizona Senate Bill
1070,  which was considered the toughest state immigration enforcement law to
date and served as the blueprint for five other states that followed suit the
next year.

Supporters of the law say it was necessary because the federal government has
failed to control the influx of illegal immigrants into the country, forcing
states such as Arizona to grapple with the security concerns and high costs of
educating and caring for illegal immigrants.

Opponents say it unfairly criminalizes otherwise law-abiding people,  opens the
door for racial profiling of Hispanics legally in the country and forces state
law enforcement to interfere with the intricacies of federal immigration policy.

The Supreme Court's ruling, expected in June, could have far-reaching effects on
the future of state efforts to combat illegal immigration, the daily lives of
the nation's 11 million illegal immigrants and, to some degree, the outcome of
November's presidential election.

"This is the most important immigration case in a generation," said Warren
Stewart, senior pastor at the First Institutional Baptist Church in Phoenix.

The case is the culmination of growing frustration in states over the inability
of Washington to agree on a way to handle the country's illegal immigrants.
That has resulted in a complex web of state laws -- some attempting to drive
illegal immigrants out of their states, and some embracing them.

A June court ruling  will raise the immigration debate just as the presidential
debate kicks into the home stretch.  With  Obama's re-election campaign and the
Republican Party both launching their Hispanic outreach programs last week to
reach an expected 12 million Hispanic voters, the ruling could energize voters
on one, or both, sides of the debate.

Obama has called the Arizona law "misguided" and his Department of Justice sued
the state, starting the current legal battle, in which the Supreme Court will
rule on four portions of the law that were blocked by a federal judge. Mitt
Romney, the former Massachusetts governor and likely GOP presidential nominee,
has embraced some of Arizona's efforts to combat illegal immigration and adopted
the Arizona-inspired idea of making life so difficult for illegal immigrants
that they choose to "self-deport."

A victory in Arizona v. United States would solidify either candidate's
argument.

"It will be a seismic shift in the Latino community," said Angela Kelley of the
Center for American Progress, which opposes the Arizona law. "It will be known
to every Latino in this country."

Bob Dane of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which supports
Arizona's law, said a victory for the U.S. government  would be a tragic
endorsement of Obama's "we won't and you can't" immigration policy and fire up
supporters of the state efforts.

"That will weigh heavily on voters' minds," Dane said.

The law's stated goal for the roughly 400,000 illegal immigrants living in
Arizona is "attrition through enforcement" and aims to "discourage and deter the
unlawful entry and presence of aliens." The law expanded the requirements for
local and state police to check the immigration status of people, and created
new state crimes punishing illegal immigrants.

Immediately after the law's passage, an untold number of illegal immigrants fled
the state. Protests sprang up from Phoenix to Chicago and the state was
boycotted by a  variety of entities.

Despite the vocal criticism, the law was viewed favorably by the people most
closely affected by it: Arizonans. Sixty-four percent of residents  supported
the law, according to a Rasmussen poll conducted shortly after the bill was
signed into law.

National polls also showed that a majority of Americans, 55%, supported
Arizona's efforts,  according to a Quinnipiac University poll taken shortly
after the law was passed.

Still, Carlos Garcia, a 29-year-old native of Mexico who lives in Phoenix, said
the portions of the law that went into effect, combined with those passed before
it, have created a culture of fear in the state for both legal and illegal
immigrants.

Garcia is a U.S. citizen, but he says most of his relatives are illegal
immigrants. In the two years since the remaining portions of SB 1070 went into
effect,  four of his relatives have been arrested -- two have been deported, two
remain in the country.

"There's this perception that everything is OK because 1070 is enjoined, but
people continue to be racially profiled, continue to be detained, continue to be
deported," Garcia said.

Arizona officials, including Brewer, have long insisted that SB 1070 is not an
attack on Hispanics. The bill's authors have pointed out that the law  prohibits
officers from engaging in racial profiling, and Brewer said she went to great
lengths to ensure that the law did not violate any civil rights.

"I was born in the Southwest. I grew up in the Southwest, and anybody that has
lived here knows what diversity is. It's not like all of a sudden we wake up one
day and we're bigots," Brewer said. "We go to school with a diverse population,
in our churches, they marry into our families. But if you want to shut down
debate, what do you do? You throw out the race card."

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'A mixed message';
In Arizona's wake, states vow to forge ahead with new laws

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, Richard Wolf, Dennis Cauchon and Chuck Raasch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2154 words


The Supreme Court's split ruling Monday on Arizona's controversial immigration
law did nothing to settle the debate -- providing little clarity on how far
states can go to police their borders and solidifying the topic as a key
election-year issue.

The court, in Arizona v. United States, upheld a key provision that requires
state and local police to check the immigration status of people they've stopped
or detained if a "reasonable suspicion" exists that they're in the country
illegally. Though this pillar of the law survived the federal government's
challenge, the courts are likely to see it again once it is fully implemented.

The justices, in a 5-3 vote, struck down three other provisions that created new
state crimes targeting illegal immigrants, arguing that Arizona had usurped
federal authority in the area of immigration enforcement.

The court battle pitted Arizona's Republican Gov. Jan Brewer, who signed the
immigration bill into law two years ago, against President Obama, whose Justice
Department sued the state to block it. Both Brewer and Obama claimed victory,
suggesting just how difficult it will be to reach a consensus on how local
police can approach, question and arrest the country's 11 million illegal
immigrants.

"The Supreme Court has really sent us a mixed message," said Arizona state Sen.
Steve Gallardo, a Democrat and opponent of the bill.

Brewer said the "heart of the bill" was upheld, and state legislators around the
country sounded emboldened, arguing that the ruling will not only help similar
laws survive constitutional challenges but will lead to more laws when state
legislatures reconvene in January.

Janet Murguia, president of the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic civil
rights group, said the court upheld the "heart of the problem." But activists
held out hope that because the majority of the law was gutted, similar laws
across the country -- or those under consideration -- will suffer a similar
fate.

As other states targeting illegal immigration sort out the legal fallout from
the ruling, the decision swiftly moved into the political realm as Obama and
presumptive Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney weighed in.

The president said he remained "concerned about the practical impact of the
remaining provision" and that it could open the door for racial profiling. In
fact, Obama's Department of Justice announced late Monday that it had set up a
telephone hotline and e-mail address to field reports of civil right complaints
when the law goes into effect, which will happen after a federal injunction is
lifted.

Romney said the ruling underscores how Obama has failed to develop a national
immigration strategy that does not force states to fend for themselves: "This
represents yet another broken promise by the president."

The political heat will only increase on Thursday when the justices are expected
to issue another highly anticipated ruling on the president's health care law.

The Arizona ruling follows Obama's decision  this month to halt the deportation
of young illegal immigrants who were brought to the United States as children.
The decision affects an estimated 800,000 people.

Although Arizona officers will soon begin the immigration checks of people in
the state, Department of Homeland Security officials said Monday that it simply
won't take action in many cases brought forward by the state.

Homeland Security has established a priority list of illegal immigrants they
target for removal, including people who are threats to national security,
people with dangerous criminal records and repeat border-crossers. If Arizona
officers start calling for immigration checks of people who don't fall in line
with those priorities, DHS won't pick them up or initiate deportation
proceedings against them, said a senior DHS official who spoke on condition of
anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly.

Other states see vindication

After Arizona passed SB 1070 in 2010, GOP-led legislatures in five other states
-- Alabama, Georgia, Indiana, South Carolina and Utah --  followed its lead in
2011 by passing similar laws.  Portions of all of those laws were blocked by
lower courts, and efforts in other states stalled during state legislative
sessions this year.

While both opponents and supporters of state-led immigration crackdowns said
Monday's ruling will help their causes, legal experts weren't so sure.

Catherine Gage O'Grady, a law professor at Arizona State University's Sandra Day
O'Connor College of Law, said the court did not give a full-throated endorsement
of the portion of Arizona's law that it upheld. Instead, the court said that
part of the law needs to go into effect before courts can get a sense of how it
will be used.

"All the court did was say that the timing of this is such and the language of
the statute is such that we cannot say on its face that it is pre-empted (by
federal law)," O'Grady said.

State legislators supportive of the Arizona law say the portion that survived
will help their laws withstand court challenges.

In Alabama,  the House majority leader, Republican Rep. Micky Hammon, said the
"real teeth of Arizona's law" survived,  meaning their law, and others like it,
should be just fine.

Georgia's Republican Gov. Nathan Deal echoed that sentiment. "It appears the
court has upheld the major thrust of our state's statute: that states have the
right to assist in enforcing federal immigration law," Deal said in a statement.

Legislators eager to enact their own laws to fight the tide of illegal
immigration saw hope in Monday's ruling.

"The decision reaffirms our position that we do have a place in this debate,"
said Pennsylvania state Rep. Daryl Metcalfe, the Republican founder of State
Legislators for Legal Immigration. "We do have a right to protect our citizens
from the illegal alien invasion."

Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach, who helped Arizona and other states write
their immigration laws, said the arrest provision in Arizona's law was the most
important one. He said Arizona-style legislation could be passed in states such
as Kansas, Mississippi, Missouri, Nebraska and Pennsylvania.

"The arrest provision does all the heavy lifting in the law," Kobach said. "This
removes the uncertainty   for state legislators. And once you remove the
uncertainty, that's when the ball gets rolling."

That buoyant reaction confused groups that have been fighting immigration laws
in Arizona and elsewhere.

Murguia,  of La Raza,  said the opinion left the door "wide open" for more
lawsuits as the law goes into effect and immigrants -- both legal and illegal --
are improperly detained by police. Implementation of the law could lead to
lawsuits challenging the way it is enforced.

"I don't see how any reasonably minded state legislator could see this decision
as a green light," Murguia said. "(The justices) have done everything but put a
giant stop sign for other states. It seems like a hard stop and a warning to
states to advance at their own peril."

Kobach disagreed, noting that Arizona's law spells out clearly that racial
profiling is forbidden. So if a "bad apple" officer breaks that portion of the
law, that officer will face legal consequences, not the law itself, he says.

Inside the decision

The court upheld Section 2(B) of Arizona's law -- the arrest provision --  8-0,
with Justice Elena Kagan recusing herself  because of her work as solicitor
general under President Obama.

"It is well established that state and local officers generally have authority
to make stops and arrests for violations of federal criminal laws," Justice
Samuel Alito wrote in his dissent. "I see no reason why this principle should
not apply to immigration crimes as well."

But Justice Anthony Kennedy made it clear in the majority opinion that the court
was not completely endorsing the section.

"At this stage, without the benefit of a definitive interpretation from the
state courts, it would be inappropriate to assume (Section 2(B)) will be
construed in a way that creates a conflict with federal law,"  Kennedy wrote.

The other three sections were struck down for different reasons.  Chief Justice
John Roberts and Justices Stephen Breyer, Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Sonia
Sotomayor concurred with all of Kennedy's majority opinion.

Section 3 of the law made it a state crime if illegal immigrants did not possess
federal registration cards.

Arizona officials argued that they were simply mirroring federal law with the
section, but the justices felt the state delved too deeply into federal
responsibilities.

"The federal registration framework remains comprehensive," Kennedy wrote.
"Because Congress occupied the field, even complementary state regulation is
impermissible."

Arizona legislators targeted day laborers with Section 5(c) of the law, which
made it a state crime for illegal immigrants to work, apply for work or solicit
work in any way.

Congress over the years has passed laws targeting employers who knowingly hire
illegal immigrants, and the justices felt those laws reflected a conscious
decision that it would be "inappropriate to impose criminal penalties on
unauthorized employees."

Section 6 of the law allowed state and local police to arrest illegal immigrants
without a warrant when probable cause exists that they committed "any public
offense that makes the person removable from the United States." In that case,
the justices found that "the federal scheme instructs when it is appropriate to
arrest an alien during the removal process."

Speaking generally about the powers of a state to police its own borders,
Justice Antonin Scalia wrote in a spirited 22-page dissent, "We are not talking
about a federal law prohibiting the States from regulating bubble-gum
advertising, or even the construction of nuclear plants. We are talking about a
federal law going to the core of state sovereignty: the power to exclude."

How to enforce the law

Though the first round of court battles ended Monday, the focus now will shift
to how the remaining provision is implemented.

The "reasonable suspicion" provision has drawn criticism from immigration-rights
groups, who say it would usher in state-sanctioned harassment and profiling.

Karen Tumlin, managing attorney for the National Immigration Law Center, which
has filed lawsuits against Arizona's law, called it a "state policy of
immigration inquisitions" and said it will put state law officers in untenable
positions.

"There is no way to determine on sight and sound who has a right to be in this
country and who does not," Tumlin said.

Police officials in Arizona said they've already been enforcing portions of SB
1070 that were allowed to stand, and they've been preparing for full
implementation for two years.

Cochise County (Ariz.) Sheriff Larry Dever said many in police management and in
city governments in his state had opposed the law, but that "the rank and file,
the guys on the street, supported it wholeheartedly."

Dever said that "this whole racial profiling thing is an insult to the
profession. We don't tolerate it today, and this law doesn't change any of
that."

Brian Livingston, executive director of the Arizona Police Association,
concurred, saying that most police forces had already implemented
"show-your-papers" guidelines and had provided training in how to enforce the
part of the law.

"You just can't pluck someone off the street and say, 'Show me your papers,'"
Livingston said. "That has been a fallacy from the beginning, and thankfully it
was not in the law."

But some worried about the difficulty officers will have in determining who is
legally in the country and who is not.

"There is a body of case law defining what constitutes reasonable suspicion in
other contexts, but no such guidance exists regarding illegal immigrants, and SB
1070 does not define the term," Tucson Police Chief Roberto Villasenor said. "We
are in uncharted territory."

Contributing: Alia Beard Rau  of The Arizona Republic; Erin Kelly of the Gannett
Washington Bureau

---

The fine print on what the high court struck down:

Green cards

Makes it a state crime if illegal immigrants do not possess their federal
registration cards.

Applying for jobs

Makes it a state crime for illegal immigrants to work, apply for work or solicit
work in any way, including making a "gesture or nod" indicating they are looking
for work.

No warrant needed

Allows state and local police to arrest illegal immigrants without a warrant
when probable cause exists that they committed "any public offense that makes
the person removable from the United States."

Provision allowed to stand:

Check immigration status

Section 2(B) requires state and local police to perform roadside immigration
checks of people they've stopped or detained if a "reasonable suspicion" exists
that they are in the country illegally.

What is next?

Section 2(B), which has not yet been tested in the field because of a federal
injunction, could be challenged again in state or federal courts.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Julie Snider, USA TODAY (Map)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 27, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Boycotts of immigration law add up;
Arizona tourism and hospitality officials worry about its impact

BYLINE: Roger Yu

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 347 words


Many officials in Arizona's tourism and hospitality industry fear that the
state's new immigration law is anything but hospitable.

Hotel owners, tour operators and convention executives say the law could
discourage visitors and companies from meeting there at a time when one of the
state's vital industries already is suffering.

The law, signed by Gov. Jan Brewer last week, makes it a misdemeanor to not
prove lawful U.S. residence when asked to provide such documentation.

Already there are ramifications and threats:

*The American Immigration Lawyers Association notified JW Marriott in Scottsdale
that it's canceling a meeting of about 300 scheduled for later this year. George
Tzamaras, an association spokesman, says, "We didn't feel it was appropriate to
have a meeting in (the) state."

*Rep. Raul Grijalva, D-Ariz., has called for an economic boycott by businesses
that would locate in his state or visitors who would meet there.

*Janet Murguia, head of the National Council of La Raza, the nation's largest
Hispanic civil rights group, says she's considering "economic actions that can
be taken."

*Asian American Hotel Owners Association, whose members own about 40% of U.S.
hotels, want lawmakers to reconsider, says Ash Patel, the group's former
chairman who owns several hotels in Arizona. "(Hotel owners) are very afraid
right now," he says.

Arizona has felt the effect of a boycott before. The state lost about 170
conventions from 1990 to 1993 from boycotts because of the state's failure to
approve a Martin Luther King Jr. holiday.

Debbie Johnson, CEO of Arizona Hotel & Lodging Association, says her members are
"deeply concerned."

Brewer says tourism in her state was affected before the law, however. The
governor "is deeply concerned that the federal failure to secure our border has
already harmed our tourism industry," Brewer spokesman Paul Senseman wrote in an
e-mail.

Some business travelers, such as management consultant Randy Jones who's there
often, say they welcome the law. "If anything," he says, "Arizona's position
will cause me to go there more frequently."

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 28, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Mexico issues travel alert over new Arizona immigration law;
Cautions citizens about 'negative' environment

BYLINE: Kevin Johnson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 529 words


Usually the subject of global travel warnings because of rampant, drug-fueled
violence, Mexico issued an unusual alert Tuesday to Mexican citizens in Arizona.
The country warned that the state's adoption of a strict immigration enforcement
law has created "a negative political environment for migrant communities and
for all Mexican visitors."

"It must be assumed that every Mexican citizen may be harassed and questioned
without further cause at any time," the Mexican Foreign Ministry said in a
statement issued Tuesday.

The government missive is escalating an already volatile debate on the measure
signed by Republican Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer, who said the law was necessary
because the federal government has failed to address persistent illegal
immigration.

"Arizona law simply regulates immigration the same way that federal law and
federal authorities currently regulate," Brewer spokesman Paul Senseman said,
responding to the Mexican government's alert. "It seems misguided to be angry
exclusively with Arizona. Racial profiling is specifically written in the state
law to be illegal."

The law continued to draw threats of boycotts, while Attorney General Eric
Holder suggested the federal government could launch its own legal challenge and
that the measure was subject to "potential abuse."

Supporters, meanwhile, say the measure was overdue to deal with Arizona's
illegal immigrants, which number about 460,000, state records show. The law
gives local police unprecedented authority to identify and detain suspects if
they have reasonable suspicion that the suspects are in the U.S. illegally.

"Arizona has crossed the threshold of its tolerance," said Paul Babeu, a strong
supporter of the law and sheriff of Pinal County, located in the heavily
traveled smuggling corridor between Phoenix and Tucson. "We can no longer afford
to do nothing. Where is the outrage?"

Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz, appearing Tuesday on CBS' Early Show, described the
illegal immigration problem in his state as "the worst I've ever seen."

"The (new) law," McCain said, "is a response to the president and the
administration's failure to secure our borders." McCain, who is in the midst of
a difficult re-election campaign, is a one-time co-author of legislation that
offered illegal immigrants a path to citizenship.

On the other side, critics voiced their opposition. In San Francisco, City
Attorney Dennis Herrera called on municipal leaders to boycott Arizona
businesses. "Arizona has charted an ominous legal course that puts extremist
politics before public safety, and betrays our most deeply held American
values," Herrera said in a statement.

In Washington, Department of Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano
questioned the law's legality. "The first thing to be done is for the Justice
Department to determine whether the law is constitutional," she told the Senate
Judiciary Committee. The alert issued by the Mexican government came a day after
Mexican President Felipe Calderon condemned the law as discriminatory.

Although the law does not take effect for more than 90 days, Mexico urged its
citizens to carry "available documentation ... (to) avoid needless
confrontation."

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Scott Olson, Getty Images
PHOTO, B/W, Spencer Platt, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 30, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Arizona immigration crackdown raises flags;
Poll: Americans' opinions split as first lawsuits filed

BYLINE: Kevin Johnson and Joan Biskupic

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 448 words


The first lawsuits in a planned wave of legal challenges to the controversial
Arizona immigration law were filed Thursday in Phoenix and Tucson, as a volatile
national debate stretched from street protests to the courts.

A new Gallup Poll, meanwhile, shows 39% of Americans support the law, 30% oppose
it, and 31% have not heard of it or have no opinion of the measure, which grants
police unprecedented authority to question and detain suspected illegal
immigrants. The telephone survey of 1,013 adults taken Tuesday and Wednesday has
a margin of error of +/-4 percentage points.

A week after the measure was signed into law, a national consortium of Latino
churches and a Tucson police officer sued to try to stop it from taking effect.
Three other activist groups announced plans to file legal challenges.

In Phoenix, the National Coalition of Latino Clergy and Christian Leaders said
the new law illegally interferes with the federal government's immigration
enforcement responsibilities and would spur "racial discrimination."

"This law sanctions police officers to use racial profiling in dealing with the
immigrant community," says Miguel Rivera, chairman of the coalition, which
represents 300 churches in Arizona.

In Tucson, city patrol officer Martin Escobar charged that provisions for police
to question suspects about their immigration status "would seriously impede law
enforcement investigations."

University of Texas law professor Sanford Levinson said challengers could make a
strong argument that the state overreached because "the feds have exclusive
jurisdiction over matters of immigration."

Paul Senseman, a spokesman for Republican Gov. Jan Brewer, who signed the law,
said it should stand because it "was designed to mirror existing federal law and
to specifically prevent racial profiling."

The legal challenges were only one front in an emotional debate that reaches far
beyond Arizona. Texas state Republican Rep. Debbie Riddle has said she would
sponsor a comparable bill to combat illegal immigration in her state; support
for a similar bill surfaced in Oklahoma. Elsewhere on Thursday:

*The Denver public school system banned work-related travel to Arizona to
protest the law.

*Opponents of the law in Chicago protested at Wrigley Field, where the Arizona
Diamondbacks opened a series with the hometown Cubs.

*In Washington, Senate Democratic leaders unveiled a proposal that, in part,
would add federal agents to the Southwestern border. President Obama called it
"a very important step in the process of fixing our nation's broken immigration
system."

*Colombian singer Shakira met with Phoenix Mayor Phil Gordon to lend her
celebrity to the campaign opposing the law.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Scott Olson, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 26, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Police coalition challenges Ariz.;
Chiefs say law is too divisive

BYLINE: Kevin Johnson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 383 words


WASHINGTON -- About a dozen major-city police chiefs will meet today with
Attorney General Eric Holder to oppose the controversial Arizona immigration law
that they fear could drive a wedge between the community and local law
enforcement.

The police coalition -- including officials from Phoenix, Tucson, Houston, Los
Angeles, Minneapolis, Philadelphia and Salt Lake City -- represents the largest
group of officers to speak against the measure, set to take effect July 29.

"This law is the culmination of a very broken immigration system," Phoenix
Police Chief Jack Harris said. "It doesn't fix the immigration problem, it only
diverts our scarce resources."

"All of us ... are opposed to this," Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck said,
adding that the law will likely discourage witnesses and victims of crimes from
cooperating with police. "This bill breaks the trust with our communities."

Five federal lawsuits challenging the law have been filed since Gov. Jan Brewer,
a Republican, signed the measure last month. Holder is weighing a similar
lawsuit on behalf of the federal government.

Brewer spokesman Paul Senseman said other law enforcement officials have
"expressed their strong support for the new law."

Pinal County, Ariz., Sheriff Paul Babeu, a supporter of the law and president of
the Arizona Sheriffs' Association, said his law enforcement colleagues should be
"preparing to implement the law" rather than meeting with Holder.

"We wouldn't have to do this if the federal government had done its job," says
Babeu, a supporter of the measure.

Justice Department spokeswoman Tracy Schmaler said it is "important" for the
attorney general to hear the police officials' concerns.

"Putting local law enforcement in the cross hairs of illegal immigration is just
bad business," San Jose Police Chief Rob Davis said.

The Arizona law requires local police to determine the immigration status of a
person during a stop, detention or arrest if "reasonable suspicion" exists that
the person is unlawfully in the U.S.

There are an estimated 460,000 illegal immigrants in Arizona, state records
show.

Babeu says Holder and President Obama should be "ashamed of themselves" for
suggesting that the new law would encourage police to engage in racial
profiling.

"Racial profiling is against the law," he says.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 1, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Groups vow to scrutinize enforcement of Ariz. law

BYLINE: Alan Gomez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 493 words


When Arizona's new immigration law goes into effect next month, every
immigration check performed by the state's 16,000 officers will be under a
microscope.

The law requires an officer to determine a person's immigration status if they
are stopped, detained or arrested and there is "reasonable suspicion" they are
in the country illegally.

Organizations, such as the League of United Latin American Citizens, say they
will be ready to sue immediately if they feel citizens were questioned
improperly.

To head off such issues, a group of a dozen people are poring through court
opinions and researching identity documents to establish training for each of
the state's police officers.

Lyle Mann, director of the Arizona Peace Officer Standards and Training Board,
said each department will receive a video, handouts and a brochure that explains
the basics of identity documents such as passports and green cards.

An agency can expand the training with a talk by its chief, sheriff or legal
adviser.

Mann said officers will be trained to identify illegal immigrants in the same
way they develop reasonable suspicion for any other criminal offense -- by
piecing together different factors.

"Officers live reasonable suspicion every day," Mann said.

He used the example of a routine traffic stop in which the driver lowers the
window and the smell of marijuana smoke is present. The person was pulled over
on a reasonable suspicion of speeding, but the smell of marijuana created a
reasonable suspicion that the person has drugs.

"That's no different than the process that an officer will go through with the
question of (suspects) being in the country legally or illegally," Mann said.

Hipolito Acosta, who used to oversee Latin America for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, said there are many small factors that can be used to
reach that reasonable suspicion:

*A person wearing many layers of clothing on a hot day in Phoenix could indicate
he just crossed the border in the desert, where it gets very cold at night,
Acosta said.

*A person acting nervously and avoiding eye contact during a simple traffic
offense.

*Children present in a house under a search warrant who are not going to school
and are not related to the adults in the house.

*A person who inexplicably runs when an officer approaches a gathering of day
laborers.

"Individuals in the country legally are not going to be afraid of a law
enforcement officer approaching," said Acosta, who is helping Arizona develop
its training program.

Critics of the law, including the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic civil
rights group, argue that officers will undoubtedly use people's appearance to
create a reasonable suspicion.

Police officials say it's insulting to think that all officers will racially
profile.

"Will there be a rogue cop out there who wants to racially profile? That may be
true," Mann said. "But he or she will be treated like anyone else who fails to
follow policy or procedure."

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 14, 2010 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Proof that Ariz. law is working

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 238 words


Could Arizona's immigration law be considered one of the most effective laws
ever at deterring crime  ("Hispanics moving out of Arizona,"  News, Wednesday)?
It appears illegal immigrants are leaving.

This  means a measurable reduction of all the adverse effects of their presence
-- surging education, health care, law enforcement and other public service
costs. These costs are disproportionately borne by legal, taxpaying citizens.
Now, if  all  the other states could do likewise, and the federal government
would carry out its responsibilities, we could see a mass exodus of people
returning to their countries of origin, not just Hispanics.

Dwight Albers

Conroe, Texas

We need a leader

Hooray for Mitt Romney, he's right on target ("We need a leader, not a
politician," The Forum, Thursday).

President Obama's performance over the past 56 days clearly shows what happens
when a speechmaker with no leadership experience and few leadership skills is
elected to lead our country.  Obama is great at making speeches, making promises
and blaming others for his administration's failures. Now he's  in a situation
that he's not capable of solving with another speech or another empty promise.
So how is he spending his time? He's talking to experts to figure out whose ass
to kick. Romney understands what it takes to be a leader: action, not talk. It's
too bad we don't have a real leader in the White House.

Thomas Rice

Lady Lake, Fla.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 15, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Schools unsure of new law;
When can officers check Ariz. students' immigration status?

BYLINE: Alan Gomez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 548 words


Arizona's  immigration law that goes into effect next month has some school and
law enforcement officials wondering whether students being sent to detention
face the possibility of being deported.

There is no clear line that will determine when school resource officers (SRO)
-- police officers or sheriff's deputies assigned to work in schools -- can
investigate a student's immigration status under the new law.

The law requires an officer to determine a person's immigration status if they
are stopped, detained or arrested and there is "reasonable suspicion" they are
in the U.S. illegally.

Many school officials agree that a student who brings a gun to school, is caught
with drugs, threatens the life of a teacher or is involved in gang activity is
committing a serious crime and can have their immigration status checked by
police.

"If somebody does something bad and gets arrested on campus, it's out of our
hands," said Craig Pletenik, spokesman for the Phoenix Union High School
District.

Issues such as school fights and petty thefts are less clear.

Rusty Taylor, principal of Valley Union High School in Elfrida,  35 miles from
the Mexican border, said he's required to call in police if blood is drawn
during a fight.

Lt. Tamatha Villar, who commands the SRO program for the Pinal County Sheriff's
Office, said her district usually handles fights in-house, but that can change
if a parent wants to press charges.

"Obviously, if a parent comes in after the fact and says, 'I want this other
student arrested,' at that point, the school doesn't have a choice any longer,"
Villar said.

Officials at the Phoenix Union High School District, where 78% of the 25,000
students are Hispanic, are telling students and parents that school resource
officers won't wander the halls checking immigration or citizenship papers.

"We're doing that to put the community at ease, so the students and parents
don't think they'll come to school and be turned over" to Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, Pletenik said.

Taylor has told his students that he does not have a duty to report students he
suspects of being here illegally. He's not sure what to tell them about police
in the school.

"Once I invite that officer into my school and he suspects something, does he
have the authority to ask?" Taylor said. "It's a very good question. I guess
theoretically they could."

The Arizona Peace Officer Standards and Training Board is developing training
for the state's 16,000 law enforcement officers to prepare them for July 29,
when the law goes into effect. Executive Director Lyle Mann said the training
will not cover the specifics of handling students and the role of school
resource officers.

"We decided that unique situations such as SRO is too problematic and the issues
too specific (to be) included in a statewide training program," Mann said in an
e-mail.

The state Department of Education has also not provided any guidelines. "It's
the school's decision on how they handle their school resource officers," said
spokeswoman Amy Rezzonico.

Sgt. Joe Favazzo of the Chandler Police Department said it's frustrating to
address the issue without guidance from the state.

"We have no idea," he said. "I think the SRO and school administrators are going
to have to work together and come up with something."

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 7, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Act now to prevent profiling

BYLINE: Janet Murguia

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 400 words


The federal government, which filed suit Tuesday challenging a new Arizona
immigration law that is sure to lead to racial profiling, took an essential and
appropriate step.  The law, SB 1070, is unconstitutional and a violation of our
civil rights and everything we stand for as Americans.

Immigration is the federal government's responsibility, and the solution lies in
Washington, not in Phoenix. The Justice Department made the right move by suing
to assert federal authority in immigration enforcement.

Last week, President Obama spoke of the need to enact comprehensive immigration
reform. As he said, we now have more boots along the border than ever before.
There has been a significant reduction in the number of people trying to cross
the border illegally. Crime along the border and in Arizona is actually down,
according to the FBI. But these facts are lost on those who believe SB 1070 is a
necessary response to failed federal immigration policies.

Make no mistake. This law will result in the scapegoating of, and discrimination
against, U.S. citizens because of how they look. Arizona has a history of that.
Just Google "Sheriff Joe Arpaio." For years, Arpaio, head of the Maricopa County
Sheriff's Office in Phoenix, has made headlines for his immigration sweeps,
typically placing dozens of deputies in neighborhoods with large Hispanic
populations and ordering them to stop anyone for any violation. Often, the raids
have caught up U.S. citizens and legal permanent residents. Arpaio's office has
been under investigation for more than a year by the Justice Department for
allegations of racial profiling. And that was before the new law was passed.

Despite claims that this law explicitly bans racial profiling, SB 1070 will only
make what is already a bad situation far worse.

What is happening in Arizona is a regression from the freedoms and values we
hold dear as a country. To those who point to the law's popularity, I would
remind them that Jim Crow laws were once as popular.

The solution to our broken immigration system must be comprehensive. The
American people understand this, the president and some Democrats in Congress
understand this, and Republicans need to understand this and work with their
colleagues to pass a comprehensive reform bill.

Janet Murguia is president and CEO of the National Council of La Raza, the
nation's largest  Latino civil rights and advocacy group.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 27, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Fate of new immigration laws still in play

BYLINE: Alan Gomez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 444 words


After months of protest marches, federal lawsuits, economic boycotts and support
rallies, two controversial immigration laws in Arizona and Nebraska are
scheduled to take effect on Thursday.

Yet both laws could still be derailed before then, leaving government officials,
lawyers and hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants in limbo.

Maria Pabon Lopez, a professor at the Indiana University School of
Law-Indianapolis, said if both laws survive these initial tests, they will
"unleash more copycat legislation." If they are struck down, it will take the
"wind out of the sails" of a growing number of local government efforts to pass
immigration laws.

"These are going to be monumental decisions," Lopez said. "A lot of people are
holding their breath."

In Arizona, U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton is considering some of the seven
lawsuits filed to halt the state's law. It would require police officers to
question the immigration status of suspects stopped for another offense if there
is a "reasonable suspicion" they are in the country illegally.

She heard arguments last week in lawsuits filed by the Justice Department and a
group of civil rights groups, including the American Civil Liberties Union.

Gabriel Chin, a professor at the University of Arizona Rogers College of Law,
said Bolton is likely to rule before Thursday because 15,000 law enforcement
officers and hundreds of prosecutors and defense attorneys in the state will
have to readjust their plans quickly based on her decision.

Voters in Fremont, Neb., approved an ordinance last month that would require
businesses in the city to verify the legal status of each employee. It also
would require an immigration status check of anyone renting a home or apartment
in the city after the law goes into effect.

The City Council will meet tonight to consider suspending the ordinance to give
the council more time to decide how to pay for and prepare what could be an
expensive legal defense.

"As we evaluate legal challenges ahead, we need to look at our resources
carefully," council President Scott Getzschman said in a statement.

Two lawsuits have been filed to stop that ordinance from taking effect, and a
federal judge is scheduled to hear those cases Wednesday.

Jennifer Chang Newell, an ACLU attorney involved in one of the Fremont lawsuits,
said the "dangerous" law  "encourages discrimination and racial profiling
against Latinos and others deemed foreign-born."

Supporters of the law, such as Republican state Sen. Charlie Janssen, have
argued that illegal immigrants drain public resources and that the Fremont
ordinance is not racist or "anti-immigration" but simply
"anti-illegal-immigration."

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NATION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 29, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration heats up the desert;
Cal says Arizona is simply trying to do the feds' job; Bob sees a race-based
travesty.

BYLINE: Cal Thomas, Bob Beckel

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 1332 words


Cal Thomas is a conservative columnist. Bob Beckel is a liberal Democratic
strategist. But as longtime friends, they can often find common ground on issues
that lawmakers in Washington cannot.

Today: Arizona's immigration law.

Cal: It was supposed to be D-Day -- or I-Day -- in Arizona. Starting today, a
police officer, who questioned someone during a legal stop, such as a traffic
violation, would have been able to ask that person his or her immigration
status.

Bob: And thankfully a judge stepped in and blocked the most controversial
aspects of the law -- at least for now.

Cal: Arizona's law is simply trying to do what the federal government -- under
Republican and Democratic administrations -- has refused to do: attempt to slow
the flow of illegal immigrants into America. Perhaps a higher court and
ultimately the Supreme Court will see things differently. I hope so because like
a majority of Americans, I am tired of the "law" on too many occasions taking
the side of the lawbreakers.

Bob: Cal, it was the right action to take. Without the ruling, what people do
you think police would have asked about their immigration status?  I suspect
they wouldn't ask you or any other white person. But if your skin was brown and
-- God forbid! -- you spoke only Spanish, chances are you'd be asked. The
Arizona law is a travesty -- and if this ruling isn't upheld -- it will flat-out
result in racial profiling. And if that happens, I hope the first legal resident
who is profiled and happens to be Hispanic sues Arizona and its governor for
millions.

Cal: A liberal's first instinct: Sue! Here's a bulletin for you: Those aren't
Norwegians running across the border. Of course they have brown skin. That's a
description, not discrimination.

Bob: Of course? So every light-skinned person  is in Arizona legally? This is
what this immigration issue has come to -- arguments over skin color?

Cal: I'm just trying to cut through the politically correct nonsense. This isn't
about race or profiling. It's about politics. Democrats think they can rile-up
Hispanics (many of whom are here legally and oppose illegal immigration) into
voting for them. This is a cynical manipulation of the law and ought to shame
politicians, if they had any shame left.

Bob: Rockets, cars, the electric light bulb, plastics and much more were
invented or brought to our shores by immigrants. All this anti-immigration
hysteria might scare off the very foreign talent we will need in this country to
compete in the global economy.

Cal: I'm not anti-immigrant. America almost by definition cannot be
anti-immigrant.

Bob: You could have fooled me.

Cal: I'm anti-illegal immigrant. Besides, most of the greater innovators and
entrepreneurs of our nation's founding were legal immigrants.

Bob: Let's be honest, Cal. Asking for papers, interrogating those who don't look
"American." You don't have a problem with any of this?

Cal: It isn't discrimination to ask for identification. How many times must we
show our IDs? If I am stopped by a police officer for speeding or a broken tail
light, the officer asks me to produce a driver's license and registration. The
officer gets back in his cruiser to check for outstanding warrants.  I have to
show an ID and credit card when writing a check. In none of these situations do
I feel discriminated against or put out.

Bob: Let me put this as delicately as possible: You're white. Neither you nor I
have experienced racial discrimination, so it's  easy for us to say that none of
this bothers us. But if the threat of discrimination had been a part of your
everyday life, perhaps you'd see things differently.

Cal: That's where I take issue with the entire immigration "debate." Somehow,
merely enforcing the law became controversial. Feelings became more important
than the integrity of our borders. "Enforcement" became code for "profiling."
All a sideshow, a distraction.

Bob: Look, I don't have a problem with police checking for valid registration,
outstanding warrants or a current driver's license for anyone stopped for a
violation -- no matter their ethnicity. You'd be free to go, Cal.  The way
Arizona's law was written, Hispanic drivers may clear all these hurdles and
still be asked to prove they are legal citizens if the officer senses that
they're here illegally.

Cal: Well, let's see how the law is enforced before jumping to conclusions, as
our federal government already did. I mean, suing Arizona for enforcing a law
that has been passed by elected state officials? It's funny that the
administration has had nothing to say about the "sanctuary cities," like San
Francisco,   presided over mostly by Democratic mayors.  We don't want a
"patchwork" of immigration laws, unless the patches fit into our open-borders
quilt. Selective enforcement  mocks the law.

Bob: The Obama administration is enforcing immigration laws. According to the
Center for Immigration Studies, in the past three years the population of
illegal immigrants has declined from 12 million to 11 million.

Cal: Only because the economy has crashed!  So we need to hemorrhage jobs every
few years to cut down on illegal immigration? Come on.

Bob: The immigration problem is not simply about fences, apprehension and
deportations. It's about jobs available to illegal immigrants north of the
border.

Cal: I understand market forces as well as you do.  But too many criminals --
and perhaps terrorists  -- are sneaking across the border. A drug war is blazing
along our southern border,  our prison population is already bulging,   and our
hospitals and public schools are burdened by illegal immigrants.  No nation can
maintain its character if it refuses to control its borders. If we give amnesty
to those now here -- as we did in 1986   -- what will you do with the next wave
who violate the law to get here? And when will you say, "enough"?  When the
majority of them vote for Democrats?

Bob: The federal government is doing a good job protecting the borders, but at a
huge cost to taxpayers. Here are a few facts: The Border Patrol, which had 9,000
agents in 2001, now has 20,000 agents at a cost of $4 billion a year. We have
spent $4 billion to build 670 miles of border fences. Throw in the cost of the
National Guard, surveillance aircraft, detention and deportation, and the costs
climb to $10 billion a year.  At this rate we might as well pay potential
illegal immigrants to stay home!

Cal: The border remains a sieve. I applaud Homeland Security Secretary Janet
Napolitano for  dispatching National Guard troops to the border on Aug. 1.
Let's hope that unlike some of the previous Border Patrol and customs agents,
these will actually slow the flow. But they can't remain forever, and when they
leave the flow will resume unless the wall is finished.

Bob: I am for making the border as secure as possible first, but we should have
a policy that addresses the 11 million illegals  already here. Let's be
realistic: We can't round these people up -- roughly the population of the state
of Ohio  -- and send them home. We should follow the outlines of the last
immigration bill in 1986 signed into law by President Reagan.  Allow the 11
million to register with the government, pay any back taxes and fines owed from
income received illegally, and be put on a path to citizenship -- but behind
those who have followed the rules for legal immigration.

Cal: Agreed. And those who won't should be deported. There also must be stiffer
penalties against employers who knowingly hire illegal immigrants. If the demand
dries up, the supply will too.

Bob: That may be our strongest common ground point. Unless and until those who
employ illegal immigrants pay a substantial price for doing so, no new
immigration policy can work.

Cal: No doubt about it. But I can't fault Arizona for simply trying to do what
the federal government has failed to do.

Bob: I understand. Here's hoping we get a federal solution -- i.e., reform -- so
Arizona's law, and those surely to follow in other states, will be rendered
moot.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Web Bryant, USA TODAY
GRAPHIC, B/W
PHOTO, B/W
PHOTO, B/W

DOCUMENT-TYPE: THE FORUM

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 30, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Arizona judge rules. What next?

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 598 words


Randall Amster, blogger, on The Huffington Post:   "Following the news that a
federal judge has struck down what are essentially the worst parts of Arizona's
immigration law ... there is a sense of vindication and relief on the part of
many who have been working for justice in regard to immigration issues. Still,
there remains a basic recognition that this ruling is only a temporary piece of
the larger puzzle, and that (the law) itself ... is likewise merely one aspect
of a larger struggle for human rights, dignity and a morally tenable immigration
policy in this country. So while there is cause for celebration, this is not a
moment to sit back and rest on one's laurels -- in fact, advocates and activists
should be emboldened by the judge's well-crafted decision, and take this as a
sign to forge ahead."

The Washington Times, in an editorial: "U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton
miscalculated when she blocked critical aspects of Arizona's immigration ...
law. Her decision will further intensify efforts by states to find solutions to
problems posed by the Obama administration's unwillingness to take command of
this pressing issue. ... If Arizona had passed a law that defined U.S.
citizenship ... federal supremacy would apply. However, the case at hand doesn't
deal with pre-emptive law but with parallel enforcement. Arizona's law does not
define who has broken immigration laws; it deals with what to do when police
apprehend these criminals. ... Bolton's judicial activism is out of step with
the law, out of step with politics and out of step with the good of the
country."

The Arizona Republic, in an editorial:   "Despite all the criticism heaped on
Arizona since (Jan) Brewer signed (the measure), our state is a victim in this
international drama. We became a prime smuggling corridor because of federal
policies and congressional inaction. The immigration law is wrong for a long
list of reasons. But Arizona is not the only state striking out. Other states
are considering ... copycat laws. ... These state actions are evidence of the
utter failure of the federal government to do the job it went to court to claim.
... A federal judge's assertion that immigration is Uncle Sam's job creates an
opportunity to refocus on the culpability and the solution."

The New York Times, in an editorial:  "We hope this is the beginning of the end
of the misbegotten Arizona rules and what they represent. ... Arizona's law is
not a case of a state helping the federal government do a job it neglected. It
is a radical upending of immigration priorities, part of a spiteful crusade to
force a mass exodus of illegal immigrants. ... Judge Bolton's ruling reminded us
all of the unacceptable price of the Arizona way: an incoherent immigration
system, squandered law enforcement resources, diminished public safety, the
awful sight of a nation of immigrants turning on itself. We hope (President
Obama) goes on to make clear to all the states that the Arizona way is not the
American way."

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies and
contributor to AOL News:   "The ruling's effects are likely to be positive for
the cause of enforcement of immigration laws. ... Today's ruling ... reinforces
the public sense that the federal government is simply uninterested in securing
the borders. ... This is probably the most important lesson from the Arizona
lawsuits: that comprehensive immigration reform is out of the question.
Enforcement measures must not only be legislated before any discussion of
amnesty takes place; they must be fully litigated, too."

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: THE FORUM

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 2, 2010 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

States rethink immigration bills;
Arizona ruling gives lawmakers pause

BYLINE: Alan Gomez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 434 words


PHOENIX -- Legislators who wanted to bring an Arizona-style immigration law to
their own states are changing course after a federal judge temporarily halted
the core of Arizona's law.

U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton ruled last week that key portions of the law
could not go into effect, prompting an immediate appeal from Republican Gov. Jan
Brewer that could end up before the Supreme Court.

Courtney Combs, a Republican state representative in Ohio, was planning to file
a nearly identical bill this week but says he will remove the parts Bolton
blocked to avert the possibility of a lawsuit.

Filing an Arizona-style bill "would be wasting taxpayers' money," Combs says. "I
think we need to make sure that we comply with what the federal courts come up
with."

Arizona's law, known as S.B. 1070, would have required police to question the
immigration status of anyone stopped for another suspected offense if there was
a "reasonable suspicion" the person was in the country illegally. Bolton issued
a temporary injunction to halt enforcement of that section of the law, but she
allowed others, including bans on harboring illegal immigrants and hiring day
laborers from vehicles, to take effect Thursday.

Robert Geddes, the Idaho state Senate's highest-ranking Republican, says his
colleagues had planned to file an S.B. 1070 replica but are making changes.

"I don't know that we would cut and paste exactly what Arizona has, based on
what the judge has already ruled," Geddes says. "That doesn't help us much to
engage in the same battle that Arizona has lost."

Minnesota state Rep. Steve Drazkowski, a Republican, says any law with the
provisions Bolton blocked would have a hard time passing. "The political
palatability of such a bill would be greatly diminished," he says.

Texas state Rep. Debbie Riddle, a Republican, plans to continue pushing for an
Arizona-style law because it remains too easy to cross the southwestern border.
She worries that it exposes the country to terrorists and violent gang activity.

"The first priority of any elected official should be to make sure that the
safety and security of the citizens is well-established," Riddle says.

Mark Krikorian of the Center for Immigration Studies, which backed the Arizona
law, says a few states might go forward with the core components of S.B. 1070 to
see if other judges rule differently.

"There may be some states that figure, 'What the heck, Arizona was the first
responder and has done well, and the governor has done well politically,' " he
says, but, "most states are going to want to stand back and let Arizona do the
heavy lifting."

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 9, 2010 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

One Arizona town's take on immigration debate;
In Apache Junction, opinions on new law are both strong and diverse

BYLINE: Alan Gomez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 747 words


APACHE JUNCTION, Ariz. -- Far from the heated protest marches in downtown
Phoenix, either denouncing Arizona's immigration law or embracing it, the
arguments over the law aren't so simple.

Vince Cherryholmes, 51, a video store owner, says he was angered when U.S.
District Judge Susan Bolton last month temporarily blocked the core of the law,
known as S.B. 1070, which would have required police officers to determine the
immigration status of suspects stopped for another offense if there was a
"reasonable suspicion" they were in the country illegally. Republican Arizona
Gov. Jan Brewer has appealed the ruling.

Cherryholmes, a 35-year resident of Apache Junction, says he was further angered
when he saw  protest marches that called for repeal of the law.

"We got people down here waving the Mexican flag in America?" he says. "They
should all be thrown in jail."

Rich Favia supports the law, too, because he sees it as a mechanism to identify
and deport members of dangerous drug gangs -- but he doesn't want to see illegal
immigrants who are working hard and staying out of trouble removed from the
country.

"They're just trying to make a living for their family like we are," says Favia,
64, who has been disabled since a hand grenade injured his spine during the
Vietnam War. "I back them 100%. I know a lot of them."

Support for the law is widespread in Apache Junction, a working-class city of
32,000 east of Phoenix in the shadows of the Superstition Mountains. About 8% of
the population is Hispanic, compared with 42% in Phoenix, according to the U.S.
Census.

Even here, though, people disagree over the impact of illegal immigration on
their state, who should be deported and why the immigration measure ever became
law.

Cherryholmes and others argue that illegal immigration is lowering wages for
American workers and changing the face of their communities. He says nearby Mesa
used to be a model city studied by city planners around the country.

"Now, it's little Mexico," he says dismissively.

Despite the increased number of Hispanics in the area, Art Bernal doesn't think
illegal immigrants are stealing jobs from his neighbors. The retired Motorola
engineer says he used to pick cantaloupes as a teen, work that immigrants do
now.

"You think my kids will go pick cantaloupes?" he asks. "Please."

Maggie Eastling disagrees. She says she knows unemployed people in Apache
Junction who would jump at the chance for any job.

"I can name a dozen right now that would pick whatever for a paycheck," says
Eastling, 46, who owns a store with her husband.

Still, Eastling worries that illegal immigrants will be harassed by overzealous
anti-immigrant groups unhappy with Bolton's decision.

"I'm really worried that people are going down to the border to take care of
things themselves," she says.

At the Plaza Barbershop on the outskirts of the city, barber Russell McClurg
says legislators were right to pass the law. He says supporters of the law are
being falsely labeled as racists when they're really concerned only with keeping
terrorists out of their state.

"They make it seem like we're just picking on the poor Mexicans, who just want
to work in the lettuce fields," says McClurg, 70. "We're not down on Mexicans.
We're down on an open border and someone bombing a city or bringing in germ
warfare."

Two chairs over, barber Jim Metcalf disagrees, arguing that criminal activity
and the economy in Arizona hadn't changed much in recent years.

"I think it's a political thing. They're all grabbing for votes," says Metcalf,
60.

Bernal, who says he's a 10th-generation Arizonan, says a shift in the state's
makeup led to the law.

Arizona natives have always gotten along with Mexican immigrants, appreciated
their culture and worked with them, Bernal says, but waves of people moving in
from northern states in recent decades were unfamiliar with Hispanics and pushed
for the law and similar anti-immigration measures.

"They don't understand the dynamics involved because they're from somewhere
else," says Bernal, 62. "This isn't back home."

The debate is difficult for Eastling.

She says she understands the hopes and dreams of immigrants; her four
grandparents came from Ireland, Scotland, Italy and Germany and all went through
immigration processing at Ellis Island. She resents the fact that so many people
now are able to get around the immigration system.

Her grandparents, "didn't have it easy. They had to work their (butts) off," she
says. "But they didn't sneak in the back door."

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, USA TODAY (map)
PHOTO, B/W, Ralph Freso, AP
PHOTOS, B/W, Alan Gomez, USA TODAY (3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 16, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Arizona law affects issues of health

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 379 words


As a pediatrician in California, I have witnessed unanticipated costs of the new
Arizona immigration law on the health of children. Working at a county hospital
emergency department, I met a 4-month-old Latino infant with an infection. When
I asked his mother whether  he had received his routine vaccines and pediatric
care, she hesitated. "We just moved from Arizona,"  she replied.

Fear roused by the Arizona immigration law had driven them away from their home
-- a phenomenon that the mother said was not uncommon. Moving led to a
disruption in the baby's medical care, resulting in an emergency room visit that
likely could have been avoided if this baby had continued to receive care from
his regular pediatrician. The infant was missing a whooping cough vaccine, which
is notable as  California is experiencing a whooping cough epidemic.
Under-vaccination of children impacts the health of the patient and of the
entire community.

Please consider the unforeseen public health costs of Arizona's immigration law
on one of society's most vulnerable sectors -- young infants and children.

Liz Barnert

Palo Alto, Calif.

Arms reduction

Commentary writer Dirk Jameson  makes a persuasive case for ratifying the new
Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (New START).  In addition to the reasons he
cites -- most notably the need for a verification system for monitoring
developments in Russia's nuclear arsenal -- there are other important arguments
in favor of the agreement ("Consensus is clear: Ratify New START now,"
USATODAY.com, Friday).

New START can serve as a building block for further negotiations with Russia on
nuclear weapons. Among other things, these follow-on talks can help reduce, and
hopefully eliminate, U.S. and Russian stockpiles of short-range, tactical
nuclear weapons. New START  would also improve the Russian-U.S. security
partnership in ways that  would make it easier to destroy "loose" nuclear
weapons and provide state-of-the-art protection of bomb-making materials. These
steps are the best way to keep terrorists from acquiring a nuclear bomb.

These issues make it all the more urgent that the Senate ratify New START as
soon as possible.

William D. Hartung

New York

The writer is director of the Arms and Security Initiative at the New America
Foundation.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 13, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

High court could roil '12 election;
Justices to tackle immigration, health care, voting-rights cases

BYLINE: Joan Biskupic, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 410 words


The Supreme Court's decision to review a stringent Arizona immigration law sets
up a new legal battle over how to stop people from illegally crossing the border
and offers the justices another blockbuster case for a term that will culminate
during the presidential campaign.

The justices said Monday that they will take up the law, passed in 2010 and
followed by other state legislatures, that requires police officers to check the
immigration status of people they stop if they suspect they are here illegally.

The justices already had said they would hear  challenges to the Obama-sponsored
health care law and a Texas voting-rights case. Rulings are likely to come in
the months before the Democratic and Republican presidential nominating
conventions.

The Justice Department, which successfully sued to block enforcement of key
Arizona provisions, had urged the court to wait to enter the case. The
department said the law treads on the immigration power of the federal
government.

"This will probably be the most important decision on immigration and federalism
in the last half-century," Temple University law professor Peter Spiro said.
"The justices are all aware of the problems with comprehensive immigration
reform" on the federal level.

Since Arizona passed its law, other states have adopted similar measures and
triggered nationwide litigation. A trend has been to use state law enforcement
or other public authorities to check individuals' immigration status, either at
police stops, as will be tested in the Arizona case, or in local schools, as an
Alabama law dictates.

The U.S. Justice Department contends the federal government controls
immigration, to the exclusion of the states, "to ensure aliens in the system are
treated fairly." Justice Elena Kagan, a former U.S. solicitor general, is not
participating in the case.

Washington lawyer Paul Clement, representing Arizona, said the case tests
"whether states that bear a disproportionate burden of the costs of illegal
immigration are powerless to use their own resources to enforce" the law.
Clement is taking a lead in the other two major cases. He represents Texas
against a voting-rights challenge and the states protesting the health care law.

Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer said: "This case is not just about Arizona. It's about
every state grappling with the costs of illegal immigration."

White House spokesman Jay Carney said, "We look forward to arguing our point of
view  when the time comes."

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo By Matt York, AP Tough enforcement: Former Arizona state senator
Russell Pearce wrote the immigration bill.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 1, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Judge blocks part of Ariz. immigration law

BYLINE: John Bacon with staff and wire reports

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 607 words


A federal judge on Wednesday blocked police in Arizona from enforcing a section
of the state's 2010 immigration enforcement law that prohibited people from
blocking traffic when they seek or offer day labor services on streets.

The ban was among a handful of provisions in the law initially allowed to take
effect after a July 2010 decision by Judge Susan Bolton halted enforcement of
more controversial elements of it. The U.S. Supreme Court has agreed to hear the
state's appeal of the blocked portions. They include a requirement that police,
while enforcing other laws, question people's immigration status if officers
suspect they are in the country illegally.

The Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund has led the charge
against the law.

Ten doctors accused of insurance fraud

Thirty-six people, including 10 physicians, were charged in an alleged $279
million scheme to defraud New York's auto insurance system.

For the past five years, court documents say, the suspects siphoned millions
from the insurance companies by operating medical clinics that provided
"unnecessary and excessive" care. New York's no-fault system allows drivers and
passengers of insured vehicles benefits of up to $50,000 for injuries sustained
in crashes, regardless of fault. "The criminal enterprise, while it lasted, was
obscenely profitable," FBI Assistant Director Janice Fedarcyk said.--Kevin
Johnson

Judge rejects delay for Sandusky trial

The judge in former Penn State football coach Jerry Sandusky's child sex abuse
case rejected his lawyer's request for a two-month delay in the start of the
trial in Harrisburg, Pa.

Judge John Cleland ruled that pushing back the trial will only be done as a last
resort and will require concrete reasons to justify it. Sandusky, 68, denies
allegations he engaged in sexual misconduct involving 10 boys over 15 years.
He's confined to his home while awaiting trial, which is tentatively set for
mid-May.

One dead, 3 missing after chopper crash

Divers searched the muddy bottom of Alabama's Mobile Bay, and a salvage ship was
sent to the sunken wreckage of a Coast Guard helicopter that crashed on a
training mission, leaving one crewmember dead and three missing.

Chief Petty Officer John Edwards said the MH-65C helicopter crashed Tuesday
night near Point Clear, Ala. The crewmembers were outfitted with survival gear
called "dry suits" for the water, which officials said was around 60 degrees.
Edwards said all the crewmembers received extensive training in emergency
escape.

Jury selected for monsignor's trial

A jury of six men and six women, many with Catholic ties, was seated to hear a
landmark criminal case on how the Archdiocese of Philadelphia handled priests
accused of molesting kids.

Monsignor William Lynn is charged with endangering children by transferring two
accused priests to new parishes during the 1990s, allowing them to abuse others.
He is also charged with being part of a broad conspiracy to protect abusers
within the Roman Catholic archdiocese.

The jurors include a  graduate of a Catholic high school  and a man who sent his
two children to Catholic schools and worked for  his parish.

Also

BECKLEY, W.Va. -- A former security chief convicted of lying to investigators
about the April 2010 explosion that killed 29 coal miners was sentenced to three
years in prison. Hughie Elbert Stover ordered a subordinate to destroy thousands
of security-related documents.

GUANTANAMO BAY NAVAL BASE -- Former Maryland resident Majid Khan pleaded guilty
to helping al-Qaeda plot attacks in a deal that spares him from a life sentence
in exchange for helping prosecute fellow Guantanamo Bay prisoners.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 26, 2012 Thursday
                                 First EDITION

Arizona immigration law draws crowds at high court

BYLINE: Erin Kelly

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 500 words


As attorneys inside the U.S. Supreme Court argued the legal complexities of
Arizona's immigration law and whether it interfered with federal
responsibilities, a man stood outside the courthouse holding a sign reading
simply, "Thank you Arizona."

A few feet away, a group opposed to Arizona's law, known as Senate Bill 1070,
chanted, "Hey ho, 1070 has got to go!"

On the day that Supreme Court justices listened to oral arguments to  decide the
law's fate,  supporters and opponents  gathered outside the Supreme Court and in
different locations throughout Arizona to express their feelings.

Jim Shee, 73, was among a group of Arizonans who traveled to Washington to voice
his opposition.  Shee, a U.S. citizen and a plaintiff in a lawsuit against SB
1070, said he was stopped twice by law enforcement officers in Arizona in April
2010. He said he was asked for his papers and told he was stopped for looking
suspicious.

"Unless SB 1070 is struck down, I fear I will continue to face racial profiling
and discrimination by the state of Arizona simply because of my race and the way
I look," he said.

Cochise County (Ariz.) Sheriff Larry Dever, sporting a cowboy hat, came out of
the courtroom upbeat. He said that the law provides critical tools for his
deputies to combat illegal immigration, and that he was pleased by what he heard
on Wednesday.

"It's hard to read the justices, but I think we outshone the opposition quite a
bit," he said.

The two groups mingled on the sidewalk in front of the court, with police
standing guard all around. There were no confrontations between the groups.

The fact that Arizona's law had drawn such national attention came as no
surprise to Arizonans.

"It seems to be the nature of Arizona as a newer and more innovative state,"
said U.S. Rep. David Schweikert, R-Ariz., who supports the law.

In Phoenix, community groups opposed to the law planned a march along a route
that passed the Phoenix police headquarters, the federal courthouse and the
Maricopa County Jail -- all places that illegal immigrants arrested under the
law could end up.

A separate rally outside the state capitol featured several supporters of the
law, including legislators who had voted for it.

"We believe the U.S. Supreme Court is going to uphold the tenets of the bill by
a 5-3 vote, and we are ecstatic about that, and we are happy to lead the nation
in standing by the rule of law," said Republican state Rep. Jack Harper.

Eight justices will rule on the law. Justice Elena Kagan recused herself from
the case because of her work as U.S. Solicitor General under President Obama.

The divergent rallies Wednesday show just how divisive the law has been.

"I think what's at stake is whether (the Supreme Court) is going to tear this
country apart," Deepak Bhargava, executive director of the Center for Community
Change who opposes Arizona's law, said outside the Supreme Court.  "This is a
high-stakes moment for who we are as a country."

Kelly reported from Washington; Gonzalez reported from Phoenix

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 26, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Arizona immigration law draws crowds at high court

BYLINE: Erin Kelly

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 492 words


As attorneys inside the U.S. Supreme Court argued the legal complexities of
Arizona's immigration law and whether it interfered with federal
responsibilities, a man stood outside the courthouse holding a sign reading
simply, "Thank you, Arizona."

A few feet away, a group opposed to Arizona's law, known as Senate Bill 1070,
chanted, "Hey ho, 1070 has got to go!"

On the day that Supreme Court justices listened to oral arguments to  decide the
law's fate,  supporters and opponents  gathered outside the Supreme Court and in
different locations throughout Arizona to express their feelings.

Jim Shee, 73, was among a group of Arizonans who traveled to Washington to voice
his opposition.  Shee, a U.S. citizen and a plaintiff in a lawsuit against the
Arizona law, said he was stopped twice by law enforcement officers in Arizona in
April 2010. He said he was asked for his papers and told he was stopped for
looking suspicious.

"Unless SB 1070 is struck down, I fear I will continue to face racial profiling
and discrimination by the state of Arizona simply because of my race and the way
I look," he said.

Cochise County (Ariz.) Sheriff Larry Dever came out of the  Supreme Court
building  upbeat. He said  the law provides critical tools for his deputies to
combat illegal immigration, and  he was pleased by what he heard on Wednesday.

"It's hard to read the justices, but I think we outshone the opposition quite a
bit," the sheriff said.

The two groups mingled on the sidewalk in front of the court, as police stood
guard all around. There were no confrontations between the groups.

The fact that Arizona's law had drawn such national attention came as no
surprise to Arizonans.

"It seems to be the nature of Arizona as a newer and more innovative state,"
said U.S. Rep. David Schweikert, R-Ariz., who supports the law.

In Phoenix, about 500 opponents of the immigration law attended an afternoon
rally and marched  along a downtown route that passed  police headquarters, the
federal courthouse and the Maricopa County Jail -- all places that illegal
immigrants arrested under the law could end up.

At least six protesters were arrested after they blocked a street during rush
hour.

A separate rally earlier outside the state Capitol featured several supporters
of the law, including legislators who had voted for it.

"We believe the U.S. Supreme Court is going to uphold the tenets of the bill by
a 5-3 vote, and we are ecstatic about that, and we are happy to lead the nation
in standing by the rule of law," said Republican state Rep. Jack Harper.

The  rallies Wednesday show just how divisive the law has been.

"I think what's at stake is whether (the Supreme Court) is going to tear this
country apart," Deepak Bhargava, executive director of the Center for Community
Change who opposes Arizona's law, said outside the Supreme Court.  "This is a
high-stakes moment for who we are as a country."

Kelly reported from Washington; Gonzalez reported from Phoenix

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Both sides play mixed ruling to their advantage

BYLINE: Jackie Kucinich and Richard Wolf, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 523 words


Immediately after the Supreme Court rejected parts of  Arizona's controversial
immigration law, Democrats claimed vindication. President Obama was right, they
said, to challenge the law.

Republicans  offered a more nuanced position: that the case was a result of
Obama's failure to produce the comprehensive solution to immigration that he had
promised.

Obama issued a statement declaring himself "pleased that the Supreme Court has
struck down key provisions of Arizona's immigration law."

Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., declared the ruling proof that the
law  "was not just ill-advised but also unconstitutional."

GOP presidential candidate Mitt Romney told supporters at a fundraiser in
Arizona, "The states, now under this decision, have less authority, less
latitude, to enforce immigration law," the Associated Press reported. In a
statement he said, "President Obama has failed to provide any leadership on
immigration."

The ruling marked the second time in 10 days that  Romney had been forced off
his message -- the weak economy is Obama's fault -- to address the immigration
issue. He has yet to say whether he would repeal the president's June 15
decision not to deport some young illegal immigrants.

Charles  Foster, an immigration policy adviser to both President George W.
Bush's 2004 campaign and Obama's 2008 campaign, said the decision was a clear
win for the Obama administration.

"It's human nature to try to have some face-saving, but there's very little
(Republicans) got out of this decision today. I think it is a huge, huge victory
that you cannot understate for the Obama administration," Foster said. "The
Obama administration, after all, was accused of having acted callously by not
standing up for the states and by challenging the law."

The court threw out several provisions of the Arizona law but allowed to stand a
controversial section requiring state and local police to check the immigration
status of people stopped or detained if there is "reasonable suspicion" that
they are in the country illegally.

Former New Mexico governor Bill Richardson, a Democrat,  said the political
message of the case is that Obama "stood behind Hispanics throughout this whole
legal battle." "The immigration decision will energize the Hispanic base  which
needs energizing," he said.

A USA TODAY/Gallup Poll released Monday showed Obama had a comfortable lead
among Hispanic voters. But some Republicans said the impact of the immigration
headlines will wane over the campaign's remaining months.

Danny Diaz, former deputy communication director for Sen. John McCain's 2008
presidential campaign, said that "Hispanics are by and large pocketbook voters.
As the case against the president's failed economic policies is litigated to
much greater degree in the general election, the current gap will narrow among
Latino voters."

Jennifer Sevilla-Korn, executive director of the right-of-center Hispanic
Leadership Network and former Bush staffer, said it was too soon to tell who
will benefit politically from this decision.

"It seems like there is a little bit for everybody to love and hate in this
ruling," she said.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 23, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Attitudes relax on inclusive schooling;
Poll finds partisan divide, but more open to immigrant rights

BYLINE: Greg Toppo, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 445 words


Political battles over get-tough state immigration laws in Arizona and Alabama
may be softening Americans' attitudes toward the children of illegal immigrants,
a new poll suggests.

Findings released Wednesday  by the public education advocacy group Phi Delta
Kappa International (PDK) show that four in 10 Americans now favor "providing
free public education, school lunches and other benefits" to children whose
parents are in the USA illegally.

The poll finds that 41% favor such measures, up from 28% in 1995, the  only
other time PDK asked the question.

The findings, part of the group's annual poll on public attitudes toward public
schools, also finds "clear partisan divides" on the issue, with 65% of Democrats
vs. 21% of Republicans favoring school funds for these kids. One in three (33%)
independents support the idea.

PDK Executive Director William Bushaw said he's "both hopeful and disappointed"
at the new findings -- hopeful that more Americans see the importance of
underwriting kids' schooling regardless of their immigration status, but
disappointed that a majority of Americans still don't support it.

Bushaw said he suspected that high-profile debates over restrictive state
immigration laws in Arizona and Alabama gave  the issue higher prominence in
people's minds.

Wendy Puriefoy, president of the Public Education Network, which  advocates
overhauling schools  in low-income communities, said that  41% support was "very
disheartening," given the public's  generous attitude toward education.

"We're all immigrants, and we've always helped each other. And the fact that
people are thinking that they don't want to help each other anymore just doesn't
feel like what most Americans I know believe in their hearts," Puriefoy said.

The poll of 1,002 adults May 7-June 4 -- with a margin of error of +/-4
percentage points -- ended  about a week and a half before President Obama's
June 15 announcement that he would "lift the shadow of deportation from these
young people" by offering them temporary relief. Bushaw said he wouldn't be
surprised if public support has inched up more since then.

As in past years, Americans believe "lack of financial support" is a significant
problem: 35% of those surveyed called it the biggest problem facing public
schools. Over the past decade, funding has  become the most significant issue,
even as other problems such as discipline, overcrowding  and drugs have receded
in the public's mind.

The poll  found growing support for public funding of private-school vouchers --
up to 44% from 34% last year.

Meanwhile, public support for publicly funded but privately run charter schools
dipped, from 70% last year to 66% now.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Julie Snider, USA TODAY (Bar graph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 21, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Election 2012: This week's hot buttons

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 552 words


Arizona got the go ahead to enforce its controversial law Tuesday. Readers chime
in on that issue and the rest of this week's political issues:

Immigration bubbles

Everyone knows Arizona's immigration law, which was  OK'd by a judge this week
and  allows police to question people who look "suspicious,"  isn't fair. But
this law is not about fairness. It's really about trying to diminish people.

@IEATMAN75

This law is not only fair, but needed in all states!

@Ivy1248

Everyone is required to show an ID. "Profile" me all you want; I have nothing to
hide.

@BoxCarPril

"Suspicious" is a term that can be used too freely and abused. It's too easy for
this law to become a pass for discrimination.

@holamishi

I am a legal resident, and my family  lived here before the United States was
officially founded. I think it's a sad day in Arizona. If people  don't like
their lives,  then they should do something about it and stop  putting their
misery and disappointment off on some minority group.  Quit complaining about
hardworking people who are just trying to make better lives for themselves and
their families.

Kyler Phoenix

The authorities have to suspect someone. If they can't verify suspicious people,
they can't prevent crime.

@svpr

I think this Arizona law  stinks! There has to be a positive way to deal with
immigration!

@9kittens

My family and I have been in this country (legally) for 15 years, went through
all the hoops,  and finally became U.S. citizens last year. I'm horrified that
some people think being here illegally  is OK.

This new law will catch people who do something illegal on top of being here
illegally. To me, it's a no-brainer!

Josee Bourret

Obama delays

For over a week, President Obama said the attacks in Libya weren't terrorism.
Now, he says it's self-evident that the assault in Libya was a terrorist attack.
What in the world?

@toledobudman

Everyone except  Obama  knew it was a terrorist attack. We look like a bunch of
idiots to the entire world. Here we are in the midst of a terrorist attack, and
we  are issuing apologies.

To make matter worse, the White House  stood by this claim for too long.  This
hug them  and sing "Kumbaya" approach is not working. This type of policy gets
Americans killed.

Rich Farrell

All these armchair generals who are posting comments such as  "we should've sent
in Marines,"  "they knew it was going to happen" and  "Obama ignored warnings"
don't have a clue what really happened or how many forces the guards at the U.S.
Embassy in Libya  were up against.  People are reacting against President Obama
based on  hysteria without having all the facts.

Jon Wilson

Mitt Romney called this what it was almost instantly -- a terrorist attack. And
Obama chided him for making snap judgment. Now, Obama all but admits that Romney
was  right. Where is his apology now?

Ron Black

Romney stumbles

The struggle of America's working poor is not within the grasp of Mitt Romney's
mind.

@hotblackbitter

I don't understand what the big deal is. Every word Romney  says about President
Obama's supporters is true, and I love it. I'm glad that's what he thinks.
Whether or not Obama has done right,  some will vote for him no matter what.

Erica Truesdale

I feel that Romney has further isolated himself by showing voters he is
completely out of touch with them and the nation.

@B_Booher

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 17, 2010 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Reasonable Americans are not against legal immigration

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 454 words


USA TODAY's  recent story and poll  showed without a doubt that the majority of
Americans want stricter enforcement at the border to deal with illegal
immigration ("People sympathetic but want security," News, May 4).

But it appears  the poll tries to counter this finding with a loaded or leading
question.

The question is "How concerned are you that ... strict immigration measures
would go against the American tradition of welcoming people seeking a better
life?" Come on! No reasonable American is against welcoming people seeking a
better life, as long as they do it legally.

I could use an example of someone breaking into a drugstore for badly needed
medicine and argue that they had to have it to survive. You do your readers a
disservice when you fail to  differentiate between illegal and legal
immigration.

Proponents of open borders are forever calling those of us who favor stricter
borders "racists" or that we are against  immigrants.

Not so. I am proud that many people want to share in the American dream. But we
have laws that must be obeyed, or else we have anarchy.

Dennis Vest

Ripley, Tenn.

Law will affect children

As a legal immigrant to the USA, I and many naturalized citizens are very
disturbed by the recently passed immigration law in Arizona  ("Arizona's ugly
immigration law reflects price of inaction," Our view, Border control debate,
April 28).

By  implementing the law,  many families  could be broken apart;  children who
are citizens but who have parents who are illegal immigrants  might have to be
separated.

This harsh measure came about because of the inaction and failure of Congress
to pass comprehensive immigration reform that would allow illegal immigrants a
path to citizenship so they could legally work in the U.S. Therefore, Congress
should  act to provide  that path to citizenship.

Sandra Sanchez

Atlantic City

Fine employers

The newly signed Arizona immigration law has come under fire from many different
arenas.

Gov. Jan Brewer  is quick to defend Arizona's position, noting that the state
has waited for federal action but that nothing has resulted. Unfortunately,
Arizona has resorted to a tactic that will only serve to Band-Aid a gushing
artery.

A new federal rule recently took effect that fines an airline up to $27,500 per
passenger when a plane stays on the runway for more than three hours. So why
can't  an even stiffer penalty be imposed on businesses for hiring illegal
immigrants?

If people understand that they will not find employment, this will create a
strong deterrent to illegal immigration. However, we will never see anything
close to this because enacting such a law would interfere with  corporate
campaign donations to our representatives.

Pam Brammann

Le Claire, Iowa

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Paul J. Richards, AFP/Getty Images

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 20, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A showdown over immigration;
Arizona law has groups preparing for court

BYLINE: Alan Gomez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1999 words


Ashley Cooper is not an illegal immigrant. She's not Hispanic.

Yet the 22-year-old who graduated recently from Northern Arizona University
spends her weekends in heavily Hispanic neighborhoods in Flagstaff, Ariz.,
raising money to battle the state's new immigration law. She and other
volunteers pass collection cups around soccer matches, neighborhood festivals
and quinceaoeras -- traditional Hispanic coming-of-age parties for girls turning
15.

"I've never been more of a churchgoer in my life than now," Cooper, a volunteer
with the Repeal Coalition, a group trying to repeal the state's immigration law,
says of her fundraising efforts.

Cooper and others who feel strongly about Arizona's immigration enforcement law
are preparing for what could be an onslaught of litigation starting July 29,
when the law is scheduled to go into effect. It would require police officers to
question the immigration status of suspects stopped for another offense if
there's a "reasonable suspicion" they are in the country illegally.

The law has spurred protest marches, support rallies and economic boycotts. It
has renewed the focus on immigration in the upcoming congressional elections,
energizing "Tea Party" activists who say Arizona's law is needed because of the
federal government's failings in securing the border.

The law's fate, and that of about 460,000 illegal immigrants in Arizona, will be
determined in court. The outcome of the legal battle over immigration in Arizona
could jeopardize hundreds of immigration laws passed by state and local
governments.

Seven lawsuits, including one by the Department of Justice, have been filed in
federal court to try to stop the state's law; a court hearing on the Justice
suit and one other case is scheduled for Thursday. Even if the law does take
effect as scheduled, its enforcement could spur another rush to state
courthouses.

So advocates on both sides of the debate are gearing up for a fight. Prosecutors
across the state are learning immigration law -- the enforcement of which is
typically handled by federal officers -- for the first time.

Cities such as Flagstaff that refuse to enforce the new state law are preparing
to defend themselves if they are sued.

A police training video warns that activists could try to entrap law enforcement
officers with video cameras by trying to force a confrontation. Defense lawyers
are searching for help in Arizona and beyond to defend people they believe will
be wrongfully questioned under the law.

Supporters of the law say it was necessary to stem a dangerous stream of illegal
immigrants crossing into Arizona. Some, such as Rick Gray, a member of the
Greater Phoenix Tea Party Patriots who is running for a seat in the state
Legislature, say Arizona had to act because the U.S. government has ignored the
problem.

"It really should be an embarrassment to our federal government," Gray says. "If
we cannot secure our border, there's an impotence there."

Gabriel Chin, a professor at the University of Arizona Rogers College of Law,
says the passion over the law is "unlike anything that I've seen here, both
because it affects so many people potentially in the legal system and because of
the civil rights and constitutional implications." He adds, "Something has been
unleashed here in Arizona that ... had not existed before."

Challenging the law

The first line of attack for critics is the series of lawsuits in federal court
in Phoenix trying to stop the law from taking effect.

One of the main arguments in those suits is that immigration enforcement is a
federal responsibility and Arizona's law tries to take over that role. In court
documents, Department of Justice attorneys argue that the new law -- officially
called the Support Our Law Enforcement and Safe Neighborhoods Act -- "crossed a
constitutional line" by encroaching on a federal responsibility.

Foster Maer, an attorney for LatinoJustice, a Hispanic civil rights group
supporting the lawsuits, says that stance is bolstered by statements made by
Arizona politicians, law enforcement officers and the bill itself that express a
desire to drive people out of the state. The bill states that "the intent of
this act is to make attrition through enforcement the public policy of all state
and local government agencies in Arizona."

"It's that whole attitude that fundamentally reflects, 'Yes, we're trying to
take over immigration policy,' " he says. "It really demonizes Latinos generally
and immigrants specifically."

Lucas Guttentag, director of the American Civil Liberties Union's Immigrants'
Rights Project, says the lawsuits his group and others filed serve as a warning
to other states weighing similar immigration laws.

Having the federal government join the challenges, he says, acts as a "cannon
shot across the bow" to those states.

State legislatures passed 353 immigration-related laws in 2009 and introduced
more than 1,100 this year, according to the National Conference of State
Legislatures.

Those laws dealt with far less controversial issues, such as fining businesses
that hire illegal immigrants and landlords who rent to them. The Pew Hispanic
Center estimates there were 11.9 million illegal immigrants nationwide in 2008.

Ruthann Robson, a constitutional law professor at the City University of New
York School of Law, says judges rarely halt laws from taking effect. The Justice
Department and other challengers must show that irrevocable harm will result
from the law, which Robson says is difficult.

"It's almost like saying, 'This is an emergency. You need to do something now
before what happens can't be fixed,' " she says. The law could still be found
unconstitutional later on, even if it takes effect.

For Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer, a Republican who signed the law April 23, finding
the money and manpower to defend her state has not been easy.

To do so, Brewer created the Border Security and Immigration Legal Defense Fund.
The fund has collected roughly $1.2 million from private citizens in 50 states
through mail and online contributions, according to Brewer's office. Brewer has
called the lawsuit a "massive waste of taxpayer funds" and has said "these funds
could be better used against the violent Mexican cartels than the people of
Arizona."

The governor hired a legal firm -- Arizona-based Snell and Wilmer -- to lead the
defense.

Outside legal experts are assisting, including the Immigration Reform Law
Institute, which advocates limiting immigration, and University of
Missouri-Kansas City School of Law professor Kris Kobach, who has helped Arizona
and other state and local governments draft and defend tough immigration laws.

Yet the law institute's Michael Hethmon says they are still outmanned.

"The number of attorneys involved on the alien side of this probably outnumber
the legal team on the enforcement side by thousands to one," he says. He calls
his group's efforts to curtail illegal immigration through state and local laws
"a march out into the heartland."

The state's main defense to the claim that it is performing federal duties: The
new law is merely an extension of the hundreds of immigration-related bills
passed by states and local governments across the nation in recent years.

Arizona's 2007 law fining businesses that hire illegal immigrants was similarly
challenged as threatening federal authority. It has been upheld by a U.S.
District Court and the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. The U.S. Supreme Court
has agreed to hear the challenge to the 2007 law and is scheduled to do so this
year.

Attorneys working overtime

If the new Arizona law survives the initial challenges and takes effect,
Arizona's city and county attorneys will be tasked with prosecuting violators in
court.

In Pima County, Ariz. -- one of the most active corridors for illegal
immigration in the country -- the state attorney's office already is stretched
thin.

A 10% cut in the budget over the past two years has left two dozen attorney
positions vacant, leaving 74 lawyers. They are handling more responsibilities
and working longer hours with no overtime pay.

Pima County Attorney Barbara LaWall says she has cobbled together a team of her
attorneys to dive into immigration law for the first time. With no financial
assistance from the state for the added work, her team has amassed more than
$40,000 in attorney hours figuring out how to handle the new law, she says.

"One of my attorneys said, 'I go to bed thinking about this law, and I wake up
thinking about it,' " LaWall says. "That's not healthy."

The Arizona Prosecuting Attorneys' Advisory Council regularly trains its
prosecutors on new laws enacted by the Legislature.

The council's interim executive director, Elizabeth Ortiz, says her staff
sometimes relies on officials from other states to train Arizona prosecutors on
enforcing new laws.

This time, Arizona is leading the way. It is the first to make being in the
country illegally a state crime, and there is no example to fall back on. "We
will figure it out," Ortiz says.

The law allows for jail sentences of up to six months for multiple violations
and could lead to the deportation of people who are in the country illegally.

Dave Byers, director of the administrative office of the Arizona Supreme Court,
says state court officials will hold a special training session through
videoconferences with state judges because many aspects of the new law will be
challenged in court.

"We don't train judges on the answers to those questions," Byers says. "We will
explain to them ... areas where they will likely get cases."

State police officials are preparing the state's 15,000 officers to defend
themselves against potential lawsuits.

Part of a 90-minute training video produced for the officers warns that
activists will try to entrap them into abusing the law, using recording
equipment to document their every move and analyzing their police reports in
detail.

"The scrutiny (you) will be placed under in the next few months will be unlike
you've ever seen," immigration attorney Beverly Ginn warns officers in the
video.

'We're not trying to alarm people'

The defense of illegal immigrants charged under the law probably will vary by
county, Pima County Public Defender Robert Hirsh says. Most of the crimes
created by the new law are misdemeanors, and Hirsh says his office generally
doesn't defend people charged with basic misdemeanors. Larger counties, such as
Maricopa County, which encompasses parts of Phoenix, could do so, he says.

Yet Hirsh says such work may not be necessary because some law enforcement
agencies simply may use the law to hand over suspected illegal immigrants to
federal officials.

The Justice Department says in court papers that the law would burden federal
agencies while distracting them from higher priorities, such as illegal
immigrants involved in terrorism, drug smuggling and gang activity.

"Are they really going to run these people through misdemeanor court, while
they're dealing with diminishing budgets?" Hirsh asks.

National civil rights groups are rallying legal support for those arrested under
the new law.

"We're definitely beefing up our presence in Arizona," says Brent Wilkes,
executive director of the League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC), a
Hispanic civil rights group.

Legal citizens questioned under the law may take their grievances to court.

Alessandra Soler Meetze, director of the ACLU of Arizona, says the organization
has been training community groups around the state on how to receive
complaints.

"People are going to go to the organizations and the churches that they feel
more comfortable with," Meetze says.

Community groups such as the Somos America Coalition train citizens in community
centers, high school auditoriums and gatherings in people's living rooms about
their rights, what to do if they are arrested and how their families should
respond if they are separated.

"We're not trying to alarm people," said Alfredo Gutierrez, co-founder of the
coalition. "We're trying to allay their fears on how to best protect them."

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Nick Oza, The Arizona Republic
PHOTO, B/W, Nick Oza, The Arizona Republic
PHOTO, B/W, Scott Olson, Getty Images

DOCUMENT-TYPE: 1A COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 9, 2010 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 FINAL EDITION

New Mexico gov.-elect has own ideas on border control

BYLINE: Alan Gomez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 323 words


The GOP wrestled control of the New Mexico governor's office from the Democrats
last week, but don't expect the border state to adopt the tough anti-immigration
law of its neighbor, Arizona.

Republican Gov.-elect Susana Martinez told Spanish-language cable network
Univision over the weekend that she would not embrace the most contentious
aspect of Arizona's law, which requires police officers to determine a suspect's
immigration status if the person is stopped and there is "reasonable suspicion"
the person is in the USA illegally. That portion of the law was blocked by a
federal judge; Arizona is appealing.

Despite her reluctance to follow Arizona, Martinez has been a vocal opponent of
the state's law that allows illegal immigrants to receive driver's licenses.

Republicans were favored by 33% of Hispanic voters nationwide, according to exit
polls conducted for the television networks and the Associated Press. Martinez
adviser Danny Diaz said she won 40% of the Hispanic vote in her state, helping
her beat Democratic Lt. Gov. Diane Denish to replace Democratic Gov. Bill
Richardson, who could not run again because of term limits.

Ali Noorani, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, which
supports a process for some illegal immigrants to become citizens, said those
numbers show that Martinez pulled off "the perfect triangulation" of her
constituency.

Noorani said Martinez's strategy could be something to mirror in the 2012
election for a party struggling to win over Hispanics.

"What we're going to see is Republicans moving to the center on immigration
policy, but trying to do so in a way that makes it unclear to their base what
their true intentions are," he said.

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which
advocates tighter immigration controls, said Martinez's stance on Arizona's law
won't upset conservatives because she embraces other versions of immigration
control.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 10, 2010



CORRECTION: An article Tuesday about immigration policies in New Mexico
mischaracterized Univision. It is a Spanish-language broadcast network.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 21, 2011 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Anti-illegal immigration bills take different tracks;
States took cue from Arizona

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 761 words


WASHINGTON --When Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer signed the state's historic
immigration law into effect a year ago this week, lawmakers in dozens of states
quickly promised a flood of similar legislation.

But as states wind down their 2011 legislative sessions, the results appear as
muddled as the immigration debate itself.

The Georgia General Assembly passed a bill last week designed to crack down on
illegal immigration. The same week, the Maryland General Assembly passed a law
that goes the other direction and provides in-state college tuition to illegal
immigrants. And the Utah Legislature recently passed a bill that lies somewhere
in between.

"It just speaks to the complexity of the issues and of the folly of single
states thinking they can take it on alone," said Angela Kelley of the Center for
American Progress, a group that opposes Arizona-style laws.

State legislators say they are being forced to tackle the issue because the
federal government has not done its part.

On Tuesday, President Obama met with former California governor Arnold
Schwarzenegger, New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg, San Antonio Mayor Julian
Castro and others to discuss federal immigration laws. Meanwhile, states move
ahead.

Georgia's bill closely mirrors Arizona's S.B. 1070, which required all the
state's police officers to determine the immigration status of people stopped
for another crime if there was a "reasonable suspicion" that the person was in
the country illegally. The core aspects of that law were blocked by a federal
judge, a ruling that was recently upheld by the 9th District Court of Appeals.
The issue could be decided by the Supreme Court.

Rep. Matt Ramsey, a Republican who sponsored Georgia's bill, said the bill was
necessary since the roughly 425,000 illegal immigrants in the state are taking
advantage of public services in a time when the state must cut spending.

Ramsey removed the "reasonable suspicion" aspect of the bill to help win passage
and avoid the legal pitfalls that Arizona's law faced. In its place, police can
perform an immigration check if the suspect cannot produce any form of
identification or give basic details that could help the officer verify their
identity.

Opponents of the Georgia bill believe it will be ruled unconstitutional, and are
concerned with other aspects of the bill, including increased penalties for
people caught transporting or hiding illegal immigrants. Jerry Gonzalez, of the
Georgia Association of Latino Elected Officials, said the law is written so
vaguely that people driving their nanny home, or a church member providing
assistance to someone, could unknowingly be caught up by the law.

"It doesn't represent what Georgia could be all about, and it's really a shame,"
he said.

Elena Lacayo, immigration field coordinator for the National Council of La Raza,
a Hispanic civil rights group, is surprised that more states haven't passed
Arizona-type immigration laws this year. She has been happily crossing off
states from a map in her office as bills have died: Colorado, Mississippi,
Nebraska and South Dakota.

Even so, she said, several states -- including Alabama, Oklahoma, Tennessee and
South Carolina -- still have Arizona-inspired laws moving through their state
capitols.

Maryland took a different tact when its General Assembly passed a law granting
in-state college tuition rates for some illegal immigrants. To qualify, students
must have attended a Maryland high school for three years and prove that they or
their parents paid taxes. Students would have to start at community colleges,
but could later transfer to universities.

Several states -- including Colorado, Connecticut, Oregon and Rhode Island --
may still pass similar laws to Maryland's this year, said Suman Raghunathan, an
immigration policy specialist for the Progressive States Network, a group that
supports tuition-equity laws.

Utah's law would create a "guest worker" program that would allow illegal
immigrants to register to work legally in the state. It would also allow police
to report illegal immigrants who commit crimes to federal immigration officials.

What direction state legislatures head in the next few weeks is unclear. Ramsey
said he's relieved to be done with his immigration work for now. He believes a
federal immigration package is needed, but says he at least understands the
difficulty.

"I thought it'd be slightly less difficult," said Ramsey, a lawyer from
Peachtree City, south of Atlanta. "But it was the toughest, most consuming piece
of legislation by a factor of 1,000 that I've ever been involved in."

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 10, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Alabama stiffens immigration law

BYLINE: John Bacon with staff and wire reports

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 552 words


Alabama's governor signed a tough immigration law Thursday that requires public
schools to determine students' immigration status and also makes it a crime to
knowingly give an illegal immigrant a ride.

The bill also allows police to arrest anyone suspected of being an illegal
immigrant if they're stopped for any other reason. And Alabama employers must
now use a federal system called E-Verify to determine new workers' status.

Gov. Robert Bentley, a Republican, said the law is the nation's toughest.
Southern Poverty Law Center legal director Mary Bauer said she expects to sue
before the law takes effect Sept.1. "It is clearly unconstitutional. It's
mean-spirited, racist and we think a court will enjoin it," Bauer said.

Chicago man guilty on 2 terror charges

A federal jury found a Chicago businessman guilty of two of three
terrorism-related charges but not guilty of providing material support to
terrorists in relation to the deadly 2008 attacks in Mumbai, India.

Tahawwur Rana, 50, was convicted of plotting to attack a Danish newspaper that
in 2005 printed cartoons of the prophet Mohammed  and of supporting the
Pakistani militant group Lashkar-e-Taiba. The group  claimed responsibility for
the three-day siege in Mumbai that left more than 160 people dead, including six
Americans.

Gunmen kill 1, hurt 4 at Brighton Beach

Two gunmen opened fire on a crowded boardwalk at a New York City beach, killing
one woman and wounding four others, one critically, police spokesman Paul Browne
said. The shootings happened during an altercation  on the Brighton Beach
boardwalk. Browne did not know whether the victims, all in their 20s, were
intended targets or bystanders. No arrests had been made.

Search expands for Indiana student

The father of missing Indiana University student Lauren Spierer offered a
$100,000 reward for information leading to her safe return.

Robert Spierer also thanked hundreds of volunteers who have been searching
Bloomington, Ind., and surrounding areas for his daughter and urged them to
continue.

Lauren Spierer, 20, of Edgemont, N.Y., was last seen walking back to her
apartment in the early hours of June 3 after a night out with friends.

The (Westchester, N.Y.) Journal News

Natural gas drilling proposed in Utah

The Interior Department unveiled a plan to allow drilling on a large natural gas
project in eastern Utah designed to open nearly 3,700 new wells and create
thousands of jobs.

Interior Secretary Ken Salazar said Anadarko Petroleum will have to control
emissions under a draft environmental impact statement being issued today.
Public comment will be accepted for 45 days on the project, which covers 250
square miles in the Greater Natural Buttes area.

Wash. court narrows medical pot rights

Employers in Washington state can fire workers for legally using medical
marijuana, even outside the workplace, the state Supreme Court ruled. The
justices found that nothing in state law protects employees who use medical
marijuana.

A woman was fired in 2006 from her job at TeleTech Customer Care Management in
Kitsap County after her pre-employment drug screen came back positive. She had
told the company she was an authorized medical marijuana patient, but the
company drug policy did not make such an exception. The woman, listed as Jane
Roe to protect her identity, sued in 2007.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Joe Burbank Pool photo by Joe Burbank

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NATIONLINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 29, 2011 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Ruling allows parts of Alabama immigration law to go forward;
Critics argue enforcement rests with feds

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 435 words


A federal judge in Alabama ruled on Wednesday that the state can move forward
with key provisions of an immigration law designed to drive illegal immigrants
out of the state, ending a 14-month losing streak for anti-immigration advocates
from Arizona to Georgia.

U.S. District Judge Sharon Blackburn ruled that federal law does not prohibit
state officials from checking the immigration status of students or suspects
pulled over by police. Blackburn also refused to stop provisions that make it a
misdemeanor for illegal immigrants not to carry immigration papers, allow police
to hold suspected illegal immigrants without bond and bar state courts from
enforcing contracts entered into by illegal immigrants.

The U.S. Justice Department and several civil rights groups sued Alabama after
it passed the law, known as HB 56, arguing that immigration enforcement is
solely the responsibility of the federal government.

A similar Justice lawsuit last year led to a federal judge blocking the core
aspects of Arizona's SB 1070, which would have given local police more
immigration-enforcement powers and reignited the national immigration debate. On
Wednesday, Blackburn found that portions of HB 56 mirrored federal laws and that
"it is not 'inconsistent with the purpose of Congress' to do that which Congress
has already done."

Alabama Gov. Robert Bentley, a Republican, said after the ruling that he intends
to enforce the "strongest immigration law in our country."  The Justice
Department said in a statement  that it is reviewing its options. An ACLU
attorney said an appeal is likely.

Civil rights advocates said the law is the harshest anti-immigration law passed
to date, opening the door to racial profiling not only for illegal immigrants,
but also for legal residents. "It's a very dangerous situation for immigrants
and people of color in Alabama," said Omar Jadwat, an attorney with the ACLU
Immigrants' Rights Project.

The ruling came after federal judges had blocked enforcement provisions of state
laws passed in Arizona, Utah, Indiana and Georgia. Those rulings left several
states interested in their own anti-immigration laws hesitant to move forward,
said Bob Dane, of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which helped
legislators in Alabama craft their law.

"This court ruling paves the way for Alabama and greenlights other states," Dane
said.

Blackburn struck down portions of the law that made it a crime for illegal
immigrants to solicit work in the state and for legal residents to harbor or
conceal illegal immigrants.

Contributing: Brian Lyman of the Montgomery Advertiser in Alabama

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 19, 2011 Wednesday
                                 CHASE EDITION

Tough immigration law raises fears in Alabama;
As families scatter, local businesses feel impact

BYLINE: Rick Jervis and Alan Gomez, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1868 words


Before the law chased them away, several dozen customers crowded into the
Discount Grocery and Variety store here each morning, shopping for fresh
avocados, telephone cards, Mexican DVDs or loaves of sweet bread.

On a morning last week, one customer showed up, took a lap through the empty
store and left.

The weak economy has hurt business. But nothing has battered Discount Grocery
and Variety worse than Alabama's newly enacted immigration law, owner Andres
Miguel says. The law -- which has made Alabama the toughest state in the USA for
undocumented immigrants to live and find work -- has scattered families,
including the majority of his customers, he says. Business is down 60% from last
month -- and dropping by the day.

"We've seen so many families leave. They just drive off in the middle of the
night," says Miguel, 54, a Guatemalan native. "Pretty soon, all Hispanics here
will leave. When that happens, we'll leave, too."

The new Alabama law that grants local authorities broad powers to crack down on
illegal immigrants is sending shock waves across the state. The law allows local
police to detain without bail immigrants suspected of being in the country
illegally and requires schools to verify the immigration status of new students.
Those found to be here illegally risk being deported  to their native countries.

A federal judge last month upheld key components of the statute, allowing much
of the law to go into effect.

The U.S. Justice Department asked the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals to
temporarily block enforcement, arguing that immigration enforcement is the
responsibility of the federal government and that the state is infringing on
that role. On Friday, the court temporarily blocked parts of the law -- those
requiring schools to check students' immigration status and making it a crime
for immigrants not to have proper documentation. But it let stand -- for now --
the power of police to detain people suspected of being in the USA illegally.

Well before Friday's action by the appeals court, a number of Hispanic families,
both legal residents and those in the country illegally, fled Alabama for other
states in the cover of night, leaving behind homes still filled with furniture,
TVs and refrigerators stocked with food.

The exodus has left a sizable gap in the pool of workers and day laborers
crucial to industries across the state. Farmers in northern Alabama,
construction workers trying to rebuild Tuscaloosa from tornadoes this year and
coastal businesses all have reported massive worker shortages. Earlier this
month,  7% of Hispanic children in the state -- about 2,300 students -- did not
show up for classes.

The law already is leading to arrests. At least six people have been arrested
by local police for not having proper immigration documents.

Critics such as the ACLU and the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic civil
rights group, say it will lead to racial profiling and will fill Alabama jails
with immigrants. Last Wednesday,  Hispanic businesses across the state closed
shop and workers stayed home from their jobs to protest the law. More than 5,100
Hispanic students also stayed home from school that day.

"It's a slap to the face," says Juan Martinez, who shuttered his Russellville
grocery and tortilla factory in support of the boycott. "It's hurting the
stores. It's hurting the state. Everyone's going to feel the pain."

Supporters of the law argue that Alabama is taking necessary steps to stem the
flow of undocumented immigrants into the state -- something the federal
government has failed to do.

Federal judges in Arizona, Utah, Indiana and Georgia have blocked key aspects of
similar laws in those states. A similar law in South Carolina is to take effect
Jan. 1 but also faces a lawsuit challenging its legality.

Alabama House Speaker Mike Hubbard, a Republican, says he cringes when he hears
the law compared to Jim Crow laws, state and local laws that targeted African
Americans in the South decades ago and were eventually repealed.

"There's a big difference," Hubbard says. "In that time, it was the federal
government making the states do what was right. In this case, it's the state of
Alabama trying to make the federal government do what's right. We're not
targeting any particular race. The people who are law-abiding, tax-paying
citizens just don't like having someone in the state who's in the country
illegally."

Alabama's immigration law highlights what President Obama has described as a
dangerous "patchwork" of immigration laws across the USA as more states tackle
the subject and federal judges issue sometimes conflicting rulings.

The issue could be headed for the U.S. Supreme Court. Arizona's blocked law
could provide that forum; the high court is expected to decide whether to take
up the case later this year.

Small town feels the brunt

The law is being felt most deeply in places such as Russellville, a hill town in
northwest Alabama that has seen a surge of Hispanic residents.

Workers from Mexico, Guatemala and other Latin American countries began arriving
more than a decade ago to work at nearby poultry plants. Families followed and
found jobs, Mayor Troy Oliver says. They opened businesses, too, filling
downtown with Mexican bakeries, Guatemalan gift shops and Spanish-speaking
income tax law firms.

Today, Hispanics make up about one-third of the city's 9,830 residents, Oliver
says. They contribute significantly to sales tax rolls, which pay for nearly
half of the city's $8.5 million annual budget, he says. Since the law took
effect, Oliver has met with Hispanic groups, answering questions and trying to
quell fears of a  crackdown.

The law puts Oliver and other local officials in the precarious position of
reassuring Hispanic residents while fulfilling their legal obligations. Last
Wednesday, Oliver walked through the city's mostly shuttered downtown, greeting
Hispanic families on the street and urging them to keep their children in
school.

"We are going to enforce the law. We're sworn to do that," he says. "But we're
not going to do it the point where we're abusive to anyone. We're not going to
get into racial profiling."

Enforcing the law could be tricky. One of the key questions local police
departments face is how to determine "reasonable suspicion" that a person is in
the country illegally, as worded by the law, analysts say. "This has the
potential to have U.S. citizens and legal residents being arrested for nothing,"
says Neville Cramer, a former federal immigration agent who consulted with
Arizona authorities as they developed an officer training curriculum under a
similar law.

The law also could bring economic ramifications. Businesses most at risk include
construction firms, poultry processors and farms, many of which  previously
relied on undocumented workers for labor

Jobs Americans don't want

A key argument of the law's supporters is that departing undocumented workers
will create job openings that Alabamians can fill, says Jay Reed, president of
the Alabama Associated Builders and Contractors, a Birmingham-based trade group
representing 700 construction companies and subcontractors. But his group has
been trying to recruit locals into construction jobs for years: Many just don't
want them, he says.

"Immigration reform is certainly needed," Reed says. "But a far-reaching piece
of legislation that drives workers out of the state through racial profiling is
not the way to do it."

In Russellville, word of the new law rattled families living at Creekside
Rentals, a 100-unit mobile home park on the south side of town.

About 75% of the families are Hispanic, says Greg Parrish, the park's owner. Six
families moved out overnight, leaving behind furniture,  family photos and
closets full of clothes.

Parrish says he fears more will go soon, even though he has tried to persuade
them to stay.  Without Hispanics, the park -- and many other city businesses --
will quickly close, he says.

"Fifteen years ago, Russellville was a dead town," Parrish says. As Hispanics
moved in, "everything started booming. They put a lot of money back into the
community. If they leave, Russellville's going to be hurting big time."

The day after a federal judge upheld key provisions of the law, 79 Hispanic
students skipped classes at Russellville's four public schools -- nearly four
times the normal number, says Rex Mayfield, the superintendent. The numbers
alarmed Mayfield enough to call a  student meeting that day in the high school's
auditorium, where he explained the law and urged students to calm their parents'
fears. About 800 of the schools' 2,400 students are Hispanic.

Maria, 34, an undocumented native of Guatemala whom USA TODAY is identifying
only by her first name because of her immigration status, has kept her
11-year-old daughter home from school several times since the law passed. She
says she's terrified of being separated from her daughter and 1-year-old son and
deported  without them.

She says she applied for permanent residence status in 2000 and is still
awaiting an  answer. Both her children were born in the USA and are citizens.

She leaves her home only to make quick trips to the local Catholic church, the
only place that quiets her anxiety. "I have faith in God," she says. "He's the
only one who empowers us."

Others have applied for visas but are still waiting or raising money to finalize
the transactions.

It took Russellville resident Angelica Perez, 21, two years and $14,000 in
attorney, travel and filing fees to land a green card for her husband.

"It's not as easy as it sounds," says Angelica Perez, who was born in Alabama to
Guatemalan parents and is a U.S. citizen. "There are so many people who come
here just to better their lives. This law is flipping our world in so many
ways."

Support for the law

Not everyone in Russellville opposes the new law.

Paul Bragwell, 73, owner of City Barber Shop, says he gets along with most of
his Hispanic neighbors. But if they've entered the country without going through
the legal channels, they should be prosecuted, he says.

"If they come here illegally, they're no different than other criminals,"
Bragwell says.

The Pollo Loquillo restaurant downtown has always enjoyed a bustling lunch
crowd. Lately, however, the restaurant has been nearly empty around noon.

The  lunchtime crush has been replaced by a rash of daily take-out orders --
residents afraid to leave their homes are instead phoning in their broiled
chicken orders, manager Juan Carlos Sanchez says.

"The people don't want to drive, don't want to leave their homes," he says.
"It's sad."

At the Creekside Rentals mobile home park, children play in gravel lots while
parents talk to one another, deciding when to leave and where to go.

Parrish, the trailer park's owner, says it's hard watching the departure of
families he has known for years. Those families worked hard, paid their rent on
time and went to church each week. They're exactly the type of people Alabama
should be trying to keep, he says.

"The people who put this law into effect didn't understand what it will do from
the ground up," Parrish says. "It's going to end up causing a lot more trouble
than they know."

Gomez reported from Washington. Contributing: The Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           February 21, 2012 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigrants return to Alabama;
Scores fled state after illegal immigration law went into effect

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 734 words


When Alabama's immigration law went into effect in September, it sent shock
waves throughout Hispanic communities within the state.  Whole families left
overnight, parents pulled their children out of school, and city centers became
ghost towns as legal and illegal immigrants alike hid from police.

In the months since, a number of illegal immigrants who fled have returned.

"Little by little, it's been calming down," said Gabby Sullivan, a legal
immigrant from Mexico who has been helping community groups in the southern city
of Robertsdale.

But as Republican legislative leaders promise only minor adjustments to the law
and with an 11th Circuit Court of Appeals hearing on portions of the law set for
March 1, Hispanics are still living "with one foot out of the state, ready to
flee for good," Sullivan said.

Evelyn Servin, director of the North Alabama Hispanic Coalition for Equal
Rights, said many of the Hispanic people who work in poultry plants around
Russellville have completely changed their way of life to avoid running into
police.

"People are still afraid to go out," Servin said. "Many of them go grocery
shopping at night when they can't be seen in their cars. A lot of them are just
staying home and not going anywhere."

Alabama followed Arizona's lead by passing a law last year aimed at making
everyday life difficult for the state's estimated 120,000 illegal immigrants.
The Alabama law, known as H.B. 56, allowed local police to check the immigration
status of people stopped for other crimes, required public school officials to
collect data on the number of illegal immigrants enrolling, and forbade illegal
immigrants from entering into private contracts or conducting any business  with
the state.

Federal courts  blocked some portions of the law, including the immigration
checks at schools. But unlike judges in Arizona and other states who have barred
police from checking immigration status during routine stops, U.S. District
Judge Sharon Blackburn in Birmingham  allowed the police enforcement provision
to go into effect in September.

The effects of those rulings are widespread.

A University of Alabama study released in January found that the law could cost
the state up to $10.8 billion per year -- a combination of losing up to 80,000
illegal immigrants who earn and spend money in the state, lost local and state
tax revenue,  and the costs to enforce and defend the law in court.

Even though schools are now barred from checking the immigration status of new
students, parents continue to keep their children out of schools.

In the weeks leading up to the law going into effect, about 1,120 Hispanic
students were absent -- typically about 3.5% of the state's 32,000 Hispanic
students, according to state Department of Education spokeswoman Malissa Valdes.
After the law went into effect Sept. 28, the state has averaged more than 1,500
Hispanic absences each day -- close to 5%.

"While there remains many legal challenges to Alabama's immigration law, its
effect on the operation of Alabama's public schools has been minimal, and the
initial fear of parents has subsided," state Superintendent Tommy Bice said.

Alabama Gov. Robert Bentley, a Republican, is working with legislators  to fix
some portions of the law that have led to confusion and complications for legal
residents and businesses.

Jay Reed, president of Alabama Associated Builders and Contractors, said changes
would focus on reducing penalties for employers who may inadvertently hire a
small number of illegal immigrants, and to reduce the  paperwork required by
the law. Bentley's spokesman, Jeremy King, said any changes would not diminish
the intent of the law of ensuring "that everyone working in Alabama is doing so
legally."

One of the few bright spots that civil rights activists see in the H.B. 56
controversy is that all people in Alabama -- U.S. citizens, legal residents and
illegal immigrants -- are learning about the bill-making process  and the
court-review process that has followed.

"It's funny to see everyday people talking about the appellate court system and
the fact that the (U.S.) Supreme Court will be issuing a decision in the summer
over S.B. 1070 (Arizona's law) and how that will have repercussions for H.B.
56," said Gwendolyn Ferreti, a community organizer in Tuscaloosa.  "That's
really inspiring,  that an immigrant community has gotten to know this so well
and so intimately."

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 31, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Et cetera;
Smart insights on the news of the day

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 164 words


Ross Douthat, columnist, The New York Times: "The Arizona immigration law was
controversial from the beginning. Critics said it was ripe for abuse, implicitly
discriminatory and probably unconstitutional as well.  But now that it's been
implemented, it might just be a model for nationwide reform.  I mean the 2007
Arizona law requiring businesses to confirm their employees' legal status with
the federal E-Verify database, which was upheld last week in a 5-to-3 decision
by the United States Supreme Court.  According to a recent study from the
nonpartisan Public Policy Institute of California, the legislation reduced
Arizona's population of working-age illegal immigrants by about 17%, or roughly
92,000 people, in just a single year.  And the swift attrition was mainly
achieved through voluntary compliance: the number of employers prosecuted under
the law can be counted on one hand. These results suggest that maybe  just maybe
public policy can make a difference after all."

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 4, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Fixing the immigration process is long overdue

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 359 words


I am glad that the immigration legislation in Arizona has sparked great debate
around the country about what our federal immigration policy should be. We need
comprehensive reform that treats fairly those people who are trying to get into
the country and that secures our borders ("Arizona immigration crackdown raises
flags," News, Friday).

When  a vacuum exists due to federal inaction, draconian laws such as the one in
Arizona are created. Let the dialogue  begin with  good public policy that can
finally address a problem that has been with us for too long.

Steven M. Clayton

Ocean, N.J.

Stand by Arizona

California is hurting just as much as Arizona. Finally  a state is showing the
guts to start working on this problem.

I feel for  immigrants; if their country were great, they  wouldn't come here.
However, why is it that when people try  to address the issue of illegal
immigration, they are labeled as "racists"? Why should so many of our jobs -- as
few as they are -- go to people who do not belong here?

I'm sick of hearing, "We need comprehensive immigration reform." What does that
mean?  We have laws already, so let's enforce the ones we have. Let's stand by
Arizona and fight the  boycott by buying from Arizona. If the federal government
doesn't want to do anything, then get out of the way and let the states help
themselves.

By the way I am a  Latino, but I am an American first.

Hector Cartagena

Long Beach, Calif.

Target businesses instead

Shame on Arizona politicians for using fear to create this racist, hate-filled
law. If you were poor, lived in a country that neglected its poor and saw an
opportunity to improve your family's life that was just across the border, I am
guessing many of us would do the same thing.

The law that could stop this in a heartbeat is to impose harsh criminal
penalties  for the business owners who hire undocumented workers. It's easier to
blame a poor Mexican than to blame the U.S. farmer, landscaper or construction
company for trying to save money by hiring the poor and undocumented. Until
jobs  are not offered, people will keep crossing the border.  I, for one, do not
blame them.

Rick Dean

Charleston, S.C.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 28, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

We need town halls on immigration

BYLINE: Julianne Malveaux

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 423 words


Mexican President Felipe Calderon's recent visit to the U.S. included comments
that he "strongly" disagreed with Arizona's controversial immigration law that
will take effect in two months. Our own president, Barack Obama, called the law
"misguided."

Some of the law's provisions are onerous -- state  agencies that hinder
enforcement of the laws can be fined or sued. Still, the law may have been
passed out of frustration that the federal government has not done more about
illegal immigration.

Because immigration issues affect our  entire nation, federal law, not state
actions, ought to deal with any policies or reform. With the 2010 elections
looming, we won't see new federal laws on immigration before 2011. But the
federal government might take steps toward forging an immigration policy by
sponsoring town hall meetings across the U.S. to really delve into the issue.

Hasn't enough been said? Not really. I'd like to see teachers, social workers
and hospital workers confirm or rebut beliefs that services can't be provided
because there are so many undocumented people to serve. I'd like to hear
employers, especially farmers, be candid about what the costs of produce would
be if there were fewer migrant workers available. I'd like to hear from parents
and children about what happens when families are shattered because one parent
is not documented. Last week, a second-grader told Michelle Obama about the
student's undocumented mother. How many other parents are subject to
deportation, and what does this say about our "family values"?

I'd like to see people talk to each other with data, life stories and
complexity, not with slogans and invective. I'd like to see town halls held in
the porous border states; in states such as North Carolina and Michigan, where
there are rising immigrant populations; and in states where immigration is not
necessarily brown.

President Obama once  noted, "We are not a collection of Red States and Blue
States, we are the United States of America." If anyone can cultivate  common
ground on this issue, it is the president as well as savvy facilitators such as
journalists Soledad O'Brien and Ray Suarez, and law professors like Charles
Ogletree.

Town hall meetings can be imperfect  and are no substitute for considered public
policy. But convening national conversations about immigration that provide a
platform for people to talk with -- not at -- each other might prove to be
informative as well as productive.

Julianne Malveaux is president of Bennett College for Women in Greensboro, N.C.


LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 15, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Do laws even matter today?;
One set of rules for bankers, another for consumers. One for oil companies,
another for Joe Citizen. 'Illegal' immigrants? Only until they aren't.

BYLINE: Jonathan Turley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 887 words


As soon as Arizona passed its recent immigration law, some reporters and
commentators were quick to cast the story with the usual actors: "Tea Partiers,"
race activists, conservatives and liberals. Like our politics, much of our news
media coverage has become a clash of caricatures -- easily categorized groups
with one-dimensional motives for mass consumption. Some commentary even
suggested that supporters of the law are either open or closeted racists. Rep.
Keith Ellison, D-Minn., recently called the law both "fascist" and "racist."

Though I am a critic of the Arizona law, I do not view its supporters in such
one-dimensional terms. Indeed, I do not view the public response in purely
immigration terms. Whether it is illegal immigration or the mortgage crisis or
corporate bailouts, there seems to be a growing sense among many citizens that
they are expected to play by the rules while others are exempt.

With polls showing about 60% of people supporting the Arizona law and almost
half supporting similar laws in their states, it is implausible to suggest that
all these people are racists or extremists -- let alone fascists. Notably, a
majority of Americans also opposed the bank bailouts and mortgage forgiveness.
In each of these controversies, there is a sense that the government was
stepping in to protect people from the consequences of their actions.

In the mortgage crisis, tens of thousands of people accepted high-risk,
low-interest loans while other citizens either declined to buy homes or agreed
to higher monthly payments to avoid such deals.  When Congress intervened with
mortgage relief, some of those who had acted responsibly wondered whether they
acted stupidly by rejecting low rates and later federal support.

Bailouts and immigration

Then there were the corporate bailouts.  For citizens to secure a loan, they
have to meet exacting terms and disclosures. Yet, when banks and firms concealed
risks or engaged in financial wrongdoing, Congress bailed them out and allowed
their executives to reap fat bonuses. The laws on fraud and deceptive practices
simply did not seem to apply to them. Just as several companies were declared
"too big to fail," many of their executives appeared too big to lose money --
unlike the millions of citizens burned by their business practices.

Those prior controversies coalesced with the immigration debate. The last time
Congress granted amnesty to illegal immigrants was 1986 -- and it was criticized
at the time for rewarding those who had evaded deportation. Complaints over the
lack of federal enforcement had been percolating for years but exploded along
Arizona's long desert border. When a  law mandated state enforcement of federal
laws, the Obama administration moved to block it.

Indeed, high-ranking Obama officials such as John Morton, head of the
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, have suggested that they might refuse to
deport those arrested under the Arizona law. While we continue to tell millions
around the world that they must wait for years to immigrate legally, Congress
and the White House are considering a new amnesty proposal to benefit an
additional 11 million illegal immigrants.

In each of these areas, the perception is that the law says one thing but
actually means different things for different people. It is a dangerous
perception, and it is not entirely unfounded. Such double-standards have become
common as Congress and presidents seek to avoid unpopular legal problems.

*Torture: While acknowledging that waterboarding is torture and that torture
violates domestic and international law, President Obama and members of Congress
have barred any investigation or prosecution of those crimes.

*Pollution: While citizens are subject to pay for the full damage they cause to
their neighbors and are routinely fined for their environmental damage for
everything from dumping in rivers to leaf burning, Congress capped the liability
for massive corporations such as BP and Exxon at a ridiculous $75 million.
Though BP is likely to spend much more in litigation (particularly if prosecuted
criminally), the current law requires citizens to pay the full cost of their
environmental damage while capping the costs for companies producing massive
destruction.

*Privacy: When the telecommunications companies found themselves on the losing
end of citizen suits over the violation of privacy laws, Congress (including
then-Sen. Obama) and President Bush simply changed the law to legislatively kill
the citizen suits and protect the companies.

An arbitrary system

The message across these areas is troubling. To paraphrase Animal Farm, all
people are equal, but some people are more equal than others.

A legal system cannot demand the faith and fealty of the governed when rules are
seen as arbitrary and deceptive. Our leaders have led us not to an economic
crisis or an immigration crisis or an environmental crisis or a civil liberties
crisis. They have led us to a crisis of faith where citizens no longer believe
that laws have any determinant meaning. It is politics, not the law, that
appears to drive outcomes -- a self-destructive trend for a nation supposedly
defined by the rule of law.

Jonathan Turley, the Shapiro Professor of Public Interest Law at George
Washington University, is a member of USA TODAY's Board of Contributors.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Web Bryant, USA TODAY (Illustration)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 30, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Ariz. fights injunction on law;
Protesters make 'strong show' as parts go into effect

BYLINE: Alan Gomez and Kevin Johnson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 610 words


PHOENIX -- Arizona officials asked a federal appeals court to lift a judge's
ruling that blocks full enforcement of the state's illegal-immigration law, as
dozens of the law's opponents were arrested across the city.

Republican Gov. Jan Brewer called on the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals to set
aside a lower court's ruling that put key parts of the law on hold until the
full legal dispute is aired. Among them: a requirement for police to check
suspects' immigration status during routine stops if there's a reasonable
suspicion they are in the U.S. illegally. Some parts of the law took effect
Thursday as scheduled.

Brewer said status checks and other sections of the law that U.S. District Judge
Susan Bolton suspended were "critical to address serious criminal, environmental
and economic problems Arizona has been suffering as a consequence of illegal
immigration."

The governor's action came as hundreds of demonstrators, most of them pressing
for the law to be struck down permanently, blocked parts of downtown.

Traffic and light-rail service near City Hall were stalled for nearly an hour,
said a Phoenix police spokesman, Lt. Tommy Thompson.

Several hundred protesters converged on the local jail where at least six people
were arrested after chaining themselves to the building.

Sharon Lungo, who traveled to Phoenix from Oakland to protest the law, known as
S.B. 1070, said Bolton's temporary suspension does not mean Hispanics in Arizona
are safe.

"They're going to continue to face the same kind of terror they faced before
S.B. 1070," Lungo said. "We're here to say, 'That's not enough.' "

She said she was proud of those arrested. "It was a strong show of people
power," said Lungo, 33. "We're not going to stop until the hate stops."

Near a collection of protesters at the state Capitol, Nikki Colletti was among a
small group that came out to support the law. She wore a shirt that read, "Ask
me for my I.D. I am legal."

Colletti and other supporters hope the appeals court will reinstitute the law in
its entirety. "I don't see what the big deal is," said Colletti, a Glendale,
Ariz., credit manager. "Legal is legal. If you don't want to respect American
laws, you need to leave."

Jim Walker, a retired Army sergeant, said the law, signed in April, already has
prompted changes.

He said Spanish-speaking grocery store clerks in his hometown of Buckeye, west
of Phoenix, rarely helped him when he asked for aid. "You go in there and ask
for help, and they won't. 'No Ingles,' " said Walker, 44. "Since the bill (was
signed), they'll say, in English, 'May I help you?' "

U.S. Marshal David Gonzales in Phoenix said Bolton has received thousands of
calls and e-mails since the ruling. "Some of them were positive, some not so
positive, and others clearly crossed the line," he said. "We knew when the
decision was made, this was going to happen."

Gonzales said the messages directed to Bolton had "changed the complexion" of
the judge's security arrangement but did not elaborate.

In Yuma, Ariz., police were investigating a shot fired through the office window
of U.S. Rep. Raul Grijalva, D-Ariz., a vocal opponent of the law. In a
statement, police did not tie the incident to Wednesday's ruling but indicated
it occurred after the judge's decision was made public.

The Justice Department, which filed one of seven challenges to the law, did not
comment on the appeal.

"Illegal immigration is an ongoing crisis the state of Arizona did not create
and the federal government has refused to fix," Brewer said Thursday. She asked
the appellate court to set arguments for the week of Sept. 13.

Johnson reported from Washington, D.C. Contributing: Arizona Republic.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Michael Chow, The Arizona Republic

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NATION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 6, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Drop in legal Mexican visitors hurts southern Arizona;
Region's economy relies on country's 'relentless' shoppers

BYLINE: Dennis Wagner

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 432 words


NOGALES, Ariz. --  The number of legal visitors entering Arizona from Mexico has
plummeted amid the controversy of increased enforcement of state immigration
laws.

Total cross-border visits into Arizona in the months after Gov. Jan Brewer
signed the immigration enforcement law in April have fallen 17% compared with
the same period in 2009, according to Customs and Border Protection data. The
drop-off amounts to about 12,500 fewer people daily, the data show.

Four days after Brewer, a Republican, signed the illegal-immigration enforcement
law, Mexico issued a warning to its citizens about travel into Arizona.

Across the entire Southwest border during that same time frame, where that law
has not been an issue, lawful entries by land from Mexico fell by less than 7%,
according to the data.

Erik Lee, associate director of the North American Center for Transborder
Studies at Arizona State University, said reduced tourism can be blamed on "a
little bit of everything," but the net result is a big financial hit. "Southern
Arizona's economy really depends on the relentless Mexican shoppers," he said.

The drop in tourism has been a  trend for several years. In fiscal 2007-08,
according to Customs and Border Protection data, nearly 209 million people came
into the U.S. legally via land ports from Mexico. That number dropped 10% last
year -- even before Arizona's immigration-law controversy.

A study issued in January by the University of Arizona's Economic and Business
Research Center says the more than 24 million legal visitors who visited the
state in 2007-08 spent about $2.7 billion at stores, restaurants, hotels and
other businesses. "Almost 23,400 wage-and-salary jobs in Arizona are directly
attributable to Mexican visitor spending," the report says.

Tucson and Pima County, Ariz., are listed as the greatest beneficiaries, with $1
billion in annual receipts from Mexican visitors, that study showed. Phoenix and
Maricopa County ranked second, with $694 million.

Ernesto Chavez runs a stationery store on Morley Avenue, a border shopping
district in Nogales that caters to customers from Mexico. He says business is
down 70%, the worst in the 50 years he has been at the location.

Although Chavez primarily blames the recession, he said Arizona politicians
compounded problems.  Across the street, Noemi Lee, co-owner of Casa Noemi, said
business at her apparel store dropped mostly because of longer waits at entry
points and the new law. "The people just don't come anymore. They believe there
is discrimination. They're angry," she said.

Wagner reports for The Arizona Republic

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Michael Chow, The Arizona Republic

DOCUMENT-TYPE: WASHINGTON

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 4, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Tornado-hit schools reopen in Alabama

BYLINE: From staff and wire reports

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 637 words


Schools in Jefferson County, Ala., reopened Tuesday, almost a week after a
tornado outbreak killed 328 people in seven states, including 236 in Alabama. It
was the nation's deadliest day of tornadoes since the 1930s.

In Pleasant Grove, roads leading to the middle school are lined with toppled
trees. National Guard trucks idle in the parking lot, and tables of bottled
water and food are set up nearby. Inside the building, however, students who
returned found a sanctuary, greeting one another with shrieks, bear hugs and
giddy jubilation.

"I was happy because I thought they had died," seventh-grader Sandrea McAlpine,
12, said of some of her friends she hadn't seen.

In at least six  school systems, however, students were not able to return to
class because their buildings were destroyed or damaged.

Suit challenges Utah immigration law

Immigrant and civil rights groups filed a lawsuit  to try to block a Utah
immigration law that they say will create a police state and is too much like
Arizona's controversial immigration law, which is also before the courts.

The Utah law, signed by Republican Gov. Gary Herbert in March, requires people
to prove their citizenship if they're arrested for a felony or class-A
misdemeanor.

Marielena Hincapie, executive director of the National Immigration Law Center,
said it violates civil rights and other constitutional protections.

Utah Attorney General Mark Shurtleff said the measure is "completely defensible"
because, unlike Arizona's law, it requires police to check citizenship only when
a person is arrested for a felony or class-A misdemeanor. Officers can use
discretion for minor offenses.

Judge scolds defense in Blagojevich trial

A federal judge in Chicago wasted little time laying down the law  on the first
day of witness testimony at the corruption retrial of former Illinois governor
Rod Blagojevich, scolding the defense vigorously.

The rebuke from Judge James Zagel came after defense attorney Lauren Kaeseberg
repeatedly tried to ask the government's first witness, FBI agent Dan Cain, how
many hours of FBI wiretap recordings of Blagojevich exist. Zagel had already
ruled that the ousted governor's lawyers could not suggest that prosecutors were
withholding hundreds of hours of recordings. "Asking those questions was
inappropriate," Zagel said.

Blagojevich faces 20 counts, including that he tried to sell or trade President
Obama's vacated U.S. Senate seat. Blagojevich, 54, has denied any wrongdoing.
His first trial ended with jurors deadlocked on all but one count, agreeing to
convict Blagojevich of lying to the FBI.

Six Boy Scouts rescued in Arkansas

Six Louisiana Boy Scouts stranded by high water in an Arkansas forest said after
being reunited with their families  that they never feared camping in an area
where 20 people died in a flash flood last summer. "I was worried that my
parents would freak out," said Ian Fuselier, 13.

A National Guard helicopter plucked the boys and two Scoutmasters from the
Albert Pike Recreation Area on Tuesday after the boys' parents spent 36 hours
awaiting their rescue.

Nissan van picked as next NYC taxi

A boxy minivan made by Nissan will be the next iconic yellow cab in New York
City, Mayor Michael Bloomberg announced. The model, selected from among three
finalists, is designed so it could eventually be updated with an electric
engine. The city is exploring the possibility of replacing the city's entire
fleet of more than 13,000 taxis with vehicles powered by electricity.

Bloomberg conceded that the minivan might make some think of suburbia, but he
said the distinctive yellow paint will make them New York icons. The minivan
features a panoramic overhead window to give tourists views of the city's
skyscrapers and onboard outlets and charging stations to allow professionals to
treat the cabs as mobile offices.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 8, 2011 Tuesday
                                 First EDITION

GOP political fears shape Alabama immigration law

BYLINE: DeWayne Wickham

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 624 words


There's something going on in Alabama that ought to make people all over this
country cringe.

The Republicans, who control state government in the "Heart of Dixie," are
pushing enforcement of a draconian immigration law that is the leading edge of a
GOP effort that I suspect is meant to blunt the growth of this nation's Hispanic
population.

The rapidly increasing Latino population, combined with that of other non-white
groups, will make minorities a majority of Americans by 2042, according to the
Census Bureau. Republican legislators in states that have enacted immigration
laws say they simply want to ensure that people enter this country legally. But
at the back of their minds has to be the haunting thought that such a
demographic change will usher in a period of Democratic Party dominance from
which the GOP might never recover.

While every nation has a right, and duty, to control its borders, the state of
Alabama -- which shares borders with  four states and the Gulf of Mexico -- has
usurped the federal government's role in hatching a far-reaching immigration
law.  Among other things, the law makes it a crime for an illegal immigrant to
apply for a driver's license and requires schools to determine the citizenship
status of schoolchildren and their parents. The former is an illogical action
that will make the state's roads less safe.  The latter, which an appeals court
has blocked pending an appeal of the full law, is a mean-spirited act that
punishes children for the actions of their parents.

"Alabama's law really represents a new frontier in the struggle for civil
rights," Wade Henderson, who heads the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human
Rights, told me. That struggle started to take shape a few days ago when
Alabama's Republican attorney general, Luther Strange, challenged the U.S.
Department of Justice's authority to get information on the absences and
withdrawals of schoolchildren since the immigration law took effect. It's that
kind of resistance to federal authority, and what many see as settled law, that
conjures up memories of Alabama's attempt to ward off the civil rights changes
that ended the Jim Crow era.

Of course, Republicans like to remind us that this intransigence came largely
from Southern Democrats. What they don't admit is that today's GOP is controlled
largely by a fusion of former Southern Democrats and the party's own home-grown,
right-wing zealots.

At the national level, this Republican Party has blocked passage of a federal
immigration bill because of concerns about providing "amnesty." So  states such
as Arizona, Georgia, Utah, South Carolina, Indiana and Alabama, where the GOP
controls the legislatures and statehouses,  have pushed through immigration laws
that are heavy on enforcement but light on providing a path to citizenship for
even the most worthy immigrants.

The long-term effect of this kind of legislation and voter suppression bills
that also are being churned out of GOP-controlled state legislatures -- if
allowed to stand -- will be to put off the day when minorities become a majority
of this country's population and to disenfranchise this growing bloc of likely
Democratic voters.

Alabama, which also passed a voter ID law this year, is ground zero in this
effort.  If Republicans succeed there, they will try to repeat that success in
other states under their control.

"This is one of those times when the national interest has been trumped by
partisan interests," Henderson said of the role that GOP-controlled states are
playing in the fight over immigration policy.

And it is time for those who think Alabama is again on the wrong side of history
to wage an unrelenting campaign to save it from itself.

DeWayne Wickham writes on Tuesdays for USA TODAY.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          November 23, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Justice Dept. sues over Utah immigration law

BYLINE: John Bacon with staff and wire reports

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 591 words


The Justice Department filed a lawsuit  challenging Utah's immigration
enforcement law, arguing that it usurps federal authority and could potentially
lead to the harassment and detention of American citizens and authorized
visitors.

"A patchwork of immigration laws is not the answer and will only create further
problems in our immigration system," Attorney General Eric Holder said in a
statement.

The Utah law, signed by Republican Gov. Gary Herbert in March, requires people
to prove their citizenship if they're arrested for serious crimes. It also gives
police discretion to check citizenship on traffic infractions and other lesser
offenses.

"The Legislature worked diligently to craft a law that would pass constitutional
muster," said Ally Isom, a spokeswoman for the governor. "We hope the courts do
the right thing."

Oregon governor halts executions

Oregon Gov. John Kitzhaber imposed a moratorium on the death penalty for the
remainder of his term, saying he's morally opposed to capital punishment and has
long regretted allowing two men to be executed in the 1990s.

Kitzhaber, a Democrat, announced his decision while giving a reprieve to a
twice-convicted murderer who was scheduled to die by injection in two weeks.
Kitzhaber's term runs through 2014. He said that he has no sympathy for killers
but that the state's death penalty system is broken and applied unevenly. His
decision makes Oregon the fifth state to halt executions since 2007.

Local judges won't handle PSU case

All four judges in Penn State's home county removed themselves from potentially
presiding over the child sex-abuse case against former assistant football coach
Jerry Sandusky and will be replaced by outside jurists, officials said.

The Administrative Office of Pennsylvania Courts said the judges bowed out "to
avoid any appearance of conflict of interest due to real or perceived
connections" to Sandusky, the university or his charity for at-risk children.
Judges from other counties will be tapped. Sandusky has maintained he is
innocent of the 40 criminal counts against him for the alleged sexual abuse of
eight boys over a 15-year period. See Paterno, 8C

Fairgoers sue Sugarland over collapse

Country duo Sugarland was named in a lawsuit  by 44 survivors of the Indiana
State Fair stage collapse and family members of four people who died in the Aug.
13 tragedy.

Attorneys representing at least 20 law firms across Indiana, Ohio and Kentucky
filed the complaint in Indianapolis, alleging breach of reasonable care to the
victims. The lawsuit seeks unspecified damages. Stage rigging collapsed  after a
wind gust of at least 60 mph, killing seven people and injuring more than 40.
Sugarland's publicist didn't  return a call seeking comment.

Blagojevich fundraiser gets 10 years

A former top fundraiser for ousted Illinois governor Rod Blagojevich, whose
trial exposed a  pay-to-play political culture, was sentenced to 10 years in
prison. Antoin "Tony" Rezko will get credit for 3 years already served. Rezko
was convicted in 2008 of fraud, money laundering and plotting to squeeze $7
million in kickbacks from companies. The governor was convicted on charges that
included trying to sell or trade an appointment to President Obama's  Senate
seat.

Faulty battery delays Mars rover launch

NASA delayed launch of the Mars Science Laboratory "Curiosity" rover at least
one day to replace a faulty battery, the space agency said. The earliest launch
will come Saturday, at 10:02 a.m. ET, according to George Diller of NASA's
Kennedy Space Flight Center.--Dan Vergano

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 27, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Repeal Alabama's immigration law

BYLINE: Raul Reyes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 423 words


The good news? It  took Alabama lawmakers only six months to figure out their
"strictest-in-the-nation" immigration law was flawed. The bad news? They plan to
retool the law rather than repeal it.

"Changes are needed to ensure that Alabama has not only the nation's most
effective law," Gov. Robert Bentley said last month, "but one that is fair and
just, promotes economic growth, preserves jobs for those in Alabama legally, and
can be enforced effectively and without prejudice."

Easier said than done.  Even a revised law cannot  address all the unintended
consequences that forced lawmakers to backtrack on the law in the first place.
Let's review the economic impact of this fiasco  so far. The law has harmed the
state's:

Agriculture industry.  Farmers face a  crisis because migrant workers have fled
the state, and U.S. workers haven't filled the gaps. The situation is so dire,
officials are considering using work-release prisoners to fill the jobs.

Business reputation. State officials who want to sell Alabama as a good place to
do business were embarrassed on Nov. 16 when a Mercedes-Benz executive was
arrested for driving without proper identification required under the new law.
Two weeks later, a Honda official was  ticketed for driving without a proper
license.

Legal residents. Now anyone who applies for or renews a state license  is
required to show proof of citizenship. This has resulted in long lines at
courthouses and city halls, which equals lost hours of productivity and
confusing red tape.

Local businesses, schools and clinics. As many undocumented workers and their
families have fled Alabama, businesses  that catered to them have closed,
depriving the state of tax revenue. The Immigration Policy Center calculates
that Alabama's undocumented population collectively paid $130 million in state
and local taxes in 2010.  And what about the effect on schools? The Alabama
Department of Education reports that hundreds of Hispanic students have stopped
going to school since the law took effect.

Yes, undocumented workers are here illegally, but the state drives them away
while incurring staggering social and fiscal costs. Better: Provide a path to
citizenship to help the workers, their communities and more broadly the state of
Alabama.

Simply tweaking provisions of the law  will not undo the harm done to Alabama's
economy and image. When the state Legislature reconvenes in February, it must
repeal this misguided law.

Raul Reyes is an attorney in New York and a member of USA TODAY's Board of
Contributors.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          February 16, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Utah immigration bill seeks a middle ground in debate;
Migrants could work legally with several conditions

BYLINE: Alan Gomez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 565 words


In state legislatures across the country, most of the immigration bills being
debated aim to crack down on illegal immigration. Legislators are trying to cut
off illegal immigrants from receiving public benefits, deny their U.S.-born
children citizenship and force them out of states by granting local police the
power to enforce immigration laws.

One bill filed in Utah is being viewed as the possible middle ground that has
proven so elusive in a hyper-charged immigration discussion.

The Utah bill, known as the Pilot Accountability Permit Program, would grant
work permits to illegal immigrants so they could legally work in the state but
would require them to undergo criminal background checks, pay taxes and take
English classes, and it would force them to leave the state if they lose their
jobs.

Under the legislation, the state would report illegal immigrants who commit a
major crime to the federal Immigration and Custom Enforcement (ICE) agency.

"It is very rare," Eric Rodriguez, vice president of public policy for the
National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic civil rights group, said of the bill.
"It just feels more meaningful than what we've seen in other states."

The bill was co-sponsored by state Sen. Luz Robles, a Democrat, and state Rep.
Jeremy Peterson, a Republican, and has the backing of a conservative think tank
in Utah.

Paul Mero, director of the conservative Sutherland Institute, said he became
disheartened by the dozens of bills flowing through the Utah Capitol and other
state legislatures that focused on trying to catch and deport illegal
immigrants. He said the immigration system needs to be fixed by Congress, but
meanwhile, Utah should focus on constructive ways to deal with the 110,000
illegal immigrants living in the state.

"You really have two paths," Mero said. "The one path leads to rounding them up
or starving them out. Or, you can actually go down this other path of
rationality and practicality."

Even though it has bipartisan support in Utah, it is receiving bipartisan
criticism from outside.

Ali Noorani, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, which
supports a path for some illegal immigrants to become citizens, was pleased by
the general direction of the bill, but worried that some of the enforcement
portions of the bill may go too far.

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which
advocates lower levels of immigration, said the core of the bill is
unconstitutional because states cannot regulate immigration numbers.

He called the bill "de facto amnesty" and considered it a political gesture
since it has little chance of surviving legal challenges.

Robles acknowledged that her proposal delves into uncharted legal territory and
said that the state would need a waiver from the federal government to implement
it.

Even so, she said she is confident the legislation would survive constitutional
challenges since it doesn't alter the immigration status of illegal immigrants
and her state has been providing driver's licenses for illegal immigrants for
years.

Robles said legislators from six states have inquired about the bill. And no
matter the outcome of her bill, she said she hopes it changes the tone of the
national immigration debate.

"People are realizing that the extremes are just not going to work," Robles
said. "You're seeing a shift on how people are talking about this issue."

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: Pew Hispanic Center (Bar
graph)
PHOTO, B/W, Scott Sommerdorf, The Salt Lake Tribune, via AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 13, 2011 Tuesday
                                 First EDITION

Calif. bill would give college aid to illegal immigrants;
Measure signals state's shift from 20 years ago

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 705 words


Nearly 20 years ago, California became the first state  to crack down on
immigration when voters approved a measure that cut off education, health and
other benefits to illegal immigrants and their children.

Today, California  has come nearly full circle as Democratic Gov. Jerry Brown
considers signing a bill passed Sept. 2 by the  Legislature that grants
financial aid to some illegal immigrants attending state colleges and
universities. That would be in addition to laws that allow some illegal
immigrants to pay in-state tuition and lets them accept privately funded college
grants.

As states such as Arizona, Alabama, Georgia and South Carolina push hard stances
against illegal immigrants, the turnaround in the Golden State  is viewed as
either a Democratic-controlled Legislature ignoring the will of Californians, or
a  path that other states will soon be following.

Assemblyman Tim Donnelly is convinced that people in his state are opposed to
the state's move toward acceptance of illegal immigrants. When Californians
approved Proposition 187 -- the voter referendum that cut benefits to illegal
immigrants -- in 1994, it passed with 59% of the vote.

He's confident that voters still feel that way, so he's prepared to push for
another voter referendum to overturn the college financial aid bill if Brown
signs it into law.

"Why is an illegal's dream more important than an American's dream?" asked
Donnelly, who founded a Minuteman group to patrol the U.S.-Mexico border before
being elected to office. "There's a tsunami of discontent with this bill.
Outrage isn't even a strong enough word."

The bill, which would give illegal immigrant students about $40million in
financial aid and fee waivers, makes even less sense to anti-immigration groups
when considering California's financial plight.

"With a state that's billions of dollars in the red -- our own version of Greece
in the United States -- the idea of giving additional taxpayer money to illegal
immigrants is surreal," said Mark Krikorian of the Center for Immigration
Studies, which advocates lower levels of immigration. "It's hard to believe."

Some say the state's growing acceptance of illegal immigrants is a preview of
what will happen as Hispanics -- the fastest-growing demographic in country --
spread out to new states and establish families.

"It appears that you get the most anti-immigration sentiment where immigrant
populations are newer and where they are growing and when there's a climate
where political leaders are drawing attention to this," said John Skrentny,
director of the Center for Comparative Immigration Studies at the University of
California-San Diego.

A poll last year found that, for the first time, more Californians opposed a new
version of Prop 187, according to a University of Southern California Dornsife
College/Los Angeles Times poll.

Dan Schnur, director of the Unruh Institute of Politics at USC, said that's
partly a result of more Hispanics entering the state and non-Hispanics leaving
in recent decades. But he said the poll found that young, white  voters were far
more likely to oppose laws that bar illegal immigrants from receiving benefits
because so many had grown up surrounded by Hispanics.

"Because younger Californians are growing up in a multiethnic, multicultural
society, they're much less likely to draw these types of distinctions than older
voters," Schnur said.

That helps explain why states farther north and east are just recently starting
their anti-immigration battles, Skrentny said.

Georgia, which passed an anti-immigration law this year that was blocked by a
federal judge, saw its Hispanic population nearly double from 2000 to 2010.
South Carolina passed another anti-immigration law, which is being challenged in
federal court, after its Hispanic population rose by 148% over the same time.
And Indiana, which passed an anti-immigration law that has been halted by a
federal judge, saw an additional 170,000 Hispanics pour into the state in the
past decade.

"These are folks that are not used to this kind of ethnic diversity," Skrentny
said. "That suggests that places like Alabama and Georgia are closer to where
California was in the 1990s, and it suggests that California has moved on."

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 13, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Calif. bill would give college aid to illegal immigrants;
Measure signals state's shift from 20 years ago

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 702 words


Nearly 20 years ago, California became the first state  to crack down on
immigration when voters approved a measure that cut off education, health and
other benefits to illegal immigrants and their children.

Now, Democratic Gov. Jerry Brown is considering signing a bill that would grant
financial aid to some illegal immigrants attending state colleges and
universities. That would be in addition to laws that allow some illegal
immigrants to pay in-state tuition and let them accept privately funded college
grants.

As states such as Arizona, Alabama, Georgia and South Carolina push hard stances
against illegal immigrants, the turnaround in the Golden State  is viewed as
either a Democratic-controlled Legislature ignoring the will of Californians, or
a  path that other states will soon be following.

Assemblyman Tim Donnelly, a Republican, said he  is convinced that people in his
state are opposed to the state's move toward acceptance of illegal immigrants.
When Californians approved Proposition 187 -- the voter referendum that cut
benefits to illegal immigrants -- in 1994, it passed with 59% of the vote.

He's confident that voters still feel that way, so he's prepared to push for
another voter referendum to overturn the college financial aid bill if Brown
signs it into law.

"Why is an illegal's dream more important than an American's dream?" asked
Donnelly, who founded a Minuteman group to patrol the U.S.-Mexico border before
being elected to office. "There's a tsunami of discontent with this bill.
Outrage isn't even a strong enough word."

The bill, passed Sept. 2 by the  Legislature, would give illegal immigrant
students about $40million in financial aid and fee waivers. Anti-immigration
groups  say the legislation makes even less sense when considering California's
financial plight.

"With a state that's billions of dollars in the red -- our own version of Greece
in the United States -- the idea of giving additional taxpayer money to illegal
immigrants is surreal," said Mark Krikorian of the Center for Immigration
Studies, which advocates lower levels of immigration. "It's hard to believe."

Some say the state's growing acceptance of illegal immigrants is a preview of
what will happen as Hispanics -- the fastest-growing demographic in the country
-- spread out to new states and establish families.

"It appears that you get the most anti-immigration sentiment where immigrant
populations are newer and where they are growing and when there's a climate
where political leaders are drawing attention to this," said John Skrentny,
director of the Center for Comparative Immigration Studies at the University of
California-San Diego.

A poll last year found that, for the first time, more Californians opposed a new
version of Prop 187, according to a University of Southern California Dornsife
College/Los Angeles Times poll.

Dan Schnur, director of the Unruh Institute of Politics at USC, said that's
partly a result of more Hispanics entering the state and non-Hispanics leaving
in recent decades. But he said the poll found that young, white  voters were far
more likely to oppose laws that bar illegal immigrants from receiving benefits
because so many had grown up surrounded by Hispanics.

"Because younger Californians are growing up in a multiethnic, multicultural
society, they're much less likely to draw these types of distinctions than older
voters," Schnur said.

That helps explain why states farther north and east are just recently starting
their anti-immigration battles, Skrentny said.

Georgia, which passed an anti-immigration law this year that was blocked by a
federal judge, saw its Hispanic population nearly double from 2000 to 2010.

South Carolina passed an anti-immigration law, being challenged in federal
court, after its Hispanic population rose 148% over the same time.

Indiana, which also passed an anti-immigration law that has been halted by a
federal judge, saw 170,000 additional Hispanics pour into the state in the past
decade.

"These are folks that are not used to this kind of ethnic diversity," Skrentny
said. "That suggests that places like Alabama and Georgia are closer to where
California was in the 1990s, and it suggests that California has moved on."

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 28, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Ariz. immigration law is needed to help secure our borders

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 222 words


Gov. Jan Brewer was correct last week to sign the immigration law passed by the
Legislature in Arizona, which requires law enforcement officers to determine the
immigration status of someone if they suspect an individual is in the country
illegally.  The situation involving illegal immigrants in Arizona and other
states, including my state of California, has gotten out of hand ("Ariz.
immigration law creates rift," News, Monday).

There should not have been any reason for this kind of law if our so-called
representatives in Washington had done the job that the people who put them
there expected.

President Obama, who has been in office nearly  17 months,  knows about our
border problem.  He should have spent more time trying to make our borders safe
rather than on a health care bill that  many Americans want repealed.

Garry Allyn DeManty

Stockton, Calif.

Measure is intrusive

The phrase "Show me you papers!" is as revolting as the Nazi salute Sieg Heil to
most people.

I'm all for immigration reform, but not at the price of turning Arizona into der
Fatherland.

Will its  state police now be called the Gestapo? Arizona is a beautiful state,
but not one that I'd want to live in now or visit. I hope the federal government
wastes no time in ending this wannabe  Fourth Reich within the land of the free.

Mel Maurer

Westlake, Ohio

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Ross D. Franklin, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 9, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Mexico's Arizona-style law highlights hypocrisy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 443 words


USA TODAY's article about  a law in Mexico that mirrors  Arizona's controversial
illegal immigration law was eye-opening ("Activists blast Mexico's immigration
law," News, May 26).

Mexico's law allows police to inspect immigration papers of suspected illegal
immigrants. It proves to me the hypocrisy of both the Mexican government and our
liberal politicians. I cannot even speak positively about the Republicans in the
House and the Senate  who sat and listened to  Mexican President Felipe Calderon
criticize our country last month. Every one of them should have stood and walked
directly out the door.

Los Angeles is boycotting Arizona over the immigration law.  However, Los
Angeles and the whole state of California are financial messes that could be
made better by not having to spend inordinate amounts of tax dollars for health
care and welfare for those people in this country illegally.

I work with many Mexican Americans who agree with what I have said. They are
citizens or hold Green Cards. We need labor, but we don't need  illegal
immigrants to do it.

People need to read and think before they  criticize what  Arizona has done.

William H. Bonnett III

Riverside, Calif.

Help illegal immigrants

I am concerned about the innocent young children who were brought to the by
parents who came here illegally.

I do not condone  breaking the law, but children should not  have to pay for the
"sins" of their parents. Our youth -- of all nationalities -- are the future of
America, and they need to be educated.

If children of illegal immigrants  have stayed in school,  avoided crime and
gangs, and want to pursue a college or vocational education, then we should
provide a way for them to get that education and become productive tax-paying
citizens of the USA.

We need to close the borders  but at the same time have a workable plan  that
allows those here illegally  to become citizens in a process that is not too
lengthy or expensive.

Susan L. Anderson

Tempe, Ariz.

State had no choice

Arizona  is the victim, not the villain. The state needed major intervention,
and the federal government wasn't helping. Arizona's action was a plea for help
supported by many residents.

If the critics of the law who are living quiet and peaceful lives had to change
places with those experiencing crimes and killings at the border, it would be a
different matter.

I am comforted by the fact that the majority of those polled seem to support
Arizona's actions.

Meanwhile, the federal government couldn't be bothered until  it was forced to
be bothered. That is a disgrace.  Even worse are the boycotts. Arizona deserves
understanding, not condemnation.

Ann Wilson

Arcadia, Calif.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Sergio Solache, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 7, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Suing Arizona hurts chances for immigration overhaul

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 591 words


The irony in the Justice Department's lawsuit to block Arizona's obnoxious new
immigration law is that neither the suit nor the law would be necessary if
Washington had done its job enforcing federal immigration laws in the first
place.

The lawsuit, announced Tuesday, might allow the Obama administration to feel
righteous, pretend it's doing something about the nation's immigration mess, and
appeal to Hispanic voters ahead of November's congressional elections. What it
doesn't do is hasten the necessary, comprehensive immigration reform that
President Obama called for last week.

Don't get us wrong: The Arizona law -- which requires local police, in the
course of a lawful stop, to question the legal status of anyone they reasonably
suspect of being in this country illegally -- is draconian and, as the lawsuit
argues, potentially an unconstitutional infringement on federal powers. But the
law is also the product of simmering frustrations that boiled over in a border
state that has suffered the consequences of decades of failed federal
immigration policies.

Arizona is home to more than half a million illegal immigrants, sixth highest
among the states. Even as the recession took hold in 2008, illegal immigrants
made up about 10% of the state's labor force. One in every 10 students in its
schools is the child of an illegal immigrant.  And last year, while the flow of
Mexican immigrants slowed drastically and about 400,000 left the U.S., another
half-million managed to cross the  border, many of them at points in Arizona.

Given that federal irresponsibility and inaction created much of the immigration
mess, the lawsuit seems premature and unnecessarily inflammatory. The law
doesn't even take effect until July 29. The harmful effects are, for now,
theoretical. Government lawyers can't yet point to an instance of racial
profiling, which would make their case stronger.

In last week's speech, Obama called for comprehensive immigration reform -- the
right solution -- but in the same breath he alienated the very lawmakers, the
Republicans, he'd need to make it happen. Arizonans have heard promises before
from the federal government of "comprehensive reform," only to feel duped when
just half of those promises were kept.

After President Reagan's 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act granted legal
status to 2.6 million illegal immigrants already living here, the government
failed to follow through with the "control" part of the equation. Borders
remained porous, and residents rightly wondered whether the law had meaning.

In 2007, a bipartisan bid for comprehensive reform, blessed by President Bush,
collapsed in Congress after conservatives, and some liberals, rebelled.

Ignoring the problem hasn't made it go away. A poll last month showed two-thirds
of Arizonans favored their state's new law, and similar measures have been
introduced in five states. Nationally, smaller majorities favor it, too, even as
many people believe that it could lead to discrimination against Hispanics.

Most Americans don't want to see such discrimination. In fact, they support a
balanced approach that combines effective border enforcement, employer sanctions
and a path to legality for illegal immigrants already here who stay out of
trouble, pay fines, learn English and meet other requirements.

Suing Arizona now dramatically escalates tensions and sets back the cause of
common-sense reform. The nation would be better served by a push for compromise,
not an all-out attack on those dealing with the brunt of failed federal
policies.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, David Wallace, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 29, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Core of Ariz. law blocked;
'Expedited' appeal on tap

BYLINE: Alan Gomez and Kevin Johnson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 478 words


PHOENIX -- Supporters of Arizona's illegal-immigration law vowed a long legal
fight to enforce it after a federal judge blocked key provisions of the
legislation that ignited a national furor.

Hours before the law was to take effect, U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton, a
Bill Clinton appointee, on Wednesday put on hold its most contentious element: a
provision that requires police to check suspects' immigration status during
routine stops if there is reasonable suspicion they are in the country
illegally.

The decision, a temporary action until the full legal dispute is aired, also
blocks parts of the law that ban illegal immigrants from seeking work and
require documented immigrants to apply for or carry  registration papers.

Bolton noted the state's concerns about illegal immigration but said enforcement
of the provisions "would likely burden legal resident aliens and interfere with
federal policy."

The much-anticipated ruling is a victory for immigration rights advocates and
the Obama administration, yet it marks just the first skirmish in a swelling
legal battle.

Republican Gov. Jan Brewer, who signed the legislation in April, promised an
"expedited" appeal of the initial ruling to the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals,
while opponents of the law said they would continue their fight to strike it
down permanently.

Once the Appeals Court rules, the dispute could head to the U.S. Supreme Court.

"This fight is far from over," Brewer said.

The Obama Justice Department, which filed one of seven challenges to the law,
had argued that immigration enforcement was a federal responsibility.

"While we understand the frustration of Arizonans with the broken immigration
system, a patchwork of state and local policies would seriously disrupt federal
immigration enforcement," Justice spokeswoman Hannah August said.

Phoenix Vice Mayor Michael Nowakowski, a Democrat, stood outside the federal
courthouse here to back the judge's decision.

"You can't have 50 states doing their own version of immigration law," he said.

Bolton's ruling came as supporters and opponents of the law gathered for
demonstrations today in Phoenix and as officials in nine states -- from Florida
to South Dakota -- had offered their support to Brewer.

"Today's ruling is a slap in the face to citizens who are trying to exercise
their sovereignty," said Michigan Attorney General Mike Cox, a Republican
candidate for governor.

Mexican officials, too, acknowledged the fight is not over. Francisco Ramirez
Acuoa, speaker of Mexico's House of Representatives, urged colleagues to
continue preparing for more deportees in case the law eventually takes effect.

"We have to agree to generate sources of jobs, so that these people who are
coming from the United States can find some kind of employment in our country,"
he said.

Johnson reported from Washington. Contributing: Chris Hawley in

Mexico City.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Deirdre Hamill, The Arizona Republic

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 30, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

The crisis is real

BYLINE: Dan Stein

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 370 words


There is a concerted effort on the part of advocates for illegal aliens to
dismiss the widespread public outrage over unchecked illegal immigration as
irrational. The illegal immigration crisis is not a myth, and the American
people have not succumbed to mass hysteria. The problems are real: They affect
Americans' lives, jobs and pocketbooks, while the Obama administration
intentionally refuses to enforce most immigration laws. These realities are
precisely why Arizona enacted SB 1070.

According to a new study by FAIR, illegal immigration now costs U.S. taxpayers
$113 billion a year -- about $1,117 for every native-headed household. Arizona,
which like most states is facing a severe fiscal crisis, spends $2.5 billion a
year on illegal aliens. In addition, lawful residents see a daily impact on
schools, hospitals and, yes, crime as a consequence of the federal government's
refusal to enforce immigration laws.

Fixing our broken immigration system is an urgent priority. True reform must
begin with the recognition that the American people are the most important
stakeholders in U.S. immigration policy. However, the "cure" that President
Obama insists upon -- mass amnesty for millions of illegal aliens -- would
further undermine the interests of ordinary Americans.

Ironically, before it even went into effect, SB 1070 proved illegal immigration
can be addressed without mass amnesty. Since Arizona first began getting tough
on illegal immigration in 2004, the federal government estimates that the number
of illegal aliens in the state has declined by some 100,000. Since Gov. Jan
Brewer signed SB 1070 in April, there have been countless reports of illegal
aliens packing up and leaving Arizona in large numbers. Replicated at the
national level, a serious enforcement policy would inexorably lead to
significant reductions in the illegal population.

Americans who demand enforcement of immigration laws are responding to reality.
Rather, it is the people who insist that we again grant amnesty to illegal
aliens in exchange for government promises of future enforcement -- and expect
different results -- who believe in myths.

Dan Stein is president of the Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR).


LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 24, 2012 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Courting immigration vote?;
Losing Supreme Court ruling on Arizona's law could be an Obama win

BYLINE: Jonathan Turley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 910 words


This week, the Supreme Court will take up one of the most divisive issues facing
the country: illegal immigration. At issue is Arizona's controversial new  law
calling on state police to enforce federal immigration law by confirming the
legal status of suspects and detaining them if found to be in the country
illegally.

The case represents the convergence of law and politics, and  will have obvious
repercussions for the presidential election. Indeed, 12 years after the
controversial decision in Bush v. Gore, the ruling could  decide the 2012
election if conventional wisdom  is accurate. However, this time Democrats might
be counting on conservative members of the Supreme Court to secure a win in
November.

For Barack Obama, it is a supreme irony: What he needs most on this immigration
ruling  is a loss.  The case involves a difficult question of federal vs. state
authority.  The Obama administration is arguing that the state law is
"pre-empted" by federal law, which leaves no room for individual state
enforcement of immigration laws. However, Arizona has pointed out that Congress
has  acknowledged the right of states to have concurrent immigration laws and
questions how a state law enforcing federal law could be in conflict with it.

Beneath this constitutional question, however, lies an explosive social and
political controversy. Polls show that Americans overwhelmingly support tougher
immigration enforcement. As with the health care law (which, according to polls,
is opposed by half of Americans), opposing state enforcement would not appear to
be a strong position for the Obama administration as it goes into a tight
presidential race with Mitt Romney. Yet, as with health care, the administration
pushed the immigration question -- directly challenging this and other state
laws in federal courts. Supreme Court rulings on both issues will be delivered
by the end of this year's term in late June -- just ahead of the political
convention season.

Non-enforcement approach

The administration's pitch in court is clearly not tailored for the general
public. Though not widely reported,  the administration has admitted  that its
policy on immigration is not to enforce the laws in many cases.  Noting that the
Arizona law is based on a policy of "maximal 'attrition through enforcement,'"
the Obama administration insists  its policy is to focus on deporting
"dangerous" illegal immigrants as opposed to people who simply entered the
country illegally. The problem with this argument is that the federal law does
not distinguish between groups of illegal immigrants for purposes of
deportation.

More important, many Americans assume that the government is committed to
maximum enforcement based solely on illegal status. The Obama administration
insists that this is naive and that other considerations must be given
preference over enforcement, such as foreign relations and humanitarian
concerns.

While Obama appears to honestly believe that maximum enforcement is not the
right policy, the case could  create a perfect wedge issue in the political
campaign. Even more ironic is the fact that it could be the court's
conservatives who secure the victory for Obama.

How a loss would help Obama

Here is how it might play out. Many pundits have emphasized  how critical the
Latino vote will be to the  election.  In 2008, Obama won  with the help of 67%
of  Latinos,  and his  nomination to the Supreme Court of the relatively unknown
Sonya Sotomayor was viewed as reflecting the importance of his appeal to both
women and Latinos.

The White House has been moving aggressively to secure the advantage.  According
to a new Wall Street Journal-NBC News poll, Obama leads Romney among Latinos by
69% to 22%. This is particularly important in Florida, which has  a large Latino
vote and could be the critical state in a close election.  The gravitational
pull of Florida is immense.  Many political experts identify  Florida (again) as
the state that would likely dictate the outcome,  given its high number of
electoral votes. Latinos also play a big role in other large states, from Texas
to California to Arizona. Obama knows that  Romney will probably need to get
about 40% of Latino voters to win in 2012.

This brings us back to immigration.  The court could give Obama a galvanizing
issue shortly before the election. Polls of Latinos show that 85% favor illegal
immigrants being allowed to gain legal status and that a majority oppose current
enforcement as too strict. Almost half find the very term "illegal immigrant"
offensive. So, ironically,  Obama's support among Latinos is likely to be
greater if the president loses before the court.

As an institution, the Supreme Court is not unaccustomed to the convergence of
law and politics in a case, but it rarely welcomes it. To make matters worse,
the immigration case could well be decided by the court's single swing vote,
Justice Anthony Kennedy. Even with his purported Etch-a-Sketch approach to the
general election, Romney would find it difficult to flip on the issue and
criticize the conservative wing of the court.

As a result, the conservatives on the court could again decide the presidential
election, but this time it would be a Democrat who benefits from their ruling.
When it comes to immigration politics, nothing succeeds so much as failure.

Jonathan Turley, the Shapiro Professor of Public Interest Law at George
Washington University, is on USA TODAY's Board of Contributors.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 26, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Let Arizona defend itself

BYLINE: John Kavanagh

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 410 words


Arizona lies in the cross hairs of the illegal immigration problem. The success
of federal border security efforts in California has made Arizona the default
gateway for illegal immigrants. Worse yet, the Obama administration's policy of
near non-enforcement of immigration laws has worsened Arizona's problem.

Faced with the negative consequences of illegal immigration -- including crime
and the high costs of incarceration, education and medical care for illegal
immigrants and their children -- Arizona has fought back with many popular
landmark laws that have denied illegal immigrants public benefits, licenses,
jobs and even bail.

These defensive efforts culminated in 2010 with the passage of SB1070,  an
anti-illegal immigration enforcement bill most known for its requirement that
state and local law enforcement officers inquire into the immigration status of
people they have already stopped for legitimate reasons, when they reasonably
suspect that the persons are in the country illegally.

The Obama administration and other opponents of Arizona's law falsely argue that
it unconstitutionally pre-empts federal law. Instead, SB1070 legally echoes
federal law. The only thing that SB1070 pre-empts is the transient, political
policy of the Obama administration to not enforce America's immigration laws.
How ironic and disingenuous that the same administration that helped create an
unbearable illegal immigration problem in Arizona now intervenes in court to
stop Arizona from defending itself.

In addition, the Obama administration's position against Arizona's law flies in
the face of court precedent and federal law. The enforcement of federal law,
including immigration law, by state and local police officers is a longstanding
point of cooperation between these levels of government and a practice that has
been repeatedly sanctioned by the U.S. Supreme Court.

Moreover, federal law requires federal immigration officials to respond to
immigration inquiries by state and local police. So how does Arizona relying on
federal law pre-empt federal law?

Finally, SB1070 does not enable police to discriminate against citizens any more
than do traffic stops or other legal law enforcement actions, and nobody is
calling for an end to them. Besides, were a police officer to use SB1070 to
discriminate, the problem is not a bad law but a bad cop.

John Kavanagh, a Republican, is a member of the Arizona House of Representatives
and a sponsor of SB1070.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 16, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Special visas offered, but few issued;
Human-trafficking victims fail to apply out of fear and distrust

BYLINE: Donna Leinwand

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 472 words


In the eight years since Congress allowed 5,000 special visas annually for
human-trafficking victims to remain in the USA, immigration officials have
issued fewer than 1,500 total.

The federal government estimates that 14,500 to 17,500 men, women and children
are smuggled into the U.S. each year and forced into illegal labor.

Yet victims have sought fewer than 4% of the available special permits, called
the T visa, that protect them from deportation. The visa allows them to remain
in the U.S. and eventually seek citizenship. Immigration rules establishing the
path to citizenship took effect this week.

Victims must cooperate with police to get the visa. Many victims distrust law
enforcement, can't navigate the legal and immigration systems or fear former
captors will retaliate against family in their home countries if they work with
the U.S. government, advocacy groups and U.S. authorities say.

"People who have been in this situation are so traumatized and beaten up that
it's hard to have the strength to apply" for the visa, says Rep. Carolyn
Maloney, D-N.Y., who co-sponsored the bill establishing it.

Bill Wright, spokesman for Citizenship and Immigration Services, says there's "a
lack of knowledge that this program is available. The victims fear retribution."

One major problem, attorneys and advocacy groups say, is changing how police and
communities perceive trafficking victims, who may have committed crimes or be in
the U.S. illegally.

Attorneys from the Justice Department's civil rights division led more than 60
training sessions in 2007 and 2008 for police, community groups and business
leaders to explain how the victims are smuggled into the U.S. under false
pretenses, such as a promised job, and then forced to work in sweatshops, as
prostitutes or as underpaid farm laborers or maids.

Police learn to question people involved in illegal businesses to determine
whether they have been trafficked, while community groups learn to report
businesses to police when they suspect workers are abused.

"If a person hasn't had the training, they may see a case as a typical
prostitution case," says Andre Rodriguez, an immigration attorney with the Human
Trafficking Rescue Alliance of Houston.

The Justice Department prosecuted 449 people involved in human trafficking under
the new law from 2001 to 2007.

In one of the largest cases, local and U.S. authorities in 2007 identified 99
Central American women forced to work in Houston cantinas. Of the 99 victims, 70
have received visas, 20 await immigration approval, six are applying and three
returned to their home countries, Rodriguez says.

Houston is one of the first cities to create an anti-trafficking task force that
includes social service groups, lawyers and police.

Community groups and police have tipped the task force to potential trafficking
operations.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Adrienne Lewis, USA TODAY, Source: Citizenship and
Immigration Service (Line graph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 26, 2010 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Ariz. immigration law creates rift;
Measure could have national implications

BYLINE: Kevin Johnson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 509 words


Arizona's controversial immigration enforcement law was the target of fresh
attacks Sunday as opponents, from national civil rights activists to Phoenix
Mayor Phil Gordon, vowed to take their fight to the courts as soon as this week.

Gordon, a Democrat, joined some federal lawmakers, including Rep. Raul Grijalva,
D-Ariz., and about 3,500 protesters Sunday at the Arizona Capitol, assailing the
measure signed Friday by Republican Gov. Jan Brewer as a "racist and unjust"
attempt at achieving an overhaul of the USA's immigration policies.

"This is dividing our city and our state; it's tearing us apart," said Gordon,
who will seek City Council approval Tuesday to file a lawsuit against the state
to block the measure.

The most divisive aspect of the law, which takes effect 90 days after the state
Legislature adjourns, requires local law enforcement officials to "determine the
immigration status of a person during any legitimate contact made by an official
or agency of the state ... if reasonable suspicion exists that the person is an
alien who is unlawfully present in the U.S."

Joe Arpaio, the vocal Republican sheriff of metro Phoenix's Maricopa County who
urged passage of the law, said the measure provides another tool for officers to
counter persistent illegal immigration.

Arpaio, whose department's tactics are the subject of a Justice Department
investigation of allegations of racial profiling in past immigration enforcement
actions, said he intends to enforce the new law.

"I will not back down," said Arpaio who is considering a run for governor.
"We've got plenty of room (at the jail). I'll make room, if I have to."

In New York, civil rights activist Al Sharpton and Lillian Rodriguez Lopez,
president of the Hispanic Federation, announced they would go to federal court
this week to challenge the law, which Sharpton said effectively "sanctions"
racial profiling.

"The only way you enforce this law is by racial profiling," Sharpton said.
Brewer said she will not tolerate racial profiling and will require officers to
undergo special training to enforce the new law.

If legal attempts to block the legislation fail before the law takes effect,
Sharpton said he'll lead protesters into the state for civil disobedience.

Acknowledging the contentious nature of her decision, Brewer said she "prayed
for strength and prayed for our state" and concluded that the law "represents
what's best for Arizona."

"We in Arizona have been more than patient waiting for Washington to act," she
said at Friday's signing announcement. "But decades of federal inaction and
misguided policy have created a dangerous and unacceptable situation."

The new Arizona law has been particularly contentious within the national and
local law enforcement community.

San Jose Police Chief Robert Davis, president of the Major Cities Chiefs
Association, said the group stands by its 2006 policy that "immigration
enforcement by local police would likely negatively effect and undermine the
level of trust and cooperation between local police and immigrant communities."


LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, John Moore, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 5, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

NBA's Suns protest immigration law

BYLINE: Compiled by Mark Hayes from staff, wire reports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 295 words


In a celebration of Cinco de Mayo and a dig at Arizona's recent immigration
enforcement bill, the Phoenix Suns will wear their "Los Suns" jerseys against
the San Antonio Spurs today in Game 2 of their NBA Western Conference semifinal
series. The Suns, up 1-0, wore the jerseys twice during the season as part of
the NBA's Noche Latina, honoring the league's Hispanic heritage. Suns majority
owner Robert Sarver blasted the immigration law in a statement Tuesday, saying
it was flawed: "Our basic principles of equal rights and protection under the
law are being called into question, and Arizona's already-struggling economy
will suffer even further setbacks at a time when the state can ill-afford them."
-- Jeff Zillgitt

*Magic blow out Hawks; Lakers beat Jazz, 6C

Sharks OT win puts Red Wings on brink

Patrick Marleau's overtime goal gave the San Jose Sharks a 4-3 win and 3-0
playoff series lead Tuesday, jeopardizing the Detroit Red Wings' two-year run of
reaching the Stanley Cup Finals.

*Penguins lead 2-1 after Fleury shutout, 6C

Calipari, Kentucky working on new deal

Kentucky athletics director Mitch Barnhart said Tuesday that the university and
John Calipari had begun discussions on restructuring the coach's contract. The
statement came hours after reports Calipari was interested in joining the NBA's
Chicago Bulls, who fired Vinny Del Negro on Monday. Calipari said on his
Facebook page that he was very happy at Kentucky. He just completed the first
year of an eight-year deal that averages nearly $4 million a season. Kentucky
went 35-3 last season.

Tigers broadcaster Harwell dies at 92

Ernie Harwell, the acclaimed Hall of Fame broadcaster who called Detroit Tigers
games for 42 years, died Tuesday of cancer. He was 92.

*Detroit mourns beloved sports figure, 4C

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Getty Images

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SPORTSLINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 5, 2010 Wednesday
                                 CHASE EDITION

NBA's Suns protest immigration law

BYLINE: Compiled by Mark Hayes from staff, wire reports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 294 words


In a celebration of Cinco de Mayo and a dig at Arizona's recent immigration
enforcement bill, the Phoenix Suns will wear their "Los Suns" jerseys against
the San Antonio Spurs today in Game 2 of their NBA Western Conference semifinal
series. The Suns, up 1-0, wore the jerseys twice during the season as part of
the NBA's Noche Latina, honoring the league's Hispanic heritage. Suns majority
owner Robert Sarver blasted the new immigration law in a statement Tuesday,
saying it was flawed: "Our basic principles of equal rights and protection under
the law are being called into question, and Arizona's already-struggling economy
will suffer even further setbacks at a time when the state can ill-afford them."
-- Jeff Zillgitt

*Magic blow out Hawks, 6C

Sharks win in OT, lead Red Wings 3-0

Patrick Marleau scored 7:07 into overtime Tuesday, lifting the San Jose Sharks
to a 4-3 win against the Detroit Red Wings and a 3-0 lead in the second-round
NHL playoff series. Game 4 is Thursday.

*Penguins take 2-1 lead on Canadiens, 6C

Calipari, Kentucky working on new deal

Kentucky athletics director Mitch Barnhart said Tuesday that the university and
John Calipari had begun discussions on restructuring the coach's contract. The
statement came hours after reports Calipari was interested in joining the NBA's
Chicago Bulls, who fired Vinny Del Negro on Monday. Calipari said on his
Facebook page that he was very happy at Kentucky. He just completed the first
year of an eight-year deal that averages nearly $4 million a season. Kentucky
went 35-3 last season.

Tigers broadcaster Harwell dies at 92

Ernie Harwell, the acclaimed Hall of Fame broadcaster who called Detroit Tigers
games for 42 years, died Tuesday of cancer. He was 92.

*Detroit mourns beloved sports figure, 4C

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Getty Images

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SPORTSLINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Is there a place for politics in sports TV?;
Don't turn sports into a politcal ad

BYLINE: Michael McCarthy

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 388 words


Open Mikes

TNT's NBA playoff coverage became  an unlikely conduit for political commentary
Wednesday when it aired the Phoenix Suns wearing jerseys meant to imply
criticism of a new Arizona immigration law. Given that high-profile athletes
have unparalleled access to unedited live TV time, they could send all kinds of
messages. Should they? Yes and no, say USA TODAY's Michael Hiestand and Michael
McCarthy:

You're wrong again, Mike. This is exactly what we don't need in sports: more fat
cat owners shoving their political views down a captive TV audience's throats.

I'm just as opposed to Phoenix Suns managing partner Robert Sarver using TNT's
telecast of the Suns vs. San Antonio Spurs NBA playoff game Wednesday night to
protest Arizona's immigration law as I was opposed to Tim Tebow using CBS's
broadcast of Super Bowl XLIV to spread his anti-abortion views.

Here's why. Millions of viewers tuned in to watch hoops, not a political
protest. I'm all for the Suns wearing their Los Suns alternate jerseys to
celebrate Cinco de Mayo. But Sarver said they wore the alternate jerseys to
protest Arizona's recent immigration law. The national TV audience was not given
a choice whether they wanted to participate in the debate or not.

Do you really want grandstanding owners injecting their political views into
game telecasts? Do we want sports TV to become as politicized and polarizing as
everything else?

What's next? Teams wearing Sarah Palin for president signs? Maybe we should let
owners attack President Obama's health care plan. Or go after the Tea Party
movement. When it comes to politics, sports owners should stick to what they do
best: trying to get the public to bankroll their taxpayer-financed stadiums and
arenas without sharing in the profits.

As for Suns players like Steve Nash and others sounding off on this issue, it's
a free country, and I support their right to do it. But they should be
respectful of viewers and fans who disagree with them; not bash their motives or
character. Otherwise they run the risk of sounding like those insufferable
actors who make watching the Oscars so tedious.

Free speech cuts both ways. Some viewers and season ticketholders may vote with
their feet, and their wallets, by turning the game off or dumping their tickets.

What's your take? Click here to vote

gameon.usatoday.com

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 18, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Mexican president's visit to focus on drug war, immigration

BYLINE: Mimi Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 662 words


WASHINGTON -- A host of highly charged issues, from Arizona's controversial new
immigration law to escalating violence in Mexico's drug war, will confront
President Obama and Mexican President Felipe Calderon when they meet at the
White House this week.

Their two-day visit will include a joint news conference in the Rose Garden on
Wednesday and a state dinner honoring the Mexican president and his wife,
Margarita Zavala, in the East Room that night. On Thursday, Calderon will speak
to lawmakers considering a broad overhaul of U.S. immigration policy when he
addresses a joint meeting of Congress at the U.S. Capitol.

There are "very difficult and intractable issues on the bilateral agenda," says
David Shirk, director of the Trans-Border Institute at the University of San
Diego.

Obama and Calderon first met as presidents more than a year ago in Mexico City.
There, Obama pledged greater U.S. cooperation in Calderon's crackdown on his
country's drug lords and hailed the "opportunity to launch a new era of
cooperation and partnership between our two nations."

A year later, Calderon is making his first trip to see Obama in Washington, two
months after gunmen in Ciudad Juarez, Mexico, killed two Americans, one of whom
worked at the U.S. Consulate, near the Texas border. The visit also comes just
weeks after Arizona passed an immigration law that requires police to question
people about their immigration status if there is a "reasonable suspicion" the
person may be in the country illegally.

The law has sparked protests in Mexico and the United States, where the American
Civil Liberties Union and other civil rights groups filed a lawsuit against it
Monday. Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer has defended the law, saying the state needed to
act because the federal government "has refused to fix the crisis caused by
illegal immigration and Arizona's porous border."

Omar Jadwat of the ACLU Immigrants' Rights Project counters that the law "is
quintessentially un-American."

"We are not a 'show me your papers' country, nor one that believes in subjecting
people to harassment, investigation and arrest simply because others may
perceive them as foreign," Jadwat says.

Obama has said he opposes Arizona's new law, and Calderon is likely to raise the
issue in his speech to Congress, where Democrats are proposing legislation that
would tighten border security and also offer a path to citizenship for the
millions of illegal immigrants already in the United States.

In a speech in Mexico last month, Calderon said the law "opens the door to
intolerance, hate, discrimination," and said relations with Arizona will suffer,
the Associated Press reported.

Despite some tensions, "U.S.-Mexico relations are at an all-time high," Shirk
says, because the presidents agree on most "thorny" issues, including border
security and Calderon's dramatic escalation of the drug war in his country. In
2007, the U.S. pledged $1.4 billion to help Calderon take on the cartels.

Denise Dresser, a political science professor at Mexico City's Instituto
Tecnologico Autonomo de Mexico, says Calderon is likely to seek more public
support -- and more aid.

"He wants American validation," Dresser says. With roughly 20,000 killed since
Calderon launched the drug war in 2006 and little indication that the violence
will abate soon, the war is "increasingly unpopular at home."

In Washington, where immigration and other difficult issues are expected to take
a back seat until after the fall elections, much of the attention during
Calderon's visit will be focused on the state dinner.

Obama's first state dinner, for Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, made
headlines after an uninvited Virginia couple got past security and into the
November event.

Secret Service agents were put on leave, White House social secretary Desiree
Rogers was replaced, and press secretary Robert Gibbs was peppered with
questions about protocol and security. So far, the White House is mum on details
of Wednesday's gala.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Tito Herrera, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: WASHINGTON

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 20, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Caldero´n, Obama assail Ariz. immigration law

BYLINE: Mimi Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 412 words


WASHINGTON -- Mexican President Felipe Calderon on Wednesday criticized
Arizona's tough new immigration law as "discriminatory," a rebuke of a domestic
policy rare for a foreign leader to deliver on U.S. soil.

Calderon's criticism was echoed by President Obama during a joint Rose Garden
news conference a few hours before Calderon was honored at a state dinner.

Arizona's law "has the potential of being applied in a discriminatory fashion,"
Obama said. "The judgments that are going to be made in applying this law are
troublesome."

The law requires police to question people about immigration status if there is
a "reasonable suspicion" they are in the country illegally. Arizona Gov. Jan
Brewer, a Republican, said the law was needed because the federal government has
failed to address the "crisis caused by illegal immigration."

The law has sparked protests in Mexico and the U.S., and both presidents
previously have expressed concern about it, but University of Minnesota
political scientist Lawrence Jacobs called it "almost unheard of" for a foreign
leader to criticize a state law while visiting the United States.

"The common practice and courtesy is not to interfere in another country's
internal affairs," Jacobs said.

Obama didn't seem put off. He hailed Calderon as a "true partner" on issues from
the war against drugs to creating jobs on both sides of the U.S.-Mexican border.

Calderon thanked Obama for his hospitality and conveyed the "respectful and
affectionate greeting" of his people to the United States.

The most poignant moment of the day came when first lady Michelle Obama and her
Mexican counterpart, Margarita Zavala, visited an elementary school in nearby
Silver Spring, Md.

A second-grade girl asked the first lady whether it was true that her husband
was "taking everybody away that doesn't have papers" and expressed concern that
her mother didn't have "papers." The first lady gently replied, "We have to fix
that."

New Hampshire Estates Elementary School Principal Jane Litchko told the
Associated Press that she would not identify the child and that her school does
not ask families about their immigration statuses.

The first lady's office had no comment about the exchange.

Today, Calderon heads to Capitol Hill to address a joint meeting of Congress. He
may not get a warm reception from some lawmakers, including Arizona's Republican
senators, John McCain and Jon Kyl, who have bristled at criticism of their
state's new law.

*State dinner, 2D

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Alex Brandon, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: WASHINGTON

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 20, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A night to glow -- a day to shine light on differences;
The Obamas hosted a star-studded state dinner for the president of Mexico and
his wife Wednesday at the White House. Earlier in the day, President Felipe
Calderon criticized Arizona's immigration law as 'discriminatory.' *Calderon's
rebuke, 5A *State dinne

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 43 words


The Obamas hosted a star-studded state dinner for the president of Mexico and
his wife Wednesday at the White House. Earlier in the day, President Felipe
Calderon criticized Arizona's immigration law as 'discriminatory.' *Calderon's
rebuke, 5A *State dinner, 2D


LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Charles Dharapak, AP
PHOTO, Color, Alex Wong, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 11, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Ariz. law met by mum MLB

BYLINE: Bob Nightengale, USA TODAY

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 281 words


Boston Red Sox first baseman Adrian Gonzalez, inundated with letters from
immigration support groups, discards them.

Major League Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig, barraged with phone calls and
requests for a boycott, ignores them.

Michael Wildes, an immigration attorney, has called for baseball to back
immigration rights at the All-Star Game but gets the indifference.

Puente, a human rights organization, is among the groups scheduled to protest
Arizona's anti-illegal immigration law Tuesday outside Chase Field. Luis Avila,
president of Somos America, Arizona's largest immigrant rights coalition, has
asked players to wear white ribbons in support. Their outcry has been met with
silence.

Gonzalez was among several  players who attacked Arizona's immigration
initiative, SB 1070, a year ago, saying he would  consider boycotting the
All-Star Game if it wasn't moved out of Arizona. Gonzalez, born and raised in
Tijuana, Mexico, not only plans to play  voted as the American League's first
baseman  but also remain silent on the issue. He told USA TODAY he will decline
to answer all questions on the subject in today's news conference.

"What I said was misinterpreted," Gonzalez said. "At the time, I didn't know
much about the law. I still don't. It's not something I'm even going to get
into."

The bill makes it a misdemeanor for non-U.S. citizens to be in Arizona without
carrying citizenship or immigration papers. Several key passages were struck
down in federal court, but critics say it still encourages profiling.

"I understand this is not a comfortable platform," Wildes said. "People may
resent the political undertones, but   if they speak out, it can have a dramatic
effect."

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 11, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Ariz. law met by mum MLB

BYLINE: Bob Nightengale, USA TODAY

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 281 words


Boston Red Sox first baseman Adrian Gonzalez, inundated with letters from
immigration support groups, discards them.

Major League Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig, barraged with phone calls and
requests for a boycott, ignores them.

Michael Wildes, an immigration attorney, has called for baseball to back
immigrants' rights at the All-Star Game but gets the indifference.

Puente, a human rights organization, is among the groups scheduled to protest
Arizona's anti-illegal immigration law Tuesday outside Chase Field. Luis Avila,
president of Somos America, Arizona's largest immigrant rights coalition, has
asked players to wear white ribbons in support. Their outcry has been met with
silence.

Gonzalez was among several  players who attacked Arizona's immigration
initiative, SB 1070, a year ago, saying he would  consider boycotting the
All-Star Game if it wasn't moved out of Arizona. Gonzalez, born and raised in
Tijuana, Mexico, not only plans to play  voted as the American League's first
baseman  but also remain silent on the issue. He told USA TODAY he will decline
to answer all questions on the subject in today's news conference.

"What I said was misinterpreted," Gonzalez said. "At the time, I didn't know
much about the law. I still don't. It's not something I'm even going to get
into."

The bill makes it a misdemeanor for non-U.S. citizens to be in Arizona without
carrying citizenship or immigration papers. Several key passages were struck
down in federal court, but critics say it still encourages profiling.

"I understand this is not a comfortable platform," Wildes said. "People may
resent the political undertones, but   if they speak out, it can have a dramatic
effect."

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 26, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Arizona's anti-immigrant law might be legal, but it's not smart

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 620 words


Arizona's harsh and controversial  immigration law, argued before the Supreme
Court on Wednesday, goes too far in important ways. But there's no denying the
facts that led to its passage:  Washington  ignored  a rising tide of illegal
immigration, leaving states and cities to deal with overcrowded schools and
emergency rooms and other costly consequences. Over decades the tide became a
flood, and states reacted, beginning with Arizona..

The constitutional issue before the court is fairly narrow: whether states are
pre-empted from writing their own immigration laws. The Obama administration
tried to make the case that Arizona's law is an invasion of federal power, but
the justices didn't seem to be buying it. At one point, even liberal Justice
Sonia Sotomayor noted that the government's argument was "not selling very
well."

Indeed, it's hard to make the case that states and cities should have no right
to protect themselves from the consequences of federal inaction. States can't
negate federal laws, but there  are productive ways for them to cooperate with
federal authorities, particularly in the workplace, because jobs are the main
magnet that draws illegal immigrants here. The drafters of Arizona's law -- four
key parts of which have been suspended by lower courts -- contend they took
great care to  track federal law and seek only to help enforce it. And if that's
the way it all works out, well and good. But the law is so prone to abuse that
less rosy scenarios seem more likely.

The most controversial provision requires police to determine the immigration
status of people they stop -- for a traffic violation, for example -- when they
have a "reasonable suspicion" the person is here illegally. Though the law
prohibits racial profiling, the statute also seems to invite it. Would an
officer check the status of a white teenager as readily as a dark-skinned
Hispanic? That issue was  excluded from the court case.

Some justices appeared skeptical about another provision that would make it a
crime for an illegal immigrant to seek work -- because that went beyond the
intent of Congress.

The five states that followed Arizona have added other vulnerabilities.

For example, Alabama seeks to clear its classrooms of the children of illegal
immigrants by requiring their students to report their parents' immigration
status -- which punishes kids who have no say in where they live and who could
well be U.S. citizens by birth. Because of the impact on families and
businesses, Alabama's legislature is already rewriting the state's law.

The  stated goal of such laws is "attrition through enforcement." And that's the
real problem. They can succeed only by creating a climate of fear that affects
all Hispanics, or perhaps all immigrants, not just those who are here illegally.

In a cold-blooded interpretation, this can be dismissed as just the latest step
in the messy process of  democracy. It certainly is nothing new. Each past great
wave of immigration was greeted with similar ham-handedness. Each time, the
flood was staunched, but through an indulgence of bigotry that should be
unacceptable.

The alternative is no secret. Washington should do its job: seal the border,
sanction employers who hire illegal immigrants, and allow temporary visas for
jobs such as migrant farm work. Then provide a path to legality -- one that has
to be earned -- for the illegal immigrants already here who work and stay out of
trouble.

A succession of presidents has proposed such plans only to see them die along
with countless other things in an angry, dysfunctional Congress.

So for now, this obnoxious fight will rage on in courts and in communities, with
a heavy toll to be paid by immigrants and citizens alike.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Arizona's law: How we got here

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 653 words


2010

April 19: The Republican-controlled Arizona Legislature passes Senate Bill 1070,
which grants more immigration enforcement powers to local police.  Republican
Gov. Jan Brewer signs SB 1070 into law four days later, calling it another tool
to combat the "crisis caused by illegal immigration."

May 6: Civil rights and labor organizations, including the National Council of
La Raza, announce a boycott of Arizona, urging people and businesses to avoid
traveling to the state or doing business there.

July 6: The U.S. Justice Department sues Arizona, claiming that state officials
"crossed a constitutional line" because immigration enforcement is the sole
responsibility of the federal government.

July 28: A day before SB 1070 is scheduled to go into effect, U.S. District
Judge Susan Bolton in Phoenix issues a preliminary injunction, blocking key
provisions of the law.

Nov. 2: Helped by support for the immigration law, Brewer beats a Democratic
challenger for her first full term as governor.

2011

March 15: Utah Gov. Gary Herbert, a Republican, signs a pair of new immigration
laws -- one that mirrors Arizona's SB 1070 and another that allows illegal
immigrants to register as guest workers in the state.

April 11: The 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco upholds the
injunction against SB 1070.

May 10: Indiana Gov. Mitch Daniels, a Republican, signs immigration legislation
that is modeled after Arizona's SB 1070 and allows police to arrest anyone
ordered deported by an immigration court.

May 10: U.S. District Judge Clark Waddoups in Salt Lake City blocks key parts of
Utah's immigration law, saying it would cause "irreparable harm" to people in
the state.

May 13: Georgia Gov. Nathan Deal, a Republican, signs immigration legislation
modeled after Arizona's SB 1070, calling it a "rather historic moment" for the
state.

June 9: Alabama Gov. Robert Bentley, a Republican, signs immigration legislation
that is modeled after Arizona's SB 1070 and has added provisions, including a
requirement that school officials check the immigration status of children
enrolling in K-12 schools.

June 24: U.S. District Judge Sarah Evans Barker in Indianapolis blocks key
portions of Indiana's immigration law, calling it "seriously flawed."

June 27: South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley, a Republican, signs immigration
legislation that is modeled after Arizona's SB 1070 and requires officers to
call federal officials when they encounter illegal immigrants.

June 27: U.S. District Judge Thomas Thrash in Atlanta puts on hold key portions
of Georgia's immigration law, saying the law would turn routine encounters with
police into "lengthy and intrusive immigration status investigations."

Sept. 28: U.S. District Judge Sharon Blackburn in Birmingham rules that Alabama
can move forward with key provisions of its immigration law, saying the law was
not "inconsistent with the purpose of Congress."

Oct. 14: The 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta blocks some key
provisions of Alabama's law, including one requiring immigration checks at K-12
schools.

Nov. 8: Arizona Senate President Russell Pearce, a Republican who authored the
state's immigration law, loses in a recall election.

Dec. 12: The U.S. Supreme Court agrees to decide the federal lawsuit against
Arizona's immigration law.

Dec. 22: U.S. District Judge Richard Gergel in Charleston grants a preliminary
injunction against South Carolina's immigration law, saying it conflicts with
federal priorities because it "vastly expands the persons targeted for
immigration enforcement action."

2012

April 25: The U.S. Supreme Court hears oral arguments in the Arizona lawsuit.

June 25: The U.S. Supreme Court votes 5-3 to strike down three provisions in
Arizona's law but  upholds a key provision that allows local police to check
immigration status of people they've stopped or detained if a "reasonable
suspicion" exists that they are in the country illegally.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 12, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Racial profiling difficult to prove

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 467 words


When the Supreme Court upheld the key provision of Arizona's immigration
enforcement law last month,  opponents of the measure were encouraged that the
court left the door open for  lawsuits once the law goes into effect.

But legal experts warn that lawsuits claiming racial profiling by police
officers -- one of the avenues that Justice Anthony Kennedy listed as a way to
challenge the law -- take a long time to develop and are  difficult to win.

"The court has all but said, 'We're watching you. All the courts are going to be
watching you.' But it is difficult to do these cases even in the best of
circumstances," says David Harris, of the University of Pittsburgh School of Law
who has testified before Congress on racial profiling issues. "The proof is
painstakingly built, and it takes time."

How much time?

"At least six months or a year," he says.

The court struck down three provisions of the Arizona law that created state
crimes targeting illegal immigrants and expanded the power of local police to
perform warrantless arrests of people who could be deported. The court upheld a
provision that requires state and local officers to check the immigration status
of anyone they stop or detain if a "reasonable suspicion" exists that the person
is in the country illegally.

In the majority opinion,  Kennedy  wrote that the court's decision to uphold it
"does not foreclose other pre-emption and constitutional challenges to the law."

Getting those constitutional challenges against the law into the court system
isn't easy.

Complaints of racial profiling against Maricopa County (Ariz.) Sheriff Joe
Arpaio in the Phoenix area show how difficult the process can be.

In June 2008, the Justice Department initiated a civil rights review of Arpaio,
who has made immigration enforcement a focus of his department and routinely
conducts roundups in  the county. It wasn't until  May that Justice decided it
had enough evidence to sue  Arpaio's office.

A separate class-action lawsuit against Arpaio, initially brought by several
Latinos who are either U.S. citizens or legal residents, was filed in December
2007. A federal judge granted a preliminary injunction, forbidding Arpaio's
deputies from enforcing some immigration laws, in December. The case is
scheduled for trial this month.

Over the years, the Justice Department and lawyers for the plaintiffs in the
lawsuit amassed accounts  of harassment and statistics  that Arpaio's deputies
pull over Latinos more often than non-Latinos.  The Justice lawsuit alleges that
Latinos in Maricopa County are three to nine times more likely to be pulled over
than non-Latinos.

In court documents, Arpaio's attorneys denied all allegations of racial
profiling and said Maricopa County deputies have acted "reasonably,
constitutionally and lawfully at all times."

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo By Tom Tingle, The Arizona Republic Center of controversy:
Protesters gather outside the offices of Sheriff Joe Arpaio on June 25.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NATION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            March 25, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigrant detention system ensnares American citizens

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 527 words


Hector Veloz, 37, is a U.S. citizen. His father is a decorated Vietnam War
veteran. Yet for more than a year, until last summer, Veloz experienced what can
only be described as a Kafkaesque nightmare. He was swept up into the U.S.
immigration detention system and held in a prison in Arizona, far from his
California home, as officials tried to deport him.

A unique case? Unfortunately not. The bursting-at-the-seams U.S. immigration
detention system is all too often an arbitrary and cruel netherworld where
normal U.S. justice standards don't apply.

Immigration officials detained about 378,000 people last year, at least three
times the number detained a decade ago. On any given day, about 33,400 people
are held in some 350 facilities, including in regular prisons among criminals.

Most are illegal immigrants who agree to be deported and usually leave within a
month. But thousands -- Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) does not
provide exact figures -- challenge their deportation, usually because they are
U.S. citizens or legal residents or because they are seeking asylum from
persecution. They can languish for months or years, often locked up far from
lawyers and family. Unlike in U.S. courts, they have no automatic right to a
lawyer. Their continued detention is usually at the discretion of immigration
officials.

Problems with America's immigration detention system have been documented in a
slew of studies, including from the Government Accountability Office, Congress'
investigative arm; the Department of Homeland Security's inspector general; and
Human Rights Watch. An Amnesty International report, out today, says legal
service providers identified 322 detainees with possible U.S. citizenship in
2007. Often, detainees don't know they can ask for a review by an immigration
judge, or bonds are set too high for them to pay. Several of the reports
highlight cases in which people in custody have died unnecessarily because of
poor access to medical care.

Thousands of legal U.S. residents end up in detention and facing deportation
because they have committed a crime, even minor offenses. ICE put Veloz into
that category after he served eight months in a California jail in a stolen
property case (Veloz says he bought a car he did not know was stolen). It took
him months to hire a lawyer and gather documents and testimony to prove his U.S.
citizenship.

The whole system needs an overhaul. Besides better regulation and oversight, two
important changes could help right away. Detainees should get quick, independent
review of their cases. And alternatives to detention, such as ankle bracelets,
should be the preferred choice, except in cases where detainees are deemed
dangerous or high flight risks. The alternatives make economic sense. The
average cost of $95 per detainee per day would drop as low as $12 for supervised
release, according to one study by the Vera Institute of Justice in New York.

Dora Schriro, the Obama administration's new special adviser on immigration
detainees, has promised a review. The sooner the better. The U.S. should not
have an immigration detention system more befitting a lawless Third World
country.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Veronica Salazar, USA TODAY, Source: Amnesty
International
Dept. of Homeland Security (Bar graph)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              March 9, 2009 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Stimulus law may allow illegal workers to take jobs;
Groups want ID checks for hires on new projects

BYLINE: William M. Welch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 631 words


LOS ANGELES -- Tens of thousands of jobs created by the economic stimulus law
could end up filled by illegal immigrants, particularly in big states such as
California where undocumented workers are heavily represented in construction,
experts on both sides of the issue say.

Studies by two conservative think tanks estimate immigrants in the United States
illegally could take 300,000 construction jobs, or 15% of the 2 million jobs
that new taxpayer-financed projects are predicted to create.

They fault Congress for failing to require that employers certify legal
immigration status of workers before hiring by using a Department of Homeland
Security program called E-Verify. The program allows employers to check the
validity of Social Security numbers provided by new hires. It is available to
employers on a voluntary basis.

"They could have deterred this, but they chose not to," said Steven Camarota,
director of research for the Center for Immigration Studies.

He said a federal requirement that employers use E-Verify would have reduced, if
not eliminated, the hiring of immigrants in this country illegally.

An advocacy group for immigrants, illegal and legal, did not disagree with the
300,000 estimate. Camarota says the estimate is based on data from the U.S.
Census Bureau's Current Population Survey and other independent findings that
15% of all construction workers in the USA are either illegal immigrants or lack
the status of legal immigrant authorized to work.

But Jorge-Mario Cabrera, director of education for the Coalition for Humane
Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles, said it is impossible to predict with certainty
because it is unknown how many jobless immigrant construction workers may leave
the U.S., frustrated by the economic recession, before the new spending produces
jobs.

He questioned the Center for Immigration Studies' motives.

"Those are fear tactics. ... 'The immigrants are here to take your job,' "
Cabrera said. "I think that we really should be focusing on economic progress
for all."

The center is a Washington policy organization that, its website says, "seeks
fewer immigrants but a warmer welcome for those admitted." Cabrera says his
group believes unauthorized immigrants working in this country contribute to the
economy.

A similar hiring estimate was produced in a report in February by the Heritage
Foundation, a conservative think tank. Senior research fellow Robert Rector
wrote, "Without specific mechanisms to ensure that workers are U.S. citizens or
legal immigrants authorized to work, it is likely that 15% of these workers, or
300,000, would be illegal immigrants."

The version of the stimulus bill passed by the House of Representatives included
a provision requiring employers to check immigration status with the E-Verify
system before hiring. The Senate did not include such a provision, and it was
not in the version sent to President Obama.

The Obama administration has delayed until at least May 21 a Bush administration
executive order requiring federal contractors to use the E-Verify system in
hiring. It had been scheduled to take effect in January. The U.S. Chamber of
Commerce filed suit seeking to block the requirement, joined by the Associated
Builders and Contractors and other business organizations.

The business groups and immigrant advocacy groups argue that the E-Verify
database is riddled with errors that could result in millions of workers being
wrongly identified as not authorized for work. They say requiring its use before
hiring would impose a cost burden on employers and open them to lawsuits.

Camarota said illegal immigrants working in construction are concentrated in
California, Arizona and Texas along the border with Mexico, as well as Florida,
Illinois, New York, New Jersey, North Carolina and Georgia.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 9, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Illegal workers' case weighed;
Justices signal support for law that penalizes companies

BYLINE: Joan Biskupic

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 584 words


WASHINGTON -- The Supreme Court appeared poised Wednesday to uphold an Arizona
law that penalizes companies that hire illegal immigrants. Business and civil
rights groups have challenged the law as conflicting with U.S. immigration
policy.

Chief Justice John Roberts was among those justices who suggested during an
hour-long hearing that Arizona's penalties, which culminate in revocation of a
business license, meet a "licensing" exemption in U.S. immigration law.

The case arises against a backdrop of national debate over illegal immigration.
Justice Antonin Scalia invoked that context, asserting, "What Arizona says ...
is that the (federal immigration) scheme has not been enforced" and states "had
to take this very massive step (because) the federal government has simply not
enforced the immigration restrictions."

A few justices -- but not a clear five needed for a majority -- voiced some
sympathy for arguments from lawyer Carter Phillips, representing the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce, the American Civil Liberties Union and other challengers to
the law, that Congress wanted a uniform national scheme and sought to override
state sanctions on employers who knowingly hire illegal workers.

Justice Stephen Breyer noted that the Arizona license penalty is far more severe
than any of the fines in federal law for hiring an illegal worker.

The U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit upheld the law. Winning five votes
to reverse it is more difficult than usual here because only eight justices are
deciding the case. New Justice Elena Kagan is off the case because she was
involved, as the U.S. solicitor general, in the U.S. position siding with
challengers.

If the court ends up splitting 4-4, the decision upholding the Arizona law would
stand, but no national rule would be set for other states seeking to punish
employers who hire people who have crossed the border illegally.

The question for the justices is whether the 2007 Arizona employer penalties are
overridden by U.S. immigration law that "pre-empt any state or local law
imposing civil or criminal sanctions (other than through licensing and similar
laws) upon those who employ" illegal immigrants.

Phillips insisted Arizona's statute could not be viewed as a mere "licensing"
law and argued that Congress sought to control regulation against illegal
immigration. He said Congress feared that if there were heavy state penalties on
employers, they would "err on the side of not hiring" foreigners who were in
fact authorized to work here.

Chief Justice Roberts particularly scrutinized Phillips' contention that
Congress considered all employer regulations in the federal domain. "You are
just kind of blinking over" the licensing exemption, Roberts said.

Arizona state Solicitor General Mary O'Grady told the justices that, "Although
Congress pre-empted some of our traditional authority when it enacted (an
immigration overhaul) in 1986, it preserved significant state authority ... that
permits a state to impose sanctions through licensing."

Arizona requires employers to use an otherwise optional federal verification
program, known as the E-Verify system, which collects data on workers from the
Social Security Administration and Department of Homeland Security.

Justice Anthony Kennedy, often a key vote on the court, questioned how the state
could force employers to use the verification program. "It seems to me that's
almost a classic example of a state doing something that is inconsistent with a
federal requirement," he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 15, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Arizona law on E-Verify will lead to discrimination

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 439 words


USA TODAY's editorial "Let Arizona use E-Verify to curb hiring of illegal
workers" supports the state's law requiring that employers confirm job
applicants' legal status using E-Verify, a federal online service (Our view,
Immigration debate, Thursday).

Anyone who backs Arizona in this Supreme Court case has not experienced the
discrimination still endured by Mexican Americans.

Last week, when the case was heard before the Supreme Court, civil rights
lawyers should have put before the justices  10 brown-skinned  individuals of
Mexican ancestry -- five legal and five illegal -- and asked them to tell which
is which. No one can; they look the same.

If this law is not struck down, then of course employers will shy away from
anyone who looks Hispanic. Of course, discrimination is inevitable. We have it
now. When is this outrage going to stop?

Carolina Castillo Butler

Scottsdale, Ariz.

State steps up when feds don't

The federal government has refused to enforce our immigration laws and protect
our Southern border. Now  business groups have the unmitigated gall to claim
that Arizona's  law penalizing employers who hire illegal immigrants  conflicts
with U.S. immigration policy.  Don't these people have any shame at all?

Bank  robbery is a federal offense,  and often so is kidnapping. I don't see
local law enforcement officers sitting on their hands waiting for the FBI when a
bank is being robbed or someone is kidnapped. When local  police officers are
the first responders in  these types of federal  crimes, I don't hear the
businesses or the federal government complaining about it.

Haydee Pavia

Laguna Woods, Calif.

825,000 is a significant number

I fully realize that commentary writer Paul Reyes' piece on the DREAM Act, which
would allow young illegal immigrants to become eligible for permanent residency
given certain provisions,  is opinion, but aren't some journalistic standards
and plain honesty still required ("Good reasons to fill immigrant DREAMs," The
Forum, Friday)?

I assume that Reyes is secure in the knowledge that few of his readers will read
the Migration Policy Institute study, which he cites, or he would not have
played so fast and loose with the numbers, nor would he have used the strained
language  in it to make his point. I have read the study, and my question  is
this: Under what strained logic does 7.5% (825,000 people, not just "students")
of the 11 million  illegal immigrants in the USA who are likely to succeed in
obtaining legal status (not merely "take advantage of the opportunity")
constitute a "drop in the bucket"?

About 1 in 13 is not  "a drop in the bucket."

Robert Drewes

Belmar, N.J.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Charles Krupa, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 28, 2012 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Enforcement aids Latino workers

BYLINE: Roy Beck

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 374 words


No American demographic group would benefit more than Hispanic voters by keeping
illegal foreign workers from taking U.S. jobs. Only about 5% of illegal workers
are in agriculture; most of the rest are competing for jobs in construction,
service and manufacturing in the same locales where most unemployed Hispanic
citizens are seeking work.

The government's broad  measure of unemployment, which includes discouraged
workers, for the second quarter of 2012 is 19% for all Latino citizens. That
means almost one of five who wants a full-time job can't find one. It's even
worse for those most likely to be in competition with illegal aliens: For Latino
citizens under 30 with no more than a high school degree, the broad  jobless
rate is over 30%.

No wonder various polls find that the No. 1 issue in this election for Latinos
-- as with all voters -- is the economy and jobs. And polling finds that a
significant portion of Hispanic voters would look favorably on candidates of
either party who can spell out the economic protection advantages of better
immigration enforcement.

The main enforcement provisions in the proposed GOP platform -- mandatory
E-Verify and allowing states to help enforce federal immigration laws -- are
mainstream, even bipartisan, ideas. President Obama and Democratic leaders have
often supported bills that would require electronic verification at the
workplace to take away the jobs magnet for illegal immigration.

The most common state immigration law is one that requires the use of E-Verify.
This is so mainstream that the Supreme Court gave a  green light to states
requiring every employer to use E-Verify. Not surprisingly, a Public Opinion
Research poll this year found that Hispanic likely voters overwhelmingly support
a mandatory electronic verification system.

Measures to reduce unfair job competition from all over the world are immensely
pro-Hispanic American. However, those who would hope to thus gain politically
must make the pro-jobs argument clearly and sincerely.

Roy Beck is president of NumbersUSA, an organization that supports lower
immigration levels. (Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach, who sponsored
immigration language for the Republican platform, declined to provide an
opposing view.)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 6, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

States push worker ID checks;
Opponents cite flaws in use of federal database

BYLINE: Thomas Frank

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 711 words


States are increasingly cracking down on illegal immigration by requiring
companies to check their employees against a controversial Homeland Security
Department database.

The state effort has sparked protests from businesses, immigrant advocates and
civil libertarians, which say the checks could inaccurately flag legal residents
as illegal immigrants. Companies typically have done the checks themselves by
reviewing workers' documents, such as passports.

Since 2006, 12 states have started requiring employers to enter new workers'
names into the system, which checks immigration databases. About 107,000 of the
USA's 7.4 million employers use the system, called E-Verify, up from 11,000 in
2006, the Homeland Security Department says.

The state efforts come as Congress has failed to revise outdated immigration
laws, said Tyler Moran of the National Immigration Law Center. E-Verify
requirements "are one of the most popular measures to introduce in states right
now," Moran said.

Among the problems that have been identified with E-Verify, according to a
report commissioned by the Homeland Security Department:

*The system gives preliminary rejections to workers who should be approved,
particularly non-U.S. citizens. Only 0.1% of U.S.-born workers received false
rejection notices between 2004 and 2007. The rate for foreign-born workers was
3%.

"The result is increased discrimination against foreign-born employees," the
report says.

*Some employers fail to tell workers they were rejected, making them miss a
chance to appeal. Others use E-Verify illegally by checking job applicants.
Checks must be done after someone starts working. Workers have eight days to
appeal a preliminary rejection and cannot be fired in that time.

*E-Verify does not keep people from using fraudulent IDs to get work
authorization.

Intel, one of the largest U.S. employers, found that 12% of its 1,360 workers
hired between January and July 2008 were initially rejected. Intel challenged
the 143 rejections and all of the workers were found to be legal U.S. residents,
the company said in a letter to the federal government.

"The system still has a number of flaws," said Angelo Amador, immigration policy
director for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. The chamber and other business groups
sued Homeland Security in December to block a proposal that would require
170,000 federal contractors to use E-Verify. Lawsuits also are pending against
state measures in Arizona, Oklahoma and Rhode Island.

Howard McMillan, head of verification for Homeland Security's Citizenship and
Immigration Services, said E-Verify databases and verification procedures have
been improved and have reduced errors. Employers using E-Verify are protected
against prosecution for hiring illegal workers, but some don't follow the rules.
"It's an education problem that causes employers to misuse or abuse the system,"
McMillan said. More education is planned.

Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano has ordered a review.

"I'm a strong supporter of E-Verify," Napolitano said last week. "You have to
deal with the demand side for illegal immigration as well as the supply side,
and E-Verify is an important part of that."

Efforts to expand E-Verify could present the Obama administration with its first
test on immigration. The $819 billion stimulus package passed by the House last
week requires any company getting stimulus funds to use E-Verify.

"With the current recession, it should be legal immigrants and American citizens
getting those jobs," said Rep. Jack Kingston, R-Ga., who wrote the E-Verify
provision.

The report found that with so few employers using E-Verify, it is less effective
because people can get jobs with companies that don't use the system. The report
also said that most employers found E-Verify "to be an effective and reliable
tool."

The White House is reviewing the proposed E-Verify requirement, spokesman Nick
Shapiro said. Homeland Security is studying whether the requirement would slow
stimulus disbursements.

As Arizona's governor, Napolitano signed a 2007 law requiring all employers in
the state to use E-Verify. A federal appeals court upheld the law in June. That
could encourage states to enact similar laws, University of California-Davis law
professor Kevin Johnson said.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Karl Gelles, USA TODAY, Source: Homeland Security Dept.
(Chart)
PHOTO, B/W, Chip Somodevilla, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 16, 2009 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Latino coalition, others call for Census boycott;
They demand changes in immigration

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 610 words


Some Hispanic advocacy groups are calling for illegal immigrants to boycott the
2010 Census unless immigration laws are changed. The move puts them at odds with
leading immigrant-rights advocates and creates another hurdle in the Census
Bureau's quest to count everyone in the USA.

The National Coalition of Latino Clergy & Christian Leaders, a group that says
it represents 20,000 evangelical churches in 34 states, issued a statement this
week urging undocumented immigrants not to fill out Census forms unless Congress
passes "genuine immigration reform."

Similar grass-roots campaigns are unfolding in Arizona and New Mexico to protest
state and local crackdowns on illegal immigrants. Asking immigrants to be
counted without giving them a chance to become legal residents counters church
teachings, says the Rev. Miguel Rivera, president of the Latino religious
coalition.

When the Census counts growing numbers of Hispanics, the counts are often used
to support crackdowns on illegal immigrants, he says. About 38% of the churches'
3.4 million members are undocumented, he says. The Census Bureau does not ask
people if they are here illegally.

"Our job is to count every single person," says Raul Cisneros, Census spokesman.
"We are disappointed that any organization would urge anyone to not participate
in the 2010 Census."

Federal funding and apportionment of seats in the House of Representatives are
based on a Census of the population every 10 years. Not counting the estimated
12 million immigrants who are here illegally would send less money to states and
cities that have large numbers of undocumented residents and could shift
political clout elsewhere.

"We know it will hurt a lot of cities," Rivera says.

That's the bargaining chip boycott supporters are using to lobby lawmakers to
issue temporary work visas for undocumented workers and give them a way to
become citizens.

The call for a boycott "may be well-intended but misguided and ultimately
irresponsible," says Arturo Vargas, executive director of the National
Association of Latino Elected Officials and a member of a Census advisory panel.

"There is a sense of desperation and frustration among some immigrant rights
leaders" that Congress has not taken action on such issues, Vargas says. They
should give the new administration a chance, he says.

That is not allaying concerns in states that have imposed sanctions on employers
who hire illegal immigrants or in cities and counties that have given police the
power to enforce immigration laws.

In Phoenix, immigrant-rights advocates such as Alfredo Gutierrez, host of a
daily radio program on a Spanish station, threaten a Census boycott to protest
crackdowns on illegal immigrants.

In Roswell, N.M., businessman Bobby Villegas launched a campaign in February to
get undocumented workers to boycott the Census. He's doing it as the city nears
50,000 population, a mark that would give it the government designation as a
metropolitan area, which puts cities on the map for national marketers and
retailers.

"Are we going to bring more money in the community so that they can hire more
police officers who then will go out after more undocumented?" Villegas asks.

The Roswell Hispano Chamber of Commerce he helped found voiced support for the
Census, but "it's going to be very hard to reach these individuals and say,
'Trust me,' " says Juan Oropesa, executive director.

Nationally, efforts to have the Census reach Hispanics get backing from major
Spanish-speaking media and organizations. For the first time, the Census will
send forms in English and Spanish to about 13 million households in areas that
have a high concentration of Hispanics.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 24, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S. citizens caught in immigration net

BYLINE: Raul Reyes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 396 words


Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) deported 357,000 illegal aliens in
2008, up 23.5% from 2007. Most were from Latin America, so it's inevitable that
some citizens of Latino descent would be detained  by mistake. Even so, their
stories are troubling:

*Alicia Rodriguez, a third-generation American, was pulled over in Mansfield,
Texas, for driving with unpaid tickets. Held by police who thought she was an
illegal immigrant, she spent a night in jail before being  transferred to
another facility, where she had a panic attack. She was released after her
sister  produced her birth certificate.

*Rennison Castillo was arrested after a domestic dispute and later scheduled for
deportation, though he is a U.S. citizen and an Army veteran. Officials at the
immigration jail in Tacoma, Wash.,  said they could not find records of his
citizenship or military service. After Castillo called the Northwest Immigrant
Rights Project, an attorney obtained  his military records, and he was freed.

Rodriguez and Castillo were among the 55 cases documented by the Associated
Press of citizens detained or deported since 2001. While the numbers might seem
small,  the AP report noted that immigration lawyers suspect hundreds of such
cases.

This brings us back to the ever elusive "comprehensive immigration reform."
Schizophrenic enforcement has created a breeding ground of mistakes such as
those cited above. The federal 287(g) program, for instance, deputizes state and
local police to help ICE catch  criminal aliens. Earlier this year, a Government
Accountability Office report found that ICE failed to properly train these
officers, to define their authority, or to monitor the program effectively. Is
it any surprise that local officers  tied to this program  arrested several U.S.
citizens?   To her credit, Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano has
ordered a review of 287(g).

How many other suspect programs are out there? How many citizens must be jailed
to muster up the outrage necessary for real reform? Couldn't ICE make better use
of its limited resources once the U.S. deals with the 12 million illegal
immigrants already here?

President Obama has vowed to address immigration reform as soon as next month.
The questions are waiting for him. Let's hope he has the answers.

Raul Reyes is an attorney in New York and a member of USA TODAY's board of
contributors.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 17, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Boycott the Census? Let's get serious.

BYLINE: Raul Reyes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 436 words


President Obama spoke at the Esperanza National Hispanic Prayer Breakfast last
month and renewed his vow to tackle immigration. As the nation's largest
Hispanic evangelical network, "Esperanza" means hope in Spanish. So it was
fitting Obama gave Latinos reason for hope about meaningful immigration reform.

"We must also clarify the status of millions who are here illegally," he said,
adding that citizenship would come only after penalties and back taxes are paid
and English is learned, among other requirements.

But some Hispanics believe this is just lip service. The National Coalition of
Latino Clergy and Christian Leaders (CONLAMIC) has become impatient with the
lack of movement on immigration and is urging undocumented workers to boycott
the 2010 Census. This strategy -- backed by a lot of clout because the group
represents 20,000 churches in 34 states -- assumes that the threat of a major
undercount will force the government to grant legal status to the USA's  12
million illegal immigrants. Talk about flawed logic.

CONLAMIC is trying to create a link between the Census and immigration reform
where none exists. The group is playing to the fears of illegal immigrants that
their personal information will be turned over to Immigration and Customs
Enforcement. Never mind that the Census does not ask about immigration status
and counts all U.S. residents, not just citizens.

Spanish-language media and Hispanic civic groups are taking the group's threat
seriously. In Los Angeles, the newspaper La Opinion said not participating in
our national head count "verges on political suicide." Arturo Vargas of the
National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials  called  the
boycott "wildly irresponsible." The association estimates that Hispanics were
undercounted by 3% in the last Census.

Although the Census provided information to U.S. security agencies during World
War II to target Japanese Americans for internment, and in 2004 it gave data to
Homeland Security on Arab Americans, the bureau has since adopted stronger
privacy rules.

The coalition's  leader, the Rev. Miguel Rivera, falsely argues  that Census
counts result only in more money for police and deportations. Census data are
used to calculate all-important federal aid to states and cities.

I can understand the frustration that has led to the call for radical action.
But CONLAMIC's fear-based approach is more likely to drive illegal immigrants
farther into the shadows at the precise moment when the president seeks to pull
them out.

Raul Reyes is an attorney in New York and a member of USA TODAY's board of
contributors.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           August 26, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration debate: What not to do;
5 problems that have killed a comprehensive solution

BYLINE: Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 789 words


SAN DIEGO -- Labor Day could mark the beginning of an effort in Congress to
reboot the immigration debate. Just a couple of years removed from efforts at
comprehensive reform -- as well as massive protests and counterprotests across
the USA -- lawmakers and a new president seem ready to take on one of this
country's most vexing issues.

Sen. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., chairman of the Judiciary subcommittee on
immigration, recently laid out the principles of the legislation, many of which
sound quite familiar:

*Curtailing illegal immigration to regain control of our borders.

*Creating a biometric employee verification system.

*Forcing illegal immigrants to undergo a rigorous legalization process or face
deportation.

*Keeping family reunification a priority.

*Encouraging the best and brightest to immigrate to the USA.

*Discouraging businesses from using temporary guest workers.

*Making it easier for immigrants to come legally.

That legislative stew has something for everyone and likely will have the
backing of the White House. President Obama, who vowed during the campaign to
enact comprehensive immigration reform, might have tipped his hand at  a recent
summit with the leaders of Mexico and Canada. He once again pledged to overhaul
the  system by creating "a pathway to citizenship" for millions of illegal
immigrants, and "an orderly process for people to come" to this country. Yet, he
conceded, nothing will happen before 2010 because of other priorities.  Obama
said he expected legislation to be drafted by the end of the year. That could be
the Schumer bill.

Even so, there are reasons to be skeptical about the bill's chances. Will
lawmakers really be able to sell a plan to legalize millions of illegal
immigrants when the U.S. unemployment rate is still above 9%?  Also, Congress'
record on this issue is woeful,  having wasted nearly six years -- from
September 2001 to June 2007 -- stalling, name-calling, posturing,  politicking
and still failing to pass a bill.

Finally, Obama is weaker politically than he was just a few months ago -- not
exactly the time to take on another divisive issue. This could make the path to
immigration reform a rockier one.

Nonetheless, I'm certain the pro-immigration reform crowd will throw caution to
the wind and forge ahead. And when they do, it's worth remembering five things
that sank the ship last time around:

Problem No. 1: Too many of the major players in the debate had an all-or-nothing
stance.

Solution: Both sides must accept, going in, that compromise is a must;
conservatives have to live with some form of legalization while immigrant
activists must accept that it will come with strings attached.

Problem No. 2: Both sides put themselves on moral pedestals and attacked the
motives of opponents; those on the right were dismissed as "racist" while those
on the left were said to favor an amnesty free-for-all.

Solution: Both sides need to accept that the players want  what they think is
best for the country, even if they have a different idea of what that is and how
to get there.

Problem No. 3: Reformers never satisfactorily addressed the concerns of
opponents that illegal immigrants broke the law to get here and thus shouldn't
be rewarded with a path to legalization.

Solution: We have to put more of the load on illegal immigrants to acknowledge
wrongdoing and get right with the law -- maybe even including a "touchback"
requirement where immigrants go home and apply for legal re-entry.

Problem No. 4: Republicans let nativists in the party set the agenda, and the
debate's tone  predictably went from anti-illegal immigration to anti-immigrant
to anti-Hispanic.

Solution: Republicans must ensure that the debate is race-neutral and call out
conservatives who cross that line.

Problem No. 5: Democrats let organized labor dictate the terms of the reform
effort by killing provisions for temporary guest workers that union officials
claimed undermined U.S. workers.

Solution: Democrats have to push back against organized labor and insist on the
freedom to accept a guest-worker plan -- perhaps one in which numbers go up or
down depending on unemployment figures.

Last time around, Americans were so busy picking sides in the immigration debate
that reasonable ideas for creating a workable system were senselessly drowned
out. Ideological rigidity and an unwillingness to compromise killed reform.  We
can have the best, most sensible ideas in the world but if the dialogue is
broken, and neither side is listening, those ideas will never come to fruition.

That's not a debate. It's a distraction.

Ruben Navarrette Jr. is an editorial board member of the San Diego
Union-Tribune, a syndicated columnist with the Washington Post Writers Group and
a CNN.com contributor.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Veronica Salazar, USA TODAY (Illustration)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 15, 2009 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

On fence over illegal immigrant controls;
Some police resist duty tied to deportations

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 467 words


Some state and local police are having second thoughts about working with the
federal government to enforce immigration laws.

Under what's known as the 287(g) program, agencies sign a voluntary agreement
with Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and are trained to check legal
status of prisoners and crime suspects, and to initiate deportations. The
contract can specify enforcement in jail, in the community or both.

Several police agencies have complained that new rules set by the Obama
administration would cost too much time and money and, in some cases, damage
their relationship with immigrants.

The Framingham Police Department in Massachusetts ended its contract Oct. 1
because the new agreement would have given officers a more active role in
deporting illegal immigrants, which its budget won't allow, Lt. Paul Shastany
said. The department originally joined 287(g)  to have access to ICE databases
for criminal investigations, he said.

Houston probably won't join the program, said Frank Michel, Mayor Bill White's
spokesman.

The contract "requires that we essentially train officers to be immigration
enforcement officers on the street," Michel said. If crime victims "fear that we
will snatch them up and deport them off the street, we find we don't have the
level of trust we need."

The city is considering a different ICE program that is mainly
information-sharing, not enforcement.

The new contract urges a focus on immigrants in jail, or convicted or arrested
in drug or violent crimes, not those linked to  minor offenses  like traffic
violations, ICE spokesman Richard Rocha said.

Wednesday was the deadline for new contracts. Until then, 66 agencies
participated and 11 planned to join, Rocha said.

The Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department, which runs the program in its jail,
is still in discussions with ICE. Supervisor Michael Antonovich has requested a
90-day extension, said Anna Pembedjian, his justice deputy.

"They want to increase the responsibility of the sheriff's department, and we
are certainly concerned about that," said sheriff's spokesman Steve Whitmore. He
would not elaborate.

In the case of Arizona's Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio, ICE limited the
contract, the sheriff said.

The department is under investigation by the Justice Department for alleged
racial profiling and discrimination on the basis of national origin. Arpaio has
conducted controversial street sweeps targeting illegal immigrants.

Now ICE has stripped him of immigration authority outside the jail, Arpaio said.
Rocha would not comment on that except to say, "As Sheriff Arpaio knows, no
final decisions have been made."

Arpaio said he still will conduct sweeps under state law: "It's against my
principles to let illegal aliens just go out on the streets again," he said.
"They're criminals."

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement (Line graph)
PHOTO, B/W, Ralph Freso, (Phoenix) East Valley Tribune, via AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 15, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Arizona 'ground zero' of immigration fight

BYLINE: Dennis Wagner and Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 519 words


PHOENIX -- When activists from around the country rally for immigrants' rights
Saturday, it's no coincidence that they'll converge here.

Arizona is the flash point of the immigration debate, a place where high levels
of illegal immigration have led to state and local restrictions, most recently a
law that requires government workers to report illegal immigrants seeking public
benefits.

Perhaps the most visible figure in Arizona's immigration politics is Maricopa
County Sheriff Joe Arpaio. He has won praise and condemnation for having
deputies swarm neighborhoods, stopping people in search of criminals and illegal
immigrants.

Arpaio's department is under investigation by the Justice Department for
allegations of racial profiling and discrimination based on national origin.

Arpaio says that won't stop him. "I'm not going to ignore the laws because of
pressure from Washington or demonstrators or politicians," he says.

He has become a symbol of much that the immigrants' rights movement objects to;
he says he's "the poster boy."

In rallying against Arpaio and other Arizona politicians and laws, protesters
will call for a federal solution to the state's immigration problems.

The issue resonates here because more people cross illegally into the USA
through Arizona than anywhere else -- nearly half those caught in the past
fiscal year, the Border Patrol says. That does not include those who got past
the security gantlet.

"Arizona has been an incubator for hate legislation," says Danny Ortega, a
Phoenix attorney who is chairman of the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic
civil rights organization.

"Because an idea is popular doesn't mean it doesn't violate civil rights, it
doesn't mean it doesn't violate human rights and it doesn't mean it's
constitutional," he says.

Chris Simcox, founder of the border-watch group the Minuteman Civil Defense
Corps, counters that inadequate border enforcement and federal inaction have
forced Arizonans to act.

"Arizona is ground zero not only for illegal immigration, but for exercising our
rights -- for fighting back," says Simcox, who is challenging Arizona Sen. John
McCain in the Republican primary this year.

Arizona has adopted several measures to combat illegal immigration, including a
2007 law requiring employers to use a federal database to verify the legal
status of employees. A business can lose its license for knowingly hiring
illegal immigrants.

Republican state Sen. Russell Pearce, the author of many of those policies, says
lawmakers have a responsibility. "Either you enforce the law or you become a
victim to your laws," he says.

Rony Martinez, 43, is traveling today from Hempstead, N.Y., to the Phoenix
protest. The factory machine operator is with the Workplace Project, a group
that advocates better conditions for immigrant workers. He fears that what's
happening in Arizona is spreading elsewhere.

"What Sheriff Arpaio is doing is seen by anti-immigrant groups in other parts of
the country as a model for what they can do," he says. "We don't want more
clones of him."

Wagner reports for The Arizona Republic. Bazar reported from McLean, Va.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, David Wallace, The Arizona Republic, via AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 27, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Ariz. seeks federal boost on immigration law

BYLINE: Kevin Johnson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 409 words


The Arizona agency tasked with training 15,000 law officers to enforce the
state's controversial new illegal immigration law has asked federal authorities
for assistance, but administration officials say it is unclear whether the
government will help.

Lyle Mann, executive director of the Arizona Peace Officer Standards and
Training Board, says federal assistance is "critical" to what he describes as an
unprecedented effort to prepare officers as soon as this summer to enforce the
law, which gives local police authority to identify and arrest illegal
immigrants.

"Participation by federal authorities is critical in ascertaining how to
implement a standard of enforcement," says Mann, who made the request through
the Department of Homeland Security's division of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement.

President Obama, however, has ordered a Justice Department review of the
measure's civil rights implications.

"That review," DHS spokesman Matthew Chandler says, "will inform the
government's actions."

Rep. Raul Grijalva, D-Ariz., has urged the Obama administration "not to
cooperate with the state of Arizona in its implementation and execution." In a
letter sent Friday to Obama, he called the law a "serious overstep of state
authority in federal issues."

The legislation, signed Friday by Republican Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer, requires
police to "determine the immigration status of a person during any legitimate
contact made by an official or agency of the state ... if reasonable suspicion
exists that the person is an alien who is unlawfully present in the U.S." There
are an estimated 460,000 illegal immigrants in Arizona, state records show.

Brewer and other supporters, including Joe Arpaio, sheriff of metro Phoenix's
sprawling Maricopa County, say the measure provides another tool to counter
illegal immigration. Opponents, including Democrat Phoenix Mayor Phil Gordon,
say the law is "racist" and encourages racial profiling.

The law takes effect 90 days after the state Legislature adjourns. With
adjournment perhaps a week away, Mann says he may have to develop a curriculum
and train 15,000 police, sheriff's deputies, highway patrol officers and
investigators by Aug. 1.

"Ninety days (to train officers) may be asking the impossible," says Democrat
Arizona Attorney General Terry Goddard, a member of the training board and
critic of the law. "There are a huge number of very serious questions to be
answered here, and 90 days is laughable."

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 28, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

We're protecting our citizens

BYLINE: John Kavanagh

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 406 words


Arizona's new anti-illegal immigration law is an effort to "crack down" on
illegal immigration and the harm it causes Arizona, including crime and
back-breaking public expenses to incarcerate, educate, medically treat and
provide other services to illegal immigrants and their children. Arizona has
been forced to assume responsibility for immigration enforcement because of the
federal government's refusal to secure the border and conduct adequate internal
enforcement.

Some fear that the law will empower police to challenge the legal presence of
all Hispanics, legal and illegal, based solely upon their appearance, but that's
not correct. Police officers may only question the immigration status of a
person when they have "reasonable suspicion" to believe that the person is in
the U.S. illegally. This provision merely extends to immigration offenses a
half-century-old tool called "stop and question," created by the U.S. Supreme
Court. To prevent racial profiling, the law states that in constructing
"reasonable suspicion," police officers "may not solely consider race, color or
national origin."

Another misconception is that the law requires residents to carry identification
papers. Not true. This mistaken belief stems from a provision that creates a
presumption of legal presence, if a person voluntarily presents specified forms
of government-issued identification. Failing to present identification papers is
not grounds for arrest.

Nor will the law divert police resources from more pressing matters. Police
officers are only required to make "reasonable" legal presence inquiries "when
practicable," so that officers will be free to prioritize their time. Likewise,
no questioning is required when it would "hinder or obstruct an investigation,"
so that the police do not have to question all crime victims and witnesses about
their immigration status.

The sad fact is that the Bush administration dropped the ball on immigration
enforcement and that the Obama administration cannot even find it. The primary
responsibility of government is to protect its citizens, and illegal immigration
poses a growing threat to safety. Until such time as the federal government
secures the border and adequately enforces immigration laws internally, Arizona
and other states will have no choice but to protect their citizens.

John Kavanagh, a Republican, is a member of the Arizona House of Representatives
and a sponsor of the new law.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 26, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Activists blast Mexico's immigration law

BYLINE: Chris Hawley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 1064 words


Migrants say the country's strict ID requirements are similar to what Arizona is
implementing

TULTITLAN, Mexico -- Arizona's new law forcing local police to take a greater
role in enforcing immigration law has caused a lot of criticism from Mexico, the
largest source of illegal immigrants in the United States.

But in Mexico, illegal immigrants receive terrible treatment from corrupt
Mexican authorities, people involved in the system say.

And Mexico has a law that is no different from Arizona's that empowers local
police to check the immigration documents of people suspected of not being in
the country legally.

"There (in the United States), they'll deport you," Hector Vazquez, an illegal
immigrant from Honduras, said as he rested in a makeshift camp with other
migrants under a highway bridge in Tultitlan. "In Mexico, they'll probably let
you go, but they'll beat you up and steal everything you've got first."

Mexican authorities have harshly criticized Arizona's SB1070, a law that
requires local police to check the status of persons suspected of being illegal
immigrants. The law provides that a check be done in connection with another law
enforcement event, such as a traffic stop, and also permits Arizona citizens to
sue local authorities for not fully enforcing immigration laws.

Mexico's Foreign Ministry said the law "violates inalienable human rights," and
Democrats in Congress applauded Mexican President Felipe Calderon's criticisms
of the law in a speech he gave on Capitol Hill last week.

Yet Mexico's Arizona-style law requires local police to check IDs. And Mexican
police freely engage in racial profiling and routinely harass Central American
migrants, immigration activists say.

"The Mexican government should probably clean up its own house before looking at
someone else's," said Melissa Vertiz, spokeswoman for the Fray Matias de Cordova
Human Rights Center in Tapachula, Mexico.

In one six-month period from September 2008 through February 2009, at least
9,758 migrants were kidnapped and held for ransom in Mexico -- 91 of them with
the direct participation of Mexican police, a report by the National Human
Rights Commission said. Other migrants are routinely stopped and shaken down for
bribes, it said.

A separate survey conducted during one month in 2008 at 10 migrant shelters
showed Mexican authorities were behind migrant attacks in 35 of 240 cases, or
15%.

Most migrants in Mexico are Central Americans who are passing through on their
way to the United States, human rights groups say. Others are Guatemalans who
live and work along Mexico's southern border, mainly as farm workers, as maids,
or in bars and restaurants.

The Central American migrants headed to the United States travel mainly on
freight trains, stopping to rest and beg for food at rail crossings such as the
one in Tultitlan, an industrial suburb of Mexico City.

On a recent afternoon, Victor Manuel Beltran Rodriguez of Managua, Nicaragua,
trudged between the cars at a stop light, his hand outstretched.

"Can you give me a peso? I'm from Nicaragua," he said. Every 10 cars or so, a
motorist would roll down the window and hand him a few coins. In half an hour,
he had collected 10 pesos, about 80 U.S. cents, enough for a taco.

Beltran Rodriguez had arrived in Mexico with 950 pesos, about $76, enough to
last him to the U.S. border. But near Tierra Blanca, Veracruz, he says municipal
police had detained him, driven him to a deserted road and taken his money. He
had been surviving since then by begging.

Abuses by Mexican authorities have persisted even as Mexico has relaxed its
rules against illegal immigrants in recent years, according to the National
Human Rights Commission.

In 2008, Mexico softened the punishment for illegal immigrants, from a maximum
of 10 years in prison to a maximum fine of $461. Most detainees are taken to
detention centers and put on buses for home.

Mexican law calls for six to 12 years of prison and up to $46,000 in fines for
anyone who shelters or transports illegal immigrants. The Supreme Court ruled in
2008 that the law applies only to people who do it for money.

For years, the Mexican government has allowed charity groups to openly operate
migrant shelters, where travelers can rest for a few days on their journey
north. The government also has a special unit of immigration agents, known as
Grupo Beta, who patrol the countryside in orange pickup trucks, helping
immigrants who are in trouble.

At the same time, Article 67 of Mexico's immigration law requires that all
authorities "whether federal, local or municipal" demand to see visas if
approached by a foreigner and to hand over migrants to immigration authorities.

"In effect, this means that migrants who suffer crimes, including kidnapping,
prefer not to report them to avoid ... being detained by immigration authorities
and returned to their country," a National Human Rights Commission report said
last year.

As a result, the clause has strengthened gangs who abuse migrants, human rights
activists say.

"That Article 67 is an obstacle that urgently has to be removed," said Alberto
Herrera, executive director of Amnesty International Mexico. "It has worsened
this vicious cycle of abuse and impunity, and the same thing could happen (in
Arizona)."

A bill Mexico's Senate passed Oct. 6 would eliminate the ID requirement in
Article 67 and replace it with language saying, "No attention in matters of
human rights or the provision of justice shall be denied or restricted on any
level (of government) to foreigners who require it, regardless of their
migration status."

The Mexican House of Representatives approved a similar measure on March 16 but
added a clause that would require the government to set aside funds to take care
of foreigners during times of disaster. The revised bill has been stuck in the
Senate's Population and Development Committee since then.

To discourage migrants from speaking out about abuse, Mexican authorities often
tell detainees they will have to stay longer in detention centers if they file a
complaint, Vertiz said.

A March 2007 order allows Mexican immigration agents to give "humanitarian
visas" to migrants who have suffered crimes in Mexico. But the amnesty is not
automatic, and most migrants don't know to ask for it, the commission said.

Hawley is Latin America correspondent for USA TODAY and The Arizona Republic

*Troops added to border, 1A

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 7, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Ariz. law crosses line, U.S. suit says;
Court fight heats up immigration debate

BYLINE: Kevin Johnson and Alan Gomez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 471 words


The U.S. government has escalated the volatile national debate over illegal
immigration by suing Arizona to stop its enforcement law.

The Department of Justice filed a lawsuit Tuesday in federal court in Phoenix,
23 days before the state law is scheduled to take effect.

The law requires police to question the immigration status of suspects when
there is "reasonable suspicion" they are in the country illegally.

Government lawyers charge in court documents that the Arizona law "crossed a
constitutional line" and threatens to launch a "patchwork of state and local
immigration policies throughout the country" banned by federal law and the
Constitution.

"Arizonans are understandably frustrated with illegal immigration, and the
federal government has a responsibility to comprehensively address those
concerns," Attorney General Eric Holder said.

The Arizona law, Holder says, "will only create more problems than it solves."

Government lawyers said the law would cause  harassment and possible detention
of legal immigrants, harm diplomatic relations with Mexico and increase burdens
on federal agencies.

Republican Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer defended the law Tuesday as  necessary
because the federal government has failed to secure the border. "Today's
(lawsuit) is nothing more than a massive waste of taxpayer funds," Brewer said.
"These funds could be better used against the violent Mexican cartels than the
people of Arizona."

In the past eight years, the Justice Department has challenged at least five
state or local laws in four states, but none targeted such a politically charged
issue. Instead, they have centered on issues such as local laws banning military
recruiters and a prohibition on the transportation of dangerous materials on
highways.

The Justice Department's action reignited debate on the law, which Brewer signed
April 23.

"The American people must wonder whether the Obama Administration is really
committed to securing the border when it sues a state that is simply trying to
protect its people by enforcing immigration law," Arizona Republican Sens. John
McCain and Jon Kyl said in a joint statement.

Latino rights advocates, meanwhile, say the law improperly targets Latinos and
exposes them to increased scrutiny based on ethnicity and race.

The Justice Department "is telling the court in Arizona that immigration policy
isn't a nightstick to be waved in the face of every Latino walking down the
street," said Foster Maer, an attorney with LatinoJustice, a Hispanic civil
rights group.

Several prominent legal groups, such as the American Civil Liberties Union and
the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, already have sued to
block the law.

Yet Maer said there is no substitute for the U.S. government. "It's much harder
for a judge to say no to them than to private parties," he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, AP
PHOTO, Color, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 9, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Arizona lawsuit: Proper or politics?

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 588 words


The Christian Science Monitor, in an editorial: "The Justice Department has
filed suit in district court seeking to block an Arizona law that will force
police to investigate the immigration status of anyone they reasonably suspect
of being an illegal immigrant. ... President Obama could have saved the country
a divisive legal battle by simply being tougher on border security, stepping up
arrests of illegal migrants, and cracking down much harder on employers who hire
illegal workers. But he hasn't done nearly enough on that score -- mainly out of
fear of a backlash from liberal Hispanic voters who will be critical in this
fall's election. Such fear ... runs counter to the president's duty to uphold
laws on immigration. ... Rather than see the Arizona law as an obstacle to
better enforcement, Obama must start to work better with the states as
partners."

The New York Times, in an editorial:  "The Arizona law will divert resources
from the government's pursuit of dangerous aliens, including terrorists, spies
and violent criminals. It will harass authorized immigrants, visitors and
citizens who might not be carrying their papers when stopped by the police. It
will ignore the country's cherished protections of asylum and will interfere
with national foreign policy interests. (Already several Mexican governors are
refusing to meet with their American counterparts in Arizona.) ... Stamping out
unjust laws like Arizona's is a good place to start."

The Washington Times, in an editorial: "It's President Obama's policy not to
secure America's southern border. (This week), his administration filed suit
against Arizona for its new law to try to enforce immigration statutes already
on the books. This comes after the administration brought legal action against
the Grand Canyon State for a 2007 law that strips business licenses away from
companies that violate immigration laws. It's clear the White House is working
to make states defenseless against an illegal invasion. ... This is change only
illegals can believe in."

Marielena Hincapie, blogger and executive director of the National Immigration
Law Center, on The Huffington Post: "By filing its lawsuit against Arizona, the
Department of Justice carried out its duty of defending the rights of everyone
in this country. It reminded the rogue state of Arizona -- and any others that
might want to follow suit -- that immigration is a federal issue and states are
pre-empted from acting as mini-nations and creating their own immigration laws.
The United States of America vs. Arizona should be a clarion call for states
that are considering adopting such hateful legislation intended to put a target
on the backs of people of color: Do so at your own risk. The government of the
United States will not and should not tolerate rogue states attempting to chip
away at the Constitution."

Boston Herald, in an editorial: "It is fairly obvious that the Justice
Department's legal challenge to Arizona's immigration law is far more about
politics than it is about any vital defense of the U.S. Constitution. ... As the
midterm elections approach, this administration continues its unending quest for
wedge issues that will divide the electorate, and no doubt about it, this one
does. Now there is much in the Arizona law that is ill-advised. But there is
also no question that a state with an estimated 250,000 illegal immigrants
(including a thriving drug cartel) is between the proverbial rock and a hard
place. ... This isn't just bad law, it's bad politics too."

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Scott Olson, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 3, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Illegal immigrants also risk arrest leaving U.S.

BYLINE: Dennis Wagner

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 472 words


NOGALES, Ariz. -- Undocumented immigrants who decide to leave the United States
because of increasing enforcement and decreasing job prospects now face one more
obstacle: the threat of arrest and deportation by border officers inspecting
outbound traffic.

Bonnie Arellano, a spokeswoman for U.S. Customs and Border Protection, said that
when illegal immigrants are detected trying to leave the country, they are not
just ushered across the line. Instead, they are processed and formally removed.

The consequences of an arrest can be harsh: Those deported for unauthorized
presence in the U.S. may be barred for 10 years from seeking legal immigrant
papers. In addition, a later arrest for illegal entry may be prosecuted
criminally.

Although the scrutiny was designed to catch smugglers delivering currency and
firearms to Mexican cartels, immigrants with otherwise clean records sometimes
get caught in that net, said Guadalupe Ramirez, director at the Nogales port.
Port inspectors use discretion in deciding whether a person should be allowed to
accept voluntary removal, he said.

"The whole idea is there are going to be consequences now for people who come
into the United States with the sole purpose of doing illegal activity," Ramirez
said. "Our job tells us if we find somebody at a port coming or going that is in
violation of our laws, we are going to document it."

Arizona's immigration law would have required police to question the immigration
status of anyone stopped for another suspected offense if there was a
"reasonable suspicion" the person was in the U.S. illegally. District Judge
Susan Bolton ruled last week that key portions of the law could not go into
effect.

For the past year, border officials have conducted round-the-clock screening of
southbound traffic out of the USA. Some advocates for immigrants say the policy
deters illegal immigrants from leaving, even though that's  the government's
goal.

"It demonstrates the inconsistency and contradictions within our laws," said
Isabel Garcia, co-chairwoman of Derechos Humanos, an immigrant rights group in
Tucson. "Instead of permitting people who want to leave, we punish them in this
fashion."

Even some groups dedicated to border security and immigration controls are
critical of the policy. William Gheen, president of Americans for Legal
Immigration, last week called on the government to adopt a "safe passage"
program. "We are asking the Obama administration to designate border checkpoints
... illegal immigrants can use to leave the U.S. without fear."

The Obama administration -- in an effort to intercept weapons and cartel money
-- set up the full-time southbound checkpoints.

"On a weekly basis, we make multiple seizures and pick up people who have
warrants for rape, child molestation and murder," Ramirez said.

Wagner reports for The Arizona Republic

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Michael Chow, The Arizona Republic

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 20, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration fixes from a conservative Christian

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 272 words


The following comments appeared on USA TODAY's Opinion website in response to
the Forum piece "God and immigration reform."

As a conservative Christian, here is my biblical approach to immigration: Since
we are to respect our civil authority, and since civil authority is supposed to
protect us, we should secure the borders and enforce existing laws with respect
to hiring illegal immigrants.

Since the Bible charges the individual with charity and we are to help our
fellow man, we should restrict illegal immigrants from all government forms of
monetary aid. They should be free, however, to ask for aid through charitable
organizations, such as churches. I have mixed feelings about sending illegal
immigrants back across the border.

Many say it would be impossible to round them up and send them back, as if
accounting for them all, assessing taxes, and amending laws would be easier. The
fact is, if we enforced existing laws, illegal immigrants would naturally leave
as job opportunities dried up.

--dominigan

Sounds like amnesty

Richard Land states in his opinion piece: "This is not amnesty. Amnesty is a
pardon, a 'free ride,' where government forgives your transgressions and pardons
it with no obligations or penalties. This proposal would allow undocumented
workers to come forward, obtain a probationary state and begin to earn their way
to full legal status."

This sure sounds like amnesty to me. Not giving amnesty would mean that illegal
immigrants return to their homelands, where they belong. If they want to become
citizens, they would then be allowed to apply and go through the process like
everyone else does.

--Marke399

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 10, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Court voids city law targeting illegal immigrants;
Pa. legislation was model for others in USA

BYLINE: Alan Gomez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 521 words


A Hazleton, Pa., law that targeted illegal immigrants and served as a model for
similar laws around the country was struck down by a federal appeals court
Thursday.

The law, passed in 2006  but held up by lawsuits, would have allowed the city to
revoke the licenses of businesses that employed illegal immigrants and fine
landlords who rented to them. The 3rd Circuit Court of Appeals in Philadelphia
ruled that the law infringed on the federal government's exclusive power to
regulate immigration.

"It is, of course, not our job to sit in judgment of whether state and local
frustration about federal immigration policy is warranted," wrote Chief Judge
Theodore McKee. "We are, however, required to intervene when states and
localities directly undermine the federal objectives embodied in statutes
enacted by Congress."

Mayor Lou Barletta said the city will appeal.

"This ruling is a loss for Hazleton and its legal residents," he said. "It is
also a blow to the rights of the legal immigrants who choose to call Hazleton
their home."

The ruling follows the July decision by U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton to halt
Arizona's immigration-enforcement law, which would have required police officers
to determine the immigration status of suspects stopped for another offense if
there was "reasonable suspicion" they were in the country illegally. Republican
Gov. Jan Brewer is appealing that decision.

The Hazleton law was the model for similar laws passed around the country, said
Omar Jadwat, an attorney with the American Civil Liberties Union Immigrants'
Rights Project, who argued against the Hazleton law before the appeals court.

After 84 state immigration laws of different kinds were passed in 2006, more
than 200 were passed by state legislatures in each of the next three years,
according to the National Conference of State Legislatures.

"I think it's especially significant that the parent of all of these laws has
been pretty conclusively found unconstitutional by a federal court of appeals,"
Jadwat said.

Gabriel Chin, a University of Arizona Rogers College of Law professor, said
those rulings will halt the wave of immigration laws as legislators realize the
costs of defending them.

"They are going to put the brakes on around the country on anti-immigrant
legislation because it begins to look like a costly proposition," Chin said.

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a
group that advocates tighter immigration controls, said Thursday's ruling "makes
it almost certain" that the Supreme Court will weigh in on states trying to
enforce immigration law.

Another Arizona law passed in 2007 that fined businesses hiring illegal
immigrants has been upheld by the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals. The U.S. Supreme
Court is scheduled to hear that case this year.

Meanwhile, Krikorian said, Thursday's ruling will help Barletta, a Republican
who is running for Congress, and others who argue that they are trying to
enforce immigration laws in the absence of federal action. That strategy has
propelled Brewer's popularity in Arizona as she fights the lawsuit led by the
Justice Department.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Steve Klaver, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 10, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S. changes approach to deportation

BYLINE: Marcus Stern

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 851 words


To unclog courts, federal officials shift focus to illegal immigrants who've
committed serious crimes

The Obama administration is changing the federal immigration enforcement
strategy in ways that reduce the threat of deportation for millions of illegal
immigrants, even as states such as Arizona, Colorado, Virginia, Ohio and Texas
are pushing to accelerate deportations.

The changes focus enforcement on immigrants who have committed serious crimes,
an effort to unclog immigration courts and detention centers. A record backlog
of deportation cases has forced immigrants to wait an average 459 days for their
hearings, according to an Aug. 12 report by Syracuse University's Transactional
Records Access Clearinghouse (TRAC), which analyzes government data.

Among the recent changes:

*Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Director John Morton ordered agency
officials on Aug. 20 to begin dismissing deportation cases against people who
haven't committed serious crimes and have credible immigration applications
pending.

*A proposed directive from Morton posted on ICE's website for public comment
last month would generally prohibit police from using misdemeanor traffic stops
to send people to ICE. Traffic stops have led to increased deportations in
recent years, according to Jessica Vaughan, director of policy studies at the
Center for Immigration Studies, a think tank whose research supports tighter
enforcement.

The directive said exceptions would be made in certain cases, such as when
immigrants have serious criminal records.

*ICE officers have been told to "exercise discretion" when deciding whether to
detain "long-time lawful permanent residents, juveniles, the immediate family
members of U.S. citizens, veterans, members of the armed forces and their
families, and others with illnesses or special circumstances," Daniel Ragsdale,
ICE executive associate director of management, testified July 1 in the
administration's lawsuit to block Arizona's controversial immigration law. The
law requires police officers to determine the immigration status of suspects
stopped for another offense if there was a "reasonable suspicion" they are in
the USA illegally. A U.S. district judge has held up the provision pending
review.

*A draft memo from ICE's sister agency, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Service, to Morton discussed ways the administration could adjust regulations so
certain groups, such as college students and the spouses of military personnel,
could legalize their status or at least avoid deportation if Congress doesn't
pass comprehensive immigration reform. USCIS rules on applications for visas,
work permits and citizenship. USCIS spokesman Christopher Bentley said the memo
was intended to stimulate brainstorming on how to legalize immigrants if new
laws aren't passed.

The administration's new direction puts it at odds with those who believe the
nation's immigration laws should be strictly enforced and that all illegal
immigrants should be deported.

ICE is "thumbing its nose at the law," said Rep. Steve King of Iowa, the top
Republican on the House immigration subcommittee.

The changes have also drawn complaints from immigration advocates. They say
deportations under Obama are at record highs and immigrants who remain behind
are living in limbo, without work permits, Social Security cards or driver's
licenses.

"This isn't a free ticket," said Raed Gonzalez, a Houston attorney who saw cases
against his clients dropped last month. "The government can put them back into
proceedings at any time."

Morton said in an interview that the new strategy is smarter, not softer,
enforcement. At a time when more than 10 million people are in the country
illegally, record sums are spent on enforcement and the federal budget faces
huge deficits, it makes sense to target people who pose the biggest threat to
public safety or national security, he said.

"Congress provides enough money to deport a little less than 400,000 people,"
Morton said. "My perspective is those 400,000 people shouldn't be the first
400,000 people in the door but rather 400,000 people who reflect some considered
government enforcement policy based on a rational set of objectives and
priorities."

ICE statistics show that deportations have increased dramatically from 189,000
in 2001 to 387,000 in 2009. Much of the increase results from deportations of
people who haven't committed serious crimes, according to TRAC.

This year, however, that trend took a sharp turn, according to an Aug. 12 TRAC
report.

The number of criminal immigrants removed by ICE "climbed to an all-time high,"
the report said. In fiscal 2010, which began Oct. 1, "The removal pace of
criminal aliens ... is fully 60 % higher than in the last year of the Bush
administration, and at least a third (37%) higher than in the first year of the
Obama administration."

Stern reports for ProPublica, an independent, non-profit newsroom based in New
York City that produces investigative journalism. USA TODAY editors worked with
ProPublica editors in preparing this story. Find ProPublica's full report at
www.propublica.org/deportation.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: Transactional Records
Access Clearinghouse, Syracuse University (Bar graph)
PHOTO, B/W, LM Otero, AP
PHOTO, B/W, LM Otero, AP
PHOTO, B/W, Gregory Bull, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 21, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Federal government shirks duty on immigration laws

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 348 words


USA TODAY reader  Liz Barnert, a pediatrician, makes the observation that
Arizona's  threat to enforce immigration laws  is driving  some Latinos,
including presumably some illegal aliens, from that state to  California, with
consequences for their children's health ("Arizona law affects issues of
health," Letters, Thursday).

The letter unwittingly makes a very good argument, from the trenches, that
illegal immigration enforcement must be done  by the federal government. In
abdicating its responsibility, the  government has forced desperate states to
attempt to fend for themselves.   Likely, some illegal  immigrant families  are
now California's problem and not Arizona's.

Effective enforcement of our immigration laws  might force  these families to
return to their country of origin, their true home, where they  would be free to
apply for legal immigration to  the USA. In addition, the good doctor is free to
volunteer her services in other countries, such as Mexico, to help the indigents
who  might benefit from her services.

John Kaza

Salinas, Calif.

Remember U.S. history

USA TODAY Facebook fan Sandy Knowles Smith  states that some individuals come to
the USA just to  give birth so that their children gain citizenship. However,
she provides no proof except to say that she has "seen  documents with detailed
directions on where to stay, what hospital to use, where to buy food, and how to
fast track the Social Security number, passport and other documents" ("Not just
birth citizenship, but residency, too," Letters, Sept. 3).

Her statement is nothing more then hearsay that likely would not be accepted as
evidence in a court.

Our country was founded on the principle of being a haven for  people who are
oppressed and seeking freedom. The inscription on the Statue of Liberty states:
"Give me your tired, your poor. ... Send these, the homeless,  tempest-tossed to
me."   All of us -- even our forefathers -- are actually visitors to this great
land. We took it from the Native Americans. What right do we have to refuse
others from joining us today?

Larry Schnoor

Mankato, Minn.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 23, 2010 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Detours ahead for immigration;
Both sides agree legislation will shift -- and likely stall -- under new
Congress

BYLINE: Alan Gomez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 860 words


WASHINGTON -- President Obama said Wednesday that he will persist in pushing a
bill to legalize some illegal immigrants who came to the U.S. as children. But
passing the DREAM Act, and any other immigration legislation, will become much
harder when the new Congress convenes in January, advocates on both sides
predict.

When Republicans take over the House of Representatives and Democrats lose six
seats in the Senate, bills that crack down on illegal immigration will find new
life, and those that help legalize any of the country's 11 million illegal
immigrants will struggle.

"Nothing is going to happen. The House will kill everything," said Roy Beck,
executive director of NumbersUSA, which advocates lower levels of immigration.

Jim Kessler of the Third Way, a moderate think tank, agreed "the prospects for
the next two years are modest."

Rep. Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican who will chair the House Judiciary
Committee that oversees most immigration legislation, said he will not consider
any bills in the first few months of the new Congress. Instead, his immigration
subcommittee will focus on oversight hearings.

'Two touchstones'

Leading off will be a review of the Obama administration's decision to cut down
on work-site raids targeting illegal immigrants -- a tactic used under former
President George W. Bush. Obama has focused on removing illegal immigrants with
criminal records and penalizing employers who hire illegal immigrants.

Next up: a review of the E-Verify program, a system that allows employers to
electronically verify the immigration status of job applicants, which Smith
wants to expand.

"The two touchstones for me are going to be job creation and oversight," Smith
said. "I'm hoping that the Democrats and the Senate want to be on the side of
the American worker."

On Wednesday, Obama said his administration has improved security along the
Southwest border with Mexico. He said he would continue pushing for a
comprehensive overhaul of the nation's immigration system and the DREAM Act.

"I am determined and this administration is determined to get immigration reform
done," he said. "If I believe in something strongly, I stay on it. And I believe
strongly in this."

Immigration experts aren't sure how the two sides will find common ground.

Ali Noorani, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, which
supports a process for some illegal immigrants to become citizens, worries that
Republicans will pursue legislation that fires up their conservative base ahead
of the 2012 elections, but has little chance of clearing the Senate or surviving
a presidential veto.

He cited the debate over the 14th Amendment. Republicans such as Rep. Steve King
of Iowa say the amendment should no longer be used to grant citizenship to the
children of illegal immigrants born in the U.S. "In the House, yes, we will be
playing defense," Noorani said. "But when you look at the grownups within the
Republican Party, they should know they cannot continue to demagogue
immigrants."

King, the highest-ranking Republican on the Judiciary panel's immigration
subcommittee, noted passing anti-immigration legislation will be tough while
Democrats control the Senate and the White House. "What we can do now is lay
down some arguments, establish the parameters and be able to ...  go on offense
in an effective fashion, perhaps in the 113th Congress," King said, referring to
the legislators who would take power after the 2012 election.

Neither side has voters' full trust

Some immigration observers, such as Kessler, believe surprise acts of
bipartisanship are possible, such as the deal Obama struck with Republicans this
month on tax cuts.

Kessler said Obama should enlist Republicans who are moderate on immigration,
including former president George W. Bush, to try to bring the two sides
together.

"Voters in the middle don't fully trust Democrats on reform because they think
they're giving away the store. And they don't fully trust Republicans because
they think they're mean-spirited," Kessler said. "Both parties need to lean on
each other to mitigate their weaknesses."

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which
advocates tighter immigration controls, said many legislators don't want to
upset Hispanic voters heading into the 2012 elections. But he said others,
including some of the Tea Party legislators who swept into Congress in the
November elections, will see the Republican majority in the House as an
opportunity to go on the offensive.

Krikorian said Republicans have spent years fighting off bills such as the DREAM
Act, which would have given legal status to illegal immigrants who were brought
to the U.S. as children and planned to go to college or join the military. The
measure died Saturday when the Senate failed to move it to a floor vote.

Now, Krikorian said those Republicans may fight back, pushing for a reduction of
the 50,000 visas granted to foreigners through a lottery process and other
anti-immigration measures.

"There's no question that the Tea Party enthusiasm very much overlaps with
hawkishness on immigration," Krikorian said. "I hope you're going to see more of
that."

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Jason Redmond, AP
PHOTO, B/W, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NATION/WASHINGTON

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 7, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Program helps enforce U.S. immigration law

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 567 words


The article "Program targeting dangerous illegal immigrants falls short" repeats
misconceptions about the use of the 287(g) program. It claims that the program
is problematic because it results in the arrest and deportation of illegal
immigrants with little or no criminal record. Such a view is misguided and
dangerous (USATODAY.com, Tuesday).

The 287(g) program allows state and local law enforcement jurisdictions to enter
into an agreement with the Department of Homeland Security in order to help
enforce federal immigration laws. When the program began, there was no intent to
limit it only to criminal illegal immigrants.

I should know because I helped write the law that established the program.

Waiting until illegal immigrants commit criminal offenses before deporting them
places U.S. citizens and legal immigrants in danger. Just ask any victim of
crimes by illegal immigrants. America's immigration laws apply to all illegal
immigrants, not just those who have committed crimes. The Obama administration
is responsible for the enforcement of those laws, and the 287(g) program is a
useful tool to help do so.

Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas

Chairman, House Judiciary Committee

Washington, D.C.

Light bulb standards

USA TODAY's editorial supporting  compact fluorescent light (CFL)  bulbs
casually mentions the extra care required when using these bulbs ("New bulbs
light way toward can-do energy policy," Our view, Energy choices debate,
Tuesday).

I suggest  your readers go to the  Environmental and Protection Agency website
to check out the necessary steps to dispose and/or clean up broken CFL bulbs.
The process is not easy because of the mercury, and I find it hard to believe
that the average person will follow these  inconvenient and time-consuming
instructions.

Additionally, CFLs are not compatible with all light sockets or dimmer switches,
which might  require many folks to buy new lighting  fixtures.

The editorial mentions that government shouldn't boost energy efficiency by
micromanaging and picking winners and losers in the marketplace.

However, in imposing regulations that knowingly make the incandescent bulbs
obsolete, the government is doing precisely that. Once again, government has
jumped the gun and passed legislation regulating what Americans must do and what
we must buy.

Barbara Hughes

Newport, R.I.

Open adoption records

"In the natural order of things" I will always be the offspring of those who
brought me into the world. It was a lot of fun growing up in the Bronx, but it
was not fun to worry about where I had been "rescued" from ("Secrecy still
cloaks adoption; Oprah found out the hard way," The Forum, Thursday).

Everyone can see my parents' engagement announcement in The New York Times, or
the memorial ad placed for my father. Everyone can see my birth recorded in the
public index at the New York Public Library. But the state pretends I was never
born  by not letting me see my original birth certificate.

People are separated as children from their kin for all sorts of reasons -- war,
death, divorce, removal for abuse or neglect. Only those who were later adopted
are expected to pretend that the separation never occurred. Only the adopted are
stigmatized by society and denied their own birth record in most states.

Whether people want a reunion or not, give every U.S. born citizen the original
record of his or her birth.

Cathi Henderson Swett

Little Silver, N.J.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 8, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Utah immigration plan may stir legal storm;
Republican predicts, 'Things are going to go crazy on this'

BYLINE: Alan Gomez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 553 words


The Utah Legislature passed a pair of immigration bills aimed at striking a
balance between people who want to deport all illegal immigrants and those who
want to integrate them into American society.

Much as Arizona discovered after passing an immigration enforcement law last
year, Utah's road toward immigration changes will probably go through the
courts.

Advocates on both sides of the debate indicated Monday that lawsuits could soon
be on the way to halt both bills.

"I think things are going to go crazy on this," Republican state Rep. Stephen
Sandstrom, who sponsored the enforcement bill, said of possible legal
challenges.

The other bill passed late Friday would allow the state to grant work permits to
illegal immigrants who undergo a criminal background check, pay fines of up to
$2,500 and learn English. The bill would require Gov. Gary Herbert, a
Republican, to seek a federal waiver, since immigration law makes it a crime to
knowingly hire illegal immigrants.

The bills go to Herbert for his decision. The governor's office did not return
calls seeking comment Monday.

The work-permit bill contains a legal analysis that acknowledges a "high
probability" that a court would rule portions of it unconstitutional because it
would infringe on federal powers.

Roy Beck, executive director of NumbersUSA, which advocates for lower levels of
legal and illegal immigration, said a lawsuit would come if the state tries to
move forward with the proposal.

"This is about running their own immigration system," Beck said. "It's not going
anywhere."

The bill's sponsor, GOP state Rep. Bill Wright, said the measure is more an
attempt to get officials in Washington to work with states on immigration.

"This isn't about a conflict between our state and the federal government,"
Wright said. "It is our hope that this may be a platform to discuss solutions."

Sandstrom's bill was based on the Arizona enforcement law that is on hold after
the Department of Justice sued, claiming it interfered with the federal
government's exclusive power to enforce immigration laws.

Arizona's law, known as SB 1070, required the state's police officers to
determine the immigration status of people if a "reasonable suspicion" existed
that the person was in the country illegally.

Sandstrom's version would make that requirement an option for officers who have
stopped or detained people believed to have committed a felony or serious
misdemeanor.

Sandstrom said he was forced to remove some of the harsher aspects of the bill
to win passage, but he said it maintains the intent of Arizona's immigration law
of giving police the ability to assist in immigration enforcement.

Lawyers from the American Civil Liberties Union were reviewing the bill Monday
but said they are considering filing a lawsuit to halt the bill.

"I think we shouldn't be fooled here, that this is a kinder, gentler version of
1070," said Karen McCreary, executive director of the ACLU of Utah.

Wesley Smith , director of public policy for the Salt Lake Chamber, which
represents 6,100 Utah businesses, said lawsuits coming from both sides of the
immigration debate are a sign that Utah is  moving in the right direction.

"It's probably a good sign to be right in the middle there," Smith said. "To me,
it's an indication of the pragmatism that is our comprehensive solution."

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Chip Somodevilla, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 28, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Groups target states' illegal-immigration bills;
Measures mirroring disputed Arizona law fall under attack

BYLINE: Alan Gomez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 776 words


WASHINGTON -- The Arizona Senate recently struck down five bills that aimed to
prevent illegal immigrants from using schools, hospitals or other state services
-- the latest setback for tough state bills targeting illegal immigration.

After Arizona last year passed its immigration enforcement bill, which would
have given police officers more powers to enforce immigration laws, legislators
in dozens of states filed similar legislation. A complex web of Hispanic groups,
business associations, farm bureaus, civil rights organizations and lawyers has
crafted a state-by-state attack against such proposals and is starting to see
results.

The latest victory came March 17 when the Arizona Senate rejected the five bills
that also would have barred illegal immigrants from buying or driving cars or
getting marriage licenses.

"After what happened last year, many expected there was going to be an
across-the-board wave of these bills and they would be slam-dunks," said
Clarissa Martinez of the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic civil rights
group. "But legislatures are realizing that it's a risky proposition."

Several states are considering bills that would mirror Arizona's S.B. 1070,
which would have required all state law enforcement officers to determine the
immigration status of people stopped, detained or arrested for another offense
if there was a "reasonable suspicion" that they were in the U.S. illegally. A
federal judge halted the core aspects of the law, and that ruling is on appeal.

Different versions of the Arizona law have passed the Mississippi Legislature;
similar bills have been passed by the Kentucky and Indiana state senates; and
legislators in Utah, Oklahoma and other states continue studying the proposal.

Michael Hethmon, general counsel for the Immigration Reform Law Institute, which
helped Arizona defend its law last year and has advised more than 12 states on
similar proposals this year, said it was unrealistic to think dozens of those
laws could pass this year. He said state laws generally take years to enact.

"The process is building momentum," Hethmon said.

In several states, the bills have been killed. Arizona-style bills failed in
Colorado, Kentucky, South Dakota and Wyoming, according to the National
Immigration Forum, which opposes such legislation.

A variety of tactics were used to stop the bills:

*In Texas, groups such as the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational
Fund have teamed with chambers of commerce to explain the economic damage a
strict enforcement bill would have on the state.

*In Florida and Georgia, farm groups have warned legislators about the damage an
exodus of legal and illegal workers would have on agriculture.

*In South Dakota and other states, law enforcement groups have argued that
immigration enforcement bills would strain overworked officers.

*In Kentucky and Mississippi, activists compare the struggles faced by Hispanic
immigrants -- legal and illegal -- to those of African Americans in the 1960s.

"Mississippi is very difficult because there is a very entrenched,
white-supremacist sentiment here," said Bill Chandler, executive director of the
Mississippi Immigrants Rights Alliance, which works with the local chapter of
the NAACP to fight anti-immigration bills. "African Americans saw what was
happening to Latinos as the same thing that happened to their families."

Those who sponsor strict anti-immigration bills say it's unfair to label them as
racists.

"It was asked to me point-blank, 'Why do you hate Mexicans?' " said Colorado
state Rep. Randy Baumgardner, a Republican who filed an Arizona-style bill. "I
don't hate Spanish people."

Baumgardner said such bills are necessary because illegal immigrants are getting
jobs ahead of Americans and legal immigrants who need work and they are further
draining diminished state budgets through the services they receive in schools
and hospitals, for example.

Like other state legislators, Baumgardner pulled his bill last month when he
realized how much it would cost to implement and defend against lawsuits.

"I thought the bill was a good piece of legislation," he said. "I just didn't
want to burden the people of Colorado" with legal costs.

The lawsuits would definitely come. A group of lawyers who sued Arizona last
year over its law continues to monitor all anti-immigration legislation.

Cecilia Wang, an attorney with the American Civil Liberties Union's Immigrants'
Rights Project, said it's ready to sue but would prefer to avoid that.

Lawsuits are "expensive for us, too, and divert us from doing other things," she
said. "But we're ready and prepared to respond in any state that passes one of
these laws."

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, John Amis, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 10, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Obama will push for immigration legislation;
GOP likely to resisthis renewed efforts

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 669 words


As legislators in dozens of states continue to cobble together their own
solutions to illegal immigration, President Obama is renewing an effort to pass
a national solution, which has been long sought by people on both sides of the
debate.

After hosting three White House immigration meetings in as many weeks, Obama is
scheduled to speak today  in the border city of El Paso about the fate of the 11
million illegal immigrants living in the United States.

The Hispanic community has been waiting more than two years for the effort,
since immigration reform was a campaign promise that helped Obama garner 67% of
the Hispanic vote in the 2008 election. The president pushed last year for the
DREAM Act, which would have allowed some children of illegal immigrants to
become legal residents, but the bill died in the Senate.

"There were high expectations raised in the Latino community and, right now, it
doesn't appear those expectations are being met," said Janet Murguia, president
of the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic civil rights group, who attended
one of the White House meetings.

Any bill that would provide a process for the country's illegal immigrants to
gain legal status would face stiff resistance from Republicans in Congress.

Rep. Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican who chairs the House Judiciary Committee,
said Obama is letting the politics of immigration trump his responsibility to
secure the Southwest border and target illegal immigrants working in the U.S.

"It seems President Obama has once again put on his campaigner-in-chief hat,"
Smith said. "The president's push to legalize millions of illegal immigrants is
purely political."

Ali Noorani, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, which
supports a process to legalize illegal immigrants, agrees that part of Obama's
push is political. "The president has always understood that this makes good
policy sense, but he is feeling political pressure to start turning the wheels,"
Noorani said.  He said Republicans will struggle to capture the ever-growing
Hispanic vote in the 2012 elections if they continue acting as roadblocks to a
federal immigration solution.

In the absence of congressional action, state legislators across the country
have tried to piece together their own solutions, resulting in laws that crack
down on illegal immigrants in some states, such as Arizona, and laws that help
them receive education benefits in others, such as Maryland. In all states, no
matter the approach, lawsuits are plentiful.

Obama began to build momentum for a national immigration bill by inviting
politicians, law enforcement officials, Spanish-speaking  news anchors and
Hispanic celebrities to the White House in recent weeks.

His administration supports a plan that would further secure the Southwest
border, punish businesses that hire illegal immigrants, and create a legal
immigration system that can better meet the needs of  U.S. businesses and
foreigners who want to work in the country.

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which
advocates for lower levels of immigration, said that if Obama couldn't get
Senate Democrats to pass the DREAM Act last year, he stands no chance of passing
a larger immigration fix through a divided Congress.

"He's going through the motions so as to satisfy those constituency groups that
really care about amnesty," he said.

With health care changes, regulation of the financial markets and other domestic
issues already enacted,  some see this as an opportunity for Obama to add one
more domestic accomplishment to his resume ahead of the 2012 elections.

"It's clear that he's trying to portray the image of a leader on an unresolved
domestic policy priority, and that's important," said Angela Kelley of the
Center for American Progress, which supports a plan to legalize some illegal
immigrants, "but it does (raise) the question: 'Where are we going with this?'
He can and should make clear what his vision would be for sensible immigration
policies."

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Eric Thayer, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 27, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

High court upholds Ariz. law on illegals;
Businesses can lose license over hiring

BYLINE: Joan Biskupic, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 420 words


A Supreme Court decision upholding an Arizona law penalizing businesses that
hire illegal immigrants could spur other states to try similar measures aimed at
stopping people from crossing the border illegally.

In their 5-3 decision Thursday written by Chief Justice John Roberts, the
justices made clear that states can play a role in what is generally a federal
system of immigration regulation. The court upheld a 2007 Arizona law that
revokes the business license of companies that hire unauthorized workers, saying
it met an exception to the federal prohibition on states setting civil or
criminal penalties in this area.

The court, however, offered no clear signal of how it might rule on a more
closely watched Arizona anti-immigration law, signed in 2010 by Republican Gov.
Jan Brewer and now facing a separate, higher-profile legal challenge. That law
requires police to investigate the status of anyone an arresting officer
suspects might be here illegally. The Obama administration and other critics say
it could lead to racial profiling.

Federal courts have blocked enforcement of that provision while litigation is
pending; Brewer says the state will appeal the injunction to the high court this
summer. While national attention has focused on that sweeping law targeting
individuals, Thursday's case related to employers is significant for its
endorsement of a state effort to crack down on illegal workers.

The court "gives the green light to state use of licensing laws as a tool of
immigration enforcement," says Temple University law professor Peter Spiro,
predicting that advocates for restrictions will likely push other states to
adopt measures similar to Arizona. "But that doesn't mean they will get their
way," added Spiro, who specializes in immigration law.

Jay Sekulow, chief counsel at the American Center for Law and Justice, among the
groups that backed Arizona at the court, says, "I think you're going to see this
become a catalyst for state action, in licensing and other areas."

Omar Jadwat, an immigration rights lawyer for the American Civil Liberties
Union, which took the lead with the Chamber of Commerce in suing Arizona,
expressed regret about the ruling but stressed its narrowness and said it would
not affect resolution of the dispute over SB 1070.

Civil rights and business groups had argued that the Arizona law clashes with
comprehensive U.S. immigration policy and, in a practical vein, burdens lawful
employers and could lead to discrimination based on race and national origin.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 15, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

State enforcement policies work;
OPPOSING VIEW

BYLINE: Dan Stein

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 389 words


Alabama is the latest state to adopt legislation to enforce state laws that
mirror certain federal laws that Washington refuses to enforce.

State and local governments have a compelling interest in assisting in the
enforcement of laws that deter illegal immigration. The failure to enforce
immigration laws imposes enormous fiscal and social burdens on states and
localities where illegal aliens settle.

States and localities  must provide essential services, such as education and
emergency health care, to illegal aliens and cope with withering criminal
justice costs. They must also deal with the adverse impact of illegal
immigration on workers who lose  jobs and become dependent on state services.

Congress and the courts have repeatedly recognized state and local governments
as stakeholders in immigration policy and has encouraged them to become partners
in immigration enforcement.  It's a matter of basic self-determination.

Under the best of circumstances, state participation is indispensable to
effective enforcement of immigration laws. In light of the Obama
administration's refusal to enforce immigration laws, evidenced in repeat
complaints from the labor union representing Immigration and Customs Enforcement
workers that they are being hamstrung by administration polices,  state laws
provide the only meaningful enforcement.

There is empirical and anecdotal evidence that state enforcement policies work.
In Arizona and Georgia, where such policies have been implemented, there have
been significant and immediate declines in the number of people residing
illegally. These successes not only provide a model for other states that wish
to reduce the burdens associated with illegal immigration, they're also an
effective rebuttal to those who claim that mass amnesty is the only way to solve
our illegal immigration crisis.

Instead of fighting states that implement local enforcement strategies, the
executive branch should be emulating those strategies. Consistent national
policies that remove the incentives for illegal immigration would encourage
millions of illegal aliens to return home and, at the same time, reassert the
constitutional balance between the states and the federal government as full
partners in federal immigration enforcement.

Dan Stein is president of the Federation for American Immigration Reform.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 30, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Judge blocks new Ala. immigration law

BYLINE: From staff and wire reports

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 627 words


A federal judge in Birmingham, Ala., temporarily blocked enforcement of
Alabama's new law cracking down on illegal immigration.

U.S. District Judge Sharon  Blackburn's order Monday means the law won't take
effect Thursday as scheduled.  Blackburn didn't address whether the law is
constitutional. Instead, she said she needs more time to consider lawsuits filed
by the Justice Department, private groups and individuals that claim the state
is overstepping its bounds. The judge said she will issue a longer ruling by
Sept. 28.

Among other things, the law would require schools to verify the citizenship
status of students, but it wouldn't prevent illegal immigrants from attending
public schools.

Space station might be abandoned

The International Space Station might have to be temporarily abandoned if the
investigation into last week's Russian Soyuz rocket failure stretches into
mid-November, a senior NASA official said.

Two factors could prompt an unprecedented de-staffing of the outpost: The
certified orbital lifetimes of the two Soyuz lifeboats now at the station, and
flight rules that call for crews to return  during daylight, said Mike
Suffredini, NASA International Space Station program manager.  Russian space
vehicles now are the only way to reach the space station.

Three station crewmates scheduled to return to Earth on Sept. 8 will remain
onboard at least an extra week while the investigation into the loss of a
robotic Progress space freighter continues. The Soyuz U rocket was hauling
almost 6,000 pounds of supplies to the space station when it crashed Wednesday.
--Todd Halvorson, Florida Today

Polygamist leader Jeffs is hospitalized

Imprisoned polygamist sect leader Warren Jeffs was hospitalized in critical
condition after telling corrections officers he has been fasting.

Texas Department of Criminal Justice spokeswoman Michelle Lyons said Jeffs, 55,
hasn't been eating or drinking enough since being sentenced this month to life
in prison for sexually assaulting underage followers he took as spiritual
brides.

A person familiar with Jeffs' condition told the Associated Press that Jeffs was
in a medically induced coma and is expected to survive. The person was not
authorized to discuss Jeffs' condition publicly and requested anonymity.

Lyons said it's not clear how long the head of the Fundamentalist Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints will be hospitalized.

Man guilty of defrauding 9/11 fund

A retired naval officer honored for his valor during the 9/11 attack on the
Pentagon was found guilty of defrauding the victims' compensation fund by
exaggerating his injuries.

Retired commander Charles Coughlin of Severna Park, Md., was found guilty of
making a false claim and stealing public money after he got $331,034 from the
fund. Coughlin claimed he was in constant pain after being injured.  Prosecutors
said Coughlin, now 52, continued playing lacrosse and ran a marathon after the
2001 attacks.

Obama uncle held on drunken driving

President Obama's uncle was stopped on suspicion of drunken driving in
Massachusetts, told police he would arrange bail through the White House and was
being held without bail on an immigration detainer, authorities said Monday.

Onyango Obama, 67, was arrested last week in Framingham after police said he
made a rolling stop through a stop sign.  Asked whether he wanted to make a
call to arrange bail, he said, "I think I will call the White House,"  according
to a police report filed in Framingham District Court.

Onyango Obama, who is originally from Kenya and is the half-brother of the
president's late father, pleaded not guilty and is being held without bail on a
detainer from U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.  ICE said Onyango Obama
had an earlier deportation or removal order.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 30, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Alabama's anti-immigrant law deserves to be blocked, for good

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 606 words


The nation's laws against illegal immigration ought to mean something, but for
years they did not. The quip was that there were two signs at the U.S. border:
The first one said "Keep Out" and the second, a few feet farther in, said "Help
Wanted." Anyone who managed to sneak into the country could usually find work
and settle into a better life, without much fear of being deported.

The federal government's decision to look the other way turned the law into a
joke and created an illegal-immigrant boom that eventually enraged many
Americans. Now that anger, coupled with gridlock in Washington over immigration
reform, has several states competing to see which can come up with a response
that is as shortsighted and thoughtless as the original mistake.

The latest, and by many measures the worst, is an Alabama law that was set to go
into effect this week until a federal judge temporarily blocked it on Monday
while she considers whether it's constitutional. Other judges have already held
up similar statutes in Arizona, Georgia, Indiana and Utah.  The Alabama law
deserves the same fate.

The law is  more of a primal scream than a legitimate way to limit illegal
immigration. It would turn all Hispanics into suspects, not just those here
illegally, and it would potentially expose people who associate with them to
prosecution.  Anyone suspected of knowingly hiring undocumented immigrants,
transporting them, renting them a place to live, or acting to "conceal, harbor
or shield" them could be charged.

The law would also empower police to detain anyone who couldn't prove his or her
legal status on the spot. (Think for a moment: Could you do that?). And in a
novel extension of the war on illegals to children, education officials would be
required to verify the legal status of any child entering school. Because courts
have ruled that every child has the right to a public education, Alabama
officials insist no child would be barred from school, but that's utterly
disingenuous. How many parents here illegally will voluntarily "out" themselves
by sending a child to school to be checked for papers?

The Alabama law is intended to create such a hostile environment for illegal
immigrants that they'll leave, which many already have -- to the consternation
of farms and construction companies, which are increasingly running short of
workers. The law's proponents say that just opens up jobs for legal Alabamians.
We'll see. The more probable result is to foster bigotry and injustice.

Alabama and other states with similarly harsh laws justify them by insisting
that the federal government has done virtually nothing to enforce immigration
law. That might once have been true, but now it's not.

Since President Obama took office in 2009, immigration audits of businesses to
find illegal workers have increased fourfold, and U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement has sharply increased deportations, to more than 400,000 last year.
The border has become more secure, and the flood of immigration from Mexico has
slowed significantly because of tougher enforcement, the U.S. recession and
declining Meixcan birth rates.

The courts will eventually rule which provisions of the laws in Alabama and
other states comport with the Constitution. That's one way to sort this out. The
other is to pass a sensible federal law that combines secure borders and tough
workplace enforcement with a guest-worker program and a path to legality for
immigrants who have become law-abiding, taxpaying residents. After all, the
reason so many came here was to get jobs and support their families, not the
most heinous of crimes. How about it, Congress?

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Mark Almond, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 30, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

We're protecting our citizens

BYLINE: Scott Beason

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 361 words


Illegal-immigration policy is an emotionally charged issue, and passions run
high on both sides. Most reasonable people concede the need to secure the
borders. For that matter, most people agree that the federal government should
enforce its laws.

The agreements seem to end at the state lines when places like Alabama and
Arizona attempt to deal with illegal immigration. For all the sound and fury in
the news media, the debate over the states' role is really about enforcement.
The disagreement is not about "who" should enforce immigration law. The question
is whether illegal immigration laws should be enforced at all.

Alabama has passed a law that is being decried as draconian, racist, outrageous,
inhumane, harsh, cruel, too far reaching, etc. People are surprised to find that
most of Alabama's new law mirrors current United States immigration law. The
state of Alabama and the federal government now have similar laws, but Alabama
plans to enforce them.

The open borders, pro-illegal immigration crowd hides behind the argument that
illegal immigration is a federal issue, but to them, it is not about supremacy
or the nuances of the constitutional relationship between the federal government
and the sovereign states.

Most people, including myself, wish the federal government would enforce its
laws, but that is not going to happen any time soon. The people who oppose state
initiatives are simply against any enforcement. They have little regard for the
negative impact that illegal immigration has on the legal residents of the
states or the rule of law.

Illegal immigration is one of the many challenges facing our country, and
kicking the can down the road has not made things better. In Alabama, we intend
to protect the long-term interest of our citizens and legal immigrants.

We will ensure that jobs in our state go to those who are legally present. We
intend to keep dollars rolling over in our local economy, not overseas. We
intend to lessen the burden on our taxpayers. We intend to do so by enforcing
our new law. If looking out for Alabamians is draconian, so be it.

State Sen. Scott Beason, R-Gardendale, sponsored Alabama's new immigration law.


LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 8, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Don't link support for Ala. immigration law with racism

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 432 words


I find commentary writer David Person's emotionally hyperbolic Forum piece,
which compares anti-illegal immigration laws  to Jim Crow laws, quite shameful
("'Juan Crow' law alive in Ala.," Wednesday).

This insulting analogy not only cheapens the struggles blacks had to undergo to
achieve equality in the civil rights era, but it also  interferes with an
intellectually honest debate about securing our borders.

In addition,  broadly accusing  everyone who supports enforcing legal
immigration of being racist, simply because some people who  support Alabama's
tough law are "repackaging the old arguments that were used against Jim Crow-era
blacks," is ridiculous. By using such incendiary accusations,  Person is doing
exactly what he admonishes his opponents of doing -- fear-mongering and bigotry.

If "undocumented workers" think we are so evil and racist, they can stay in
their own  countries.

Ana D'Urso

Poughkeepsie, N.Y.

Memories of bias fade away

I appreciated David Person's  commentary and, in particular, noted his quote of
Federation for American Immigration Reform's  founder John Tanton.

Tanton wrote in 1993 that he wanted to keep the U.S. a "European-American
majority." He and  others quoted in  Person's  piece are like  the zealots in
previous generations who wanted to protect the country  from  foreigners  such
as the Irish, Germans, Italians and Polish -- Europeans all.

While such bigotry makes me sad, it gives me hope that bigots of each generation
will blissfully forget who they were supposed to be bigoted about.

Norah Lulich Jones

Gladys, Va.

Law rightly addresses issue

First, we in Arizona had to put up with our attempt to reasonably control
illegal immigration being called onerous, draconian and who knows what else. Now
the people in Alabama have to put up with "heinous." Give us a break.

I hope an illegal immigrant takes  Person's job at  the radio station. I'd even
be willing to then sponsor the person for citizenship.

Jerry Goebel

Sierra Vista, Ariz.

Different status, situation

The blacks during the civil rights era were citizens. The immigrants being
targeted today are not. What part of illegal don't people get?

SuSu Levy

Scottsdale, Ariz.

Tough measure is expected

Regarding David Person's commentary,  can anyone honestly be surprised by this?
It is Alabama after all.

I am only  30 years old, but my father was a Freedom Summer volunteer in the
South in 1964 and 1965, so I know the unfortunate history of that particular
area all too well.

When I hear about Alabama and  its current immigration stance,  I am not
surprised  one bit.

Jeff Swanson

Lake Stevens, Wash.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 25, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Judge takes another bite out of Ala. immigration law;
Ruling averted Hispanic exodus, rights groups say

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 414 words


Civil rights groups say a judge's decision to halt part of Alabama's strict
illegal immigration enforcement law averted a Thanksgiving weekend exodus of
Hispanics from the state.

Some portions of Alabama's law, known as HB 56 and described by supporters and
critics as the harshest state immigration law in the country, were already
blocked by a federal judge. On Wednesday, U.S. District Judge Myron Thompson
took an additional step by ordering the state to stop denying manufactured home
registration permits to people who couldn't prove their U.S. citizenship.

The law forbids illegal immigrants from conducting any business transactions
with the state. State officials had interpreted that to mean illegal immigrants
could not get a yearly permit for their manufactured homes ahead of a Nov. 30
deadline and were also barred from getting a different permit that would allow
them to move their manufactured homes on public roads.

Sam Singh of the Central Alabama Fair Housing Center, which works to ensure
equal housing opportunies, said that situation forced many people to abandon
their properties and leave the state. But after the judge issued a temporary
restraining order -- finding that the plaintiffs are likely to win their case --
residents have time to register those homes.

Alabama Sen. Scott Beason and Rep. Micky Hammon, Republican co-sponsors of HB
56, have said that the intent of the law was to drive illegal immigrants out of
the state. Testifying in court Wednesday, Hammon said the law was not targeted
at the Hispanic population, which increased by more than 100,000 from 2000 to
2010, and expressly forbids racial profiling.

The coalition of fair housing and civil rights groups that filed the lawsuit
claimed otherwise.

"This case really shows the truly terrible ways that HB 56 is playing out in the
real world," said Mary Bauer, legal director for the Southern Poverty Law
Center, one of the groups who sued the state. "There's little doubt that this
law was intended to drive Latinos out of the state, and that its effects have
been to devastate the Latino community in Alabama."

Karen Tumlin, an attorney with the National Immigration Law Center, said
opponents of the law are looking at how they can use the ruling to attack
government agencies that are denying heat and water services to people who can't
prove their citizenship.

Officials with the state Department of Revenue and the state Attorney General's
Office could not be reached for comment Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 5, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Deportations tear some families apart;
Woman's fight shows hard route to legal status

BYLINE: William M. Welch, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1906 words


Few words are needed when Liliana Ramos  talks by phone with her youngest
daughter, age 11, back in Oregon.

"Mostly we cry," she says. "All the time we cry and say, 'I love you, I miss
you.'"

After living for 21 years in the U.S., Ramos, 39,  was deported to Mexico in
September, separated from the two daughters and son she has raised as a single
mother since her ex-husband left them seven years ago.

She had lacked legal immigration status since crossing the border into the U.S.
as a teenager with her parents, so the threat of arrest and deportation was
always there. Even so, Lily, as she is known to friends, had hoped her clean
record and two decades of work, paying taxes, going to church and providing for
her U.S.-born children would allow her a path to legal status or at least avoid
deportation.

Like hundreds of thousands of undocumented immigrants, her hopes rose with the
Obama administration. In July 2010, President Obama said mass deportation of all
illegal immigrants would be "intolerable" to most Americans because so many have
established deep family roots, often with children who are citizens. He said
they should be given a route to legal status: "Our laws should respect families
following the rules instead of splitting them apart."

In June 2011, the administration announced a policy of focusing immigration
enforcement  on violent criminals and threats to national security rather than
families with children, deep ties to their communities and no criminal records.

Six months after Obama's 2010 speech, federal agents showed up at the Bend,
Ore., resort where Ramos worked as a housekeeper, handcuffed her and took her to
immigration jail. She realized nothing had changed for her.

A few months after her arrest, when Obama formally announced the policy change
seemingly tailored to people like her, it made no difference.

"The immigration people told me, 'No, it's not true, it's only politics,'" she
says, tears flowing from her brown eyes as she chats in a small caf in the
neighborhood where she stays, far from the center of this border town.

The policy shift

Ramos' example points to a growing complaint from immigrant rights activists
over treatment of illegal migrants who have lived law-abiding lives for years
and have families here with U.S. citizenship.

It is an issue that former House speaker Newt Gingrich  made a flash point in
the campaign for the Republican presidential nomination last month. Gingrich
said  he favors pathways to legal status for such long-standing residents. In
words that resonate  for Ramos and her children, he said in a debate:  "I don't
see how the party that says it's the party of the family is going to adopt an
immigration policy which destroys families which have been here a
quarter-century. I'm prepared to take the heat for saying, 'Let's be humane in
enforcing the law.'"

Gingrich's remarks touched off a barrage of criticism from others in the
Republican Party, which has  taken a hard line toward the estimated 11 million
people in this country without legal immigration status.

Advocates for immigrants say Obama's promise of humane discretion in immigration
cases hasn't slowed the deportation of illegal migrants who have not been
convicted of crimes. The American Immigration Lawyers Association, in a Nov. 10
report,  said its examination of 252  cases  pointed to an "overwhelming
conclusion" that most Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) field offices
haven't changed their practices since the directive.

The directive outlined June 17 by ICE Director John Morton  set priorities and
advised "prosecutorial discretion" in enforcement decisions. It said "particular
care should be given when dealing with  juveniles, and the immediate family
members of U.S. citizens."

The Homeland Security Department announced last month  that it would begin
training immigration officers and attorneys in how to apply the priorities, will
review new cases under the guidelines and start a pilot program in Denver and
Baltimore to identify pending low-priority cases to be dropped.

Deportations, mostly to Mexico, reached a record 396,906  in the fiscal  year
that ended Sept. 30.  About 1 million people have been deported since Obama took
office, federal records show, continuing an aggressive rise in deportations
through the past decade.

Obama, in a speech at the border town of El Paso in May, acknowledged the  pace
of deportations is a concern for many -- particularly Latinos, a voter bloc that
supported his election in 2008 and that he is courting for re-election in 2012.
He said: "We are focusing our limited resources on violent offenders and people
convicted of crimes -- not families, not folks who are just looking to scrape
together an income."

'We see the lack of action'

Francisco Lopez, executive director of Causa Oregon, a group that advocates for
immigrants, says Ramos' case is all too familiar.

"She is a victim of a lack of implementation" of enforcement priorities, Lopez
says. "We are very frustrated. We see the lack of action and relief process for
cases like Liliana's, mothers with children born here. They need some type of
relief in order not to be separated from their children.''

ICE spokeswoman Gillian Christensen says the agency was constrained by privacy
laws from discussing Ramos' case in detail. However, Christensen suggested that
legal proceedings that began  years ago -- triggered by Ramos'
lawful-if-ill-advised request for legal resident status -- put Ramos in a
priority category.

"ICE is focused on smart, effective immigration enforcement that prioritizes the
removal of criminal aliens, recent border crossers and egregious immigration law
violators, including immigration fugitives and those who have been previously
removed from the United States," Christensen says.

Critics of the administration's immigration policy say it is providing back-door
amnesty by allowing low-priority cases to be set aside, and that the act of
being in United States without legal papers should be enough to warrant
deportation.

"The administration  is saying unless you commit this other crime, we're
creating administrative amnesty for you,'' says Ira Mehlman, of Federation for
American Immigration Reform (FAIR), a  group  that seeks a crackdown on illegal
immigration and limits on legal immigration.

Barbara Ghio,  a Salem, Ore., immigration lawyer who represented Ramos after her
arrest, says Ramos' troubles could be traced to an  application for political
asylum filed by Ramos and her husband in 2003. Not only was it rejected, as
nearly all such applications from Mexican nationals are, she says, it brought
Ramos to the attention of the agency, which then began deportation proceedings
against her.

"It was basically knocking on the door of immigration" authorities, Ghio says.

After an appeal was rejected, a deportation order was issued in 2005. Ramos says
she was not informed of that order. She says her ex-husband, who since has
returned to Mexico, filed the papers without her consent. That asylum
application, Ghio says, was based on erroneous street gossip in immigrant
communities that suggested asylum was a path to legal status. She says any
immigration lawyer would have strongly advised against it.

"The only thing that made her a priority was she was labeled a fugitive, and the
only reason she is a fugitive is because she filed this (asylum request) without
an attorney," Ghio says.

Ramos was released  after her arrest in January and won a few more months to
line up care for her  daughters, Karleen, 11, a sixth-grader, and Ashley, 16, a
high school junior. A son, Brian, 19, is looking for work and hopes to enter
community college. Two relatives  care for the younger children .

In September, Ramos bid a teary farewell and drove  across the U.S.-Mexican
border at San Ysidro, Calif., to a country where she had little connection or
family. She has been sleeping in a room lent by the friend of a friend and lives
off her small savings. She has been unable to find a job or get the necessary
Mexican documents, including a birth certificate, that she needs to work.

Ramos says her children have discussed joining her in Mexico but she is against
it. Her kids are U.S. citizens and don't know enough Spanish  to transfer to
Mexican schools without repeating several grades, she says. Without a job, she
has no way to support them.

"The whole way we live now is different," says Brian Tapia, her son. "My sisters
are going through depression.  My little sister is crying a lot. We're all
really sad.  It's really hard, being without her."

Aside from the human cost, such deportations can cost U.S. taxpayers, Ghio says.
Ramos is no longer paying U.S. taxes, and without a parent, her minor children
could require state assistance in the future.

"The only parent they had, who was working and making some money, not a lot but
some, can't support them now," she says.

Mehlman, of the FAIR group, says deported parents such as Ramos should take
their children with them, even if the children are U.S. citizens. "If you are
removing the parents from the country, and families are being broken up, it
means the parents made that decision to break up families,'' he says. "They can
take kids with them. They should take their kids with them.''

Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., who supports immigrants fighting deportation, says
deporting mothers such as Ramos, if they take their children, amounts to "de
facto deportation of U.S. citizens.''

ICE says 55% of those deported in fiscal 2011 "were convicted of felonies or
misdemeanors," and 90% were in a priority category. But Ghio says ICE lumps
serious, violent offenders with minor offenses and traffic cases.

Ghio says she sees heartbreaking cases regularly. She has one client now, a high
school senior brought to this country when he was 9 months old, who faces
deportation to Mexico after receiving a citation for possessing a small amount
of marijuana. He doesn't even speak Spanish, she says. "Most people are being
deported for very, very small crimes, regardless of what people are saying on
TV."

In Tijuana, a sprawling city that abuts San Diego and is scarred by drug-cartel
violence, it's easy to find other recent deportees. Many  pay 15 pesos a night,
or a little more than $1, to sleep on a hard bunk or floor of a flophouse in a
decaying neighborhood a block from the border. They arrive by the hundreds every
day, some in hopes of regaining entry, others trying to get back to homes
elsewhere in the country.

"It's hard living here," says Richard Escobar, 45, formerly of Montebello,
Calif., who says he was deported in March after failing to renew his legal
resident papers. He says he arrived in the United States with his parents at age
8. "I don't know if it's being punished by God or not, but it's tough."

Ramos, driving her SUV and dressed nicely, looks like a middle-class American of
Hispanic descent, so much so that  other deportees  can scarcely believe she
shares their predicament.

She attends  church almost every night. She talks at least once a day to her
family in Oregon. She is hoping a miracle will allow her to return to the United
States and her family, though Ghio says her legal chances are slim, and that
barring a waiver or change in the law, or marriage to a U.S. citizen, she is
subject to a 10-year waiting period before she can apply for re-entry.

"My daughter says, 'What happened to us? Why did this happen to us?'" Ramos
says. "I miss my kids."

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Julie Snider, USA TODAY (Pie chart)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 5, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Alabama's crackdown nets more than illegal immigrants

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 655 words


Alabama's harsh new immigration law has been in effect for less than three
months, but it has already wreaked the kind of havoc that's inevitable when
legislators are so obsessed with driving out illegal immigrants that they don't
think much about who else gets hurt in the process.

Growers have seen immigrant labor disappear and produce rot in the fields as
they try to recruit the citizens the law's proponents promised would do the work
the illegal immigrants were supposedly stealing from them. An outfit called Grow
Alabama hired more than 50 legal workers to pick tomatoes, but most quit in a
day or two, and only one stuck it out for two weeks.

Some of the fallout is faintly comical. A Mercedes-Benz executive visiting from
Germany was arrested in Tuscaloosa while driving without proper ID and taken to
jail on suspicion of being an illegal immigrant. He was eventually freed, but
not before Alabama's governor got involved because Mercedes is one of several
automakers with Alabama plants crucial to the state's economy.

Less amusing was what happened to a veteran who had just come home from
Afghanistan and was trying to get license plates for his new truck. Because the
new law doesn't recognize military IDs, he was told he'd have to come back with
his birth certificate. (You don't have to be a citizen to serve.)

Alabama and a handful of  states that have passed similar laws argue that
they're just doing what the federal government has failed to do, and to some
extent that's true. Immigration laws were so poorly enforced for so long that
there are an estimated 12 million illegal immigrants in the country. But that
does not justify treating  Latinos here legally as suspects, not citizens. "It's
bringing back old images from 40 or 50 years ago," Thomasville Mayor Sheldon Day
told The Tuscaloosa News. He said employers he's trying to recruit increasingly
ask whether the state is regressing to its segregationist past.

Interestingly, the justification for such laws appears to be evaporating just as
they're being enacted. Thanks to tightened border enforcement and a weak
economy, the Border Patrol reported arresting just 327,577 people illegally
crossing the Mexican border in the fiscal year that ended in September, The
Washington Post reported Sunday. That's down from 1.6 million in 2000 and 25% in
the past year alone.  Meanwhile, the Obama administration has deported more than
a million undocumented immigrants and is on a pace to send home more in one term
than President Bush did in two.

Aggressive federal enforcement should continue, particularly against employers
who knowingly hire illegal workers, the primary magnet drawing people across the
border. But the need to strike a balance seems plain. Chasing away productive,
longtime, law-abiding residents, many of whom have children who are U.S.
citizens, serves no useful purpose. GOP presidential hopeful Newt Gingrich is
the latest to suggest a plan to grant them some form of legal status. Sadly, his
proposal was greeted with disdain from his competitors, who seem locked in a
contest to prove which of them can be most mean-spirited.

There might be a backlash growing, most interestingly in Arizona, the first
state to vote in an extreme crackdown on illegal immigration.  Last month,
voters recalled the state senator most closely identified with  the law. At the
same time, an Arizona State University poll showed that overwhelmingly -- by 78%
overall, including 69% of Republicans -- people favor a path to citizenship for
longtime illegal immigrants if they have no criminal record, pay a fine and can
speak English.

So there's good news on two fronts: Enforcement is beginning to work, and reason
appears to be gaining traction. That might not yet be true in Alabama or in
Congress, where bipartisan attempts to write a new compact have repeatedly
failed, but if  trends are sustained, a pragmatic solution seems only a matter
of time.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

New laws look to make life harder;
States lessen appeal to illegal migrants

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 487 words


State legislators looking to crack down on illegal immigration in 2012 are
turning away from the law enforcement statutes that dominated state houses this
year, and instead are pushing other  measures that  can make life just as
difficult for illegal immigrants.

Much of the  furor over  immigration laws in states such as Arizona  focused on
the portions that allowed local police to conduct  immigration checks of people
stopped for other crimes.

The U.S. Department of Justice has sued four states -- Alabama, Arizona, South
Carolina and Utah -- over those laws.  Their fate will be in limbo until at
least next summer when the U.S. Supreme Court is expected to rule on the
constitutionality of Arizona's law.

That  legal turmoil has left few legislators in other states pushing new law
enforcement laws.

"(Immigration enforcement) bills in other states that were advancing, you may
see them stall until we can get clarification from the Supreme Court," said
South Carolina state Sen. Larry Grooms, a Republican.

Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach, who has helped  legislators in several
states craft laws aimed at  illegal immigrants, said legislators will continue
expanding programs such as E-Verify,  which businesses can use to check the
immigration status of job applicants.

Yet it's a new provision in Alabama's law that has become popular. Kobach, a
Republican, said Alabama was the first state to invalidate all contracts entered
into with illegal immigrants. A strict reading of the law could mean any
contract, including apartment leases and basic work agreements, can be ruled
null and void.

Another aspect of Alabama's law forbids illegal immigrants from conducting any
"business transaction" with a government agency. An Alabama federal  judge ruled
that the state must stop using that provision to prohibit illegal immigrants
from renewing permits for their mobile homes, but it's being applied elsewhere.

The combination of those provisions "has led to nothing short of chaos in the
state," said Karen Tumlin, managing attorney for the National Immigration Law
Center, which was part of a lawsuit against Alabama's law. "They've been applied
to a striking range of activities, from getting tags on your cars to getting
public utilities to changing title on your cars."

Pennsylvania state Rep. Daryl Metcalfe, a Republican and founder of State
Legislators for Legal Immigration,  said he's already added the Alabama laws to
his "wish list" for the upcoming session.

And while North Carolina state Rep. Harry Warren, co-chairman of the  Select
Committee on the State's Role in Immigration Policy, says he is worried about
some of the unintended consequences experienced by Alabama, the Republican is
interested in how the law was used to deny utilities. "The only thing you can do
in your state is make it less attractive (for illegal immigrants) to come to, a
little harder to live here legally," Warren said.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

We're enforcing the law

BYLINE: Joe Arpaio

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 382 words


I took an oath of office in which I agreed to enforce the laws of the state and
federal constitutions. As the top law enforcement officer in Maricopa County, I
do not have the luxury of deciding whether to take a "hard-line approach" in the
enforcement of state and federal laws. I must enforce all of them. Arizona
currently has two laws in the state  constitution concerning illegal
immigration, which I am enforcing.

As a result of my enforcement of these laws, my staff has investigated and
arrested more than 50,000 illegal aliens on the streets and in the jails. We are
proud of the work we have done to fight illegal immigration. My office has been
responsible for finding and identifying 25% of the nation's illegal alien
criminal offenders through the state-federal immigration law enforcement
partnership known as the 287(g) program.

On the surface to the citizens  in Arizona and the rest of the nation, it may
appear that the findings and actions by our federal government are directed
toward this  sheriff and the Maricopa County Sheriff's Office. The truth of the
matter is this is a sad time for America as a whole.

It seems to be politically driven that the federal government has moved to do
everything it can to place the Maricopa County Sheriff's Office out of the
illegal immigration enforcement business. In September of this year, President
Obama addressed the media about me and my support of my state's anti-illegal
immigration law,  Senate Bill 1070, stating there was a great danger that
citizens with Latino surnames could potentially be vulnerable.

Two days after two Arizona Democrat Latino congressmen and other Democrat
legislators asked me to resign, the Justice Department held a  news conference
detailing the summarized facts of  its investigation to the media, 30 minutes
after advising us of these same generalizations. We still have not received the
full investigation.

This news conference was on  the one-year anniversary of the death of Border
Patrol Agent Brian Terry, who was killed because of the  Justice Department's
failed "Fast and Furious" case. There's  mounting political pressure for
Attorney General Eric Holder to resign. There's more to this story.

Joe Arpaio is sheriff of Maricopa County, which encompasses Phoenix and
surrounding communities.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 13, 2012 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DREAMers personalize cases to stall deportation;
Illegal immigrants brought to U.S. as children 'outing' themselves to garner
public's sympathy for staying

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 901 words


Growing up in Ann Arbor, Mich., Mohammad Abdollahi was given the same guidance
that countless parents of illegal immigrants have told their children -- don't
tell anyone how you came into the country.

Abdollahi's parents immigrated to the U.S. from Iran on a student visa when he
was 3,  but did not return when the visa expired, so the entire family was
living in the U.S. illegally. Abdollahi heeded his parents' advice, until two
years ago when he felt they were getting close to being deported.

That's when Abdollahi did the unthinkable: He got himself arrested during a May
2010 protest of immigration policies and had a friend alert immigration
officials of the arrest. He figured that if his case was made public,
Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officials would be hard-pressed to
deport him.

"We realized that the more public we are with our stories, the safer we are,"
said Abdollahi, 26. After he publicly told his story, his lawyer received a call
from an immigration official who said the agency wasn't pursuing deportation, he
said.

Adbollahi now works for the National Immigrant Youth Alliance, one of several
groups  that  help young illegal immigrants facing deportation by publicizing
their cases. The young illegal immigrants are known generally as DREAMers after
the DREAM Act, legislation  that has failed several times in Congress that would
legalize some illegal immigrants brought to the U.S. as children.

The latest example came last week, when North Miami Senior High School
valedictorian Daniela Pelaez was facing the threat of being deported to her home
country of Colombia. More than 2,500 classmates held a rally at her school on
March 2, the same day her attorney sent ICE a request for a reprieve accompanied
by letters of support from Republican  Reps. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and David
Rivera of Miami.

On March 6, Pelaez's attorney received an e-mail from ICE saying Pelaez had been
granted a two-year deferment on her deportation.

ICE officials deny that the publicity of any case, including Pelaez's, affects
whether they push for deportation. Instead, ICE spokeswoman Barbara Gonzalez
said, they simply adhere to ICE guidelines to focus on illegal immigrants who
pose threats to national security, have been convicted of crimes in the U.S.,
are recent border-crossers and repeat immigration law violators.

"ICE takes discretionary actions based solely on the merits of a case,
regardless of publicity," Gonzalez said.

Immigration attorneys disagree, saying that ICE continues targeting students who
would be eligible for legal status under the DREAM Act.

"I've had clients approached by ICE officers in detention who essentially told
them, 'The only way you're getting out of this is if the media picks up on it,'"
said David Bennion, a Philadelphia immigration attorney.

The infrastructure behind the publicity machine has grown rapidly in recent
years.

When Gaby Pacheco's family was arrested by immigration officials during an
early-morning raid in 2006, she remembers struggling to contact friends, local
politicians and community organizers to alert them.

Now, Pacheco runs the website EndOurPain.com, that screens cases of people
facing deportation to help them get publicity around their case. Pacheco has a
30-person team of volunteers and access to pro bono immigration attorneys to
plot out publicity strategies in each case.

Dulce Guerrero runs a similar program in Georgia, where she uses social media
networks to alert hundreds of people to flood ICE with phone calls on behalf of
people they think should not be deported.  Other groups organized "National
Coming Out of the Shadows Week," which is running this week and features events
around the country where illegal immigrants "out" themselves in public.

Although Congress has been unable to tackle comprehensive immigration
legislation that would address the status of the country's 11 million illegal
immigrants, some members of Congress are also helping DREAMers win reprieves
from immigration officials.

Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., a long-time sponsor of the DREAM Act, dedicates one
speech on the Senate floor almost every week to highlight the credentials of an
illegal immigrant who would qualify for the act. Durbin said legislators who
have long opposed the act are coming around in recent years as they hear the
firsthand accounts of DREAMers.

"These DREAMers stepping out, identifying themselves and speaking to members of
Congress are making it personal," Durbin said. "It's absolutely essential they
continue to do it."

Steven Camarota, director of research at the Center for Immigration Studies, a
group that opposes the DREAM Act, said the infrastructure being built to
publicize deportation cases shows that the outcry garnered is, "not a
spontaneous reaction to an individual case, but part of a concerted and
organized effort to get the most sympathetic illegal immigrant into the public
discourse."

"Sure, it's a very effective political strategy," Camarota said. "But a lot of
people, even some legal immigrants, are very resentful. It may endear as many
people as it upsets."

The only reservations that organizers have is that untold number of illegal
immigrants don't benefit from the strategy. The Obama administration has set a
record each year with the number of people it deports -- nearly 400,000 in 2011
-- and they believe countless people who would qualify for the DREAM Act are
among those.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            March 22, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration issues touch denominations;
More people in the pews are jumping into the debate and looking for a balance
between justice and compassion

BYLINE: Bob Smietana, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 805 words


The Bible tells its readers to obey the law, but it also tells them to welcome
strangers and foreigners.

That has left some Christians divided over the issue of immigration reform.

Members of Clergy for Tolerance, based here, say new immigration laws have to
mix justice with compassion.

But supporters of measures such as Alabama's say the Bible teaches that the
government's job is to enforce the law, and those who break it should be
punished. The American Center for Law and Justice, a Christian legal group,
filed a brief in federal court supporting the Alabama law.

That measure, which the Obama administration is challenging, prohibits
undocumented immigrants from entering into "business transactions" with the
state, requires police to check immigration status during traffic stops and
makes it a crime for U.S. citizens to knowingly assist undocumented immigrants.

"The whole heart of the Gospel is in Matthew 25, where Jesus said, 'I was a
stranger and you welcomed me,'" said Randy Hoover-Dempsey, pastor of All Saints
Episcopal Church in Smyrna, Tenn., whose congregation includes about 200 Burmese
immigrants.

Welcoming strangers and immigrants is a good thing, said Gil McKee, pastor of
First Baptist Church in Tuscaloosa, Ala.

But the Bible is no excuse for breaking the law, said McKee, whose congregation
includes Alabama Gov. Robert Bentley, a Republican who pushed for a state  law
that cracks down on illegal immigration.

"We have an obligation under Romans 13 -- to obey the law," McKee said. "A lot
of the folks who are here illegally know the law. It's their responsibility as a
result to abide by the law." Romans 13 says in part, "Let everyone be subject to
the governing authorities, for there is no authority except that which God has
established. The authorities that exist have been established by God."

Most major denominations in the United States support changes in immigration
law.

Last summer, the Southern Baptist Convention, the largest Protestant group in
the USA, passed a resolution calling for the federal government to increase
border security while at the same time providing "a just and compassionate path
to legal status" for people in the U.S. illegally.

Roman Catholic bishops and the National Association of Evangelicals have also
supported comprehensive changes in immigration law.

Reaction among people in the pews has been mixed. A 2010 Pew Forum on Religion
and Public Life survey showed that  39% of evangelicals and 45% of Catholics
support reforms that include tighter borders as well as a path to citizenship.

Roy Beck, executive director of NumbersUSA, a group that wants to  lessen
immigration, said denominations that support more lenient immigration laws are
well-meaning but wrong. "Illegal aliens to them are persons in need," he said.
"They respond, as religious institutions should, with compassion. Where they get
off track is thinking that this illegal alien in front of me doesn't have to
obey the law."

Beck, a former associate editor of the United Methodist Reporter, said that the
Bible doesn't offer answers.

He said he believes that churches want  reform without enforcement. For Beck,
that means deporting anyone in the U.S. illegally.

"Either people who break the law have to go back home or you don't have
immigration law," he said.

Many immigrants in the country illegally want to become legal but have few
options to do so, said Kayla Snow, an immigration counselor at Vineyard
Columbus, a megachurch of about 8,500 in Westerville, Ohio, a suburb of
Columbus.

The church runs a counseling service for immigrants two days a week. It got
involved in immigration  issues because the church has immigrant members, some
of whom are in the country illegally.

"If we are going to care for our immigrant brothers and sisters in the U.S. --
something has to change in the law," she said. "It doesn't treat them fairly."

Heather Larson, director of compassion and justice ministry at Willow Creek
Community Church in suburban Chicago, agrees. Willow Creek, which draws more
than 24,000 people to its weekend services, is one of the most influential
megachurches in the country.

"(Our) wake-up call to the need for reform came from hearing personal stories of
people in our congregation and our community who are affected by this broken
system," Larson wrote in an e-mail. "Current immigration laws can divide
families and leave people feeling isolated and hopeless."

McKee said he feels sympathy for families that are broken up when parents or
other family members are deported, but he said that people have to face the
consequences of deciding to enter the country illegally. However, McKee is also
pragmatic. He would like to see some reform that allows people who work hard and
don't have a criminal record to become legal residents.

Smietana also reports for The Tennessean in Nashville

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            March 28, 2012 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

States' illegal migrant bills stall;
Threat of lawsuits deter legislation

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 514 words


Republican state legislators are struggling to pass laws this year that would
give local police more powers to crack down on illegal immigrants.

After Arizona passed its landmark illegal immigration bill in 2010, legislators
in Utah, Alabama, Georgia, South Carolina and Indiana followed and passed
similar laws last year.

Portions of all those laws have been blocked by federal courts and will face
costly legal challenges, which could ultimately be decided when the Supreme
Court reviews Arizona's law next month. Republican lawmakers say the threat of
those lawsuits, some led by the Department of Justice, is one reason legislative
leaders have put the brakes on immigration bills, or abandoned them altogether,
as they wait to see how this election year plays out.

"Legislators are much better informed on the issue. I think that legislators
have been watching what's happening on the national level. The probability of
that happening in Virginia is de minimus," said Virginia state Majority Leader
Tommy Norment,  the only Republican who voted against a state immigration law
when it died in a Senate committee last month.

Missouri state Republican Sen. Will Kraus' immigration enforcement bill passed a
state Senate committee in January, but Senate leaders have not moved it to the
floor.

In Kansas, leaders of the House and Senate have both said they don't see any
immigration enforcement bills advancing this year.

Mississippi lawmakers are poised to pass an immigration bill this year, but it
has been watered down to the point that it no longer includes  the core aspects
of the Arizona law.

As the Mississippi bill has made its way through the House, lawmakers have cut
the portion allowing law enforcement to perform roadside immigration checks.
They have also removed contentious parts that would require school officials to
check the immigration status of students enrolling in schools, and would make it
a state crime not to carry identification papers -- provisions that have been
blocked by federal judges in other states.

The shift has been striking to Suman Raghunathan, given the wave of
anti-illegal-immigration bills passed in the past two years.

"I think the pendulum has stopped a little closer  to the middle this year,"
said Raghunathan, policy director of the Progressive States Network, which
opposes state immigration enforcement laws.

The change has been jarring for some Republican legislators.

Tennessee state Rep. Joe Carr, a Republican who has authored several
anti-illegal-immigration laws in recent years, is not optimistic that his bill
granting police the ability to check the immigration status of suspects during
routine traffic stops will pass the GOP-controlled Legislature this year. He
said legislators in Tennessee and other states have grown wary of Department of
Justice-led lawsuits,  and they're hoping November's presidential election will
change that tone.

"We think we're going to have a much more friendly atmosphere in the federal
government in a few months, so there's no reason to participate in an overly
expensive endeavor," Carr said.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 26, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Supreme Court joins in on fight;
Bench seems open to state's initiative

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 483 words


U.S. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli struggled Wednesday to convince the
Supreme Court that Arizona does not have the constitutional right to implement a
comprehensive immigration enforcement plan.

By the end of the 80-minute hearing, it was clear from comments of many of the
justices that they seemed sympathetic to Arizona's attempts to deal with the
400,000 illegal immigrants estimated to be living in the state.

Chief Justice John Roberts questioned why the federal government would not want
a state to assist in identifying illegal immigrants.

"It seems to me that the federal government just doesn't want to know who is
here illegally or not," Roberts said.

The court was considering Arizona Senate Bill 1070, which passed in 2010 and has
become a flashpoint for the debate over how to enforce immigration  and served
as a blueprint for five other states that later adopted similar laws.

A week before the law went into effect, a federal judge blocked  key provisions
that expanded the ability of police to check people's immigration status. The
law also  cracked down on illegal immigrants, making it a crime for them to work
or apply for work, for example. That federal ruling led to Wednesday's hearing
in front of a crowded Supreme Court, as supporters and opponents of the law
marched outside.

The court is expected to announce its decision in Arizona v. United States, as
well as its ruling on the legality of Obama's health care, in June, thrusting
both issues into the heart of the presidential election.

Justice Elena Kagan recused herself from the case because of her work as U.S.
solicitor general under President Obama.

Verrilli argued immigration enforcement is the sole responsibility of the
federal government and that Arizona's actions interfere with its priorities of
pursuing the most dangerous illegal immigrants.

Arizona argued the state was forced to respond because Washington has not been
able to secure the border, forcing the state to grapple with the security
concerns and high costs of educating and caring for illegal immigrants.

The questioning grew so intense that Justice Sonia Sotomayor, one of the liberal
justices on the court, told Verrilli to move on to another argument.

"You can see it's not selling very well," she said. "Why don't you try to come
up with something else?"

Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach, who has helped Arizona and other states
write tough anti-illegal immigration laws, attended Wednesday's hearing and said
he was surprised at how forcefully the majority of the justices seemed to attack
the U.S. government's position.

"Arizona had a good day today," he said.

Karen Tumlin, managing attorney for the National Immigration Law Center, which
has sued Arizona and other states over their immigration laws, came out of the
hearing saying it's "foolhardy" to try to predict the way the Supreme Court
justices will rule based on their questions.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 27, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Top court tips hand on immigration?

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 601 words


The Arizona Republic, in an editorial: "Some crystal-ball readers suggest the
Supreme Court may anoint parts of Senate Bill 1070 constitutional. Supporters of
(the law)  were understandably cheered by the tone of Wednesday's oral
arguments; things appeared to go well for their side.  Even if the court blesses
SB1070 as constitutional, it will remain a bad idea for Arizona. It established
attrition through enforcement as state policy. But that strategy is simply
cruel. It aims to make people so fearful and uncomfortable that they leave the
country. Many undocumented people have deep roots in communities where they have
given their labor and love. Many have U.S.-born children.   The problems
surrounding illegal immigration need to be solved humanely."

Richard F. LaMountain, in The Oregonian: "'Illegal immigration costs U.S.
taxpayers about $113 billion a year at the federal, state and local levels,'
estimated the Federation for American Immigration Reform in 2010. An estimated 8
million working illegal immigrants take jobs from unemployed Americans.  SB1070
seeks, justifiably, to mitigate these costs to Arizonans. How, conversely, does
the Obama administration approach illegal immigration? It has suspended action
against many of the 300,000 illegal immigrants who had faced deportation and
cleared many of them to hold U.S. jobs. It has curtailed raids of businesses
known to employ illegal workers.  Actions like these, Arizona says, force the
state to 'shoulder a disproportionate burden of the national problem of illegal
immigration.' Its solution, SB1070, is legal, fair and necessary."

Kristian Ramos, on The Huffington Post: "A patchwork of state-passed immigration
laws does nothing to fix the utterly broken process of legal immigration into
the country. The majority of undocumented immigrants in the country are visa
overstays who came into the country legally. The number of immigrants who apply
to come in legally far outnumbers the allocations for visas currently given.
Even if possible, deporting all of the undocumented immigrants in the country
would accomplish nothing, if the process of legally moving people into and out
of the country is not fixed.    The court's decision will only reinforce a
simple fact: The only entity that can fix the mess we are in is Congress."

The Wall Street Journal, in an editorial: "(Arizona legislators) carefully
crafted a state law that is consistent with the federal immigration laws already
on the books. All Arizona does is instruct state police to enforce federal
immigration laws -- for instance, by calling federal officials if a person they
arrest can't verify his legal status. If the White House doesn't like those
federal laws, it is welcome to persuade Congress to change them.   The
administration is using pre-emption doctrine as a pretext to not enforce those
rules and strip Arizona of the authority that Congress bestowed as part of its
power to manage the nation's borders."

Mary Sanchez in The Kansas City Star: "Arizona can't deport people. That's the
role of the federal government. Nor can it decide who is granted legal status,
or take that status away. It doesn't control who is given a visa, work
authorization or asylum. And it certainly can't do much to address  our
country's need for low-wage labor.   (Arizona Gov. Jan) Brewer argues that it
was failure at the federal level that created the illegal immigration problem.
And she's right. However, only federal action can fix this problem. And on this
point, the U.S. Supreme Court must unequivocally set the states straight. Then
Congress has to get to work."

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 22, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Romney tackles immigration;
Offers few details on any plans

BYLINE: Jackie Kucinich, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 447 words


If elected president, Mitt Romney said in a speech to Latino officials Thursday,
he will strive to "find common ground" on the issue of immigration, which has
stymied presidents of both parties.

Reactions from groups on both sides of the issue Thursday showed that Romney had
succeeded, but perhaps not in the way he intended. Groups backing wider
immigration or tighter controls said the policies he outlined omitted important
issues and would do little to fix a system that is already complicated and
broken.

During his speech to the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed
Officials in Orlando,  Romney called for increased border security and improved
employment verification.

Romney said he had his own plan to  replace the executive order President Obama
issued last week that ended the deportations of some young illegal immigrants
who were brought to the United States as children. These immigrants would
benefit from passage of the DREAM Act, which would grant legal status to illegal
immigrants who were brought to the country as children, have completed high
school and either attended college or served in the military.

"I will put in place my own long-term solution that will replace and supersede
the president's temporary measure," Romney said.

Ira Mehlman -- a spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
which backs stronger immigration laws --  said Romney's proposals lacked detail
and failed to address the real problems with immigration.

"On legal immigration, he mentioned the obvious: that the system is broken, but
his vision seems to be more add-ons and not going back and fixing the underlying
problems," Mehlman said.

Romney's comments on Obama's executive order were "cryptic," Mehlman said,
particularly because Romney said during the Republican primaries that he would
veto the DREAM Act.

"It  didn't seem quite as definitive as the Romney of a few months ago," he
said.

Romney seemed to  purposely ignore the details of the DREAM Act, said Janet
Murguia, president and CEO of the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic
advocacy group. "He said some new things about immigration, but the story is
what he didn't say. It sort of felt obvious he was ignoring still the DREAMers
and what to do with the DREAMers. I think he missed an opportunity to be more
specific."

Romney's speech, Murguia said, was softer in tone than some of his comments
during the primaries.  Romney did not mention Arizona's controversial
immigration enforcement law, which he earlier called "a model" for the nation.

Comments such as those about the Arizona law mean Romney "has a ways to go to
win the hearts and minds of the Latino community," Murguia said.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Court hands immigration back to Washington, where it belongs

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 541 words


Immigration is one of those issues that so bitterly divide Americans --
abortion, guns and taxes are others -- that the nation seems doomed to debate
them forever.

But occasionally something  reshapes even the most polarized debates, and the
Supreme Court's decision Monday striking down several provisions of Arizona's
tough immigration statute adds to a sense that the ground is shifting.

Though the court upheld the law's controversial "show me your papers" provision,
which requires police to demand proof of immigration status if they reasonably
suspect someone is in the U.S. illegally, the justices made it clear that
provision could also  fall if enforcement produces the sort of racial profiling
it  invites.

Altogether, the decision sharply restricts Arizona's harsh "attrition by
enforcement" campaign to drive out illegal immigrants, and it blunts the  drive
among several states to take immigration law into their own hands. Alabama,
Georgia, Indiana, South Carolina and Utah all have similar laws that are now
vulnerable.

As Justice Anthony Kennedy noted in the court's majority opinion, the states do
indeed have a problem. Arizona has been overwhelmed by the influx of
undocumented immigrants. Though most come simply to work, they badly strain
schools and other state services. A significant minority drive up the crime rate
and make areas near the border so dangerous that the state warns people not to
travel there.

This plainly is Washington's fault. Over a quarter-century, it has failed to
make federal immigration laws work. Congress has  refused to work out a
compromise, or even take up the issue  since President Bush's drive for
comprehensive immigration overhaul collapsed in 2007.

But now that the court has acknowledged federal primacy in immigration,
Washington is where the problem will have to be solved.

The solution is still as plain as it is politically difficult: a  law that
combines tough border and workplace enforcement with a guest-worker program and
a stringent path to legal status for immigrants who stay out of trouble. That
won't happen this year, but it ought to be part of the debate in this election
year, and on the congressional agenda next year.

Even as the legal battles continue, attitudes appear to be changing. Harsh
additions to Arizona's law failed to move through the state legislature. Alabama
is revisiting aspects of its law after sharp criticism. And President Obama's
recent decision not to deport illegal immigrants brought here as children --
even as he's ratcheted up deportations generally --  has proved popular enough
that Republican challenger Mitt Romney has refused to say whether he'd overturn
it.

Adding to this shift are other factors. More people  appear to be going from the
United States to Mexico these days than the other way around. At the same time,
Latinos are the fastest growing part of the population, increasing their voting
power. Now the court has focused the debate where it belongs.

In Monday's ruling, the justices said the nation should base its immigration
laws "on a political will informed by searching, thoughtful, rational civic
discourse." Perhaps that's naive in today's poisonous political climate. But,
little by little, circumstances are changing.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 28, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Posturing kills immigration solution;
Cal and Bob: Rather than building trust, both parties' politicians undermine
potential for compromise

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 1288 words


Cal Thomas is a conservative columnist. Bob Beckel is a liberal Democratic
strategist. But as longtime friends, they can often find common ground on issues
that lawmakers in Washington cannot.

Today: What now on illegal immigration?

Bob: As a constitutionalist, Cal, you should be delighted by the Supreme Court's
decision to reject most of Arizona's onerous immigration law. Police cannot
simply stop people and demand papers; undocumented immigrants may seek
employment; and most important, cops cannot arrest suspected undocumented
immigrants without a warrant. Take that Gov. Jan Brewer!

Cal: It's always nice to see the court read and obey the Constitution, Bob. The
decision still allows police in Arizona and other states to check the
immigration status of people they detain for other reasons if there is a
"reasonable suspicion" the person is unlawfully in the country. The real problem
has been the refusal of the federal government to enforce its own laws.
Arizonans and all Americans will have the opportunity to elect an administration
in November that will.

Bob: Even before the court's action, President Obama's executive order to stop
the deportation of undocumented immigrants who meet certain criteria was the
right thing to do. Things like arriving before their 16th birthday, living in
the U.S. for five consecutive years, attending or graduating from high school or
having enlisted in the military. I applaud his moral and political courage.

Cal: Nice talking point, Bob. This is election year pandering and you know it.
The president isn't a dictator. He can't determine which laws to obey and which
to ignore. Only last year the president had the opposite view of what the law
allows: "There are laws on the books that I have to enforce," he said, adding
that some people were "perpetrating the notion that somehow, by myself, I can go
and do these things. It's just not true." Funny how a re-election campaign can
change his view of the law.

Bob: The president's actions are not unconstitutional. The president has the
authority to order the Department of Homeland Security and other agencies to
deport, or not deport, certain individuals. Besides, Republicans have refused to
allow the DREAM Act containing similar provisions to even come up for a vote.

Cal: It is Congress that makes laws, not the president.

Bob: We are talking about immigrants who were children when they came here. They
have mostly avoided trouble and stayed in school. Many have served with
distinction in the military. Republicans won't even consider these kids who had
no control over their parents breaking the law to get here. No wonder Hispanics
consider Republicans cold-hearted.

Cal: I agree on the military exception, but this isn't about cold or warm
hearts. It's about the law. You try breaking a law and see if you get away with
it simply because you think the law is "cold-hearted." If the president doesn't
like the law as written, he should appeal to Congress to change it. That's how
our system of government works.

Bob: Recent polling shows that by two to one, voters support Obama's action.
Even in the conservative, mostly Cuban, Latino community in Florida, the
president's plan has been received favorably. Once again, Republicans are headed
for a massive defeat among Hispanics, the fastest growing demographic in the
country.

Cal: Here are some other figures: According to the Census Bureau, more Hispanics
have fallen into poverty since 2008. They now number 13.2 million. And 8.2% of
our own citizens are unemployed (the actual figure is higher, as you know,
because many more have given up looking for work). The Bureau of Labor
Statistics says that since President Obama took office, more than half a million
Hispanics have been added to the unemployment rolls. And you want to grant
amnesty to an additional 800,000 people who will go straight into this jobless
pool?

Bob: Mitt Romney has taken a far right position on undocumented workers. Last
week, he refused to say he would rescind the president's order should he win the
election. Romney is between a rock and a hard place with Hispanic voters and he
knows it.

Cal: You're right. The president has manipulated the issue to his advantage.

Bob: Republicans scream about the number of undocumented workers in this
country, yet that number has fallen under the Obama administration. The
president has deported more than 300,000 undocumented people a year. In fact,
this president has deported more people here illegally than any other president
in recent history.

Cal: I give him credit for that, but the number of illegal immigrants is
exceptionally large.

Bob: Ronald Reagan was the last president to grant amnesty to undocumented
workers and their families, in 1986. He also put in place strong sanctions for
businesses that employed anyone here illegally. So far, few if any
businesspeople have been prosecuted for hiring undocumented workers. By the way,
Obama's recent order does not grant amnesty to anyone.

Cal: Come on, Bob, if it walks like a duck  it's amnesty! Reagan's deal failed
because the secure identifier -- essentially a national ID -- never happened.
Too often when bipartisan deals are struck, there's little follow through. The
illegals got amnesty, but the door was left open for more to come in. Not
surprisingly, many more did.

Bob: You're right, Cal, conservatives feel like they were betrayed in the 1986
compromise. One reason is the Democrats still oppose making E-Verify mandatory,
which understandably frustrates your side. Democrats are wrong on this. Although
the Obama administration has deported a record number of undocumented workers,
the president should have embraced much wider use of E-Verify.

Cal: I agree Obama could have built on his deportations by taking other
Republican concerns more seriously, such as E-Verify and the quick construction
of the border fence, but his decision to grant this amnesty undermined trust too
much for anything to happen before the election. Still, I think he could make
points for comprehensive immigration reform if he at least took some steps
toward acting on some GOP concerns.

Bob: I agree with you on completing the border fence. Embracing those Republican
proposals would at least force Republicans to "put up or shut up" on immigration
if a new policy ensured that those in the country without documentation would be
fined, pay back taxes, and put them at the rear of the line for citizenship
behind those who have obeyed the law. If Reagan could do it, so can today's
Republicans if they have the will.

Cal: That's a start, but I think this is still about "importing" votes for
Democrats and you know it.

Bob: Come on, Cal, drop the election year talk, let's focus on finding a common
ground solution on immigration. Once we have a new immigration policy, our focus
should turn to deporting those who have committed crimes and stop any further
immigration, with a few exceptions, for a period of several years.

Cal: You mean "other crimes" since they broke the law to get, or remain, here.

Bob: As I was saying, we should also deport those who come in illegally after
the new policy. That would allow time for those already in the country to be
integrated. Still, the politics of an election year makes resolution of what
everyone knows is a problem, extremely difficult.

Cal: I'm with you on deporting criminals, but I doubt either a future Democratic
president -- or probably a Republican one who wants those crucial Hispanic votes
-- is going to be able to withstand the pressure when pictures of crying babies
and desperate mothers appear on TV screens. It's all about "feelings" and
emotions these days. I agree with you on the politics. Neither party has done
well on this divisive issue.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 24, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Agents sue over immigration policy;
They protest deferred deportations

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 515 words


A group of Immigrations and Customs Enforcement agents sued their own agency
Thursday, arguing that the Obama administration is not letting them fully
identify and deport illegal immigrants.

Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano says her department does not
have the manpower or money to deport the 11 million illegal immigrants in the
USA, so she issued a memorandum last year ordering immigration officials to
focus their  efforts on dangerous illegal immigrants. In June, Obama announced a
program that will allow up to 1.7 million illegal immigrants brought to the USA
as children to have deportations deferred for at least two years.

The 10 ICE agents suing Napolitano and ICE Director John Morton say those
directives violate the Constitution and federal immigration law. "We are federal
law enforcement officers who are being ordered to break the law," said Chris
Crane, an ICE agent and president of the National Immigration and Customs
Enforcement Council, a union for ICE employees. "This directive puts ICE agents
and officers in a horrible position."

ICE spokesman Ross Feinstein did not comment on the lawsuit but said more than
half of the nearly 400,000 illegal immigrants deported in 2011 had been
convicted of crimes, the largest number in the agency's history. He said that
shows the decision to focus on the most dangerous illegal immigrants is a policy
that works, and June's decision to defer deportation for young illegal
immigrants enhances that strategy.

A spokesman for GOP presidential candidate Mitt Romney said that Obama may have
overstepped his authority by ordering the deportation deferments and that Romney
would forge a long-term solution with Congress to replace Obama's "stop-gap
measure."

"The courts will have to sort this out, but this kind of uncertainty is
unacceptable as these young people brought here as children are seeking clarity
on their long-term status," spokesman Ryan Williams said.

The lawsuit, filed Thursday in a Dallas federal court, requests that a judge
strike down the two directives and protect the agents from any retribution for
their lawsuit.

The lawsuit is funded by NumbersUSA, a group that proposes lower levels of legal
and illegal immigration, and the attorney is Kris Kobach, Kansas secretary of
State, who has helped Arizona and Alabama craft strict anti-illegal-immigration
laws. His work on this lawsuit is not part of his official state duties.

The lawsuit was supported by some Republican lawmakers who have criticized
Obama's immigration policy as "backdoor amnesty."

"These agent's mission is to keep our borders secure, but the head of their
agency is directing them otherwise, telling them to undermine their missions and
contradict immigration law," said Sen. David Vitter, R-La.

Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill.,  said the program actually helps ICE officials by
allowing them to focus on the most dangerous illegal immigrants. "Deferred
action is a major boost to law enforcement who do not have to waste time on
honor students and can do the harder work of actually tracking down and
deporting criminals," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Getty Images Morton: Immigration and Customs Enforcement head.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: WASHINGTON

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 19, 2012 Wednesday
                                 First EDITION

S.C.'s Gowdy to head key immigration panel

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, USA TODAY,

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 444 words


House leaders chose a vocal opponent of illegal immigration to head  the
chamber's immigration subcommittee, which will play an integral role in
upcoming debates on how to change the nation's immigration laws.

The incoming House Judiciary Committee chairman, Rep. Bob Goodlatte, R-Va.,
announced Tuesday that Rep. Trey Gowdy, a former South Carolina prosecutor who
was part of the GOP freshman wave of 2010, will head the Subcommittee on
Immigration and Border Security.

During the presidential campaign, Republican candidate Mitt Romney took a hard
stance against illegal immigration.  President Obama went on to win the Hispanic
vote 71%-27%, leading many to call on the GOP to moderate its stance on
immigration.

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which
opposes plans to legalize the nation's 11 million illegal immigrants, said
Gowdy's appointment means the GOP isn't about to cave in.

"What it suggests is that the House Republicans aren't going to allow themselves
to be stampeded by this amnesty panic because Gowdy is pretty hawkish on
immigration," Krikorian said.

Gowdy opposed the Obama administration's decision to grant deferred deportations
to some young illegal immigrants. He co-sponsored a law titled the "Prohibiting
Back-door Amnesty Act" aimed at reversing that decision. He also co-sponsored a
bill that would have stopped the Department of Justice from suing states such as
Arizona, Alabama and South Carolina that passed tough illegal immigration laws.

His brief record earned him a grade of "A-" from NumbersUSA, a group that wants
to lower levels of legal and illegal immigration.

Frank Sharry, executive director of America's Voice, a group that supports a
plan giving the country's illegal immigrants a chance at citizenship, said
Gowdy's appointment will make it harder for Republicans who want to restore the
party's standing with Hispanic voters.

"If the Republican Party wants to get right on immigration reform that puts 11
million immigrants on the road to citizenship, I suspect they'll have to go
around (Gowdy) or over him," Sharry said.

Galen Carey, vice president of the National Association of Evangelicals, isn't
so sure. He met with dozens of GOP lawmakers to talk about the need to legalize
the country's illegal population, and he said he felt a "sea change" from
onetime hard-liners.

"Past performance is no guarantee of future results," Carey said. "We're getting
a clear sign that people in both parties want to work on this. Maybe people who
have taken strong positions against immigration reform, when they actually think
about the issues in a human way, are going to be taking a new look."

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 7, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Changes eyed in migrant detention

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 419 words


The nation's detention system for illegal immigrants will be overhauled in an
effort to improve medical care, increase accountability and reduce costs,
federal officials announced Thursday.

The current system, a patchwork of about 350 privately run detention centers and
county jails that lease space to the government, has come under fire from groups
such as Amnesty International USA. The groups say the Immigration and Customs
Enforcement (ICE) agency violates due-process rights and provides poor medical
care that has sometimes resulted in inmate deaths.

The overhaul will address most of those criticisms and make the system less
reliant on jails, said John Morton, assistant secretary of ICE. He did not give
specifics but said illegal immigrants who don't have criminal records could be
in a less restrictive setting.

"This isn't about whether or not we're going to continue to detain people. We
are," he said. "This is about how we're going to detain people."

There has been significant growth in detention of illegal immigrants. In 2004,
the system housed up to 19,444 people at any one time, compared with up to
33,400 now.

Changes announced Thursday include creation of an Office of Detention Policy and
Planning to spearhead the overhaul and measures to enhance supervision of the
facilities. The changes will take up to five years, Morton said.

ICE will no longer house families in the T. Don Hutto  facility in Texas. It has
been the target of lawsuits by the American Civil Liberties Union and others who
alleged, among other things, that children were being detained illegally, had to
wear prison uniforms and got only one hour of education a day.

Families will go to a facility in Pennsylvania or be put into alternative
detention programs, Morton said.

"I'm elated that there won't be families at Hutto," said Vanita Gupta, an ACLU
attorney. "No child should have ever been there." A legal settlement in 2007
improved conditions, but "Hutto is still a prison," she said.

Gupta complained that the plan does not include legally binding standards to
hold ICE accountable.

Dan Stein, president of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which
advocates less immigration and more enforcement, said the move shows ICE is not
serious about deporting illegal immigrants. "This is one in a continuous stream
of announcements from the administration that appears to potentially redirect
resources away from what Americans want most, which is an increase in interior
apprehensions, enforcement and removal."

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 9, 2012 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Ill. village resists detention center;
Privately operated site for illegal immigrants sparks debates over detainees and
for-profit facilities

BYLINE: Judy Keen, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 801 words


Amid the rose bushes in Kayla Pennington's yard is a sign with a red circle and
a diagonal slash across the words "Crete detention center."

It conveys her opposition to a proposal to build a 788-bed, privately operated
detention center for illegal immigrants in this village of 8,259 people, which
is 30 miles south of Chicago. She doesn't like the idea of a private company
running the place, fears property values would plummet and worries that if
immigration laws changed, Crete would be stuck with a vacant building.

"We are opposed to making a profit off other people's suffering," said
Pennington, 49, a mother of five who has lived here for almost 10 years with her
husband, Jim Flax, 50. "There's no upside."

Fred Rossi, 53, who has lived in Crete for two decades and is unemployed, shares
Pennington's concern about the effects of a possible shift in immigration laws,
but he does see an upside: the promise of as many as 250 jobs, most of which
would be filled by area residents.

"We need those jobs," he said. The March unemployment rate in Will County, where
Crete is located, was 9.5%, compared with the national rate of 8.2% for that
month.

The planned detention center, where illegal immigrants would be held until they
are deported, has caused a stir in Crete that reflects national debates over
immigration policies and the growing number of people being held in for-profit
prisons and jails.

The share  of state and federal prisoners -- not including immigration detainees
-- in private facilities increased from 6.3% in 2000 to 8% in 2010 for a total
of 128,195, according to the Bureau of Justice Statistics.

The prospect of Corrections Corporation of America (CCA) operating the
immigration detention facility is causing much consternation.

"What this is about for us is a multibillion-dollar corporation that is trying
to set up shop here in Illinois to make profits off human misery," said Fred
Tsao, policy director of the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee
Rights.

Centralizing detention

Illinois already prohibits privately built or operated state prisons and county
jails. A bill that also would ban state and local governments from hiring
private companies to build or run civil detention centers has been passed by the
Illinois Senate. A House committee voted last week to send it to the full
House.

The Crete proposal is part of a plan announced in 2009 by U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement (ICE) to centralize its civil detention system.

At that time, illegal immigrants were scattered in 350  facilities across the
country, including county jails and other facilities meant for criminal, not
civil, detention. That number has been reduced to 250.

ICE said the Crete facility would mark "another important step in the agency's
long-term effort to reform the immigration detention system, emphasizing the
health and safety of detainees in ICE custody."

CCA spokesman Steve Owen said the company operates more than a dozen facilities
under contracts with ICE. In all, it has 67 facilities nationwide with a total
of about 92,000 beds.

Tsao noted that CCA has been criticized and sued for its treatment of inmates,
but Owen said corrections "is a highly litigious profession for public and
private systems." CCA's track record, he said, "shows that we do a good job of
operating safe facilities." The company would spend up to $60 million to build
the center, he said.

Economic development a goal

Tom Durkin, the village administrator, said the detention center proposal is
being handled  just as any other potential economic development project. "We
look for opportunities all the time, whether it's this or a German auto parts
manufacturer," he said. Village officials are consulting with other communities
where CCA facilities are located, researching potential liabilities and
considering how the village's image might be affected.

That's a concern for resident Laurene Lambertino-Urquizo, 59. "The thought that
we're going to be known as a prison town is just sad," she said.

Because the facility would be privately operated, Durkin said, the village would
collect an estimated $236,000 in real estate taxes yearly. Before the Board of
Trustees votes on the site plan and contracts with CCA and ICE, he said, public
meetings would be held. Despite talk around town, it's not a done deal, he said:
"There's nothing that could be further from the truth."

Tim Berens, 57, who has lived here for 12 years, said he's "very skeptical" of
the assurances of tax revenue for the village. "We're never going to see a
single dollar," he said. He said that he would like to see a referendum on the
issue.

Teacher Concetta Smart, 60, said opposition to the plan has brought the
community together. "The little town of Crete," she said, "is learning that we
do have a say in our government."

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Janet Loehrke, USA TODAY (Map)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 9, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Bad for business and workers

BYLINE: Robin S. Conrad

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 420 words


On Wednesday, the Supreme Court heard arguments in Chamber of Commerce v.
Whiting, a constitutional challenge to the Legal Arizona Workers Act of 2007,
one of thousands of overlapping and conflicting state and local immigration laws
proposed in recent years. A strange bedfellows alliance of business
organizations, civil rights and immigrant rights groups, labor unions, current
and former congressmen and the Obama administration united to challenge the
Arizona law because it is bad for business, and bad for workers.

Former Arizona governor Janet Napolitano -- now the secretary of the Department
of Homeland Security -- called the Arizona law the "business death penalty"
because of the harsh penalties it imposes. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce opposes
knowingly hiring undocumented workers. However, the law's penalties are so
severe that they encourage employers to avoid hiring anyone who even appears to
be an immigrant. This is precisely what Congress intended to avoid when it
passed the Immigration Reform and Control Act in 1986, carefully balancing the
twin goals of preventing employment of undocumented workers and preventing
discrimination against job applicants.

The confusing patchwork of immigration laws also conflicts with Congress'
decision in the 1986 law to displace state and local laws, and instead to
establish a uniform, national framework for employment verification. Some
states, such as Arizona, require employers to use E-Verify -- a federal pilot
program for electronically verifying workers that Congress decided should be
voluntary, not mandatory. Other states modify the federal I-9 program, and some
states create entirely new verification systems totally independent from the
program Congress enacted to regulate employment.

Rather than solving the nation's immigration problems, this patchwork of state
immigration laws drowns employers in regulations and exposes job applicants to
increased risk of discrimination. Fortunately, the Constitution includes a
provision for resolving conflicts between state and federal law. Article VI of
the Constitution states, "The laws of the United States ... shall be the supreme
law of the land." To the extent that Arizona's statute and other state and local
laws frustrate Congress' objective of establishing a uniform framework, the
Constitution is clear: Federal law is the "supreme law of the land."

Robin S. Conrad is executive vice president of the National Chamber Litigation
Center, the public policy law firm of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             October 5, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Amtrak on board to fight trafficking;
Rail service joins effort by airlines

BYLINE: Yamiche Alcindor, @yamiche, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 418 words


Amtrak, in collaboration with federal agencies, plans to train 8,000 employees
nationwide about the dangers of human trafficking and the signs that go along
with the often hidden crime.

Using materials from the  Department of Homeland Security and the  Department of
Transportation, Amtrak workers in all of its service areas -- 46 states,
Washington, D.C., and Canada -- will learn how to identify trafficking victims
and how to report potential crimes, officials announced Thursday.

"We welcome partnerships that expand the reach of individuals who can help us to
identify potential human trafficking victims," Homeland Security Secretary Janet
Napolitano said. "Transportation workers, including Amtrak police, train
conductors and ticket counter staff and others come into contact with thousands
of people on a daily basis, making them well positioned to identify situations
that don't seem quite right."

Napolitano added that, once victims are identified, her agency can prosecute
traffickers and bring justice to thousands caught up in such enterprises. Last
year,  Immigration and Custom Enforcement initiated more than 700 human
trafficking investigations that led to about 900 arrests, 400 indictments and
270 convictions.

As part of the initiative, Amtrak managers will view online videos about
trafficking, and regular crew briefings will include talks about trafficking
victims, said its president and CEO, Joseph Boardman.

There is no indication Amtrak trains have been used for human trafficking, he
said, but that he sees the effort as a way to prevent the crime from making its
way onto trains.

"We don't want to ignore that there is a problem going on and not be helpful,"
Boardman said.

Airline employees already receive similar trafficking training through the Blue
Lightning Initiative launched in January, said Ray LaHood, secretary of
Transportation.

"We cannot let the American transportation system be an enabler to these
criminal acts," LaHood said. "Raising awareness can save lives. Anytime someone
travels by plane, train, bus or car, they have a responsibility to keep an eye
out for these activities. It can be as simple as a passenger alerting staff that
they see a child on a train that doesn't appear to know the people she is with
or an Amtrak employee calling in with a tip."

Boardman said he hopes to expand the program in the future.

"There is still much more work to do," Napolitano said. "Our fight against human
trafficking is one of the great human rights causes of our time."

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 30, 2009 Monday
                                 CHASE EDITION

Immigration cases piling up for years

BYLINE: Brad Heath

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 449 words


WASHINGTON -- The nation's immigration courts are now so clogged that nearly
90,000 people accused of being in the United States illegally waited at least
two years for a judge to decide whether they must leave, one of the last
bottlenecks in a push to more strictly enforce immigration laws.

Their cases -- identified by a USA TODAY review of the courts' dockets since
2003 -- are emblematic of delays in the little-known court system that lawyers
and lawmakers say is on the verge of being overwhelmed. Among them were 14,000
immigrants whose cases took more than five years to decide and a few that took
more than a decade.

"It's an indication that they just don't have enough resources," says Kerri
Sherlock Talbot of the American Immigration Lawyers Association.

Some immigration courts are now so backlogged that just putting a case on a
judge's calendar can take more than a year, says Dana Marks, an immigration
judge in San Francisco and president of the National Association of Immigration
Judges.

"You could have a case that would take an hour (to hear), but I can't give you
that hour of time for 14 months," Marks says. In extreme cases, immigrants can
remain locked up while their cases are delayed. More often, Marks says, delays
mean immigrants struggle to work and live in the country until they find out
whether they will be removed.

The immigration courts, run by the Justice Department, have weathered years of
criticism that their 224 judges are unable to handle a flood of increasingly
complicated cases. Justice Department spokeswoman Susan Eastwood acknowledges
some long delays but says that's often the result of unusual circumstances. She
says the department has enough judges.

USA TODAY reviewed immigration court cases completed between 2003 and mid-2008,
using a copy of the court system's docket obtained from the Justice Department's
Executive Office for Immigration Review. That listing included only cases that
have been resolved, making it impossible to determine how many more long-delayed
cases might be pending.

Five-year delays were most common in San Francisco, Los Angeles and New York,
but were far less common around busy border crossings such as San Diego and
Tucson, according to the dockets.

Federal law requires the courts to deal swiftly with some cases, including
requests for asylum and immigrants who are jailed while their cases are heard,
Eastwood says. The department has no guidelines for how quickly the courts
should handle other cases, she says.

Immigration lawyers say they are wary of attempts to simply move cases through
the system faster. "Do you want to be expedient or do you want to be just?" San
Francisco attorney Jacquelyn Newman says.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 24, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Businesses can help with English literacy

BYLINE: Marisa Trevioo

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 425 words


Every immigrant will have to learn to speak English. This is one point that is
sure to be included in any comprehensive immigration reform bill, and it  draws
immediate consensus from all sides. Yet non-speakers face many barriers to doing
so. This is a dilemma for immigrants who not only need to learn English to
fulfill whatever criteria Congress might mandate, but also for those who want to
speak English for work.

For one, English as a Second Language (ESL) classes aren't readily available.
Adult educators across the country report that some classes have long waiting
lists or the number of classes is shrinking because of cuts in state budgets.

Then there's the proficiency issue.  The U.S. Department of Education reported
that in 2006-07, only 39% of the 1.1 million people enrolled in
state-administered ESL programs  advanced to the next proficiency level. For
many, learning the language is sidetracked by a lack of time because of
employment and family responsibilities.

This is why businesses may offer the best solution, embracing a shared
responsibility between employer and employee. A case in Dallas brings this point
home.   TV station WFAA found that hundreds of low-level commercial aircraft
mechanics in Texas had the necessary skill set for the job, but they lacked  the
language skills to communicate with supervisors or to read repair manuals. The
report prompted Congress to demand that by March, the Federal Aviation
Administration require all mechanics to be proficient in English.

Though businesses benefit by employing English speakers for many reasons, a tax
break might be just the push reluctant employers need to support ESL classes.
Rep. Mike Honda, D-Calif., recently re-introduced legislation that would give
businesses tax breaks if they offer ESL classes. For a good model to follow,
the restaurant industry is credited with spearheading efforts to develop such
classes onsite.

McDonald's created a 22-week ESL course dubbed English under the Arches that
targets employees chosen for entry-level management positions. They  take three
hours of classes each week  along with one hour of virtual class online.  They
are allowed to take the classes while on the clock, too. The company has plans
to expand the successful program nationwide.

McDonald's has learned what many ESL programs already have confirmed: The will
to learn English is there. Smart companies will follow suit.   It's a
win-win-win situation for employer, employee -- and country.

Marisa Trevioo, who lives in Dallas, writes a blog, Latina Lista.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 8, 2009 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Et cetera;
Smart insights on the news of the day

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 340 words


Michael Gerson, column, The Washington Post: "In ethnic politics, symbolism
matters. And recent Republican signals to Hispanics have often been crudely
unwelcoming. ... Now hearings are beginning on another immigration reform bill,
with a legislative debate likely to ripen in 2010. For Democrats -- pledged to
comprehensive reform but weighing union opposition to a temporary-worker program
-- the immigration debate will be difficult. For Republicans, it may be an
invitation to political suicide.  ...  In considering illegal immigration, many
talk appropriately about the rule of law. But there is also the imago dei -- the
shared image of God -- that does not permit individual worth and dignity to be
sorted by national origin. This commitment does not translate simplistically
into open borders and amnesty. It does mean, however, that immigrants should not
be used as objects of organized anger or singled out for prejudice and harm. If
Republicans head down this dreary path, many could no longer follow."

Frederick W. Kagan, column, National Review: "The politicization of the analysis
of American generalship is one of the worst consequences of the partisan
excesses of the past several years. Whether it was Gen. David Petraeus in 2007
or Gen. Stanley McChrystal today, far too many commentators on both sides of the
aisle have become comfortable saying that commanders who offer recommendations
the critics don't like are doing so because they have become captive of some
ideology. Petraeus was charged with carrying water for the Bush administration's
supposed crusade to spread democracy throughout the world. Now McChrystal is
accused of committing the soldiers under his command to needless death and
maiming out of a misplaced sense of political correctness inspired by Barack
Obama. ... If McChrystal is advocating exposing his soldiers to greater danger
in some circumstances, it is because he believes two things: that doing so will
help ensure the success of the mission and that it will reduce casualties in the
long run."

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 16, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Groups try to delay deportations

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 872 words


Activists push for time to change laws, help students change status

Rigoberto Padilla, 21, came to the USA from Mexico when he was 6.

He went to school in Chicago, joined the honor society and dreamed of becoming a
lawyer -- all while living here illegally.

Padilla's status wasn't a problem until he applied for college and couldn't
qualify for financial aid without a Social Security number, he says.

In January, the University of Illinois-Chicago junior was charged with drunken
driving, bringing him to the attention of immigration officials and triggering
deportation proceedings. He pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor, paid a fine and got
court supervision. "It was one mistake in my life," he says.

Padilla's impending deportation, originally set for today, catapulted him into a
campaign to stop the deportation of college students and recent graduates.
Lawmakers, students, members of the clergy and other activists hope to buy the
students time and use their stories to push for laws that would allow them, and
perhaps millions of other illegal immigrants, to earn legal status, says Joshua
Hoyt of the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agreed last week to delay Padilla's
deportation for a year, making him one of at least seven young illegal
immigrants who have had their deportations delayed since June, according to
DreamActivist, one of the groups spearheading the campaign. Family ties and
community standing are among the factors ICE considers when asked to delay a
deportation, says ICE spokesman Richard Rocha.

"I want to graduate college and give back to this country," Padilla says.

His supporters flooded the Department of Homeland Security with thousands of
faxes and designed a Facebook page telling 2,800 members how to help. The
Chicago City Council passed a resolution in his behalf, and Rep. Jan Schakowsky,
D-Ill., introduced a bill specifically for him that would allow him to stay.
"Why would we deprive ourselves of outstanding students and future leaders?" she
asks. "They had no part in the decision to come here."

Efforts toward overhaul

There are 12 million illegal immigrants in the USA. Activists call for an
overhaul of immigration law that would offer them a way to earn legal status.
Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., introduced a bill Tuesday that would give illegal
immigrants who pay fines, pass background checks and meet other requirements a
path toward legal residency.

College students who are illegal immigrants also fall under a separate proposal
called the Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors Act -- the DREAM
Act. Requirements would include arrival in the USA at 15 or younger, a five-year
residency or longer, and at least two years of college or military service.
Versions of the act have been introduced since 2001 without success.

Each year, 65,000 illegal immigrants who have been here at least five years
graduate from high school, says Jeffrey Passel of the non-partisan Pew Hispanic
Center.

Deportation delays are rare, Rocha says; 400 were granted last year.

Ira Mehlman, spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which
advocates less immigration, calls the DREAM Act amnesty, or "rewarding people
who have broken the law with immigration benefits."

People in the country illegally "should be held responsible for the consequences
to their children," he says.

Flexibility in the law is important, says Mark Krikorian of the Center for
Immigration Studies, which also calls for reduced immigration. "But delaying
everybody's deportation because you hope the DREAM Act is going to happen does
not make sense."

Other cases

Padilla and others hope for passage:

*Herta Llusho, 20, of Detroit came to the USA from Albania on a tourist visa
when she was 11. Her mother applied for asylum, she says, but it was denied,
leaving them both with a deportation date of Aug. 19.

After supporters faxed more than 5,000 letters to ICE, she says, the University
of Detroit Mercy sophomore and her mother won two delays. Their deportation is
now set for Feb. 1. Llusho hopes for another delay or for a lawmaker to
introduce a bill on her behalf. "All we want is to work hard and keep at it and
give back to the country that we believe has given so much to us," she says.

*Alonso Chehade, 22, of Poulsbo, Wash., arrived from Peru with his family on a
tourist visa when he was 14. They stayed after it expired, he says. He was
detained at the Canadian border in March when he says he crossed into Canada
after going the wrong direction on the freeway.

Chehade, who received a bachelor's degree in business administration from the
University of Washington this year, faced deportation on Sept. 25. He created a
website and Facebook page to gather support. Rep. Jim McDermott, D-Wash.,
introduced a bill on his behalf. His deportation was pushed to Jan. 5. Chehade
hopes for another delay or a special bill. "My life is here, my family is here,
my friends are here," he says.

In Chicago, Padilla, who came to the USA illegally with family, is trying to
figure out how to pay for his next semester of college and competing with his
sister for a title: He says, "I want to be the first one in my family to
graduate from college."

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: Immigration and Customs
Enforcement (Line graph)
PHOTOS, B/W, Photos by Brett T. Roseman for USA TODAY (2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 15, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Special status would prevent deportations

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 409 words


Lawmakers and immigration groups are calling on the Obama administration to
grant Haitians in the USA, including those here illegally, a special temporary
legal status that would protect them from deportation and allow them to take
jobs.

That would be a step beyond what the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has
announced: a halt in deportations "for the time being." About 30,000 Haitians
now in the USA had been ordered deported.

The DHS can grant Temporary Protected Status (TPS) to people from countries
experiencing civil war, natural disaster or some other catastrophe.

Immigrants from El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, Somalia and Sudan have the
status.

"There is no way to safely return Haitian citizens to their country," Sen.
Kirsten Gillibrand, D-N.Y., wrote to President Obama on Wednesday after the
Tuesday earthquake.

The temporary status "is in the range of considerations," DHS spokesman Matt
Chandler said.

Temporary Protected Status is granted for a specific period, such as 18 months,
but it can be extended. Honduras' and Nicaragua's designations date to 1999
after Hurricane Mitch.

Shannon LaGuerre, a New York immigration attorney whose parents are Haitian,
said TPS would allow Haitians here to get jobs and send money home. "People
there can purchase things and get back on their feet," she said.

The Federation for American Immigration Reform, which advocates less
immigration, backs TPS for Haitians if it has an end date, President Dan Stein
said. He added that the status should be terminated for countries where the
crises have passed.

"In some cases, such as TPS for citizens of El Salvador, the triggering event
occurred nearly a decade ago," he said, referring to earthquakes in 2001.

LaGuerre said several of her clients, including Marie Christina Joseph, 29,
would benefit.

Joseph came to the USA by boat from Haiti in 2000. She could be deported, but
LaGuerre plans to make the case that her marriage to a U.S. citizen makes her
eligible for legal permanent residency.

Meanwhile, the mother of three children who are U.S. citizens hopes for TPS so
she can work and help pay the $1,200 rent on the family's apartment in Brooklyn.
Joseph also wants to send money to family in Haiti, including an 11-year-old
daughter, two brothers and her father. She hasn't been able to reach them since
the quake.

"I'm going to try to send clothing and blankets. Anything I can do, I would like
to do," she said. "This country needs help now."

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Logan Abassi, United Nations, via AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 22, 2010 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Silicon Valley loses foreign talent;
Some execs leave for better opportunities at home

BYLINE: Jon Swartz

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 424 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- Silicon Valley may be the cradle for tech start-ups, but some
foreign-born executives, engineers and scientists are leaving because of better
opportunities back home, strict immigration laws here and the dreary California
economy with its high cost of living.

Software engineer Vinod Kumar is staying with EMC but moving to his homeland of
India after a decade in the Valley. Eric Diep hasn't given up entirely on the
Valley. But most employees at his social-gaming start-up, A Thinking Ape, are in
another office in his native Canada.

The 2-year-old company is shifting people  to Vancouver, where it says
engineering talent is more affordable, the government is more supportive and
work visas are less hassle.

The talent-exodus problems don't end there. Fewer foreign students are coming to
the Valley to earn engineering and science degrees,  according to the Silicon
Valley Index, which takes the economic pulse of the Valley each year.

Foreign-born students earned 16.6% of the total degrees awarded in science and
engineering programs from local colleges and universities in 2007, compared with
18.4% in 2003, the study says.

"We're in the midst of a massive brain drain," says Vivek Wadhwa, a senior
research associate at Harvard Law School who has done extensive research on the
topic. "For the first time, immigrants have better opportunities outside the
U.S." Often, a lack of work visas blocks foreign talent from staying.  Only
120,000 to 140,000 temporary work visas are available each year in the U.S.

Iranian S. Mohammad M. Ahmadabadi wanted to start his Web-to-print company,
HotPrints, in Silicon Valley. He couldn't get a work visa, so instead set it up
in England. He hopes to resolve the visa issue and set up an office in Silicon
Valley.

"It makes no sense (that) we put up barriers to talented people," says Brad
Feld, a tech venture capitalist and co-founder of Startup Visa Project, a
grass-roots initiative.

Feld's organization has helped shape the StartUp Visa Act of 2010, introduced
last month by Sens. John Kerry, D-Mass., and Richard Lugar, R-Ind. It would
grant immigrant entrepreneurs a two-year visa if they have the support of a
qualified U.S. investor for their start-up venture.

And chipmaker Intel and two dozen venture-capital companies will invest $3.5
billion in U.S. tech companies over the next two years to create jobs. Awash in
established money and ideas, Silicon Valley continues to lure start-ups: More
than 15,000 firms were created here in 2007-08, despite the beginning of the
recession.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Karl Gelles, USA TODAY, Source: National Center for
Educational Statistics (Bar graph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 25, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Ariz. law adds a Census hurdle;
In border state where a third of residents are Hispanic, fear percolates

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 891 words


RIO RICO, Ariz. -- About 70 parents usually attend monthly parent-teacher
meetings here at the Pena Blanca Elementary School. In April, at the last
meeting of this school year, only 20 showed up.

"There is a little fear," says Sandra Figueroa, principal of this Santa Cruz
County school 12 miles from the Mexican border.

Fear, mistrust, anger. The immigration law approved by the Arizona Legislature
last month requires police to determine a person's immigration status if they're
stopped, detained or arrested and there is "reasonable suspicion" they're here
illegally. It has sparked legal challenges and strong emotions on both sides of
the immigration debate.

Whatever its future, the law could not have come at a worse time for the 2010
Census.

The once-a-decade government count of every person in the USA began in March
with a giant mailing. Seventy-two percent of U.S. households responded by mail
-- 67% in Arizona and 64% in Santa Cruz County. On May 1 -- eight days after the
immigration law was signed into law -- 635,000 Census workers nationwide started
going door-to-door to every home that did not send back the forms. They will
return up to six times until they get answers to the form's 10 questions.

In Arizona, many civic groups fear the new law will discourage cooperation.

"I've talked to friends and people in the community, and they're saying --
whatever they think of the law, wherever they stand on the issue: 'I'm not going
to open the door to anyone right now,' " says Tucson City Council member Regina
Romero, who represents largely Hispanic neighborhoods.

"People are scared. They're frightened," says Laura Cummings, a Census employee
who works with local groups to build community support.

Census organizers have redoubled outreach efforts, doing more presentations to
community groups, adult education classes and churches and public service
announcements.

Isabel Garcia, a lawyer and co-chair of Coalicion de Derechos Humanos (Human
Rights Coalition) in Tucson, has taken to the airwaves, even filling out her
Census form on the radio to talk listeners through the process.

"Our communities are living in a very heightened state of anxiety," she says,
citing low turnout at this year's Cinco de Mayo festival, a celebration of the
Mexican army's victory over the French at the Battle of Puebla in 1862.

Many don't realize that the law won't take effect until July, when Census
workers will be done knocking on doors, Cummings says. "We're telling people
what the process is, that confidentiality still holds, that Census workers are
not police officers and are not looking to report anybody."

Outreach to kids

A week before the school year ends, local officials are making a last-ditch
effort to tout participation in the Census through schoolchildren who can carry
the message home to their parents.

As students gather for morning assembly on the Pena Blanca school's outdoor
plaza, many sporting colorful hats and hair in honor of Spirit Week, the Pledge
of Allegiance and birthday greetings are followed by speeches stressing the
importance of cooperating with Census workers.

"How many of you saw your parents fill it out and mail it?" shouts County
Supervisor Rudy Molera, a Democrat. "It's really important that it counts
everybody ... little people like yourselves." Figueroa tells them the school
will get the balls and jump-ropes it so desperately needs because of the Census.

The Constitution requires a population count every 10 years. The data are used
to assign seats in the House of Representatives to every state. Arizona, which
has eight, stands to gain one after this year's Census. The count  also serves
as the basis for the annual distribution of billions of dollars in federal aid.

A complete count can bolster a community's political clout and send more money
its way.

Sending Census workers knocking on doors in this climate in a border state where
2 million -- or more than a third of the population -- are Hispanic can be
daunting.

When the law was passed, "I was sitting here going, 'Oh, great. What's going to
happen?' " says Paul Fimbres, manager of the Tucson  office that oversees many
counties along the border.

He has a contingency plan for areas tough to penetrate: "In case that happens,
we blitz," Fimbres says. "We send 15 or 20 people or teams of two or maybe
three."

An economic hit

Sales at the Walmart Supercenter store in the border town of Nogales, about 60
miles south of Tucson, are among the highest in the company -- except lately.

The parking lot is less crowded these days because shoppers on both sides of the
border are staying away, says Olivia Ainza-Kramer, president and CEO of the
Nogales-Santa Cruz County Chamber of Commerce. Weekend boycotts have brought
business to a standstill.

"Undocumented people in the county are fearful," says Mary Dahl, director of
community development for the county and head of its Census committee. "The
timing of everything seems to be bad for the Census."

Life-long Nogales residents Cathy Garino, 48, and Elvia "Yolie" Carrillo, 50,
knock on doors to collect Census data. So far, so good, they say. Carrillo has
encountered homes where up to 12 people live.

"Some people will hold back because of the language barrier," Garino says.
"Another one told me it's your job to come to the door. ... What has helped in
my case is that everyone knows me."

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Alejandro Gonzalez, USA TODAY (Map)
PHOTO, B/W, Photos by David M. Sanders for USA TODAY (2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 10, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigrant processing fees may increase

BYLINE: Alan Gomez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 461 words


The Obama administration is requesting rate increases on most immigration
applications, three years after the last round of hikes.

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services on Wednesday proposed a new set of
prices, citing efforts to close a $200 million revenue shortfall.

The price to apply for a green card -- given to foreigners to live and work in
the U.S. permanently -- would go from $930 to $985. The cost to replace a lost
green card would go from $290 to $365. And an application to become a temporary
resident would rise $420 to $1,130.

The application to become a U.S. citizen will remain unchanged at $595.

"The act of requesting and obtaining U.S. citizenship deserves special
consideration given the unique nature of this benefit," said Ali Mayorkas,
director of Citizenship and Immigration Services, which is part of the Homeland
Security Administration.

The 2007 rate increases prompted an initial flood of applications before the new
fees went into effect. A combination of higher fees and a bad economy resulted
in a sharp drop in applications in the past two years.

In 2007, the government received more than 5.7 million immigration-related
applications, compared with 4.9 million in 2009. That drop led some to question
why the agency needs to raise rates when its workload has diminished.

"I don't think anybody would object to fee increases if the service has
improved," said Victor Cerda, an immigration attorney. "But it's not unusual
that you have cases that get lost, you have to make tons of calls to find out
who knows what. (The fee increase) is just another kick in the gut."

Mayorkas said the agency has cut $160 million from its budget while improving
processing times for applications.

Jack Martin, a spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
which advocates less immigration, doesn't understand why the cost of applying
for U.S. citizenship remained unchanged yet other fees rose.

"Why should people who are applying for other immigration services be expected
to subsidize the naturalization process?" Martin said.

The increases come as Congress has put off immigration legislation and an
Arizona law that makes it a state crime to be in the country illegally goes into
effect July 29.

The timing makes Clarissa Martinez wonder what message the fee increases sends
to immigrants trying to take a legal path into the country.

"It begs the question of Congress: If we want these people to take these steps,
we have to make sure that we're not pricing them out of their reach," said
Martinez, director of immigration and national campaigns for the National
Council of La Raza, a Hispanic civil rights group.

The rules will be published today in the Federal Register and undergo a 45-day
public comment period before being enacted.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 16, 2010 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

God and immigration reform;
People of faith should unite to support a fair and compassionate piece of
legislation that solves this crisis, once and for all.

BYLINE: Richard Land

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 1008 words


The immigration crisis  is tearing the social fabric of our nation in ways that
are far easier to rend than they are to mend. The furor roused across the
country by the passage of the Arizona law  is symptomatic of the passions raised
and the mistrust sown by an immigration crisis that has reached "critical mass".

People of faith should join to work for fair, just, comprehensive federal
immigration reform that embodies the principles enunciated in the National
Association of Evangelical's 2009 resolution, which proclaimed that any
immigration reform legislation must:

*Respect the God-given dignity of every person

*Protect the unity of the immediate family

*Respect the rule of law

*Guarantee secure national borders

*Ensure fairness to taxpayers

*Establish a path toward legal status and/or citizenship for those who qualify
and wish to become permanent residents.

Referencing the Bible

What would the contours and outline of comprehensive immigration legislation
based on these biblical principles look like? The Bible tells us God has
ordained the civil powers (the government) to punish lawbreakers and to reward
those who obey the law (Romans 13:1-7).  Unfortunately, the U.S. government has
not respected its own immigration laws enough to enforce them consistently  for
more than two decades (since President Reagan's amnesty of illegal aliens in
1986).  The government has not controlled the borders. The reality has been that
too often, those who desire to enter our country illegally have encountered two
apparently contradictory signs at our border: one saying "No Trespassing" and
the other saying "Help Wanted."

Any immigration reform that will generate sufficient public support to pass
Congress must begin with securing the border first, then deal in a constructive
and compassionate way with the 12 million undocumented workers already in the
United States.

The failure of the 2006  effort shows reform must be done sequentially, not
simultaneously. The people do not trust the government to commit the resources
necessary to secure the border. The government will have to demonstrate its
commitment by securing the border first.

Once agreed upon metrics for a secure border have been met, a plan can and
should be implemented to bring the 12 million undocumented workers out of the
shadows where they are too often exploited and preyed upon by unscrupulous
employers and other societal predators.

After all, as people of faith, we are called upon to love our neighbors as
ourselves (Matthew 22:39) and do unto others as we would have them do unto us
(Matthew 7:12).  We are instructed as Christians to meet the needs of those who
are suffering (Matthew 25:31-36 ) and to give a cup of cold water in Jesus' name
(Matthew 10:42). The story of the Good Samaritan informs our spiritual
obligation to reach out to those in need of assistance (Luke 10:30-37)  and to
treat the weak and vulnerable with kindness (Micah 6:8; Malachi 3:5-6 ).

Once the borders are secure, we should have a grace period where undocumented
workers can come forward, register, pay fines and back taxes, undergo a criminal
background check, agree to learn to read, write and speak English, and go to the
back of the line behind those who have, and are, trying to enter our country
legally. Those who do not choose to accept this generous offer should be
deported immediately.

This is not amnesty. Amnesty is a pardon, a "free ride," where government
forgives your transgressions and pardons it with no obligations or penalties.
This proposal would allow undocumented workers to come forward, obtain a
probationary state and begin to earn their way to full legal status.

No one is saying that they haven't broken the law and they should not be
punished for doing so. The only question is what is to be the nature of the
punishment -- deportation (which means uprooting huge numbers of people and
tearing families apart) or the penalties outlined above.

As I testified before Congress in mid-July,  Rep. Steve King, R-Iowa, implied
that it is immoral to not enforce the law.

I replied that it is, and it is also immoral for the government to ignore its
own laws for more than two decades and then one day the government says, "Now we
are going to enforce the law retroactively."

What if the federal government sent a letter to every American saying, "We have
been monitoring your driving on the interstates by satellite and we have noted
every time you exceeded the speed limit for the past 24 years, and we are now
going to send you a speeding ticket retroactively for every incidence?"  Most
Americans would reject this as arbitrary and unfair.

Is this not what is being proposed by the hard-liners on immigration reform?
"You broke the law, you must now leave."

The U.S. government and the American people have to accept some measure of
responsibility for the undocumented workers being able to remain in the USA,
work, marry and start families. Some have been here 20 years or more. The 12
million undocumented workers are a testament to our federal government's
disrespect for its own immigration laws under both Democrat and Republican
administrations.

Earning their way

The fair and compassionate thing to do is to give them an opportunity to make
restitution for having broken the laws we haven't been enforcing with any
consistency and give them a pathway to "earn" legal status.

We are a nation of immigrants -- whether our ancestors came early or late. As
Americans, we should always have room in our country for those who are willing
to embrace the American dream and the ideals that both inspired that dream and
define it. The time to forge a fair, just and compassionate consensus on this
issue is now.

It has often been said that politicians think about the next election, while
statesmen think about the next generation.

It is time for the nation to insist that our elected representatives behave like
statesmen and not politicians on this critical issue.

Richard Land is president of the Ethics and Religious Liberty Commission for the
Southern Baptist Convention.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Keith Simmons, USA TODAY (Illustration)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           August 25, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

In Arizona, a divide narrows;
Mexican Americans and Mexicans are often on opposite sides of the issues. But in
crafting this immigration law, Republicans have pushed these Latinos into the
same camp.

BYLINE: Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 940 words


PHOENIX -- About 10 years ago, I was part of a delegation of Mexican Americans
that visited Mexico City. At one point, we visited a junior high school where
many of us were surprised to learn that eighth-graders didn't know there was
such a thing as Mexicans born in the United States. The Mexican government --
perhaps still carrying a grudge over the outcome of the U.S.-Mexican war in 1848
-- saw no need to have schools teach students about their distant relatives to
the north.

We explained to the students how several generations of Mexican Americans were
born and raised in the U.S., and how many of us have not forgotten our roots or
our extended family to the south. Then a girl raised her hand and asked a
heart-wrenching question: "In that case," she said, "why did you take you so
long to come back?"

Such is the complicated relationship between Mexicans and Mexican Americans, one
that has been woven into the tapestry of the Southwest for more than 150 years.
The stitching is on display in Arizona now that local and state law enforcement
officers have begun implementing portions of the state's controversial
immigration law.

For Mexican immigrants in Arizona, the struggle is to keep one's spirits high in
what is a lonely and scary time. For Mexican Americans, the struggle is to
empathize and get worked up about a law that, arguably, doesn't impact them.

Bridging a divide

The truth is, there aren't enough therapists in either country to allow Mexican
Americans to unpack all the issues they have with Mexican immigrants and vice
versa. Yet Republicans seemingly have done the impossible: They've driven
Mexican Americans and Mexicans together into a common cause. By overreaching
with Arizona's controversial immigration law, Republicans are losing voters who
might normally have been on their side.

You see, many Mexican Americans -- like other Americans -- actually support the
idea of increasing border security. They are not philosophically opposed to
deporting illegal immigrants. But Republicans stepped over the line when they
pushed for allowing local police to engage in racial and ethnic profiling as a
way of ridding the state of illegal immigrants. Suddenly, Mexican Americans are
concerned that such laws could impact them, too.

Census estimates show that  as many as 46 million  Latinos were living in the
USA in 2008. Two-thirds of this population is either Mexican or Mexican
American.  And interestingly, these two groups have long been not just on
opposite sides of the border -- but also on opposing sides of issues.

The old saying goes that Mexican Americans are seen as Mexican -- everywhere but
in Mexico. Mexicans often refer to their distant relatives to the north as
pochos, an Americanized and watered-down version of the original.  In turn,
Mexican Americans will sometimes use even more offensive words, including ethnic
slurs, to describe Mexicans.

Yet, the main problem in this relationship is a sense of detachment. Mexicans
and Mexican Americans have been conditioned to not see each other's problems as
their own.

"There is normally a huge divide between second- and third-generation Latinos
and those recently arrived in this country," says Alfredo Gutierrez, a former
majority leader of the Arizona Senate and an outspoken critic of the new law.
"But what has happened, as a result of this law, is a collapse of the divide."

That's what I'm seeing here in Phoenix. The Arizona law is so egregious that it
has allowed Mexicans and Mexican Americans to experience something that,
frankly, they're not used to: unity. According to polls, the vast majority of
Latinos in the state -- both citizens and immigrants -- oppose the law.

A recent Rocky Mountain Poll found that 69% of Latinos oppose the measure, while
65% of whites support it.  Other surveys are consistent with those findings,
showing that 65%-70% of Latinos in the state oppose the measure.  So, many
Mexican Americans are choosing sides, and -- whether it's for their own
self-interest or in defense of a larger principle -- they're siding with Mexican
immigrants.

To be fair,  a minority of Latinos in Arizona supports the law. According to a
recent poll by Latino Decisions, they include 18%  of second-generation Latino
voters. In the fourth generation, the figure is 33%.  The longer people's family
has been in the U.S., the more likely they are to support the new law. Older
Latinos are more likely to support the law than younger ones.

Behind the resentment

When you talk to Mexican Americans who support the law, one thing that comes
through loud and clear is resentment that the Mexican immigrants of today are
more defiant, more loyal to Mexico, and act more entitled than their
predecessors of a century ago.

I understand. As someone whose grandfather came from Mexico legally in the early
1900s, I feel much the same way. I just don't think the Arizona immigration law
is a cure as much as a recipe for more problems. Offering a temporary solution,
U.S. District Court Judge Susan Bolton struck down some provisions of the law
but let stand others. The Arizona Compromise seems to have made everyone in the
state angry.

Take a number. Demographics being what they are, to the degree that Arizona's
immigration law has enraged Mexican Americans -- who can vote -- in defense of
undocumented Mexican immigrants -- who can't -- those elected officials who are
pushing the law for political gain (all of them Republicans) will likely come to
regret it for many years to come.

Ruben Navarrette Jr. is a syndicated columnist with the Washington Post Writers
Group, a CNN.com contributor and a commentator for National Public Radio.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Web Bryant, USA TODAY (Illustration)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 1, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigrants vent feelings;
Readers express frustrations, stress need to follow law

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 859 words


I immigrated to the United States from England in 1964 and had to negotiate a
new system that the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service had imposed  in
order to ensure a balanced ethnic mix and avoid any one having a "favored nation
status," which had previously existed.

After seven years, I qualified to become a U.S. citizen, proving that I could
speak English and that I had an understanding of the U.S. Constitution and
government process.

The current tolerance for illegal immigrants from mostly Hispanic countries,
and the proposal to make millions of them legal through some form  of amnesty,
would create a "favored nation status" that the immigration law was meant to
avoid.

It seems to me that if amnesty is granted to millions of Hispanics, then the
quotas for other countries should be adjusted upward in order to maintain the
desired ethnic mix.

Derek Fell

Pipersville, Pa.

Don't degrade citizenship

I entered the USA as a legal Cuban refugee with my parents July 4, 1969. Like
many others, we had to wait seven years in order to enter legally. My mother's
greatest moment came at age 75, when she recited the Pledge of Allegiance before
a judge in English. I was able to teach her the U.S. system of government, so
that both of us passed citizenship tests.

Citizenship is a precious privilege to be earned, not something to be stolen by
illegal entry into this country. Legitimizing illegal  immigrants is an insult
to millions who have entered this great land legally and studied to learn its
language and its customs. It also degrades the value of the precious right of
citizenship.

Regarding the 4 million  U.S. citizens who have been born in this country to
illegal immigrant parents,  perhaps an amendment to the Constitution is needed
for future births. The people already born could have dual citizenship until 18.
Then they  could decide whether they are ready to assume the responsibilities of
becoming a citizen of the United States.

Maria Carlota Waltherr-Willard

Greenhills, Ohio

Unintended consequence

I am a second-generation Mexican American. My parents came to the United States
as a result of the 1910 Revolution in Mexico.  They came with their families and
experienced many hardships, even living for a time in cold boxcars. They worked
hard, paying taxes, buying homes and adding to the economy.

I feel fortunate to have kept my Spanish language. I am  a bilingual teacher and
earned a master's degree in education. I work  with Spanish-speaking families in
southwest Detroit.  The children I've taught have become teachers, police
officers, engineers, lawyers and more.

Now, with the emphasis on deporting the undocumented,  some families in the
neighborhood are being torn apart. The homes, on which they were paying
mortgages, have been abandoned, the banks are left with foreclosures and the
economy is made worse by the lack of  people. How is that making this nation
better?

Theresa Rodriguez

Brownstown, Mich.

Follow the process

My family's immigration started with sacrifice and an opportunity. My father was
going to join the Philippine air force.  However, the U.S. Navy recruited him to
aid in  the Vietnam War and offered him a path to obtain U.S. citizenship, which
was perceived as a way to escape the poverty in the Philippines.  He started out
as a Navy cook but eventually retired as a career Navy man.

His sacrifice was the catalyst for my family. He brought over my mother and
sister, who eventually were naturalized. Then my father brought his sister and
husband, and then my mother brought her sister and her husband.  Other relatives
followed. All became naturalized U.S. citizens.

I get  angry  about illegal immigration. There is a process. I'm tired of the
"victim mentality" of illegal immigrants and have little tolerance for cheats.
Others can argue ignorance, but if an illegal immigrant has been in the U.S. for
years, there is definitely an intent to cheat the system.

Rancisco Ballesteros

Oxnard, Calif.

Citizenship, after 9 years

I came to America in 2002 from war-torn Kosovo as a high school exchange student
to pursue an education and live without the fear of political persecution. I
went on to college and then graduate school on a combination of grants,
scholarships, loans and hard-earned money.

The optimal way to obtain and keep  legal status is to obey the laws
unconditionally, take up any dirty jobs and work hard, and study even on Friday
nights when other students are partying. On days off from school, I often
cleaned yards, garages and tennis courts. While some might find that work
demeaning, I am proud I earned the money honestly.

Most important, one must resist temptations to take shortcuts. I am on track to
receive my citizenship next year. It will have taken nine years. The immigration
journey challenges one's character, values and patience.

I have also experienced anti-immigrant comments. For example, a man recently
told me, "Lose your accent or at least try to practice." Other immigrants may
have been subject to more hateful comments, but one thing is for sure: I can not
lose my accent because most Americans love it. Just ask my American  fiancee.

Luan Mazreku

Galena, Mo.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Family photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 27, 2010 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Kennedy legacy includes immigration overhaul

BYLINE: Doris Meissner

SECTION: XTR; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 823 words


John F. Kennedy's devotion to attacking bigotry and prejudice did not stop at
the water's edge. While JFK's civil rights legacy is widely recognized, less
attention has been paid to his record championing reforms that ended an era of
deeply discriminatory immigration laws. At long last, through his leadership,
America became open to immigrants from all parts of the world.

The immigration policy injustices that President Kennedy tackled were embedded
in the national origins quota system that dated to the aftermath of World War I.
Nationality quotas ended immigration practices that had been largely open (with
the notable exception of the starkly racist Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882) since
the English arrived in 1607. That changed in the 1920s, when Congress passed
emergency, and then permanent, immigration restrictions, limiting levels to
about 150,000 per year according to a formula for quotas based on the national
origins of the U.S. population reported in the 1920 Census.

The quotas favored northern and western Europeans and all but shut down entries
from southern and eastern Europe and other continents. Immigration levels
plummeted. A manifestation of postwar isolationism, the national origins system
was further strengthened by a Congress in the grip of McCarthyism in 1952.

President Kennedy's commitment to change this system sprang from his life
experiences. As a senator, he had actively supported President Truman's efforts
in the 1950s to eliminate nationality quotas. He sponsored numerous bills to
admit refugee populations who could not be accommodated by the nation's
immigration law, from among hundreds of thousands displaced by the massive
disruptions of World War II and the onset of the Cold War.

President Kennedy's personal history also heavily influenced his views. His
grandfather, John F. Fitzgerald, fought legislation while serving in Congress
that would have discriminated against Jews, Italians and others. And the future
president grew up in an Irish-American household and milieu in Boston.

In his classic 1958 essay, "A Nation of Immigrants," then-Sen. Kennedy wrote
that the Irish were "the first to endure the scorn and discrimination later to
be inflicted, to some degree at least, on each successive wave of immigrants by
already settled 'Americans.' "

More generally, the essay celebrated America's history of immigration as having
"infused the nation with a commitment to far horizons and new frontiers, and
thereby kept the pioneer spirit of American life, the spirit of equality and of
hope, always alive and strong."

He argued that as an instrument of foreign policy, just laws represent "the way
America looks at the world and ... at itself."

Just four months before his assassination, JFK asked Congress to abolish the
national origins system and enact a law that "reflects in every detail the
principles of equality and human dignity to which our nation subscribes." His
brother Edward, then a newly elected senator, steered the legislation to passage
two years later, calling on Congress to honor his brother's commitment to a
fairer immigration system.

The Immigration Act of 1965 eliminated national origin, race or ancestry as a
basis for immigration. It retained numerical limits but permitted immigration
from all over the world through a system of visas granted according to a
preference system for close relatives of U.S. citizens and permanent residents,
and those with desired occupational skills, abilities or training. Its purposes
were to promote family reunification and economic strength without harming
American workers.

In its fundamentals, the system created by the 1965 act still stands as the
framework for legal immigration to the U.S. today. The staying power of
President Kennedy's immigration vision has changed the face of America forever.

In his time, more than two-thirds of quota immigration came from England,
Ireland and Germany. Today, less than 10% of legal immigrants come from Europe,
whereas almost 80% come from countries in the Western Hemisphere and Asia. Until
the 1960s, German and Italian immigrants represented the predominant
nationalities.

Today, the leading origin countries for legal immigration are Mexico, China, the
Philippines, India and the Dominican Republic. The U.S. population is now more
diverse than ever -- some call us the first universal nation.

At the same time, the nation's immigration system has become broken in the face
of new realities that President Kennedy could not have foreseen. Fifty years ago
he called the secret of America "a nation of people with the fresh memory of old
traditions who dared to explore new frontiers." He would surely today lead the
fight for an immigration policy that again builds a newer, better future.

Doris Meissner, former commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, is a senior fellow at the Migration Policy Institute. She is vice chair
of the board of directors of CARE-USA.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Tony Gutierrez, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: APPRECIATIONS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 11, 2010 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigrant advocates get local;
Groups give legal advice, monitor police raids

BYLINE: Alan Gomez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 766 words


As the prospect of Congress passing an overhaul of immigration law wanes,
immigration advocacy groups are shifting their sights from the U.S. Capitol and
focusing on their local communities.

They are forming neighborhood committees to help legal and illegal immigrants
navigate deportation proceedings and learn English. They lobby local police and
government officials to resist harsh enforcement and warn neighbors of
immigration raids.

"The new front of progress is definitely at the local level," says Stephen
Fotopulos, executive director of the Tennessee Immigrant and Refugee Rights
Coalition.

Francisco Pacheco, East Coast coordinator for the National Day Laborer
Organizing Network, says the local efforts are a way to maintain the cohesion
seen during marches against Arizona's immigration law this year and larger
protests in 2006.

"The problem was that thousands of people would go to the events, and when it
was finished, people would say 'What do we do now?' and they would go home,"
Pacheco says.

Bob Dane, a spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which
advocates lower levels of immigration, says people who support tighter
immigration controls have also gone local as Congress avoids immigration
legislation.

In the first half of the year, 44 states passed 191 immigration laws that
included restrictions to public benefits for illegal immigrants, penalties for
businesses that hired them and sanctions against human trafficking, according to
the National Conference of State Legislatures. Dane says a large number of
municipalities have followed suit.

"The open-borders groups are now beginning to see that the battle has shifted
from (Washington, D.C.) to localities," Dane says.

Local actions:

*The Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights created 21 family
support networks this spring to set up a safety net for immigrant families whose
relatives get deported, leaving spouses and children behind. Executive director
Joshua Hoyt says the group is still pushing for immigration legislation
introduced by Sen. Robert Menendez, D-N.J., but realized communities should be
the focus in the meantime.

"We said, 'We have to figure out a way to organize ourselves to provide support
at the same time we challenge the policies,' " Hoyt says.

*In Washington, OneAmerica, a statewide civil rights groups, has established
nine community groups. Executive director Pramila Jayapal says they have begun
regular discussions with local politicians and police agencies to ensure that
the plight of immigrants is understood.

*In Arizona, about 15 "neighborhood defense committees" were created in recent
months, and organizers are getting requests to open more around Phoenix.

Arizona lawmakers passed a law that would have required police officers to
determine the immigration status of suspects stopped for another offense if
there was "reasonable suspicion" they were in the country illegally. It was
blocked by a federal judge in July; Republican Gov. Jan Brewer has appealed.

Opal Tometi, whose Puente Arizona organization helped create the committees,
says they serve several functions: They train illegal immigrants to know their
rights when they are stopped by police. They work with lawyers to navigate
deportation proceedings. They offer English classes and arrange for doctors to
treat people nervous about going to hospitals.

They send out video teams to monitor for civil rights violations when police or
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents perform immigration raids.

Roy Beck, executive director of NumbersUSA, which advocates lower levels of
immigration, says he is troubled by illegal immigrants monitoring police to
alert neighbors of their operations.

"That really crosses into a whole different type of political activity," Beck
says. "It's very counterproductive to the cause of these immigrant groups,
because it'll cause them to seem more foreign and less American."

Alma Mendoza, a single mother of three in Sunnyslope, Ariz., a suburb of
Phoenix, says her neighbors were suspicious when she first approached them about
joining the committees. Mendoza, who directs the Sunnyslope committee, says
illegal immigrants try to keep a low profile in Arizona, and even legal
residents are cautious to protect friends or relatives who are illegal
immigrants.

"At first, people didn't trust us. They said people wouldn't respond, that it
was too hard to organize this group of people," says Mendoza, 37, a Mexico
native who is now a legal U.S. resident. "Now in each meeting, we have forty,
fifty people. They're thanking us for worrying about the community."

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Michael Schennum, The Arizona Republic
PHOTO, B/W, Bill Kostroun, AP
PHOTO, B/W, Ross D. Franklin, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NATION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 20, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

In politics, one size doesn't fit all;
Do New Yorkers understand Texans? Does California look like a foreign country to
folks in Georgia? Our regional diversity leads to national clashes.

BYLINE: Ross K. Baker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 914 words


Back in April, when Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer signed the measure enabling law
enforcement officers in the state to ask criminal suspects to produce
documentation of their immigration status,  I immediately recalled those World
War II movies when refugees from Germany cowering in a train compartment are
confronted by Nazi officers who bark at them, "Papiere bitte" (papers, please).
But when I thought a bit more about it, I got to wondering about how I would
look on the law if I were a resident of Arizona or Texas and on the front line
of illegal immigration. It's very easy to judge people from a distance, yet that
very inability to put yourself in the other person's situation has contributed
to making the American political terrain so toxic.

When a Big Mac or a Starbucks cappuccino in New York tastes the same as its
counterpart in Texas, it's easy to conclude that regional differences have been
smoothed out by the leveling hand of American commercialism. Accordingly, it's
hard for many people to recognize that Minnesota and Louisiana are very
different places. This reality was not easy for people to accept when, for
example, after the first OPEC oil embargo in 1973, the nation faced the
likelihood that gasoline might have to be allocated state by state.  People in
the Northeast grumbled at the prospect that Westerners could get larger
allocations because of the greater distances between points. So while we prize
empathy in personal relationships, we seem reluctant to bring it into the public
square with us.

This disconnect is reinforced by the long-observed practice of Americans to sort
themselves out. People gravitate to, or hunker down, in places where there are
lots of others just like them. A fellow political scientist, professor Bruce
Oppenheimer at Vanderbilt University,  claims a high rate of success in guessing
the political allegiance of college seniors by asking them where they are headed
after graduation.

San Francisco vs. Houston

The people who say their destination is San Francisco are invariably Democrats;
those who are packing for Houston are probably Republicans. So while the
red-blue divide is not nearly so neat as some people believe, neither is
President Obama's hopeful image of the country as an undifferentiated purple.

The problem for American politics is not the clusters themselves, but the
tendency of people to assume that their own gripes and preferences are shared by
all -- and a too great tendency to question the motives and integrity of those
with whom we disagree without inquiring as to why they disagree and whether that
contrary opinion might have some merit.

A person who is deeply concerned about what he fears is a metastatic federal
government and a loss of personal freedom as a result of the individual mandate
to purchase health insurance  is certainly entitled to climb on the Tea Party
bandwagon. Opposition to an excessively strong central government is as old as
the Republic. But it would be ungenerous of that person to deny that the number
of uninsured Americans has grown and that people who are neither illegal
immigrants nor parasitic slackers are suffering from chronic untreated diseases
because they lack health insurance.  Traditionally, we would at least
differentiate between the deserving and undeserving poor. Those distinctions
have been eliminated by modern communications that are perfect vehicles for
unmediated anger at those with whom we differ.

Generations ago, many angry letters were written but never sent. Today, the
adrenalin rush of keystroke courage has people firing off intemperate, even
abusive, e-mails to perfect strangers. Simple disagreement has become a mark of
infamy. The commendable principle of live and let live not only becomes us as a
nation but is also the very basis for our federal system.

So if Nevada wants to have legalized prostitution, it should be no business of
Oklahoma's.  If California voters have endorsed a law to curb greenhouse
emissions, why should a couple of Kansas billionaires plunk down a million
dollars to support a referendum that blocks the implementation of the law?   And
yes, if the New York Landmarks Preservation Commission unanimously approves the
building of an Islamic cultural center and mosque in a city with a sizeable
Muslim population,  why shouldn't its decision be respected by people in
Florida?

Regional differences

It is proper that basic constitutional rights be uniform across the country, and
it is ultimately up to the courts to determine what those rights are and how
they should be protected.

Nonetheless, the application of what the judges rule to be basic liberties might
need to be applied with an awareness of important regional differences. Same-sex
marriage is legal in places such as Massachusetts  and Iowa  but will not gain
easy acceptance in Kansas or Utah. We have, for example, already live with a
patchwork of abortion laws.

America is not a one-size-fits-all country, and we need to broaden our
understanding of the term "diversity' to embrace not only racial and ethnic
differences but also differences in philosophy and the real circumstances in
which people live. The most ominous forms of political correctness can be
applied with equal coerciveness by extreme conservatives as well as the usual
suspects on the liberal side.

Ross K. Baker is a political science professor at Rutgers University and is
writing a book titled Profiles in Cover. He also is a member of USA TODAY's
Board of Contributors.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Sam Ward, USA TODAY (Illustration)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 25, 2010 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                                 FINAL EDITION

Naturalization docs add security features

BYLINE: Alan Gomez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 387 words


Immigration officials, in an effort to deter fraud, will unveil today a new
naturalization certificate for people who become U.S. citizens.

The new certificates, used to obtain passports and other legal documents, come
after U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) unveiled a new green
card -- the ID card for immigrants with permanent residency status --  this year
that had improved security features to prevent forgery and tampering.

"They are going to be very significant" technical changes, says USCIS Director
Alejandro Mayorkas, who is scheduled to present the new certificates at a
naturalization ceremony in Baltimore.

Mayorkas said his office doesn't track incidents of fraud for immigration
documents, but the officials felt the improvements were necessary because the
green cards hadn't been updated since 1998 and the last update of the
naturalization certificates, in 2003, didn't add any security features.

The old certificates were filled in manually and the person's photograph was
just attached to it. The new computerized certificates will have all that
information embedded in the document and also will have ink patterns that are
harder to duplicate.

The new green cards have more security features, including a personalized
holographic image, a laser-engraved fingerprint of the person and improved
identification technology.

Steven Camarota, research director at the Center for Immigration Services, which
advocates lower levels of immigration, says the new documents are a good step
but fraud in the process for people applying for visas and citizenship is a
larger concern.

Sen. Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, has sent letters to CIS accusing the agency of
fast-tracking visa applications and not properly investigating suspicious
applications. Camarota says that lets more unqualified people into the U.S. and
also leaves a huge opening that terrorists could exploit.

"There's a lot of rubber-stamping going on," Camarota says. "The card is no
better than the verification process that went into issuing it."

Mayorkas says the accusation that his office is neglecting signs of fraud or
rushing to approve applications is false. "There is no higher priority of this
agency than the security of our nation and preventing fraud," Mayorkas says.
"Our record as an agency on that score is incredibly strong."

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: October 26, 2010



CORRECTION: The security features of a new U.S. naturalization certificate
unveiled Monday do not include a holographic image or laser-engraved fingerprint
as reported in a cutline and the Newsline in some editions Monday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 16, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

With poor fixes in Congress, gridlock might be best thing

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 631 words


I hope there is gridlock on almost all of the issues mentioned in USA TODAY's
government inaction debate because, sadly, it seems far more likely that
Congress will do the wrong thing instead of the right thing in trying to solve
them ("Gridlock's just another word for lack of leadership," Our view,
Thursday).

The problems with most of the items  listed -- spending, taxes, climate change
and immigration -- are the result of failed government policies. The government
doesn't have a track record of success when it comes to domestic problems.  The
government usually creates 10 new problems for every one  it claims to solve.

I don't want climate change to be the next example. The proposed treatments are
likely worse than the disease. I don't deny that global warming exists. I just
think proposed fixes won't work and will do great economic harm.  Immigration
reform is easy. Congress should move forward with those aspects of reform that
everyone agrees on. Everybody agrees illegal immigration is bad for the nation.
President Obama should get serious about controlling the border in order to
reduce it. Once we have demonstrated that we don't need comprehensive
immigration reform, then we can legalize those who remain.

Edward Hoffman

Joliet, Ill.

Need less partisan leaders

Reading USA TODAY's editorial on gridlock, which stated that a "lack of
leadership" in Washington is causing it, and its opposing view by Michael
Tanner, which promoted a libertarian ideology, made me wonder if both weren't
wrong. The causes of the problems we face today have one thing in common, not
lack of leadership but poor leadership on both sides.

If we had elected less partisan, non-ideological leaders who were competent and
whose sole purpose was to do what was in the best interests of the electorate
(and not special interests), then we likely wouldn't have the problems we have
today. That would have allowed us to avoid gridlock.

Sam Huddleston

Surprise, Ariz.

Gridlock won't solve issue

When House Speaker Nancy Pelosi was elected, some liberal Democrats demanded
hearings on former president George W. Bush and former vice president Dick
Cheney. Many demanded impeachment proceedings. She quieted the noise.

Now Senate minority leader Mitch McConnell has said twice that the Republicans'
No. 1  priority will be ridding the country of President Obama.

Rep. John Boehner, the presumptive House speaker, had better be Pelosi-like.
Eight years of Bush tax cuts did not produce jobs. Maybe extending tax cuts
will. Maybe cutting spending will. Maybe repealing ObamaCare will. No one knows
for sure. What we do know is gridlock will not.

Larry D. Fowler

Brooklyn, N.Y.

Some solutions must be stopped

I must agree with Cato Institute senior fellow Michael Tanner and his opposing
view in the government inaction debate ("More gridlock, please").

With the prospect of a bill implementing the proposals put forth by Alan Simpson
and Erskine Bowles on deficit reduction, we will need much gridlock.  This bill
could be as bad as the health care  law, maybe worse, if that's possible. This
proposal would destroy many people's personal finances.

As a retiree, I carefully planned my retirement finances for years. The current
tax code is not good, but at least I know how much I need to pay.

Under the new plan, I may pay more, I may pay less -- I won't know until it's
too late. The mortgage interest deduction change alone will destroy any rebound
in the housing market.

As far as Social Security, I just want the money back I paid for 35 years. If
the Social Security trust fund hadn't been stolen for other uses, we wouldn't be
talking about cuts in benefits.

Major changes shouldn't be made during a recession. When the economy rebounds,
many of our financial problems will go away.

Mark Botkin

Rochester, Mich.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 8, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Process of becoming legal immigrant takes financial toll

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 349 words


I read with interest  commentary writer Katrina Trinko's  Forum piece about a
proposal to grant visas to international entrepreneurs intending to hire several
workers with $250,000 in funds from a U.S. investor ("Create jobs by bringing in
immigrants," Tuesday).

As a British legal immigrant invited to the USA in 2001 to work as a regional
manager, I have an  H-1B visa, which was initially for  three years and extended
to  six years.  Because of the inefficiency of the  U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services agency, my whole family is still waiting patiently in line
for permanent residency approval, with  an additional extension, until 2012.

One of the many key points  Trinko highlighted was the cost of filing fees. I
would like to add, as someone with personal experience, that her suggestion of
$6,000 for an H-1B for  six years is way off the mark. She fails to point out
the cost of additional work permits, extensions,  non-working visas for family
members, and the cost of appeals when the  immigration bureau denies approval of
visas. To date, for myself and my family of  four, we have spent nearly $42,000
to  live legally in the United States. We also have contributed  federal and
state taxes for the  past nine years.

With the  debates about the DREAM Act in Congress, H-1B legal resident
immigrants are  left out and yet continue to provide a healthy revenue stream to
the federal government. For many of us, our dream has become a nightmare.

John Carroll

Chandler, Ariz.

Invest in U.S. citizens

With unemployment close to 10%,  why don't U.S. investors with $250,000 consider
helping out-of-work American citizens instead of backing a foreign entrepreneur?
How is this country ever going to get back on track if we don't stop sending
jobs overseas and then bringing in immigrants to invest in?

The Republicans  have said that the rich shouldn't be  forced to give up their
tax cuts because they are the ones who provide jobs.

How's that been going for the past decade during which they have enjoyed paying
less in taxes while  increasing their own wealth?

Julie Pawlak

Ocala, Fla.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Suzy Parker, USA TODAY (Illustration)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 30, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

States could follow Arizona's lead;
2011 may bring more tough laws on immigration

BYLINE: Alan Gomez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 817 words


WASHINGTON -- Because Congress was unable to pass any kind of immigration
legislation this year and the prospects remain dim when the new Congress is
sworn in next month, state legislatures will continue to lead the charge on
immigration policy in the new year.

For many states, that could mean a crackdown on illegal immigration that mirrors
the Arizona law that passed in April and reignited a national immigration
debate.

After Republicans made huge gains in statehouses and governor's mansions in the
November election, as many as seven states are "likely" to pass an Arizona-style
law next year, according to a study by the National Immigration Forum, which
opposes such legislation.

Georgia, Mississippi, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, South Carolina and
Tennessee all have a combination of legislators and governors supporting the
law, the report found.

Arizona's law would require all of the state's law enforcement officers to
determine the immigration status of people they've stopped, detained or arrested
for another offense if a "reasonable suspicion" exists that they are in the
country illegally.

The U.S. Department of Justice sued Arizona, arguing that immigration
enforcement was solely a federal responsibility. In July, a federal judge
blocked the core aspects of the law, known as S.B. 1070, and the ruling is under
appeal.

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which
advocates tighter immigration controls, said many state legislators would rather
wait to see how Arizona's law fares in court, a path that could end in the U.S.
Supreme Court.

Krikorian said others may plow ahead to draw another Department of Justice
lawsuit to test the law before a different federal judge. Such a lawsuit could
help politically, he said, as some might hope to recreate Arizona Gov. Jan
Brewer's rise in the polls after she signed S.B. 1070 into law.

"If you're a governor or an ambitious state senator forcing the Obama
administration to come after you, then it could work," Krikorian said.

Vivek Malhotra, advocacy and policy counsel for the American Civil Liberties
Union, said the group is closely monitoring for Arizona-style immigration and is
ready to sue to block those laws. He said the rise in anti-immigration
legislation in recent years is not surprising.

"Whenever we've had tough economic times, immigrants have become the target for
political scapegoating," Malhotra said. "It's easy to blame this population,
many of which are not citizens and cannot vote."

Ali Noorani, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, said a few
states continue to explore ways to help immigrants integrate.

Officials in California, Illinois, Massachusetts, Utah and Washington have
pushed for a variety of measures, such as in-state tuition for illegal
immigrants and protections for victims of human trafficking.

Noorani said many of the states cracking down on illegal immigrants overlook the
financial benefits of having them, including the taxes they pay and the
paychecks they spend in their communities. Arizona lost millions in convention
and tourism income because of boycotts after the passage of its immigration law,
so he is surprised that more states would follow suit during such difficult
economic times.

"I think that the social and economic impact of literally chasing people out of
your state is going to be pretty severe," Noorani said.

Georgia state Rep. Matt Ramsey, a Republican from Peachtree City, disagreed,
saying the state's estimated 450,000 illegal immigrants cost the state more than
$1 billion each year in emergency medical care, K-12 education and jail costs.
Ramsey chairs a Republican study group exploring ways to deny public benefits to
illegal immigrants and provide law enforcement with all available tools to catch
them, including an Arizona-style law.

Georgia has a Republican governor and GOP majorities in both chambers of the
state Assembly, making passage of such legislation possible.

Florida state Sen. Mike Bennett, a Republican from Bradenton, also has a
favorable environment with Republicans controlling both legislative chambers and
the governor's office. Though he filed an Arizona-style bill that would target
illegal immigrants committing criminal acts, he said he "cringes" over the idea
that such a law could be used to racially profile law-abiding Hispanics.

Bennett said he filed the bill because he was worried that "some crazy would get
out too far on this." He said he wanted to control the bill to ensure that only
true criminals were targeted by a new law.

"I don't think you should be deported because you were going 10 mph over the
speed limit, not if you're paying taxes and you got a job and you're supporting
your family," Bennett said.

The question legislators face, he said, is, "How do we differentiate between the
good illegal immigrant and the bad illegal immigrant?"

*Immigration in Costa Rica, 8A

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Nati Harnik, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: WASHINGTON

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 29, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Obama enlists Spanish-speaking celebrities;
Effort aimed at jump-starting immigration bill

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 444 words


His immigration overhaul stalled, President Obama is enlisting an array of
voices, including Latino entertainment and media stars, to help jump-start
legislation and reassure crucial but restless Hispanic voters that he has not
abandoned his campaign pledge to change the law.

Obama's political advisers see tremendous potential in a growing Latino
electorate. But Obama, who won 67% of the Latino vote in 2008, faces a
disenchanted Latino community, angry over a rise in deportations and an impasse
on revamping immigration laws, and fearful of tough state immigration laws such
as Arizona's.

On Thursday, the president hosted a dozen influential Spanish-language
television anchors and radio personalities as well as Latino actresses who have
been active in Hispanic causes. Among the high-profile Latinos was Eddie
"Piolin" Sotelo, who in 2006 helped mobilize hundreds of thousands of protesters
Los Angeles and across the nation against enforcement-only immigration
proposals. Others at the White House were actresses Eva Longoria and America
Ferrera and television figures Don Francisco of Univision and Jose Diaz-Balart
of Telemundo.

Obama wants to overhaul the nation's immigration system to provide a path to
citizenship for millions of illegal immigrants. That's not likely to go anywhere
anytime soon on Capitol Hill with Republicans controlling the House.

Participants said Obama stressed his determination to change immigration laws.
But they said that when pressed to do something about the record 393,000 illegal
immigrants forced to leave the country last year, Obama indicated that without
congressional action his hands were tied.

"The president and his administration told us that there are certain things that
he cannot and will not do unilaterally," Diaz-Balart said.

Added Longoria, "We like to blame Obama for the inaction, but he can't just
disobey the law that's written."

Also attending along with Francisco were Barbara Bermudo, Lili Estefan, Vanessa
Hauc and Maria Elena Salinas, all hosts or anchors of Univision or Telemundo,
the primary Spanish channels in the United States.

The session comes just a week after Obama invited about 70 elected officials and
religious, law enforcement, business, labor, and civil rights figures to help
build support for a long-stalled overhaul of the nation's immigration laws.

The flurry of immigration activity at the White House illustrates both the
desire by Obama and his advisers to show engagement on the issue and to halt any
potential slide in Hispanic support.  Latino voters could reconfigure the
political landscape, especially in swing states such as Colorado, Nevada,
Virginia and North Carolina.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                               May 2, 2011 Monday
                                 CHASE EDITION

High court refuses to stop levee-blast plan

BYLINE: Melanie Eversley with staff and wire reports

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 596 words


The U.S. Supreme Court on Sunday refused to halt a plan by the Army Corps of
Engineers to blast open a levee to relieve the rain-swollen Mississippi River
even as the Illinois town at risk of flooding was cleared out.

Supreme Court Justice Samuel Alito did not comment in denying Missouri's request
to block the corps' plan. The city of Cairo near the confluence of Ohio and
Mississippi rivers resembled a ghost town. Illinois National Guard troops went
door to door to enforce Mayor Judson Childs' "mandatory" evacuation.

Maj. Gen. Michael Walsh, the corps officer in charge of deciding whether to
breach the levee, said it would take 20 hours to get pipes filled with
explosives into the levee. The plan could inundate 130,000 acres of
now-evacuated farmland.

Corps officials are monitoring water levels and haven't decided whether to go
through with the blast to blunt the rise of the Ohio.

May Day rallies push labor, immigration

May Day rallies and marches took place across the country Sunday as
demonstrators pushed for immigrants' rights and protested efforts to curtail the
right to collective bargaining.

In New York City's Union Square, marchers walked down Broadway for a rally. In
Milwaukee, demonstrators called for what they referred to as a fairer
immigration policy. The marchers were joined by several hundred labor activists,
who said the fight for immigration rights goes hand-in-hand with the call for
workers' rights. In Los Angeles, thousands of demonstrators marched through
downtown waving union banners and American flags.

May 1 is a traditional date for pro-labor demonstrations.

Ariz. police officer killed; another hurt

A police officer from Buckeye, Ariz., a suburb of Phoenix, died, and a second
officer was critically injured with multiple wounds, in a  shootout in Phoenix
that also left a suspect dead.

The off-duty officers were working a private security job at a nightclub when
they got into an fight that led to gunfire, said Sgt. Tommy Thompson, a Phoenix
police spokesman. A second suspect was wounded and in critical condition. Police
were looking for a third suspect who fled.

Resort to send homeless back home

Atlantic City is gambling on a new effort to help the financially struggling
casino resort by using  state funds to send the homeless back home.

As part of a new state-run tourism district encompassing the 11 casinos, the
Boardwalk, outlet shops and downtown, a state agency is providing $92,000 to
help a homeless services agency send some of its clients back to their homes.

The Casino Reinvestment Development Authority said it's a quality-of-life issue.
The presence of homeless people and  panhandlers on the Boardwalk has drawn
complaints from some visitors. The state money will help the Atlantic City
Rescue Mission expand a return-home program it has run for years on a smaller
scale.

Blagojevich retrial set to start

Opening statements are set for today in Chicago in the retrial of former
Illinois governor Rod Blagojevich. The Democrat,  54, faces 20 charges, from
attempted extortion of a children's hospital executive to conspiracy to commit
bribery in a bid to sell or trade an appointment to President Obama's vacated
Senate seat for campaign cash or a well-paying job. The first  trial ended eight
months ago with a hung jury on most charges.

If convicted, Blagojevich faces a maximum prison term of 350 years, although
sentencing guidelines would dictate that he receive less. He already faces a
five-year sentence for a conviction of lying to the FBI. For the retrial,
prosecutors have dropped complex racketeering charges.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 12, 2011 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Latinos need a Tequila Party;
The GOP antagonizes us, while the Democratsmake and break their promises to this
criticalvoting bloc. It's time for a wake-up call.

BYLINE: Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 812 words


The estimated 12 million Latino voters who are expected to cast ballots in the
2012 election  will have to decide what fires them up more  disgust or
disillusionment.

America's largest minority needs to take a cue from the Tea Party movement and
start an insurgency challenging both political parties  the one that takes them
for granted and the other that writes them off.

The Tea Partierstook on the Republican establishment over its spending policies
and the size of government. In the same way, Latinos have to take on a
Democratic administration over its immigration policies.

Many Latinos are  increasingly disillusioned with President Obama for  breaking
his promise to make immigration reform a priority, and going overboard in the
deportation of illegal immigrants.  Since taking office, more than 800,000 have
been deported or allowed to leave voluntarily.

Tuesday, in a speech from El Paso, Obama tried to rekindle the issue of
immigration reform, with an eye no doubt toward launching his re-election
campaign. While chiding Republicans for their inaction, Obama acknowledged that
"we are deporting those who are here illegally" but insisted that the focus was
on  so-called criminal aliens who committed other crimes after entering the
country unlawfully.

Yet, a few minutes later, he conceded that those who are caught up in the system
include "families who are just trying to earn a living; or bright, eager
students; or decent people with the best of intentions."

Why Democrats got a pass

In the past, disgust with Republicans has been so strong that Latinos have voted
for Democrats as the lesser of two evils.

But if the disillusionment with Obama wins out, Latinos are more likely to stay
home and not vote at all. A depressed turnout would be bad news for Obama and
Democrats who  in a tight re-election, and having lost  support among
independents  are going to need every vote possible. According to a recent poll
by ImpreMedia and Latino Decisions, Obama's job approval rating among Latinos is
at 70%. Yet only 43% of Latino voters say they will vote for him next year.

Obama would immediately improve his chances with Latinos if he offered a better
strategy than "Vote for me. I'm not Republican."

California political strategist Arnold Torres, who has advised candidates from
both parties, told me recently that Democrats get away with poor customer
service toward Latinos "because the Republicans are so bad."

And because the GOP is so bad on immigration  proposing limits on the number of
legal immigrants, threatening to override the 14th Amendment in order to deny
citizenship to U.S.-born children of illegal immigrants, moving to extend
nationwide the Arizona model of requiring local and state police to enforce
federal immigration law, etc.  it's basically a race to the bottom.

It wasn't always this way.

In 2001,  Republican  George W. Bush started the immigration reform debate that
continues to this day. Bush deserves a lot of credit for pushing for a smarter
and more humane system and not just settling for increased enforcement.

Picking up Bush's fight

Now,  Democrat  Obama  seems to be rebooting the reform debate that Bush
started, even while he and others in the administration portray themselves as
tougher on illegal immigration than Bush ever was.

But it's a tough balancing act for the president, and one person  not  convinced
by the Obama administration's efforts  is Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill.  Gutierrez
just wrapped up a 20-city tour  intended to embarrass Obama into doing what many
immigration activists are demanding the president do: use his executive power to
freeze deportations of illegal immigrants with U.S.-born children and those
attending college or serving in the military who would have qualified for legal
status under the DREAM Act, if Congress had passed it.

Obama has refused to do so, and he told Univision's Jorge Ramos in an interview
that "America is a nation of laws, which means I, as the president, am obligated
to enforce the law."

That kind of remark makes it obvious that this dynamic  of a Democrat trying to
"out-Republican" the Republicans  will only continue. The merry-go-around won't
stop on its own, so Latinos have to jump off.  They shouldn't stay home and not
vote at all. But, once in the booth, they have other options that include voting
for third-party candidates.

Already, in Arizona, there is a grassroots movement among Latino conservatives
to hold both parties accountable on immigration and other issues;  they've
branded this movement  a Tequila Party.

That's appropriate. After all, if this endeavordoesn't shake things up and
Latinos are once again stuck with nothing but bad choices, a lot of people are
going to need a stiff drink.

Ruben Navarrette Jr. is a syndicated columnist with the Washington Post Writers
Group, a CNN.COM contributor, and a commentator for National Public Radio.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Jewel Samad, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 13, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration law could be costly for Georgia;
Athletic groups, events might boycott state

BYLINE: Ray Glier

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 10C

LENGTH: 584 words


ATLANTA -- Georgia Gov. Nathan Deal is reviewing an immigration bill passed by
the state legislature and said he plans to sign it. The bill is modeled after a
controversial law in Arizona that could result in the deportations of
undocumented residents.

Atlanta and the state of Georgia, which have hosted the Olympics, Final Four,
baseball All-Star Game, NHL All-Star Game and Super Bowl, could be explaining
themselves in front of bid committees for the next few years and find doors
closing. HB 87 would allow police to check the immigration status of suspects,
even in routine traffic stops.

"Anytime you do something like this, there are the intended consequences and you
have unintended consequences, and the unintended consequences in this case are
worse," said Bob Hope, a public relations executive in Atlanta who is on the
board of the Atlanta Sports Council, Atlanta Convention and Visitors Bureau and
Women's Sports Foundation. "It presents us as a bigoted city or a bigoted state.
Nationally, people can easily look at the bill and say there are uncomfortable
issues relative to coming to Atlanta and Georgia. It hurts."

The Atlanta Sports Council could find itself in a defensive posture as it tries
to bring major events -- and tourism dollars -- to the city, Hope said.

Dan Corso, executive director of the Atlanta Sports Council, did not return
phone calls.

Debbie Johnson, CEO of the Arizona Tourism Alliance and Arizona Hotel and
Lodging Association, told The Arizona Republic that Arizona has lost at least 30
to 40 meetings and conventions because of the state's immigration bill, signed
into law April 23, 2010.

The Center for American Progress, a liberal watchdog organization, says its
research shows meetings and convention cancellations have cost Arizona $141
million in the last year.

Brian Robinson, deputy chief of staff for communications for Deal, said
Georgia's bill is not nearly as intrusive as the Arizona measure, and the
Georgia legislature, he said, studied carefully how to protect constitutional
rights. Robinson said under HB 87, police cannot randomly stop people to
establish their citizenship.

However, he said if a person is stopped while a suspect in a commission of a
crime, their citizenship status can be checked, and that is not racial
profiling.

"There's nothing in this legislation that should spur the concerns of any groups
inside or outside of Georgia," Robinson said. "Georgia is not doing anything but
finding a more efficient mechanism for enforcing U.S. law and Georgia law."

Nonetheless, some in Georgia feel the state is going to be viewed as
inhospitable and controversial. There have been several protests, including a
March 24 rally that drew 5,000 to the Georgia State Capitol, according to state
police estimates.

The executive committee of the Atlanta Convention and Visitors Bureau passed a
resolution opposing the bill. William Pate, bureau president, said tourism is
worth $10 billion a year in Atlanta. Pate said there is concern for the 223,000
jobs in the hospitality industry in the city.

"Anytime you have potential headwinds, you've got to be concerned about that,"
Pate said. "We're not going to sit idly by. If we have decision-makers who have
concerns, we're going to meet with them."

The NCAA, which has a moratorium on pre-assigned events in South Carolina
because of the Confederate flag flying on state grounds, declined to comment.
Spokesman Erik Christianson said since the bill is not yet law, "it is premature
for us to comment on it."

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, David Goldman, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 28, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

States tackle immigration piecemeal;
Modeled on Arizona's law, local efforts face hurdles

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 533 words


Five states this year followed Arizona's lead  by passing laws that expanded the
powers of local police officers to enforce immigration laws. And although each
of the states has tried different approaches, they are seeing the same results.

Federal judges in Indiana, Utah and Georgia have blocked recently passed laws in
those states.

The National Immigration Law Center and the American Civil Liberties Union  are
also planning lawsuits against recently signed immigration laws in Alabama and
South Carolina.

If the laws continue suffering the same fate as Arizona's law of being blocked
in federal courts, the rulings could halt an increasingly fractured immigration
system as each state struggles to find its own plan absent a comprehensive
federal solution.

"You are not going to have 50 systems of immigration regulation," said U.S.
District Judge Thomas Thrash, who ruled Monday to block parts of the Georgia
law.  "In Georgia, you are going to have 159. Every county, every municipality
is going to decide what its immigration policy is going to be under this law,"
he said last week during a hearing on the case.

In all cases, the question of when and how a police officer can investigate a
person's immigration status could be a complicating factor.

Last year, Arizona's SB 1070 kicked off a national debate when the law required
police officers to determine the immigration status of people stopped for crimes
or traffic violations if a "reasonable suspicion" existed that the person was in
the country illegally.

A federal judge halted that part of the law, arguing that the state had
infringed on federal responsibility.

The 9th District Court of Appeals upheld that ruling, and the state has appealed
to the U.S. Supreme Court.

Legislators in other states responded to that ruling by scaling back their
enforcement provisions in their versions.

In Georgia, state Rep. Matt Ramsey, a Republican who sponsored the bill, cut out
the "reasonable suspicion" requirements, meaning officers there will check  a
person's immigration status if he or she  can't produce identification or
provide other information that could help determine  identity.

Although the law doesn't go as far as Arizona's, critics still feel it's  too
harsh.

"In order to express hostility toward immigrants, the folks who passed the
Georgia law are willing to throw out fundamental principles that protect all of
us," said  Omar Jadwat, an attorney with the ACLU, which is part of a group that
sued to block  Georgia's law.

Other states, such as Alabama, have decided to stick with the Arizona model and
see how a different judge rules on it.

Michael Hethmon of  the Immigration Reform Law Institute, which has been helping
state lawmakers draft Arizona-like  laws around the country, said Alabama
legislators were hoping for a legal challenge when they passed their law,
thinking they could get a different ruling than the one issued in Phoenix by
U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton,  who blocked the Arizona law last year.

"(They) looked at Judge Bolton's reasoning and said, 'We're not on the left
coast here, we're in the 11th Circuit and we think we're going to get a
different interpretation by a different judge,'" Hethmon said.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 23, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

House immigration status-check bill faces tough road

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 580 words


The House Judiciary Committee this week passed a Republican-sponsored bill that
would require private businesses to use a federal program that checks the
immigration status of all job applicants.

The bill, the most sweeping piece of immigration legislation moving through
Congress, will have a hard time getting through the full House of
Representatives, let alone passing the Democrat-controlled Senate and getting a
signature from President Obama.

The bill passed the committee 22-13 on a party-line vote, with no Democrats
voting in favor.

At a time when House Republicans are pushing a job-creating, regulation-slashing
agenda, Democrats say the immigration verification program, called E-Verify,
will cost hundreds of thousands of Americans their jobs, and impose another,
expensive layer of regulation on struggling U.S. businesses.

"Solutions should not be worse than the problems they purport to solve," said
Rep. John Conyers, D-Mich.

Even some Republicans worry about the impact a nationwide E-Verify program would
have on the economy. Rep. Dan Lungren, R-Calif., a member of the Judiciary
committee,  said the agricultural industry would lose thousands of workers who
couldn't be replaced without an accompanying guest-worker program that would
allow foreign nationals to work American fields.

"I'm absolutely convinced that without a fix for agriculture, (E-Verify) will
not get to the House floor," Lungren said.

A Bloomberg Government report found that small businesses would have to spend
$2.6 billion a year to use the program.

E-Verify is free to use, but the report found that businesses would have to
train human resources officers, purchase computers and Internet access and hire
personnel to oversee the screenings.

When discussing an earlier version of the bill in 2005, House Speaker John
Boehner told the Republican National Hispanic Assembly that the nationwide
expansion of the program was "well-intentioned, but fatally flawed" and said
employers should not be "burdened with another cumbersome federal mandate."

A  Boehner spokesman said any decision to bring the E-Verify bill to the floor
would be up to Majority Leader Eric Cantor and refused to comment further.
Cantor's office also declined to comment.

Legal workers could also be hurt by the bill, according to a report by the
Center for American Progress, which opposes the law. The report found that the
program's error rate of 0.5% would mean that 770,000 legal workers would be
flagged as having immigration problems, possibly losing their jobs as they try
to correct their records.

Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, said critics are wrongly calling E-Verify a jobs
killer when it should be viewed as a job creator for legal Americans.

Smith, who sponsored the E-Verify bill and is the chairman of the House
Judiciary Committee, points out that the U.S. government, businesses that
contract with the federal government and 18 state governments require  job
applicants to undergo an E-Verify check. And 300,000 private businesses are
voluntarily using the program, with 1,000 more businesses signing on every week.

He described E-Verify as the best way to weed out some of the roughly 7 million
illegal immigrants working in the USA so that some of the 23 million unemployed
Americans can step in.

"Why would anyone oppose legislation that helps businesses follow the law and
help American workers get jobs?" Smith asked. "It's a jobs bill. (House
leadership) is supporting jobs bills, so I would expect their support."

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, AP (2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 23, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration screening policy seen as flawed;
Hypervigilance on scofflaw vs. criminal called a 'disconnect'

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 431 words


A program that checks the immigration status of all people booked into local
jails needs systemwide changes and may need to be suspended until its problems
are worked out, according to a review conducted by the Department of Homeland
Security's advisory council.

The program, called Secure Communities, allows Homeland Security to review the
fingerprints of people arrested by state and local law enforcement agencies
against federal immigration databases.

The program has been criticized because some people arrested for minor crimes,
or on charges that are later dropped, are detained by Immigration and Customs
Enforcement officials, sometimes resulting in deportation.

That runs contrary to Homeland Security's stated goals of concentrating on
illegal immigrants who have committed serious crimes or pose a threat to
national security.

"The apparent 'disconnect' between the Homeland Security documents describing a
tight focus on dangerous criminal offenders and the actual operation of Secure
Communities has led to criticism of the program and is a key reason for
opposition to the program in a number of cities, counties and states," says the
report, which was approved by the advisory council Thursday.

That opposition has resulted in distrust of local police, as victims and
witnesses of crimes are now afraid to speak with police out of fear of being
deported, the report found.

Since its inception in 2008, Secure Communities has been activated in half the
nation's law enforcement jurisdictions, and it continues to grow, with the goal
of nationwide activation by 2013. About half of the members of the  task force
that conducted the review for the advisory council suggested halting that
expansion, or suspending the program entirely, until the problems are worked
out.

Arturo Venegas was the first of five task force members to resign, saying the
recommendations didn't go far enough and calling Homeland Security irresponsible
for continuing to expand the program when so many problems are clearly apparent.

"If you have a computer with a virus, you don't connect 20 more computers to
that computer," said Venegas, a former police chief in Sacramento.

The report suggested that Homeland Security better train its officials to focus
on dangerous criminals, adopt more oversight to ensure those policies are being
enforced and consider ignoring illegal immigrants booked into local jails for
minor crimes and traffic offenses.

The report will be given to Homeland Security leadership, who then can adopt any
or all of the recommendations --  although it is under no obligation to do so.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 30, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Court term could influence 2012 race;
immigration are among the issues justices may address

BYLINE: Joan Biskupic, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 1410 words


The Supreme Court opens a potentially epic term Monday that could roil debate in
the 2012 presidential election campaign.

The justices have taken a raft of cases that would affect people in their daily
lives, including  when police can track their cars with GPS devices and what
racy material gets on television when children might be watching.

In coming weeks, the justices will announce whether they will take on two major
disputes over federal power, the most closely watched involving the new
requirement that most people buy health insurance by 2014. The other concerns
Arizona's law allowing police to check the immigration status of people they
have stopped.

"This could be a blockbuster term, depending on how events break," says
Washington lawyer John Elwood, a former assistant U.S. solicitor general now in
private practice. "If the justices grant the health care case, as seems likely,
this could be a very consequential term."

The Justice Department asked the court Wednesday to review the constitutionality
of the insurance mandate, part of a health law overhaul that is the signature of
President Obama's domestic agenda. All major Republican presidential candidates
have vowed to work to repeal the law. A ruling on the mandate could come by
July, right before the party conventions.

Neil Kinkopf, a professor at Georgia State University and expert on immigration
law, agrees this could be "a marquee term for the court." He says the Arizona
immigration dispute has only become more compelling because other states,
including Alabama and Georgia, have passed laws trying to discourage people from
crossing the border illegally that potentially infringe on civil rights and
tread on federal power.

The nine justices who will ascend the bench Monday are split ideologically.
Power rests mainly with the five conservatives: Chief Justice John Roberts and
Justices Antonin Scalia, Anthony Kennedy, Clarence Thomas and Samuel Alito.

On the liberal side, and often in dissent in high-profile cases, are Justices
Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Stephen Breyer, Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan. When the
liberal wing prevails, it is usually because Justice Kennedy, the most moderate
of the conservatives, has swung over to their side.

Health and immigration laws

The challenge to the requirement that all Americans have health insurance, part
of the Obama-sponsored effort to make medical care more affordable nationwide,
rivals all other cases pending at the court for political interest.

The law was challenged immediately after its passage in March 2010, and three
federal appeals courts have since ruled. The Cincinnati-based 6th Circuit and
Richmond-based 4th Circuit rejected challenges to the insurance mandate; the
Atlanta-based 11th Circuit declared it unconstitutional, saying Congress had
exceeded its power to regulate commerce.

The Obama administration has asked the justices to use that 11th Circuit case to
resolve the matter. That challenge was brought by 26 states and the National
Federation of Independent Business.

Government lawyers, led by new U.S. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli, contend
the individual-insurance mandate is necessary to address the spiraling cost of
medical care, caused in part by people without insurance who get sick, are
treated and pass on billions of dollars in costs to people who carry insurance.

Another pending appeal traces to Arizona's law that is intended to discourage
people from crossing the border. The law allows police to check drivers'
immigration papers if officers suspect a person is here illegally. The Obama
administration sued, asserting that the state impinged on federal authority, and
lower federal courts blocked enforcement of the law. Attorney General Eric
Holder earlier said the Arizona law could lead to racial profiling.

The U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit, whose decision would be reviewed
by the justices, said Congress wanted states to help stop people from illegally
entering the country only under the attorney general's supervision. The appeals
court said Arizona interfered with the federal government's authority and said
part of the law should remain on hold.

Other cases

Among the major cases scheduled for oral argument is one that tests whether
police need a warrant before affixing a GPS device to a car. In the case from
Washington, police put a GPS device on the car of Antoine Jones, a nightclub
owner they suspected of drug trafficking.

Jones, convicted of conspiracy to distribute cocaine, argues that his conviction
should be overturned because the police violated his Fourth Amendment protection
against unreasonable searches by tracking him  for a month without a warrant.

Justice Department lawyers said they need not take such a step to track people
on public roads. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit
disagreed, stressing the detailed surveillance over weeks. The court said, "A
reasonable person does not expect anyone to monitor and retain a record of every
time he drives his car  rather, he expects each of those movements to remain
disconnected and anonymous."

The justices also are scheduled to look again at the Federal Communications
Commissions policy against "fleeting" expletives and nudity on broadcast
television, this time in the face of a First Amendment challenge.

In the past, the FCC sanctioned repeated expletives only in broadcasts. In the
early 2000s, the agency changed its policy and said even the one-time use of
vulgarities associated with sexual or excretory functions could be found
indecent and subject to a fine.

Cher prompted one case, when at a 2002 Billboard Music Awards ceremony she waved
her lifetime achievement trophy and noted that critics had long said she was on
her way out. "So (expletive) 'em," Cher declared. Another instance stems from a
2003 episode of NYPD Blue that included a shot of a woman's naked buttocks.

Television networks say the indecency policy is unconstitutionally vague and has
led to inconsistencies. They note that some expletives, for example in a
broadcast of the movie Saving Private Ryan, have been allowed. The government
counters that the FCC rightly found the expletives in that World War II
depiction integral to its realism. The government stresses that the court
traditionally has given the FCC wide latitude to regulate material in TV and
radio broadcasts because of the scarcity of the airwaves and because broadcast
TV is uniquely accessible to children.

A New York-based federal appeals court struck down the policy, saying of the
various FCC determinations on which programs were indecent, "There is little
rhyme or reason to these decisions, and broadcasters are left to guess whether
an expletive will be deemed 'integral' to a program."

List

Major caes this term

Douglas v. Independent Living Center of Southern California: Testing whether
Medicaid recipients and health-care providers may sue California for reducing
Medicaid reimbursement rates. (Oral arguments scheduled for Monday.)

Maples v. Thomas: Whether a convict who claims his trial lawyers were
ineffective is barred from challenging his case because he missed a deadline,
although through no fault of his own. (Tuesday)

Hosanna-Tabor Evangelical Lutheran Church v. Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission: Whether a "ministerial exception" in civil rights law that prohibits
some lawsuits against religious organizations prevents a bias claim from an
employee in a church-run school who teaches mostly secular classes. (Wednesday)

Golan v. Holder: Whether Congress may restore copyright protection to various
foreign works that had been in the public domain. (Wednesday)

Florence v. Board of Chosen Freeholders of Burlington County: Whether jail
officials may routinely strip-search all people who are arrested, including for
minor offenses. (Oct. 12)

Zivotofsky v. Clinton: Whether a 2003 federal statute requiring the secretary of
State to record the place of birth of any U.S. citizen born in Jerusalem as
"Jerusalem, Israel" must be enforced; a threshold issue is whether the question
is a "political" one that judges lack authority to decide. (Nov. 7)

United States v. Jones: Whether police need a warrant before affixing a GPS
device to a person's automobile to track him 24 hours a day for several weeks.
(Nov. 8)

Federal Communications Commission v. Fox Television Stations: Whether the FCC's
policy banning "fleeting" expletives and nudity violates the First Amendment.
(Not  scheduled)

By Joan Biskupic

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo By Charlie Leight, The Arizona Republic In Arizona: More than 500
people from the Los Angeles area join a march to the state capitol in Phoenix on
July 29, 2010, to protest the first day of the enforcement of the state's
immigration law.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 30, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Court term could influence 2012 race;
immigration are among the issues justices may address

BYLINE: Joan Biskupic, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 1129 words


The Supreme Court opens a potentially epic term Monday that could roil debate in
the 2012 presidential election campaign.

The justices have taken a raft of cases that would affect people in their daily
lives, including  when police can track their cars with GPS devices and what
racy material gets on television when children might be watching.

In coming weeks, the justices will announce whether they will take on two major
disputes over federal power, the most closely watched involving the new
requirement that most people buy health insurance by 2014. The other concerns
Arizona's law allowing police to check the immigration status of people they
have stopped.

"This could be a blockbuster term, depending on how events break," says
Washington lawyer John Elwood, a former assistant U.S. solicitor general now in
private practice. "If the justices grant the health care case, as seems likely,
this could be a very consequential term."

The Justice Department asked the court Wednesday to review the constitutionality
of the insurance mandate, part of a health law overhaul that is the signature of
President Obama's domestic agenda. All major Republican presidential candidates
have vowed to work to repeal the law. A ruling on the mandate could come by
July, right before the party conventions.

Neil Kinkopf, a professor at Georgia State University and expert on immigration
law, agrees this could be "a marquee term for the court." He says the Arizona
immigration dispute has only become more compelling because other states,
including Alabama and Georgia, have passed laws trying to discourage people from
crossing the border illegally that potentially infringe on civil rights and
tread on federal power.

The nine justices who will ascend the bench Monday are split ideologically.
Power rests mainly with the five conservatives: Chief Justice John Roberts and
Justices Antonin Scalia, Anthony Kennedy, Clarence Thomas and Samuel Alito.

On the liberal side, and often in dissent in high-profile cases, are Justices
Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Stephen Breyer, Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan. When the
liberal wing prevails, it is usually because Justice Kennedy, the most moderate
of the conservatives, has swung over to their side.

Health and immigration laws

The challenge to the requirement that all Americans have health insurance, part
of the Obama-sponsored effort to make medical care more affordable nationwide,
rivals all other cases pending at the court for political interest.

The law was challenged immediately after its passage in March 2010, and three
federal appeals courts have since ruled. The Cincinnati-based 6th Circuit and
Richmond-based 4th Circuit rejected challenges to the insurance mandate; the
Atlanta-based 11th Circuit declared it unconstitutional, saying Congress had
exceeded its power to regulate commerce.

The Obama administration has asked the justices to use that 11th Circuit case to
resolve the matter. That challenge was brought by 26 states and the National
Federation of Independent Business.

Government lawyers, led by new U.S. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli, contend
the individual-insurance mandate is necessary to address the spiraling cost of
medical care, caused in part by people without insurance who get sick, are
treated and pass on billions of dollars in costs to people who carry insurance.

Another pending appeal traces to Arizona's law that is intended to discourage
illegal immigration. The law allows police to check drivers' immigration papers
if an officer suspects a person is in the country illegally. The Obama
administration sued, asserting that the state impinged on federal authority, and
lower federal courts blocked enforcement of the law. Attorney General Eric
Holder has said that the Arizona law could lead to racial profiling.

The U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit, whose decision would be reviewed
by the justices, said Congress wanted states to help stop people from illegally
entering the country only under the attorney general's supervision. The appeals
court said Arizona interfered with the federal government's authority and said
part of the law should remain on hold.

Other cases

Among the major cases scheduled for oral argument is one that tests whether
police need a warrant before affixing a Global Postioning System device to a
car. In the case from the District of Columbia, police put a GPS device on the
car of Antoine Jones, a nightclub owner they suspected of drug trafficking.
Jones, convicted of conspiracy to distribute cocaine, argues that his conviction
should be overturned because the police violated his Fourth Amendment protection
against unreasonable searches by tracking him  for a month without a warrant.

Justice Department lawyers said they need not take such a step to track people
on public roads. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit
disagreed, stressing the detailed surveillance over weeks. The court said, "A
reasonable person does not expect anyone to monitor and retain a record of every
time he drives his car  rather, he expects each of those movements to remain
disconnected and anonymous."

The justices also are scheduled to look again at the Federal Communications
Commissions policy against "fleeting" expletives and nudity on broadcast
television, this time in the face of a First Amendment challenge.

In the past, the FCC sanctioned repeated expletives only in broadcasts. In the
early 2000s, the agency changed its policy and said even the one-time use of
vulgarities associated with sexual or excretory functions could be found
indecent and subject to a fine.

Cher prompted one case, when at a 2002 Billboard Music Awards ceremony she waved
her lifetime achievement trophy and noted that critics had long said she was on
her way out. "So (expletive) 'em," Cher declared. Another instance stems from a
2003 episode of NYPD Blue that included a shot of a woman's naked buttocks.

Television networks say the indecency policy is unconstitutionally vague and has
led to inconsistencies. They note that some expletives, for example in a
broadcast of the movie Saving Private Ryan, have been allowed. The government
counters that the FCC rightly found the expletives in that World War II
depiction integral to its realism. The government stresses that the court
traditionally has given the FCC wide latitude to regulate material in TV and
radio broadcasts because of the scarcity of the airwaves and because broadcast
TV is uniquely accessible to children.

A New York-based federal appeals court struck down the policy, saying of the
various FCC determinations on which programs were indecent, "There is little
rhyme or reason to these decisions, and broadcasters are left to guess whether
an expletive will be deemed 'integral' to a program."

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             October 3, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

School jitters in Ala.: Hispanics stay home

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 527 words


A federal judge's decision last week that left Alabama's strict new immigration
law largely intact is already having a major impact throughout the state, as
hundreds of Hispanic children stayed away from school.

The judge allowed several  aspects of the state's anti-immigration law to go
into effect, including a provision that requires schools to check the
immigration status of students.

Federal law requires public schools to provide K-12 education to illegal
immigrants, but the Alabama law requires that schools verify the immigration
status of children enrolling for the first time.

That information will go only to the state Department of Education so officials
can better account for how much the state spends educating illegal immigrants.

Even though school officials have been telling parents that there won't be
immigration agents awaiting them at the school doors, the message hasn't reached
everyone.

In Montgomery, the state capital, 231 Hispanic children were absent from school
Thursday, the first day the law went into effect, according to Superintendent
Barbara Thompson. She said school officials  would begin calling the parents of
children that continue to miss school to  assure them they have nothing to fear.

"Obviously, there's a fear factor about what the law is in regard to the
schools," said Keith Ward, a spokesman for Huntsville City Schools, which also
reported high absenteeism Thursday and Friday. "We're not doing any enforcement.
We're in the business and have the obligation to educate all students. For us,
it's just data collection."

Tuscaloosa City Schools reported at least 10 Hispanic parents withdrawing their
children from school late last week, while other parents requested withdrawal
papers as well.

Tuscaloosa Superintendent Paul McKendrick said he's disappointed to see children
leaving the district when their families run no risk of being deported simply
for going to school.

McKendrick said he understands the pressures that the families are under and the
fear that the new law has created.

"You may hear information and not be sure how valid it is," he said. "I can
understand why parents would be leery of anything that they hear and just try to
protect their children and stay in this country."

Lost class time isn't the only thing worrying school officials. Funding for
Alabama schools is dependent on the number of students it has, and Thompson said
a mass exodus would dry up funds, which would hurt all students. She estimated
that the district would lose $2 million if the 231 students who were absent on
Thursday decided to stay away for good.

"When one student drops out, it affects the funding for the entire system," she
said.

Officials with the Alabama Department of Education met Friday to discuss ways to
better communicate with the Hispanic community.

"It's unfortunate that rumors and falsehoods have led to the kind of hysteria
that we see in the state right now," said Michael Sibley, a spokesman for the
department. "The idea that there'll be any consequences to the child  or legal
repercussions if the parent is in the country illegally are misunderstandings
that we are desperately trying to clear up."

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 2, 2011 Wednesday
                                 First EDITION

'Juan Crow' law alive in Ala.;
Controversial anti-illegal-immigrant statute brings back memories of the ugly
South and tactics used against blacks in civil rights era.

BYLINE: David Person

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 904 words


Here in the South it feels like the 1960s all over again. And now, just as back
then, far right-wing white politicians are doing their damnedest to be the
poster boys of intolerance, this time on the issue of immigration.

Birmingham's Eugene "Bull" Connor, Dallas County Sheriff Jim Clark and Alabama
Gov. George Wallace were high-profile antagonists of the civil rights movement.
Today, it's north Alabama Rep. Mo Brooks and Kansas Secretary of State Kris
Kobach leading the anti-illegal-immigration charge. Of all Alabama's officials,
Brooks has been the most inflammatory and provocative cheerleader for the
state's heinous immigration law.  Kobach helped Alabama and other states craft
similar  laws through his side gig with the Federation for American Immigration
Reform (FAIR), an organization described as a hate group by the Southern Poverty
Law Center.

Despite objections from the Justice Department,  a federal judge upheld portions
of it, directing Alabama law enforcement officers to act as de facto immigration
agents during routine traffic stops and requiring school systems to document the
citizenship status of new students. Some are calling it "Juan Crow" -- a play on
Jim Crow, the moniker for segregation in the pre-civil rights South -- because
of the likelihood that Hispanics will be subjected to racial profiling and
dubious detentions.

Not surprisingly, most black lawmakers in the South strongly oppose this and
similar laws. They have not forgotten the sting of Jim Crow laws that were aimed
at segregating blacks and denying them equal access to jobs, education, housing
and health care.

The Justice Department is asking  the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals to
invalidate the law. That court temporarily blocked the portions  requiring that
schools collect immigration data and that immigrants carry proof of residency.
This month, it  is expected to hear full arguments challenging the
constitutionality of the law.

Taxes and education as weapons

That has not deterred Brooks and other supporters of the law from continuing to
dig in, repackaging the old arguments that were used against Jim Crow-era blacks
to target the undocumented.  For example, like Jim Crow laws imposed segregated
schools on black children, the Alabama law attempts to place barriers to illegal
immigrants getting an education -- though the appeals court has temporarily
blocked that part of the law.

"The bottom line is illegal aliens consume far more of our tax resources than
they generate," Brooks told Politico recently. "We don't have the money in
America to keep paying for the education of everybody else's children from
around the world."

The Tax Foundation, a non-partisan tax research group that conservatives love to
quote, disputes Brooks' first point. The foundation concluded that undocumented
workers are helping to fill federal and state coffers via payroll taxes (Social
Security and Medicare) and sales taxes on food, clothing and other essentials.
Some might even pay income taxes, depending on their income level and whether or
not they have a Social Security Number or a Tax Identification Number, even if
they are fraudulent numbers.

As for Brooks' claim of having to educate "everybody else's children," the
Supreme Court in 1982 ruled in Plyler v. Doe that any child living  in the U.S.,
whether here legally or illegally, has a right to a free public education.
Alabama's law  attempted to get around that fact by not blocking enrollment, but
by requiring the student and/or parent upon enrollment to provide proof of
citizenship as a way to track the number of illegal immigrant students.

Of course fear, not facts, is  driving Alabama's law and its sister laws.  The
same fear, no doubt,  moved FAIR founder John Tanton to write in a 1993 letter
that his goal is to keep the United States "a European-American majority, and a
clear one at that."  Supporters of Alabama's law also claim that undocumented
workers are taking jobs away from American citizens. But Tanton and FAIR should
rest easy. Alabama and its deep South neighbors still have solid white
majorities. Hispanics make up only 3.9% of Alabama's  population, according to
the  Census Bureau. Florida (23%), Georgia (9%), Tennessee (5%) and Mississippi
(3%) are just as safe.

Some rise up despite bias

But the Tantons and Brookses of the world should remember that some of our
society's greatest contributors have been victims of discrimination.  Survivors
of Jim Crow have become some of our nation's most important leaders in business,
science, academics and entertainment. Many  future leaders are now being
subjected to Juan Crow  when what they should be given is a fair and reasonable
path to citizenship.

I recently met two of them -- sisters Kelly and Nelly (I am not giving their
last name because of their immigration status.) -- who crossed the Mexico-U.S.
border five years ago with their parents, struggling farmers from the small city
of Cuerna Vaca. For now, despite the law, their family is opting to stay in
Alabama.

"My parents told us we had to come," said Kelly, the oldest at 18. "They didn't
want the same thing for us."

"We want a better life," said  Nelly, 15.

Hopefully, they'll still have one -- as long as our bigotry and fears don't get
the best of us.

David Person is the host of WEUPTalk on WEUP-AM in Huntsville, Ala., a freelance
arts reporter for National Public Radio and a member of USA TODAY's Board of
Contributors.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 27, 2012 Friday
                                 CHASE EDITION

Aiding enemy charge kept in WikiLeaks case

BYLINE: John Bacon with staff and wire reports

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 604 words


A military judge refused Thursday to dismiss the most serious charge against an
Army private accused of leaking thousands of pages of government secrets to the
WikiLeaks website.

Col. Denise Lind ruled against a defense motion seeking to dismiss the charge of
"aiding the enemy." The charge carries a maximum penalty of life in prison. Lind
was presiding over a pretrial hearing at Fort Meade in Maryland.

The defense had argued the charge didn't show that Pfc. Bradley Manning intended
to help al-Qaeda when he allegedly sent classified information to the
anti-secrecy website. Prosecutors said Manning knew al-Qaeda members would view
the website, regardless of his intentions. Manning also faces 21 other counts.

ACLU targets Border Patrol traffic stops

The American Civil Liberties Union sued the U.S. Border Patrol seeking to bar
agents from making traffic stops and questioning people "without reasonable
suspicion."

The lawsuit, filed for  one black and two Hispanic men, stems from tensions
between immigrants and the expanded presence of Border Patrol agents on
Washington state's Olympic Peninsula. "People are being stopped based solely on
their appearance and ethnicity," said Matt Adams of the Northwest Immigrant
Rights Project. The Border Patrol did not immediately respond but  has said its
mandate is to enforce immigration laws and protect the borders.

Most guns seized in Mexico from U.S.

More than two-thirds of the 99,000 firearms seized by the Mexican government
over the past five years have been traced to the U.S., the Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives said.

The weapons were either  manufactured in the U.S. or initially imported into the
U.S. by a federal firearms licensee, ATF said.  Since 2007, the trace data show
the recovered weapons in Mexico have been shifting from handguns to high-powered
rifles, including AK-47s. The U.S. has long been a source of guns used in
Mexico's violent drug war. --Kevin Johnson

Edwards' ex-aide: Funds built home

John Edwards' former aide acknowledged  that much of nearly $1million in
campaign supporters' cash went to build his North Carolina dream house, not to
buy the silence of the 2008 presidential candidate's pregnant mistress.

Andrew Young testified at Edwards' campaign-finance-fraud trial, peppered with
questions from Edwards' attorney Abbe Lowell about money from two donors that
flowed into personal accounts controlled by Young and his wife. Young said the
checks  were mixed with the couple's other house funds, much of which went into
their $1.5million  house on 10 acres near Chapel Hill.

Judge rejects Florida drug testing

A federal judge declared Florida Gov. Rick Scott's order requiring drug testing
for some 85,000 state workers unconstitutional, saying the Republican governor
showed no evidence of a drug problem to warrant suspicionless testing.

Scott, who suspended drug testing for state employees in June, said he will
appeal.  The ruling marks the second blow to Scott's proposals regarding drug
testing. A federal judge in Orlando has temporarily blocked a state law that
required drug testing for welfare recipients.

Next mission for shuttle Enterprise: NYC

The space shuttle Enterprise is scheduled to arrive in New York City today,
riding atop a modified jumbo jet. Its trip was to include low-altitude flyovers
of the city and landmarks including the Statue of Liberty and the Intrepid Sea,
Air and Space Museum on Manhattan's west side.

The shuttle prototype was housed at the Smithsonian  near Washington, D.C., but
will soon be housed at the Intrepid.  The museum anticipates opening the exhibit
to the public in July.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 30, 2012 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Unvaccinated child threat is merely a scare tactic

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 280 words


How can an unvaccinated child put all children's health at risk ("Vt. debates
letting parents say no to vaccines," USATODAY.com, Monday)?

If your child is fully immunized, then theoretically he or she is  at no risk.
This means that the only risk is  to unvaccinated children.  It is a parent's
right to decide whether the benefits of immunization outweigh the possible
negative reactions to a vaccine. Only a parent's love should make that decision.
No one should be forced to do anything that  he does not believe in.  Wake up,
parents. If you believe in vaccinations, then do it. If you do not, then don't.

But don't say that an unvaccinated child puts yours at risk. This is a  scare
tactic to ensure that the pharmaceutical companies keep the money rolling in.

Dana Busson

Doylestown, Ohio

Asking for ID not profiling

USA TODAY's  editorial on the Arizona immigration law was off the mark
("Arizona's anti-immigrant law might be legal, but it's not smart," Our view,
Immigration debate, Thursday).

I live in Arizona and frequently drive to California. I am stopped at  border
checkpoints. Even though my car has a Department of Defense decal, and I show
both an Arizona  license and military ID, I am still asked whether I am a U.S.
citizen. I am not being stopped for any reason except that I am driving on I-8,
I-10 or I-19.

What is so bad about asking for identification if  stopped for a legitimate
reason? We have many accidents and fatalities caused by unlicensed, illegal
immigrants. If a person cannot show proper ID,  that might be a reason to
suspect he or she is here illegally. That is not racial profiling, just good
police work.

Raymond D. Trombino

Green Valley, Ariz.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 7, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Many migrants get care in field;
'Climate of fear' from crackdowns keeps farmworkers from seeking services

BYLINE: Phil Galewitz, Kaiser Health News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 861 words


Many of the Mexican men and women picking green beans, peaches and strawberries
in this lush, southeast corner of the state are fearful about seeking health
care since a tough new immigration law was enacted last year.

Marisela Clemente, outreach coordinator from Slocomb Family Health Center, is
trying to ease those fears one farm at a time. She joins eight workers taking a
break  at 150-acre Aplin Farms.  After joking with the men and women in Spanish,
she asks about  their health and urges them to visit the nearby migrant clinic,
where the staff speaks Spanish and doesn't require proof of citizenship.

"We have to go to them because they are afraid to come here to the clinic," says
Clemente.

Such clinics, part of a 50-year-old federal program that treats migrant and
seasonal farmworkers, have become flash points in the national immigration
debate.

Local, state and federal law enforcement authorities have staked out some
migrant clinics, detained staff taking patients to medical appointments and set
up roadblocks near their facilities and health fairs as part of immigration
crackdowns, according to federal reports and interviews with clinic officials in
Alabama, Arizona, Florida, Georgia, New York and North Carolina.

"We are looking at a growing climate of fear where folks really think long and
hard about accessing basic services," says Milton Butterworth, who oversees
outreach migrant health services for Blue Ridge Community Health Services in
Hendersonville, N.C.

Even many legal workers do not seek care at the health centers because they are
fearful of exposing family members who are not legal residents, says Tara Plese,
a spokeswoman for the Arizona Association of Community Health Centers. "It's a
big concern from a public health perspective."

Those concerns include making sure farmworkers' children are vaccinated,
stopping the spread of infectious diseases such as AIDS and treating those with
chronic problems such as diabetes, officials say.

Backers of the nation's 156 migrant clinics say caring for all farmworkers  is a
humane way to treat 3 million people toiling at the heart of the nation's food
supply. About half are illegal immigrants, according to the latest federal
survey  in 2009.

Federal aid opposed

Conservative groups say the federal government shouldn't pay for those here
illegally, except in emergency cases. "These people have a responsibility to
take care of their own health needs," says Ira Mehlman, spokesman for the
Federation for American Immigration Reform, a group seeking stricter immigration
laws.

In 2010, the federal government spent $166 million to help care for nearly
900,000 migrant farmworkers, who pay on a sliding scale. A visit in southeast
Alabama averages $30.

A report in November found that immigration enforcement fears kept workers from
getting care at centers in Alabama, Florida and Georgia.

"There have been credible reports of roadblocks and raids near health clinics,
giving farmworkers good reason to be afraid," said the report by the Florida
Association of Community Health Centers. It said 82% of surveyed migrant
providers indicated that in the past year "there have been incidents of
farmworkers or immigrants in their area being arrested or intercepted in the
process of accessing healthcare services."

In December, a caseworker for Finger Lakes Migrant & Community Health in Upstate
New York was pulled over by federal border patrol agents while driving two
farmworkers to a dentist. She was handcuffed, detained for several hours and
accused of transporting illegal immigrants. The farmworkers were taken to a
detention center. The caseworker wasn't arrested, but the incident shook up the
staff, CEO Mary Zelazny says.

Daniel Hiebert, U.S. Border Patrol deputy chief patrol agent in Buffalo, says
the case was a "single incident," and not part of a crackdown on  care
providers. But he notes that it is illegal to transport illegal immigrants,
whether knowingly or not.

Gillian Christensen, a spokeswoman for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
denies that her agency targets clinics to find illegal immigrants.

Outreach is pivotal

Since Alabama's law took effect in September (several provisions are blocked
pending court review),  the Slocomb Family Center has  seen a change: The
clinic's annual health fair at a local church in September drew 74 people, down
from 300 in previous years.

"People feared immigration services would be there," says Melissa Bradford of
Southeast Alabama Rural Health Associates, which runs the center.

Maria Lopez, who has worked at Aplin Farms for several years, says the center
helped treat her back pain and arthritis. "They are very good for me," she says.

John Aplin, whose family owns Aplin Farms, says he welcomes outreach staff
because they help keep his workers healthy. Noting that state troopers have set
up nearby roadblocks, he adds: "They say they are looking for drugs, but we know
who they are really looking for."

Kaiser Health News is an editorially independent program of the Henry J. Kaiser
Family Foundation, a non-profit, non-partisan health policy research and
communication organization not affiliated with Kaiser Permanente.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 24, 2012 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Hispanics, police at odds in Ala.;
Implementing immigration law has some complaining of harassment

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 577 words


As Arizona law enforcement and state officials prepare to implement a section of
its immigration law that was upheld by the U.S. Supreme Court last month, they
could use the experience of Alabama as a guide.

Six states, including Alabama, have passed laws in the past two years that
require local police officers to check the immigration status of suspects if the
officer believes the person may be in the country illegally. Judges blocked five
of those states from implementing their laws, including SB 1070 in Arizona,
which ended up before the  U.S. Supreme Court. But a federal judge in Alabama
issued a ruling in September that allowed that state's law to go into effect.

More than nine months later, Hispanic residents complain that they're subjected
to constant harassment and racial profiling by police and state officials. Civil
rights groups set up a hotline in the state, and more than 6,000 people have
called in with complaints, said Mary Bauer, legal director of the Southern
Poverty Law Center, which has helped file lawsuits to block state immigration
laws.

"And this is a state with a tiny immigrant and Latino population," Bauer said.
"I imagine this playing out in a state like Arizona, and it's just incredibly
heartbreaking to imagine the many people who will be subjected to this
treatment."

Law enforcement agencies from around the state of Alabama say their officers
have implemented the new law responsibly and have not engaged in racial
profiling. Officials with the state attorney general's office and state
Department of Homeland Security say they have received no formal complaints from
immigrants about the law.

Leah Garner, a spokeswoman for Homeland Security, said officers have been
trained on how to develop the "reasonable suspicion" they need to initiate an
immigration check and have been properly warned that racial profiling will not
be tolerated.

"We haven't received any complaints," she said. "Most people in Alabama
appreciate this law and support it."

The law did not require police agencies to report the number of times their
officers use the new law, so there are no numbers on how often Alabama officers
have used it -- but  some law enforcement officials say  the law has been
harmful to Hispanics.

Ron Tyler, the police chief in Florence, said the small Hispanic community in
his city of 39,000 people has "gone underground," refusing to report crimes out
of fear that officers will arrest them or their family on immigration charges.

"There's a great deal of distrust between the Hispanic community and law
enforcement anyway. Then you place this law on top of that and it's enhanced the
issue of under-reporting," Tyler said. "There are certainly politics involved in
whether they should be here or not. But the fact is, we're just trying to serve
humanity. If they need help or there's a crime going on, we want to know about
that so we can respond."

Natividad Gonzalez of Maplesville said she has seen  that fear of police playing
out each day.

She said many people from her community have left the state, and those who
remain have adopted habits that reduce their exposure to police.

She said that's a huge change from life before the law, when the Hispanic
community had a good relationship with police.

"The police were always very nice. They didn't bother (us); they didn't care if
we were legal or illegal," she said. "But after the law, I don't know if they're
forced or what, but they've been going after Latinos."

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo By Mickey Welsh, AP In Montgomery, Ala.: Alabama Capitol Police
handcuff immigration law protesters May 16 outside the Senate chamber.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NATION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 6, 2012 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration policy review delayed;
Program for screening now in 97% of agencies

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, @alangomez, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 541 words


Seventeen months have passed since the Department of Homeland Security announced
it would create an internal civil rights review of the Obama administration's
signature immigration enforcement program,  but now  department officials cannot
say when, or if, they will complete it.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Director John Morton announced in June
2011 that his agency would create a statistical monitoring tool to ensure that
law enforcement agencies were not using the Secure Communities program to engage
in racial profiling. The program screens all people booked into local jails for
federal immigration violations.  Despite calls from a Homeland Security task
force and outside groups to complete the review, officials are not sure when
that will be possible.

"Certain data collection factors have created challenges, delaying the
completion of this model," Homeland Security spokesman Matt Chandler said. He
said they are working "diligently" to find an effective way to monitor for civil
rights abuses.

People booked into  jails  have their fingerprints sent to the FBI to check
their criminal background. Under the Secure Communities program, those
fingerprints are then sent to Homeland Security to check for immigration
violations. People who are flagged are then examined by ICE  and could be
deported.

The program, created in 2008 under President George W. Bush and embraced by the
Obama administration, has expanded rapidly. It is now active in 97% of local law
enforcement agencies with the goal of 100% participation by 2013.

Several reports have found considerable flaws in the program.

An October 2011 study by researchers at the University of California-Berkeley
that examined a random sampling of people arrested under Secure Communities
found that about 3,600 U.S. citizens had been erroneously arrested by ICE. The
report also concluded that Hispanics were disproportionally targeted through
Secure Communities -- 93% of people arrested were Hispanics, even though they
make up 77% of the illegal immigrant population.

Another review in September 2011 by a Homeland Security advisory council raised
similar concerns. Half of the 14-member review panel said the program was so
flawed it should be suspended until it could be fixed.

"Task Force members believe that it makes little sense to expand a program that
many community leaders and elected officials consider deeply flawed, especially
as to its impact on community policing and civil rights," the report found.

Since then, officials in various jurisdictions in the U.S. have pushed back
against the program.  The California Legislature passed the TRUST Act, which
would have limited the state's cooperation with Secure Communities, but Gov.
Jerry Brown vetoed it Sept. 30.

"Here we are a year and a half after this review was begun, and I had expected
to see results by now," said Brittney Nystrom, director of policy and legal
affairs for the National Immigration Forum, a Washington-based think tank. "This
statistical oversight piece was the lynchpin of the assurances that (Homeland
Security) was going to operate this program in a way that respected civil rights
and civil liberties. So the fact that we haven't seen any results from that
project concerns me."

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 9, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration views didn't cost Romney

BYLINE: Steven Camarota

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 387 words


It's silly to think that Mitt Romney's support for immigration enforcement cost
him the election. He explicitly called for increased legal immigration, so his
position was ambiguous at best. Enforcement remains very popular.

On Election Day, strong pro-enforcement Republican candidates won across the
board in heavily Hispanic areas, including Senate candidates Dean Heller in
Nevada and Ted Cruz in Texas. Even controversial Sheriff Joe Arpaio won in
Arizona.

The election was about the economy. The great untold story of the current
downturn is that what little job growth there's been has largely gone to
immigrants. Government data show that two-thirds of employment growth since the
president took office went to immigrants, legal and illegal.

In fact, for more than a decade, most of the employment growth has been going to
immigrants. As immigration has grown, the share of working-age Americans (18 to
65) holding a job has declined -- from 76% in 2000 to  69% now. Incomes have
also declined over the past decade.

There is good research showing that immigration reduces wages and employment for
native-born workers. While there is debate among economists about immigration,
it is clear that there is no general labor shortage that justifies allowing 7
million to 8 million illegal workers to remain in the country. It is also
difficult to justify bringing in 1.1 million new legal immigrants annually.

Unemployment averages roughly 20%  among the young and less-educated who compete
with illegal immigrants. There are millions of unemployed Americans in such
immigrant-heavy occupations  as building cleaning, maintenance, construction and
food service. Yet Romney never  mentioned that immigration is a jobs issue.

Pro-enforcement Democrats and Republicans in Congress need to stay focused on
jobs by passing legislation that requires employers to use E-Verify, which
checks workers' legal status. They should also make it easier for local law
enforcement to work with immigration authorities, and create a better  system to
track which temporary visitors overstay their visas.

We also need a long, hard look at whether it makes sense to continue the visa
lottery and the chain-migration categories, which bring in extended family
members.

Steven Camarota is director of research at the Center for Immigration Studies.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Dave Seibert, AP Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio was
re-elected Tuesday in Arizona.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 9, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Election creates a catalyst for immigration reform

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 611 words


In a moment of unusual candor during an interview last month with The Des Moines
Register, President Obama allowed that if he won re-election, a major reason
would be the low opinion that Latino voters had of the Republican Party, thanks
largely to its harsh stances on immigration.

Obama's political analysis proved spot on. Had Mitt Romney taken the 44% of the
Hispanic vote that George W. Bush took in 2004, rather than the 27% that he
actually got, the political landscape would look very different today. Romney
would have won the popular vote by about 1 million votes, rather than having
lost it by about 3 million. Those votes would have shifted  Florida,  Colorado
Nevada and potentially other battleground states into the Republican column.

The GOP surely can't miss the message: The party's unpopularity with Latinos is
undermining its candidates' ability to win the White House. There could hardly
be a better catalyst for  a new beginning for comprehensive immigration reform.

When last seen, comprehensive reform was being pushed by Bush, who had come from
the Texas statehouse, where he developed a keen understanding of border issues
and politics. But Bush was thwarted by  Republican hard-liners insistent on an
enforcement-only approach.

The 2012 election offers a prime opportunity to break the gridlock.

As before, reform should begin with tough border enforcement, and with cracking
down on employers who knowingly violate the law by hiring illegal workers. The
GOP already has that part right.  The United States is a nation of laws, and
they should be enforced.

But  enforcement  needs to be combined with other  measures: a guest-worker
program and, more controversially, a path to legal status for those already here
illegally who pay their taxes and stay out of trouble.

Yes, the opponents will scream about "amnesty," but the fact is that about 11
million people reside in the U.S. illegally. That's about the population of the
biggest battleground state in the election, Ohio. Most are not going to
"self-deport," as Romney put it during the Republican primaries. Romney also
turned off Hispanic voters with his strong opposition to the DREAM Act, sensible
legislation that would provide a route to permanent legal status for illegal
immigrants brought to this country as children, as long as they meet certain
conditions such as going to college or serving in the military.

Efforts to bring illegal immigrants into the mainstream would give them greater
freedom to start businesses, return to school to acquire skills, participate
more fully in their communities and contribute more to economic growth.
Employers would be freer to find help that in many instances is in short supply,
particularly manual laborers such as migrant farm workers.

Even if some politicians don't grasp the benefits of reform, most voters seem
to. In Tuesday's  exit polls, 65% said illegal workers should be offered a
chance to apply for legal status, versus 28% who said they should be deported.

Democrats, meanwhile, need to accept aggressive enforcement, not interpret the
election as reason to abandon it. That should allow Republicans to return to
what was mainstream thinking not so long ago.

Already, some conservative leaders, including Utah Attorney General Mark
Shurtleff, are pushing for change. There is talk of assembling a  coalition of
evangelicals, law enforcement and corporate groups (or, as one conservative put
it, "bibles, badges and businesses") to counter the harsh anti-immigrant voices.

As Republican lawmakers return to Washington, they should recognize that a new
approach would help the party rebuild. More important, it would help America
prosper.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: graphic

DOCUMENT-TYPE: OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 5, 2012 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration reform debate shifts towards compromise

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 577 words


The Dallas Morning News, editorial: "Any Republican movement toward reforming
our broken immigration system will be viewed with some suspicion. Constituencies
that most ardently want change, particularly Hispanics, were instrumental in
voting Democrat Barack Obama a second term. Is a softening of the GOP's
traditional hard line a political calculation? Quite possibly. Still, movement
is movement and should not be slapped down reflexively."

Neil Munro, The Daily Caller, "Former president George W. Bush ambled back into
the spotlight Tuesday to laud legal immigration, a decade after he helped
inflate the real-estate bubble to its 2007 peak while trying to boost home
ownership among Hispanics. 'America is a nation of immigrants. ... Immigrants
can help build a dynamic tomorrow. ... They invigorate our soul,' Bush said."

The Denver Post, editorial: "The nine principles for immigration reform released
by the Congressional Hispanic Caucus last week mark a thoughtful starting point
for discussion about how to craft such a measure. It says illegal immigrants
ought to register with the federal government, undergo a criminal background
check and learn English. They should pay all taxes and be in a position to earn
permanent residency and eventually citizenship.   It includes a guest-worker
program, accommodates bright foreign students in math and sciences, and endorses
border security and employer verification efforts."

Esther J. Cepeda, Albuquerque Journal: "The Congressional Hispanic Caucus
announced its broad principles for an immigration reform plan. I can anticipate
the howls of disdain once details emerge because we've heard them before. The
first tenet alone has the potential to divide proponents. It asks for
'undocumented immigrants in the U.S. to register with the federal government,
submit to fingerprinting and a criminal background check, learn English and
American civics, and pay taxes to contribute fully and legally to our economy
and earn a path to permanent residency and eventual citizenship.' There will be
show-stopping concerns that registration will put immigrants at risk for
deportation, that the criminal background checks will be faulty and fears that
English and civics exams will disqualify people."

Jack Turnage, The Christian Science Monitor: "Young adults on the whole view the
GOP's attitude on gay rights as less an attempt to protect the institution of
marriage than bigotry, and its stances on women's health and immigration more
civil rights assaults than sober conservatism. I do not know a single one of my
peers -- Republican or Democrat -- who would be willing to defend the GOP's full
social plank."

L. Gordon Crovitz, The Wall Street Journal: "Allowing skilled immigrants to stay
in the U.S. would fill the hundreds of thousands of job vacancies expected in
the sciences and technology. An increase in skilled immigrants would jump-start
the economy. They would support the housing market by increasing demand. The
best way to raise tax revenues is by adding new workers paying taxes.   The U.S.
has long been a haven for immigrants, giving the country a comparative advantage
in attracting talented people.   Human capital will keep coming only so long as
the U.S. has the wisdom to reopen its borders."

Twitter

I'm happy to be an "evangelist for the elusive matter of immigration reform" --
because it is important

@SteveCase

Immigration was one issue Bush '43 had right. GOP should listen!

@GovGaryJohnson

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Cliff Owen, AP Members of immigration rights organizations
demonstrate in front of the White House on Nov. 8.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: OPINIONLINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 10, 2012 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

In lobbyists' sights: Immigration;
Dollars start to flow as issue heads back to Congress

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, @alangomez, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 826 words


As Congress prepares to tackle the thorny topic of immigration, the central
issues may not have not changed much since its last attempt at legislation
failed in 2007.

But Jennifer Korn, executive director of the conservative Hispanic Leadership
Network, said the motivations to change the nation's law on legal and illegal
immigration has definitely changed.

"There's two things that speak to elected officials: One is money, and the other
is the vote," said Korn, who was President George W. Bush's director of Hispanic
and Women's Affairs during the 2007 negotiations.

The election results provided all the attention needed to the importance of the
Hispanic vote. President Obama beat out Republican challenger Mitt Romney
71%-27% among Hispanics, and Republicans, led by House Speaker John Boehner,
have since embraced the need to alter the nation's immigration laws.

And now comes the money.

Shortly after the election, a group of influential Republicans announced the
creation of Republicans for Immigration Reform, a super PAC designed to help GOP
members of Congress who support a comprehensive immigration solution. It was
created by Carlos Gutierrez, former Commerce secretary for Bush, and Charlie
Spies, the treasurer of Restore our Future, the primary super PAC that backed
Romney's presidential campaign.

"There's never been money put behind this to really have an impact and have
influence and have some dollars behind the effort," Gutierrez said. "That's what
we plan to do with the super PAC."

Persuading enough Republicans to embrace any plan that includes the legalization
of the nation's 11 million illegal immigrants will be at the heart of the
immigration debate. Many in the party, including Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, and
Rep. Steve King, R-Iowa, decry such attempts as "amnesty" for people who have
broken the nation's laws.

And while Democrats have embraced a plan that includes a path to citizenship for
illegal immigrants, a group of powerful Hispanic Democrats are creating their
own organization to hammer the point home.

Led by actress Eva Longoria, San Antonio architect Henry Muoz and Democratic
National Committee member Andres Lopez,  all fundraisers for Obama, the group
will focus on delivering their message on immigration legislation to voters
around the country. "In politics, it's all about right timing. And this is an
idea whose time has come," Lopez said.

Lobbying and advocating for immigration legislation  has always been a unique
endeavor, bringing in a wide, varied group of interests who usually don't share
much in common. For example, business leaders have worked closely with groups
they usually don't get along with.

"The (U.S. Chamber of Commerce) has long had a working relationship with the
unions and liberal groups in support of comprehensive immigration reform, in
which we have often allied with the Democrats," said Chamber Vice President
Randy Johnson. "But we recognize that a bill has to be bipartisan, and we will
spend time working both sides."

Agricultural companies looking for reliable workers from Central and South
America have worked with high-tech business leaders looking for computer
engineers from China and India.

On Dec. 4, the National Immigration Forum hosted a conference in Washington
where  religious leaders joined law enforcement officials to call for a pathway
to citizenship for illegal immigrants. While the pastors were explaining the
moral imperative of treating those immigrants fairly, the police chiefs were
explaining how legalization would help them fight crime.

Bringing together so many voices also leads to major headaches.

Vivek Wadhwa, a former Silicon Valley entrepreneur who is now a fellow at
Stanford Law School, said entrepreneurs developing smaller start-up companies
are being drowned out by larger companies. In 2012,  Obama's  campaign received
more than $7 million from tech  companies, according to the non-partisan Center
for Responsive Politics.

"The big companies have hired their Washington, D.C., people. They have their
lobbyists," Wadhwa said. "But Microsoft doesn't speak to represent the start-ups
here. The students at Stanford, the venture capitalists and the angel investors
-- there's no one to speak on their behalf."

One constant throughout the process has been the illegal immigrants themselves
and groups who advocate on their behalf. Young illegal immigrants won a victory
earlier this year when Obama announced that he would halt the deportations of
many of them. And many feel that momentum, and that experience, can help carry
through to a broader bill putting most of the 11 million immigrants living in
the U.S. illegally on a pathway to citizenship.

"There are deeper roots in affected communities, and there's a more active base
than there might have been in 2007," said B. Loewe, spokesman for the National
Day Laborer Organizing Network. "Now you see sustained and ongoing organizing
and community-levelinfrastructure around this issue."

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 21, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A kinder, gentler immigration system?

BYLINE: Raul Reyes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 447 words


This country's immigration detention system has been a stain on the American
fabric. The good news: The stain may soon begin to fade.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Assistant Secretary John Morton
recently announced plans to reform the system that houses more than 30,000
people on any given day. The agency wants to go from a jail-oriented approach --
think prisons -- to one  designed to humanely house people until their status is
settled.

The T. Don Hutto center in Taylor, Texas, has been a poster child for a broken
system. Built as a state prison, Hutto was used as a family detention center.
Children lived behind barbed wire, wore prison uniforms and received an hour of
school a day. The American Civil Liberties Union filed a lawsuit against the
government on their behalf, and conditions improved once a settlement was
reached in 2007. ICE's Morton said that effective immediately, no more families
will be sent to Hutto.

Of course ICE could -- and should -- do more. Detainee facilities that violate
agency standards face no penalties, echoing  a July decision by the Department
of Homeland Security that such standards are not legally enforceable. Without
penalties, standards are mere goals that can be easily disregarded. Detainees
are the only ones who stand to pay.

Repeated studies have  documented poor conditions, ranging from a lack of due
process to detainee abuses. Fortunately,  an ICE pilot program is looking at
alternatives to detention, such as  electronic monitoring that includes
reporting requirements and curfews. According to agency statistics, the program
has resulted in a 99% appearance rate at immigration hearings and a 91%
compliance with removal orders in the 12 test cities.   An expansion  seems like
a no-brainer.

ICE's small steps are a good start toward  fixing the detention system, which is
as dysfunctional as our immigration system. And no, this doesn't mean opening up
our borders, as the anti-immigrant crowd might fear.    "We are going to
continue to detain people on a large scale," ICE's Morton noted. As strategy,
though, continued and aggressive enforcement could give the Obama administration
the leverage it needs to sell comprehensive reform to a wary public next year.

With Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano on the job for all of eight
months now, it's only fair to give her more time to assess what's needed to
enforce our immigration laws.  Let's hope the former Arizona governor applies
her knowledge of the border to the compassionate fabric of this great country.

Oh, and maybe she'll get that stain out after all.

Raul Reyes is an attorney in New York and a member of USA TODAY's board of
contributors.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 13, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Don't let illegal immigrants take stimulus jobs

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 432 words


The USA TODAY article "Stimulus law may allow illegal workers to take jobs"
summarizes yet another way illegal immigrants are stealing from honest,
hardworking citizens (News, Monday).

The stimulus package is being paid for by U.S. taxpayers and is for the benefit
of this nation's citizens. The stimulus package is not intended as free funding
for illegal immigrants who are ruining our schools, cities, health care system
and the very sovereignty of the United States.

Enough is enough. I ask my fellow citizens of the United States to insist their
representatives in Congress uphold their oath of office and enforce the laws of
the USA. Direct your representative/senator to support E-Verify, an effective
tool to prevent illegal immigrants from taking U.S. jobs. If we do not protect
our sovereignty, there will be no United Sates.

James Connors

Lake Geneva, Wis.

Immigration scare tactics

It is disappointing that USA TODAY's article "Stimulus law may allow illegal
workers to take jobs" relied so heavily upon data from the Center for
Immigration Studies (CIS). There are other experts doing credible research who
would have presented a more balanced story.

CIS' estimates of the number of undocumented workers who will take stimulus jobs
rely upon mischaracterizations of government projections and outdated estimates
of the undocumented workforce. More important, the center's magic solution is
E-Verify, an electronic work verification system that the government has found
to be problematic.  Government studies and independent audits have found that
E-Verify is error-prone, costly and vulnerable to employer misuse.

Perhaps the biggest problem is that E-Verify does not effectively prevent
unauthorized workers from obtaining jobs. Also, because we have so many
undocumented immigrants, E-Verify is simply not enough. Right now, anyone with
"good" fraudulent documents can get through the system, and any unscrupulous
employer can simply go around the system to hire exploitable labor. E-Verify
must be significantly improved before we can consider expanding it as part of a
larger immigration reform.

Yes, undocumented immigration is a problem. But simply slapping an expensive
Band-Aid on the problem is not a solution. In order to ensure that U.S. citizens
and legal immigrants get the jobs they deserve, we must address the broken
immigration system, legalize our workforce and enforce labor laws against
bad-apple employers who take advantage of the broken system. Scaring us with big
numbers is not a solution.

Michele Waslin

Senior policy analyst

Immigration Policy Center

Washington, D.C.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Joe Raedle, Getty Images

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 25, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration issue is a red herring

BYLINE: Raul Reyes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 417 words


Enough about  Joe Wilson. The South Carolina Republican congressman's recent
outburst calling President Obama a liar for saying his health care plan denies
coverage to undocumented workers has  obscured the sad truth  about Latinos and
health care.

How dire is the problem? The National Council of La Raza, the USA's largest
Latino advocacy group, has found that Latinos are more likely to be uninsured
than any other racial or ethnic group. About one in seven Americans are Latinos,
but Latinos account for one in three of the uninsured (though, granted, those
numbers include undocumented immigrants). Why such a high rate?  Financial
constraints, language and cultural barriers, and the fact that we are less
likely to receive employee-sponsored health coverage.

What would be tragic is if the side issue of coverage for undocumented workers
helps derail this serious attempt to fix the system for all Americans.  Obama,
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and the Congressional Hispanic Caucus all favor
reform benefiting only citizens and legal residents. One section of the House
bill is explicitly labeled "No Federal Payment For Undocumented Aliens."

Just to be safe, the Senate is tweaking its proposal to close loopholes,
including considering additional requirements for proof of citizenship.

This should be enough to satisfy even the toughest critics. And for those who
can't get past the thought that illegal immigrants want to get free government
benefits, consider that in 2005, the U.S. spent $8.3 million to tighten
Medicaid's citizenship verification processes. Two years later, a House
committee reviewed the results in six states and found a total of eight illegal
immigrants had been caught unlawfully enrolled in the program. So enough with
the hyperbole.

The undocumented tend to avoid interaction with the government out of fear of
detection. In a 2006 study, the  Kaiser Commission found that non-citizens
received less primary care than citizens, and yet were still less likely to use
the emergency room.

Wilson's unseemly eruption demonstrates that anger over illegal immigration
isn't going away.  Still,  the question of coverage for the undocumented worker
would be better settled with  immigration reform.

I understand that there are some folks who like to blame illegal immigrants for
all the ills in American society. But the responsibility for our broken health
care system is ours, and ours alone.

Raul Reyes is an attorney in New York and a member of USA TODAY's board of
contributors.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 2, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Obama: Move forward on immigration;
He urges Congress to fix system

BYLINE: Mimi Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 463 words


WASHINGTON -- President Obama called on Congress Thursday to cast aside
political pettiness and fear to repair a "broken and dangerous" immigration
system that he said demonizes millions of undocumented workers, undermines
border security efforts and "makes a mockery" of legal immigration.

"The natural impulse among those who run for office is to turn away and defer
this question for another day, or another year, or another administration,"
Obama said in the first major speech of his presidency on the subject.

He challenged Republicans to support legislation that would beef up border
security, hold employers accountable and offer a path to citizenship for about
11 million people living in the USA illegally.

"I'm ready to move forward, the majority of Democrats are ready to move forward,
and I believe the majority of Americans are ready to move forward," he told an
audience of supporters at American University.

Obama didn't offer any new ideas or propose a strategy or timetable for passage.

Some Republicans accused Obama of engaging in crass election-year politics.
Control of Congress will be at stake when voters go to the polls in November,
and they said he was motivated by vulnerable Democrats' desperation to win
Hispanic votes. "The president's call for immigration reform is little more than
cynical political pandering to his left-wing political base," Sen. Orrin Hatch,
R-Utah, said.

Like other conservatives, Hatch said the government should focus first on
securing the border: "When the house is on fire, you don't try to fix the
plumbing. ... Hardened criminals, gangs, drug dealers and human traffickers are
crossing the border."

Alfonso Aguilar, who served as director of the government's Office of
Citizenship under President George W. Bush, said Obama delivered a "purely
political" speech. Come November, he said, Democrats "are concerned that Latino
voters will stay at home or vote Republican."

Obama cited other factors in the push for an immigration solution, including
passage in Arizona of a controversial law that requires police to question the
status of those they stop for other reasons if they suspect they are in the
country illegally.

The president's backers sought to portray an image of support that extends
beyond traditional Democratic boundaries. Among those who spoke at a news
conference immediately after the event: Salt Lake City Police Chief Chris
Burbank, National Association of Evangelicals President Leith Anderson and
Michael Bloomberg, the Republican-turned-independent mayor of New York City.

Burbank said laws such as Arizona's are a "wedge driven between our communities
and law enforcement." Anderson praised Obama for his leadership on a "biblical"
issue. Bloomberg said an immigration overhaul is critical for the economy.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Saul Loeb, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 22, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Dobbs, Whitman reflect illegals reality

BYLINE: Raul Reyes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 400 words


An investigative piece published recently by The Nation revealed that Lou Dobbs,
the former CNN host, had at least five illegal immigrants employed on his East
Coast properties and in the stables where his daughter boards horses.

"I had been told they were absolutely legal," Dobbs said on Good Morning
America. Yet he did not deny the assertion that illegal workers were working on
his grounds. Nor did he suggest, as he has in the past, that employers who hire
illegals should face felony charges.

Meanwhile, California gubernatorial candidate Meg Whitman was found to have
employed an undocumented housekeeper for nine years.  The former CEO of eBay
said she had no idea her maid was undocumented.  Like Dobbs, Whitman strongly
believes in holding employers accountable for hiring illegal immigrants.

Sure, Dobbs and Whitman sound hypocritical, but their actions reflect reality.
Whether we like it or not, the U.S. depends on undocumented workers. The fact
that these immigration hard-liners found themselves in embarrassing predicaments
illustrates that illegal labor is almost unavoidably intertwined with our
economy.

For many Americans, just being a homeowner or eating in a restaurant means
you're likely benefiting from illegal immigration. According to the Pew Hispanic
Center, 40% of brick masons, one in four farm workers and 28% of dishwashers are
undocumented. Pew estimates that  8.3 million illegal immigrants are in the U.S.
labor force, most in low-skilled jobs. Yet, the Migration Policy Institute notes
that U.S. policy allows only 150,000 low-skilled workers to be in the country
legally.  Who is doing all that hiring? We are.

I believe Dobbs when he says he never knowingly hired an undocumented worker.
Like millions of Americans, he hired subcontractors and received assurances
everyone was legal. As he pointed out, if he were to insist on reviewing papers
from every Latino who worked on his estates, it would amount to racial
profiling.  Whitman also took reasonable precautions by hiring her housekeeper
through a reliable agency.

Dobbs and Whitman should recognize that illegal immigrants are not invaders.
They are an underclass that is allowed to exist to serve our low-skilled labor
needs. If more of us admitted that we are all part of the problem, maybe we'd
solve our immigration mess.

Raul Reyes is an attorney in New York and a member of USA TODAY's Board of
Contributors.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 8, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Supreme Court to hear Ariz. case;
At issue: Law that targets companies hiring illegal workers

BYLINE: Joan Biskupic

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 528 words


WASHINGTON -- Against the backdrop of a fierce national debate over illegal
immigration, the Supreme Court today will hear a challenge to an Arizona law
that revokes the licenses of companies that hire undocumented workers.

The disputed law is not the most controversial of new Arizona immigration
measures. Earlier this year,  Republican Gov. Jan Brewer signed a law that
requires police to investigate the status of anyone an arresting officer
suspects may be in the U.S. illegally. That law, which provoked criticism from
the Obama administration and others about potential "racial profiling," is
mostly on hold while a constitutional challenge is in lower courts.

Yet, the business case could offer clues to the justices' views related to
Arizona's broader crackdown on immigrants.

"This case may have important ramifications" for the more controversial Arizona
law, observes Georgia State University law professor Neil Kinkopf, because both
measures test divisions between federal and state authority.

A key question is when states may act on immigration, which traditionally has
been the province of Congress.

Today's case specifically tests whether the 2007 Arizona employer penalties are
overridden by U.S. provisions that "pre-empt any state or local law imposing ...
sanctions (other than through licensing ...) upon those who employ" illegal
immigrants. The question is whether the statute is a "licensing" regulation or a
broader measure that usurps federal power.

Another element -- potential discrimination -- looms in challenges to both
Arizona immigration laws.

Washington lawyer Carter Phillips, who represents the Chamber of Commerce and
civil rights groups in the employer-sanctions lawsuit, says Congress wanted
federal uniformity in part because of a "very real fear ...  that
overenforcement of work authorization laws could lead to discrimination based on
national origin.

"If the enforcement people in Maricopa County, for instance, are making
workplace raids, you can be pretty certain that employers are going to start
limiting their hiring to people who will not raise any suspicion."

Arizona officials counter that they simply want to make sure all workers hired
by Arizona companies are legally authorized to work in the country.

State law requires employers to use an otherwise optional federal verification
program. That E-Verify system collects identification and authorization data
from the Social Security Administration and Department of Homeland Security.

State lawyers, led by Solicitor General Mary O'Grady, who will argue the case,
tell the justices that Arizona was responding to an increasing number of people
crossing the border illegally.

She asks the justices to affirm a ruling by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
9th Circuit that the law is only a licensing regulation.

Lawyer Phillips insists the statute does not reflect "any traditional exercise
of licensing authority" and imposes sanctions more severe than under U.S. law.

Joining the challenge is a rare alliance of business groups, including the
Arizona Contractors Association, and civil rights organizations, including the
Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 2, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

How to fix illegal immigration?

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 216 words


Our Twitter followers and readers online shared their thoughts about GOP
presidential candidate Newt Gingrich's immigration proposal. Comments have been
edited for clarity:

I like  Newt Gingrich's plan to let illegal immigrants who have been in the U.S.
for 25 years stay.  We need the workers. I've always liked the guest worker idea
of  George W. Bush.

-- @devlintj

Could we begin by acknowledging two facts? We can't completely seal off our
borders,  and we're not deporting millions of people.

-- @Moonlitechirp

Send illegal immigrants  back.

-- @rosesauto

Make  them legal. Give out a new ID  card that allows guest workers to  travel
back and forth. Have them pay for the card and tax the travel, then  government
can make a profit.   It's only "illegal" because we've made it so.  Think
outside the old mind-set, and make our neighbors our friends.

-- @denizzapizza

I like  Newt Gingrich's solution. Legalize longtime workers with families,
without giving citizenship.  Seal borders.

-- @flatwalk

I would fix what's causing illegal immigration in the first place: Repeal NAFTA
and stabilize Mexico's economy.

-- @DannysKorner

I say meet them at the border, do a background check, assign them a work
number, then let them pay taxes.

-- @t2551044

Join us next week @USATOpinion for another Twitter discussion.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                               May 3, 2010 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Ariz. law runs afoul of Gonzalez, others

BYLINE: Gabe Lacques

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 347 words


Daily Pitch

Major League Baseball, along with other sporting entities, has yet to take an
official stance on a new Arizona law that allows law enforcement officials to
question the immigration status of a person if  they suspect the person is in
the country unlawfully.

Others within the game are starting to feel less bashful in voicing their
opposition.

San Diego Padres first baseman Adrian Gonzalez, a two-time All-Star, told AOL
FanHouse he probably will not attend the 2011 All-Star Game in Phoenix if the
law is in effect. Gonzalez's statement echoed the sentiments of activist groups
and politicians calling on MLB to pull the 2011 All-Star Game from Chase Field.

Friday, MLB Players Association executive director Michael Weiner said the union
opposes the law, citing the potentially negative impact on the hundreds of major
league players who are not U.S. citizens. Arizona Diamondbacks  owner Ken
Kendrick later issued a statement "sharing the same concerns" that Weiner raised
while noting that "the federal government should act swiftly to address the
immigration issue once and for all."

Gonzalez, who was born in San Diego but lived for 13 years in Tijuana, Mexico,
was a bit more pointed.

"I'll support the Players Association 100%," Gonzalez said. "If they leave it up
to the players and the law is still there, I'll probably not play in the
All-Star Game. Because it's a discriminating law. I know it can't be done, but
they should take spring training out of (Arizona) if it's possible."

Several of Gonzalez's teammates  told The San Diego Union-Tribune of their
opposition. Venezuelan catcher Yorvit Torrealba called it "racist stuff," and
closer Heath Bell, the Padres' union representative, said the law's passage was
"mind-boggling."

"I'm half-Mexican myself," said infielder Scott Hairston, a Tucson native who
lives in Arizona. "I definitely disagree with it, can't really see anything
positive about it, and I hope it doesn't lead to a lot of chaos. It just wasn't
necessary to pass a bill like that."

Click here for the latest baseball news

dailypitch.usatoday.com

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Lenny Ignelzi, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 22, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Once-moderate Perry now inflames Latinos

BYLINE: Raul Reyes

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 445 words


The eyes of the Republican Party are on Texas Gov. Rick Perry, who seems to be
inching closer toward announcing a presidential run. Perry has reached out to
donors in New Hampshire, scheduled a trip to South Carolina in August, and last
week told The Des Moines Register  he feels "called" to run for president.

If he  runs,  Perry will be the lone candidate  from a state with a sizable
Latino population. But though Latinos have helped him succeed in Texas, he has
not always returned the favor.

Perry was once a moderate amigo of the Hispanic community. He appointed Texas'
first Latina secretary of state and the first Latina to the Texas Supreme Court.
In 2001, he signed the Texas Dream Act, allowing undocumented students to
qualify for in-state tuition. He called the idea of a border fence "nonsense"
and said that an Arizona-style immigration law would not be a good fit for
Texas. These are all good reasons why Perry won  39% of the Latino vote in the
2010 governor's race.

Since then, Perry has made a sharp right turn, courting Tea Party and
evangelical voters. In the  last legislative session, he pushed a  bill that
would have banned local governments from prohibiting police from asking about
the immigration status of people they detain, despite Latino concerns about
racial profiling. He signed a Voter ID Act, requiring all voters to present
photo identification. Advocacy groups such as the Mexican American Legal Defense
and Educational Fund have denounced this law as an attempt to disenfranchise
minority voters.

Perry's education record is abysmal. In his last budget, he cut $4 billion from
public school funding,  though Texas ranks 44th in per capita expenditure on
students and 43rd in graduation rates.  He has refused to raise taxes or tap a
$9.4 billion rainy day fund for schools.

Perry touts Texas' relatively low unemployment rate and economic growth. True,
the state's unemployment rate is 8.0%,  lower than the national average of 9.2%.
But the Hispanic unemployment rate in Texas is 9.4%. What's more,  Texas ties
Mississippi for having the largest percentage of its population earning minimum
wage. These figures suggest  Hispanics are not fully sharing in the state's
economic prosperity.

In a presidential race, Perry will need to attract Latino voters. If he hopes to
be successful nationally, Perry would do well to look back at his positive track
record on behalf of Texas Latinos when he started out as governor, as opposed to
the detour he took when he began toying with the idea of running for president.
Why mess with a successful formula?

Raul Reyes is an attorney in New York and a member of USA TODAY's Board of
Contributors.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: graphic

DOCUMENT-TYPE: THE FORUM

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'A victory for the rule of law'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 382 words


Gov. Jan Brewer, R-Ariz., issued this statement in response to Monday's Supreme
Court ruling:

Today's decision by the U.S. Supreme Court is a victory for the rule of law. It
is also a victory for the 10th Amendment and all Americans who believe in the
inherent right and responsibility of states to defend their citizens. After more
than two years of legal challenges, the heart of SB 1070 (Arizona's immigration
law) can now be implemented in accordance with the U.S. Constitution.

While we are grateful for this legal victory, today is an opportunity to reflect
on our journey and focus upon the true task ahead: the implementation and
enforcement of this law in an even-handed manner that lives up to our highest
ideals as American citizens. I know the state of Arizona and its law enforcement
officers are up to the task. The case for SB 1070 has always been about our
support for the rule of law. That means every law, including those against both
illegal immigration and racial profiling. Law enforcement will be held
accountable should this statute be misused in a fashion that violates an
individual's civil rights.

The last two years have been spent in preparation for this ruling. Upon signing
SB 1070 in 2010, I issued an executive order directing the Arizona Peace Officer
Standards and Training Board  to develop and provide training to ensure our
officers are prepared to enforce this law efficiently, effectively and in a
manner consistent with the Constitution. In recent days, in anticipation of this
decision, I issued a new executive order asking that this training be made
available once again to all of Arizona's law enforcement officers. I am
confident our officers are prepared to carry out this law responsibly and
lawfully. Nothing less is acceptable.

Of course, today's ruling does not mark the end of our journey. It can be
expected that legal challenges to SB 1070 and the state of Arizona will
continue. Our critics are already preparing new litigation tactics in response
to their loss at the Supreme Court, and undoubtedly will allege inequities in
the implementation of the law. As I said two years ago on the day I signed SB
1070 into law, "We cannot give them that chance. We must use this new tool
wisely, and fight for our safety with the honor Arizona deserves."

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 13, 2008 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Raid takes bite out of kosher-meat supply;
Processor struggles after U.S. sweeps up illegal immigrants

BYLINE: Grant Schulte and Tony Leys

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 414 words


POSTVILLE, Iowa -- Financial problems at the company that was the target of one
of the largest immigration raids in U.S. history have triggered a shortage of
kosher meat and raised prices nationwide.

Six months have passed since U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents
raided Agriprocessors kosher-meat plant here on May 12 and detained 389 illegal
immigrant workers. The company's beef operation has ceased operating, and the
company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy this past week.

The aftermath, observers say, has disrupted the kosher-meat supply and
threatened the town's future.

"This town would be in a world of hurt if that plant closed," said Jeff Mott,
owner of a local hardware store.

Agriprocessors, which revealed in its bankruptcy filing that it owes between $50
million and $100 million to creditors, provided about 60% of the nation's kosher
meat, according to Joe Regenstein, a food-science professor at Cornell
University in Ithaca, N.Y. Prices, as a result, have risen, he said.

The filing shows the largest debt to a single creditor is the $845,000 owed to
Jacobson Staffing Co. of Des Moines, which initially helped provide replacement
staffing, but withdrew its workers for lack of payment.

The plant's financial problems started before the raid, said Republican state
Sen. Mark Zieman. "I haven't understood why they didn't" file for bankruptcy
before, he said.

A spokesman for Agriprocessors, which produces the Aaron's Best line of kosher
meats, did not respond to requests for comment.

"Stores like mine are struggling all over," said Rabbi Yossi Jacobson, the owner
of Maccabee's Glatt Kosher Deli in Des Moines.

Michael Choukroun, owner of Bar-B-Kosher restaurant in Los Angeles, says he has
taken kosher-beef items off the menu.

Choukroun says kosher-meat prices have increased by more than 30%  recently,
though he says it's unclear how much of that is specifically due to
Agriprocessors' problems.

Former Agriprocessors plant executive Sholom Rubashkin faces federal charges
that he conspired to hire illegal immigrants and aided in identity theft. In
September, Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller announced 9,311 misdemeanor
child-labor violations against Rubashkin, his father, Aaron Rubashkin, and three
plant human resources employees.

Nearly 300 of the workers were charged with federal identity-theft and
false-document crimes and served five-month prison sentences, according to
federal court records.

Schulte and Leys report for The Des Moines Register

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NATION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              174 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 17, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Recession also hits illegal immigrants

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 311 words


USA TODAY's article "Mexicans find leaving U.S. a hard decision"  was
interesting and informative. If there is an upside to the USA's economic crisis,
it is that many illegal immigrants residing in the country are finding it
difficult to obtain a job, forcing them to return to Mexico (News, Dec. 10).

The lack of jobs is something  U.S. citizens have been experiencing for some
time. Now the Mexican government is preparing for an influx of returnees.

The only difference between the USA's and Mexico's situation is the returning
Mexicans belong in Mexico  while the illegal immigrants do not belong in the
USA.

Once our economy rebounds, hopefully our U.S. Border Patrol will have the
resources and manpower to keep the illegal immigrants from returning.

Margie Nolan Cowles

Richmond, Va.

Nation faces tough times

If the U.S. is not in a depression, then it certainly feels like one. The
situation our economy is in feels more ominous than just a mere recession ("Six
reasons to be thankful in tough economic times," Editorial, Nov. 26).

The U.S. government has been forced to bail out investment giant Bear Stearns,
insurance behemoth American International Group,   mortgage finance companies
Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, and now the   U.S. automakers are on the verge of
collapse. Also, let's not forget that the Sept. 15 collapse of Lehman Bros.
added to the economic meltdown.

USA TODAY's editorial board may be optimistic about the country, but everyone
also needs to be absolutely honest about the frightening deterioration of the
overall U.S. economy. Millions of Americans are out of work,  cannot pay their
mortgages  and get empty rhetoric instead of bold action from phony politicians.
These leaders do not have a clue about what to do to extricate the U.S. economy
from the most catastrophic economic calamity since the Great Depression.

Scott Wolfe

Mashpee, Mass.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           February 24, 2009 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Number of illegal immigrants declines;
Better apprehension and rising unemployment in USA cited

BYLINE: Thomas Frank

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 380 words


WASHINGTON -- The number of illegal immigrants in the USA fell for the first
time in at least four years, as the nation's tough economy discourages people
from sneaking into the USA, the Homeland Security Department said Monday.

The decline still left the country with 11.6 million illegal residents in
January 2008, down from a record 11.8 million a year earlier, according to a
Homeland Security report. There were about 4 million illegal residents in 1990,
according to federal agencies and researchers.

Homeland Security spokesman Mike Keegan said rising unemployment led to fewer
people trying to sneak across the border. Keegan also said the department is
doing a better job stopping people from entering the country illegally and
apprehending illegal residents in the USA.

The Center for Immigration Studies said the latest figures show that tough
enforcement is working. "We should keep it up because nothing has been solved
when there are still 11 million illegal aliens," said the center's executive
director, Mark Krikorian. The group supports enforcing immigration laws to
reduce the number of illegal residents.

The department estimates the number of illegal residents by subtracting the
number of foreign-born people who are in the USA legally from the Census
estimate of the total foreign-born population.

Homeland Security figures go back to 2000, when there were 8.5 million illegal
immigrants. It did not keep figures for the years 2001 through 2004; in 2005,
the number rose to 10.5 million. The numbers increased in 2006 and 2007 before
declining last year, the report says.

Jeffrey Passel, a demographer at the Pew Hispanic Center, said economic factors
have historically caused surges and drops in illegal immigration. "Enforcement
plays some role," Passel said, but added that the number of illegal immigrants
roughly doubled in the 1990s "in the fact of steadily ramped up enforcement over
that period."

Growth in illegal immigration since 2000 has been driven largely by Mexicans,
who now account for 61% of illegal residents, the Homeland Security report says.

Nevada's 280,000 illegal immigrants account for 11% of its population, the
highest proportion of any state, according to Census figures and the report. In
Arizona, 9% of residents are illegal migrants.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 15, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Most illegal immigrants' kids legal;
Nearly 75% are U.S. citizens because they were born here

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 410 words


Nearly three-quarters of illegal immigrants' children were born in the USA and
are citizens, according to a report released Tuesday.

Those 4 million children muddy the immigration debate, raising questions about
enforcement and public services for illegal immigrant families whose members
include legal residents, experts say.

"Undocumented immigrants live in neighborhoods; they have kids in school," says
Jeffrey Passel, a senior demographer at Pew Hispanic Center and co-author of the
report. "That complicates greatly the difficulty of the task of coming up with
policies to deal with this population."

About one-third of the roughly 12 million illegal immigrants in the USA are
women, and most illegal immigrants are married or living with someone, the
non-partisan research center's analysis of 2008 Census data shows.

Of the 5.5 million children of illegal immigrants, 73% were born here. In 2003,
63% of illegal immigrants' children were citizens.

Because more families are made up of both legal and illegal residents,
immigration enforcement becomes trickier, says Steven Camarota, research
director at the Center for Immigration Studies. The center advocates reduced
immigration. "Once kids are involved, it gets tougher to enforce the law,"
Camarota says. "It complicates it as a political and emotional matter."

Although Camarota says there should be room for exceptions, "the presence of a
U.S.-born child should not be used as an excuse not to enforce the law."

Douglas Massey, a sociology professor at Princeton University, favors changes in
immigration law that would allow illegal immigrants to stay legally.

That way, Massey says, the taxes paid by newly legalized residents could be used
to fund public services they use, such as education and health care.

According to the report, children of illegal immigrants make up 6.8% of children
enrolled in kindergarten through 12th grade.

"We don't really have an option other than somehow bringing these people
aboveboard," Massey says.

The report also shows that illegal immigrants are more likely to live as family
units with their children than legal immigrants or U.S.-born Americans.

Nearly half of illegal-immigrant households are couples living with children,
compared with 35% of legal-immigrant households and 21% of U.S.-born households.

Passel attributes that disparity to the relative youthfulness of illegal
immigrants.

"It's a very young population, with a large concentration under 40," he says.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 12, 2009 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

New effort helps finger, net potential deportees;
Program uses inmates' prints to discover illegal status

BYLINE: Thomas Frank

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 735 words


FAIRFAX, Va. -- Ordinarily, Nelson Portillo-Lozano would have been free to leave
the Fairfax County jail when he posted bail March 19 after being charged with
assault.

Because of a new effort to find illegal immigrants in jails, Portillo-Lozano,
22, went into custody of U.S. immigration authorities.

He got caught by a program that for the first time checks the fingerprints of
people held by local authorities against federal immigration databases.
Forty-eight communities have joined since October, mostly in areas with large
illegal-immigrant populations.

In Fairfax County, the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agency has
put detainers on 200 of the jail's 1,300 inmates since the program began there
March 9, said Capt. Glenda Pfister of the county sheriff's office.

"When we have aliens who are serious criminals, they get removed from the county
instead of being released to the street," Pfister said.

The program, called Secure Communities, comes in response to lawmakers urging
ICE to deport more illegal immigrants incarcerated for serious crimes.

The number of deported criminals rose 60% from 2002 to 2008. Over the same
period, the total number of illegal immigrants deported rose 400%. Critics say
that trend suggests ICE is too focused on illegal immigrants in communities and
at worksites rather than those serving prison terms.

"There's something badly wrong here," Rep. David Price, D-N.C., said of illegal
immigrants who are convicted of crimes are released from prisons rather than
deported.

Republican Gov. Rick Perry of Texas wrote a scathing letter in November to
then-Homeland Security secretary Michael Chertoff saying he was "outraged" that
"thousands of criminal aliens" in Texas jails were not deported after their
sentences. Some were subsequently charged with murder, rape and robbery, he
said. Price led efforts to give ICE $1.2 billion in 2008 and 2009 combined to
step up deportations of illegal immigrants convicted of crimes. About one-third
of the 370,000 illegal immigrants deported last year were convicts.

"Maybe there's a tendency to go after the easier targets rather than the most
important targets," he said.

Former ICE chief Julie Myers Wood said deporting criminals was "my top
priority." ICE has also been deporting record numbers of illegal immigrants who
have not been convicted of crimes and under earlier policy would have been
released with orders to appear in immigration court at a later date, Wood said.

Many illegal immigrants being deported "aren't causing problems," said Rep. Sam
Farr, D-Calif.

Janet Napolitano, the new Homeland Security secretary, says she wants to focus
on deporting illegal immigrants who have committed serious crimes.

Secure Communities will play a vital role, program chief David Venturella said.
"When the secretary talked about making criminal aliens a priority, she really
emphasized the ability to share information with local law enforcement,"
Venturella said.

Under the program, digital fingerprints of people arrested or imprisoned are
automatically transmitted to ICE at the same time that they go to the FBI for a
standard criminal-record check. The fingerprints are matched against federal
immigration databases. If someone is found to be wanted on immigration charges,
ICE notifies local authorities within an hour so the person is not released,
Venturella said.

That's a huge improvement, said Pfister of the Fairfax County Sheriff's Office.
Previously, the county would run a check with ICE only if a detainee
acknowledged being foreign-born or not a U.S. citizen -- a loophole that relied
on detainee honesty, Pfister said. The sheriff's office sent ICE biographical
information -- not fingerprints -- which often was falsified. ICE could take
days to reply, by which time some detainees had been released, Pfister said.

In November and December, Secure Communities flagged nearly 1,000 illegal
immigrants being held by authorities. The illegal status of those people "would
have otherwise remained undetected," ICE said.

Price, the chairman of the House Homeland Security appropriations subcommittee,
said Secure Communities is helpful, though he said ICE still needs to focus more
on removing dangerous criminals.

Rep. Hal Rogers, R-Ky., worries that focusing too much on criminal deportations
won't keep illegal immigrants from entering the U.S. "Deporting criminal aliens
is not protecting the borders," Rogers said.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Eileen Blass, USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Ted S. Warren, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 29, 2009 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Recession freezes immigration debate but points to answers

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 576 words


Not all that long ago, immigration was the nation's hottest political topic.
Then the economy fell apart, a new president set a new agenda, and immigration
quietly moved out of sight, where it will likely stay for a while, eclipsed by
two other mammoth problems -- the economy and health care. But while eyes have
been averted, the recession has been teaching some useful lessons about how to
ease the crisis.

Even before rising unemployment began to affect Americans, Mexicans were
reacting to the changing jobs climate. Data just out from the Mexican government
show 226,000 fewer people emigrated from Mexico in the year ended August 2008
than during the prior year.  That's a 25% drop. The decline confirms what has
been generally accepted for years: Jobs and the willingness of U.S. employers to
hire illegal immigrants are the fuel that powers the system. Cut off the supply,
and you can slow the illegal flow. Which points to workplace enforcement as a
key part of the equation. Yet scores of high-profile workplace raids netted
fewer than 6,000 illegal workers last year.

At the same time, though, the recession is delivering another message:
Enforcement alone won't resolve the problem. If fewer illegal immigrants are
coming, there's no evidence yet that those already here are leaving. In 2008,
there were still about 12 million illegal residents in the USA, only slightly
down from 2007, according to the Pew Hispanic Center, a Washington think tank.
Despite  the deportation of thousands of immigrants with criminal records and
despite a swarm of Draconian local laws that target illegal aliens, there has
been no mass exodus.

Presumably, they sense that tough times here mean tougher times where they came
from, and Pew notes that many have families here, including children who are
citizens. Which means the nation should provide a way for the most qualified to
become legal, productive, taxpaying citizens.

What does this point to?

The same sort of balanced approach the Senate failed to pass in 2007, in a show
of political stubbornness. One component is tough, sensible workplace
enforcement rooted in a strong verification program. In April, the Obama
administration changed its worksite program to target not just illegal workers
but also employers who make a practice of hiring them. It's too soon to tell
whether that will work, but it's the right approach. Thousands of employers each
month have been signing onto a voluntary program called E-Verify to check Social
Security numbers and ensure that new hires are legal. Critics charge the program
is so error-prone it will harm legal workers. That's reason to fix it, not
suspend its use.

The other key need is for a rigorous path to citizenship for many of the
millions already here. Critics, such as Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, deride that
as "amnesty." But the plan rejected in 2007 was anything but. It included a
tough, long, expensive route for people who came not to do mischief but to take
jobs offered willingly by U.S. employers.

Obama made a fleeting attempt last week to keep attention on the issue with a
White House conference. But the truth is that fixing the economy and health care
comes first, with energy issues also higher on the president's agenda. We
wouldn't dispute the priorities, but  the economic downturn provides a chance to
make some gains, particularly in the workplace. When the economy picks up, as it
surely will, illegal immigration will again become a crisis.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Source: Pew Hispanic Center (Bar graph)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 29, 2009 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Amnesty makes no sense

BYLINE: Lamar Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 394 words


Unemployment hit 15.5% last month for American workers without high school
diplomas. It makes no sense to give amnesty or a "path to citizenship" to
millions of illegal immigrants who would compete with unemployed Americans for
scarce jobs and drive down their wages.

Amnesty would hurt American taxpayers. After illegal immigrants are legalized,
they'd become eligible for federal, state and local taxpayer-funded benefits
such as Medicaid, Medicare and Social Security.

Most illegal immigrants don't earn enough to pay taxes. Even when they do, the
benefits they receive outweigh the taxes paid.

Amnesty would threaten to bankrupt Social Security. According to the Social
Security Administration, most illegal immigrants who received amnesty would
collect thousands of dollars more in benefits than they paid into the system.

Granting amnesty would increase illegal immigration. Since Congress passed the
last "one-time" amnesty in 1986, the number of illegal immigrants in the U.S.
has jumped to more than 12 million. Amnesty sends the message that if you just
get into the country, even illegally, you can stay indefinitely.

Amnesty rewards illegal immigrants with the right to live and work in the U.S.
That is unfair to the millions of legal immigrants who play by the rules, wait
their turn and come in to the U.S. the right way. And selling amnesty to
lawbreakers for the price of a fine would demean the value of the greatest honor
our country can bestow: citizenship.

To achieve immigration reform, the choices are not just amnesty or mass
deportation. A strategy of "attrition through enforcement" would dramatically
reduce the number of illegal immigrants over time.

If the federal government enforced our immigration laws, especially those that
target the employment of illegal workers, many illegal immigrants would simply
return home because they can't get jobs. Others would never come to the USA in
the first place because they would not be hired. A Zogby poll in 2006 found that
a majority of voters prefer this approach over others.

Amnesty would cost Americans their jobs, depress wages, burden taxpayers and
encourage even more illegal immigration. On the other hand, enforcing
immigration laws would increase respect for the rule of law and reduce illegal
immigration.

Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, is the ranking member on the House Judiciary
Committee.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 21, 2009 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Feds shift gears on illegal immigration;
Less focus on workplace raids, more probes into hiring records

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 521 words


The Department of Homeland Security is changing the way it tackles illegal
immigration, in many cases remaking or rescinding Bush administration policies.

The changes put heavier emphasis on employers, including more investigations of
hiring records and fines for violations, says John Morton, assistant secretary
for Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) in DHS.

"We have to come to grips with the market for illegal labor," he says. "To get
there, we have to move beyond individual cases."

The arrests of hundreds of illegal workers at a time in raids at factories and
meatpacking plants were a visible component of President George W. Bush's
immigration enforcement strategy.

The largest workplace raid under the Obama administration was in February, when
28 illegal immigrants were arrested at an engine manufacturer in Bellingham,
Wash.

Guidelines issued since then make it clear that raids targeting employees won't
be a priority. The agency still will arrest illegal immigrants as it conducts
investigations, Morton says, but "we are going to place our focus ... first and
foremost on the employer."

On July 1, ICE notified 652 businesses that it would inspect their hiring
records to make sure they verified their workers' legal status, and Morton says
the push will expand. ICE began 503 such audits in all of last year.

Other changes:

*DHS announced on July 8 that it would rescind a Bush proposal to crack down on
businesses that don't fire workers whose Social Security numbers don't match
government records. The plan, tied up by court challenges, never went into
effect.

The agency said it will move ahead with another Bush plan to require businesses
with federal contracts to verify the legal status of employees using an online
government database. The DHS says the system will catch inconsistencies earlier.

The department estimates that the rule will cover 3.8 million employees.

*Two days later, DHS announced new standards for a program that gives authority
to enforce immigration laws to state and local law enforcement agencies that
sign agreements with the department and undergo training. The revised contracts
direct police to focus mainly on illegal immigrants who are already in jail or
have been convicted or arrested in drug or violent crimes, not those involved in
minor offenses such as traffic violations.

Tamar Jacoby supports the enforcement changes because, she says, ICE is using
limited resources to target the worst offenders. Jacoby is president of
ImmigrationWorks USA, a group of employers who want changes in the law to allow
more foreign workers to enter the country legally.

"If we as a nation can prove to the public that we're able and willing and
serious about enforcing the law, the public will be potentially more open to
immigration reform," she says.

Rosemary Jenks of NumbersUSA, which calls for reduced immigration, criticizes
the shifts, saying they will lead to fewer arrests of illegal immigrants. "The
message is, if you come here illegally, you can get a job, you can stay under
the radar, don't commit a crime and you'll be fine," she says. "It's essentially
a de facto amnesty."

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Karl Gelles, USA TODAY, Source: U.S. Customs and Border
Protection (Line graph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            September 4, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

1 in 3 illegal residents arrives legally and just stays

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 543 words


In 1996, Congress decided that it needed a way to track people who overstay
their visas -- a huge and understated part of the nation's illegal immigration
problem. So it authorized a program to verify that visa holders who arrived in
the country eventually left it.

Five years later, on 9/11, terrorists tragically confirmed that program's
failure by flying hijacked airplanes into buildings. Two of the 19 hijackers had
overstayed visas. In the years that followed, the newly created Department of
Homeland Security initiated what it called the United States Visitor and
Immigrant Status Indicator Technology program (or US-VISIT for short) with much
fanfare.

But here we are in 2009, still without an effective entry-and-exit monitoring
program. US-VISIT has enhanced the entry process, with a series of biometric
authentications matching the person issued a visa abroad with the person
standing at a passport counter. But when that person leaves the country, no such
process takes place.

After studying the issue, and creating a few pilot programs, the Bush
administration decided essentially to punt. Too much cost, too little benefit,
it reasoned. The Obama administration is expected to announce its own policies
in coming weeks. Don't expect much this time, either. The forces arrayed against
the idea -- budget pressures, the inevitable inconvenience to travelers,
difficulties with airport design -- promote procrastination.

That is a problem, both for national security and for controlling immigration.
It serves as a kind of advertisement to people the world over that if they can
just get into the country they can stay as long as they want, outside the law,
without much hassle.

Either our government cares about its laws or it doesn't. Despite the costs,
following through with this program is vital to sending a message that the U.S.
is resolute in policing its borders, appropriately monitoring its visitors and
protecting its people.

For decades, the nation's immigration laws were simply not enforced. Now there's
ample pressure to tighten up, but it is overwhelmingly directed at Hispanics
crossing the southern border. If one focuses on the numbers, not the language
and complexion of the illegal immigrants, that shouldn't be the case.
Overstayers are believed to make up about a third of the total population of
illegal immigrants, which is thought to be somewhere around 12 million.

To be sure, the issues delaying this program are daunting. Thousands of people
would have to be hired. And many airports would have to be modified to create
departure areas with passport counters.

Neither the Transportation Security Administration nor the airline industry
wants to be saddled with running the program. The travel industry is suspicious
that government could do it without creating more hassles for legitimate
tourists and business travelers. And some in the national security community
shrug off the issue, saying they have alternative, though inferior, tracking
methods such as airline passenger manifests and returned port-of-entry forms.

These are all legitimate, pragmatic concerns that explain why this program has
been so slow to get off the ground. But they should not be allowed to undermine
the principle that the law should have meaning.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              182 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 14, 2009 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration raids yield jobs for legal workers;
Americans fill void, even help raise wages

BYLINE: Alan Gomez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 719 words


When federal agents descended on six meatpacking plants owned by Swift & Co. in
December 2006, they rounded up nearly 1,300 suspected illegal immigrants that
made up about 10% of the labor force at the plants.

But the raids by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents did not
cripple the company or the plants. In fact, they were back up and running at
full staff within months by replacing those removed with a significant number of
native-born Americans, according to a report by the Center for Immigration
Studies (CIS).

That was the most extreme example of what has become an increasingly common
result of the raids: "They were very beneficial to American workers," according
to Vanderbilt University professor Carol Swain.

"Whenever there's an immigration raid, you find white, black and legal immigrant
labor lining up to do those jobs that Americans will supposedly not do," said
Swain, who teaches law and political science.

Exactly who is filling the jobs has varied, depending on the populations
surrounding the plants:

*Out West, one of the Swift plants raided by ICE, had a workforce that was about
90% Hispanic -- both legal and illegal -- before the raids. The lost workers
were replaced mostly with white Americans and U.S.-born Hispanics, according to
the CIS.

*In the South, a House of Raeford Farms plant in North Carolina that was more
than 80% Hispanic before a federal investigation is now about 70%
African-American, according to a report by The Charlotte Observer.

*Throughout the Great Plains, a new wave of legal immigrants is filling the
void, according to Jill Cashen, spokeswoman for the United Food and Commercial
Workers union, which represents 1.3 million people who work in the
food-processing industry. Plants are refilling positions with newly arrived
immigrants from places such as Sudan, Somalia and Southeast Asia.

Recession plays a factor in shift

Steven Camarota of CIS said native-born Americans are not only willing to take
on those jobs, but currently fill a majority of them.

Native-born workers outnumber immigrants 3-to-1 in construction jobs and 2-to-1
in farming, fishing and forestry jobs, according to Camarota.

T. Willard Fair, president and CEO of the Urban League of Greater Miami, said it
has taken the greatest recession in a generation for poor Americans to line up
to work in fields and factories.

"We'll take anything now," Fair said. "We're willing to be exploited for a
while."

After ICE agents descend on poultry-processing plants, pork factories and
meatpacking facilities across the USA, in some cases plant owners are forced to
raise wages to get Americans to sign up, Swain said.

Catherine Singley, a policy analyst for the National Council of La Raza (NCLR),
the nation's largest Hispanic civil rights organization, said the post-raid
increases in salaries were also necessary for Americans to accept the harsh,
dangerous working environments.

She said wages did not plummet in recent decades because of immigrants
undercutting Americans, but because employers took advantage of the immigrant
population fearful of seeking help from authorities.

"If you've got a segment of the workforce that's afraid to speak out against
violations of their labor rights, then that drags down wages and working
conditions for all workers," Singley said.

A report released last week by the NCLR found that the occupational fatality
rate for Latinos remained the highest among ethnic groups in the country for the
15th straight year in 2007, when 937 Latinos died on the job.

"That's something that native-born Americans and native-born Latino workers are
dealing with for the first time," she said.

New leverage for workers

As the face of factory workers changes, so do the issues that workers and
employers must tackle.

Cashen said her union had to negotiate with plant managers in Nebraska and
Colorado to allow employees to properly observe the Islamic holiday of Ramadan.

This month, the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission ruled that the
Colorado plant was wrong to fire more than 100 Muslim workers who walked out
during Ramadan last year in a dispute over prayer breaks.

"Ten years ago, we were negotiating to provide for Cinco de Mayo," Cashen said,
referring to the Mexican holiday. "If you walk in the doors of a plant, you're
going to see ... the United Nations."

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, File photo by Richard M. Hackett, AP
PHOTO, B/W, Barrett Stinson, The Grand Island (Neb.) Independent, via AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              183 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 30, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Flu shots urged for immigrants;
Illegal workers may be reluctant

BYLINE: Erin Kelly

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 418 words


Swine flu vaccinations are set to begin in October, and public health officials
are mobilizing to ensure that the nation's roughly 12 million illegal immigrants
are vaccinated to protect themselves and the public.

Unlike the debate over health care for illegal immigrants,  there is little
dispute they should be included in the nation's voluntary vaccination program.

"We believe it's important that all people be vaccinated regardless of
immigration status," says Jon Feere, legal policy analyst at the Center for
Immigration Studies, which opposes taxpayer-funded health care for illegal
immigrants and wants to reduce immigration.

Leaving 10 million to 12 million immigrants unvaccinated against the H1N1 virus,
known as swine flu, would increase the risk to everyone and make it much harder
to control a pandemic,  says Kevin Fiscella, associate professor  at the
University of Rochester School of Medicine and Dentistry in New York. "We're all
in this together," he says.

The swine flu virus could hit children, teens and young adults especially hard
-- a vulnerability compounded by the fact that the immigrant population tends to
be younger overall than the general population.

Experts say state and local governments will have to overcome barriers to
persuade illegal immigrants to trust public health departments enough to come
forward and be vaccinated.

"For an undocumented immigrant who lives in daily fear of being deported,
contact with any quasi-governmental agency, even a public health department,
induces anxiety," Fiscella says.

Federal health officials are trying to quell those fears.

"Whether you're legal or illegal, the flu virus doesn't discriminate, and
neither do we," says Arleen Porcell-Pharr of  the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention (CDC). The same recommendations to states regarding who should be
vaccinated first (such as pregnant women and health care workers) would apply to
immigrants, too, she says.

To get that message out, Porcell-Pharr says, the CDC is working with  Hispanic
media and community and religious groups that provide aid to immigrants.

Although some children of illegal immigrants may get vaccinated at school, many
will not, health officials say.

"In many cases, the children are going to have to rely on parents to take them
somewhere to be vaccinated," says Daniel Blumenthal, associate dean for
community health at Morehouse School of Medicine in Atlanta. Most families can't
afford the $20 to $30 fee that drugstores typically charge, Blumenthal says.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 14, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Senators try to exclude illegal immigrants from Census;
Some Latino groups seek boycott of tally

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 452 words


An amendment that would require the Census Bureau to ask for the first time
whether people are in the USA illegally is headed for a Senate vote today.

Proposed last week by Republican Sens. David Vitter of Louisiana and Bob Bennett
of Utah, the amendment would exclude illegal immigrants from the population
count used to allocate congressional seats after the 2010 Census. It also would
require the Census to ask people whether they are citizens.

"Illegal aliens should not be included for the purposes of determining
representation in Congress, and that's the bottom line here," Vitter says. If
enacted, the amendment to an appropriations bill would stop funding of the 2010
Census unless the changes are made.

The amendment comes less than six months before 2010 Census questionnaires are
mailed to 135 million households. About 425 million forms have already been
printed, according to the bureau. Some are in different languages; others are
duplicates that will go to houses that do not respond to the first mailing.

The Census Bureau is launching an outreach campaign to persuade Americans that
next year's national head count will be a simple, painless process.

The "Take 10" campaign promotes the idea that the Census form has only 10
questions and should take just 10 minutes to answer. Adding questions would
require designing new forms. "It's operationally impossible," says Steve Jost,
Census associate communications director. "The forms are printed, folded. We
have bilingual forms. ... We're printing 1.5 million forms a day."

By law, the Census is taken April 1. State population counts must be submitted
to the president the following Dec. 31 so that seats in the House of
Representatives can be apportioned.

Since the first Census in 1790, the bureau has routinely asked in various
surveys whether people are native-born or foreign-born, but it has never asked
about legal status.

Immigrants often are the hardest to count because many mistrust government,
especially if they are in the USA illegally. Crackdowns on illegal immigration
at the border and at work sites have made outreach for next year's Census even
more challenging.

Some Latino groups such as the National Coalition of Latino Clergy and Christian
Leaders are calling for immigrants to boycott the Census unless laws are changed
to give those here illegally a chance to gain legal status.

"Already the public fears that the Census is too intrusive," says Arturo Vargas,
executive director of the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed
Officials, which opposes both the amendment and the boycott.

Asking about citizenship status  "would raise more questions in the public mind
about how confidential the Census is," Vargas says.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Getty Images
PHOTO, B/W, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 12, 2009 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Everyone benefits if illegal immigrants are insured

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 590 words


Remember this little heath care drama from September?

President Obama, addressing Congress: "There are also those who claim that our
reform efforts would insure illegal immigrants. This, too, is false."

Rep. Joe Wilson, R-S.C.: "You lie!"

Hardly a great moment in American political discourse. In fact, it seemed to
symbolize how far the quality of civilized debate has fallen. But the noise over
illegal immigration and health care reform hasn't gone away, so let's take a
look at the substance.

All versions of medical overhaul would bar illegal immigrants from getting any
federal subsidy or participating in the so-called public option, if there is
one. But there is a significant difference between the plan passed by the House
last week and language in the main Senate bill: The House would let illegal
immigrants buy insurance on newly created exchanges. At full cost. With their
own money. The measure approved by the Senate Finance Committee would not.

The House approach is far superior, not just for immigrants but for society as a
whole. Just as the public is better protected when illegal immigrants buy auto
insurance, the same goes for health coverage.

Illegal immigrants with the means to buy medical policies should be encouraged
to do so in the exchanges, not chased away. Their premiums would help cover
costs for everyone else, including older workers, those with previous medical
conditions, and women who pay through the nose for maternity coverage if not
part of a large pool.

Fact is, illegal immigrants without insurance will continue to get sick. They
will continue to receive care in hospital emergency rooms and clinics, both of
which are supported directly or indirectly by taxpayers, the insured population,
or both. That being the case, wouldn't we want to encourage those who can help
defray the costs to do so?

Opponents fixate on the government role in setting up the exchanges, "stores"
where private companies could offer policies. True, taxpayer money would go to
create these marketplaces. But these fixed costs would not go up in any
measurable way if illegal immigrants participated.

Actually, the opposite is true. Weeding out illegal immigrants from the
exchanges could be expensive. The costs of checking records would have to be
borne by policy holders or taxpayers. And the hassles of proving your legal
status could  dissuade some legal residents and citizens from buying insurance.

Such checks would, of course, be imposed on people looking for government
assistance -- and rightly so. But they should not be imposed on paying
customers. Department stores don't purposefully delay their customers at the
checkout line. Why should insurers be forced to?

For all the political heat surrounding this issue, in truth it would not affect
a huge segment of illegal immigrants. According to the non-partisan Migration
Policy Institute, of the estimated 12 million unauthorized people in this
country, about 3.7 million have insurance through an employer. That would not
change as the result of health reform. About 7 million have no insurance at all,
and some 362,000 or so buy insurance outside of work. Only the last group, plus
the small segment of uninsured who have the means to buy insurance, would be
effected.

Illegal immigration is a serious problem. It should be stopped. For the moment,
though, the question is: Do we want to benefit from the immigrants' presence
here? Or do we want to get so hung up on the politics of immigration that it
leads to warped and nonsensical public health care policies?

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Veronica Salazar, USA TODAY, Source: Migration Policy
Institute (Bar graph)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              186 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          November 18, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Anti-immigration group is not part of mainstream

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 415 words


I was disappointed to see an opinion  piece by the president of an
anti-immigrant group with ties to white nationalism in USA TODAY on Thursday
("Don't let them buy policies," Opposing view, Health care debate).

In the piece, Dan Stein, the president of the Federation for American
Immigration Reform (FAIR), argues against providing undocumented immigrants with
the opportunity to purchase health insurance.

FAIR claims to represent the mainstream of the American anti-immigrant movement,
but it is actually a carefully crafted entity whose mission is to achieve the
goal of zero immigration to the U.S. by blaming immigrants for economic,
population and environmental problems.   FAIR is part of a network of
organizations founded, funded, or supported by John Tanton.  Tanton is connected
to white supremacist organizations.  FAIR is not a trusted source of information
for mainstream readers.

The Rev. David L. Ostendorf

Executive Director

Center for New Community

Chicago

Who will bear burden?

Last month, the  Congressional Budget Office released its report on the  House
Democrats' health reform package and indicated that it would cost approximately
$871 billion over 10 years.

By some estimates, illegal immigrants could make up about  one-third of  the
uninsured in this country

Earlier this year,  Rep. Joe Wilson, R-S.C., called President Obama a liar when
the president said illegal  immigrants would not be covered by the proposed
insurance reform.

However, without checks to make sure that those receiving benefits are U.S.
citizens, no doubt some illegal immigrants would be included.  What are the
chances that working middle-class Americans would have to carry the burden? And,
if that happened, would Wilson end up being right?

Jim Stanker

Merriam, Kan.

National security issue

Say what you want about the resignation of news host Lou Dobbs from CNN, but be
aware that, for years, he has been an advocate for keeping our government honest
and a voice for transparency.

His outspoken opinion that anyone who resides in the USA needs to be here
legally makes perfect sense.   His basic position has been, and rightfully so,
who are the  12 million people who are illegal immigrants?  Where are they? What
are they doing inside the U.S? Who is employing them? Those were and still are
legitimate questions, especially since 9/11, that  are not being answered and
not being discussed. The answers remain  a possible breach of security for
American citizens.

Terry Friedlander

Ketchum, Idaho

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Kevin P. Casey for USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              187 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 30, 2009 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Jobless citizens seeking day labor;
More look for work alongside migrants

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 424 words


Growing ranks of U.S. citizens are heading to street corners and home
improvement store parking lots to find day-labor work usually done by illegal
immigrants.

The trend is most pronounced in regions where hot construction markets have
collapsed, says Abel Valenzuela Jr., a professor of urban planning at the
University of California-Los Angeles.

"You had many, many unemployed construction workers who found themselves without
any permanent or stable work," he says. "Some of them have gone on to seek
employment by standing on street corners alongside immigrant workers."

Day laborers gather at high-traffic spots such as busy intersections and home
improvement stores, looking for pick-up work such as painting, laying bricks or
landscaping. Contractors and homeowners describe the jobs and negotiate pay on
the spot.

Valenzuela estimates the proportion of U.S.-born day laborers has at least
doubled since he released a report in 2006, when his research showed they made
up 7% of the day-labor workforce. At that time, Valenzuela estimated 117,600
people were looking for or doing day-labor jobs on any given day. Illegal
immigrants were 75% of the day-labor workforce; the rest were legal immigrants.

"It's becoming more ethnically diverse. On the corners, I've seen white people,
I've seen African Americans and a lot of Mexican Americans," says Pablo
Alvarado, executive director of the National Day Laborer Organizing Network.
"When unemployment benefits run out, I expect to see more."

Among the communities seeing an increase in U.S.-citizen day laborers:

*Tucson. Staff members at Southside Presbyterian Church, which runs a center
where workers can connect with people offering work, have been seeing more
U.S.-born people looking for jobs in 2008, says church elder Josefina
Ahumada."We would say, 'Hi, how are you?' and we would learn that this is
somebody who just got laid off."

*Arlington, Va. Construction workers recently laid off are showing up at the
day-labor hiring site run by the Shirlington Employment and Education Center,
says executive director Andres Tobar: "We're seeing people who hadn't come to
our center before who are legally here and U.S. citizens, and who are skilled
workers and can't find work."

*Los Angeles. Citizens are replacing immigrant day laborers who had trouble
finding work and returned to their home countries, says Antonio Bernabe, senior
organizer of the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles.

"These are people who used to have permanent positions," he says. "It's
happening everywhere."

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              188 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            March 24, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Reformers can't ignore illegal 'criminal aliens'

BYLINE: Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 611 words


Proving once again that enforcement is the low-hanging fruit of immigration
policy, the Obama administration has zeroed in on "criminal aliens." These are
individuals who, after crossing the border illegally, are suspected of
committing more serious offenses such as robbery, rape and murder.

In December, in what authorities called the largest operation of its kind,
Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents in Los Angeles arrested nearly
300 illegal immigrants accused of criminal offenses. More than 80% of them  had
prior convictions in the U.S. for serious or violent crimes.

Immigration foes, who are more concerned about changing demographics and
evolving national identity, gladly latch on to the criminal-aliens issue.
Whenever I cover a protest over illegal immigration, I see activists holding
signs with pictures of victims killed in drunken driving accidents linked to
illegal immigrants.

The undesirables

It is no wonder that this is one area that reform proponents would rather not
talk about, but instead, they should address this head on. They see it as
ammunition for immigration opponents to shoot down their cause by painting
illegal immigrants as predators, thieves, killers and other undesirables.

But their concerns are overblown. Studies show that immigrants -- and that
includes those here illegally -- do not commit a greater percentage of crimes
than the U.S. population at large.

Those are the facts. But if the immigration debate teaches us anything, it's
that fear drowns out  facts. So if immigration reformists don't confront this
issue now, they will only breed more public cynicism and poison the well for all
illegal immigrants. That, in turn, will surely dim the prospect that Congress
and the White House will get around to offering immigrants a pathway to earned
legal status as part of a comprehensive reform plan.

In November, immigration authorities announced that they had identified -- with
the help of their Secure Communities program, which seeks to locate and deport
criminal aliens -- more than 111,000 immigrants with criminal records in local
jails. But these people are not reflective of the entire immigrant community.

Take it from John Morton, the assistant secretary of Homeland Security  who is
in charge of the program.  Morton told me, "Immigrants don't commit crimes any
more or less often than the average population."

Evasive lesson

Americans have been slow to learn that lesson. Since the beginnings of the
Republic, nativists and others who oppose both legal and illegal immigration
have tried to marginalize foreigners by painting them as somehow dangerous or
detrimental. That is what was said about the Germans, Chinese, Jews, Irish and
the Italians.

Today, most immigrants to the U.S. come from Asia and Latin America, and yet the
criminal perception continues regardless of country of origin. As a result, many
pro-immigrant reformers want to avoid the subject of criminal aliens. Immigrants
are already blamed for enough. Why open up this conversation? These law-breakers
are considered an embarrassment to the community and a liability to the cause.

Many of these unsavory characters aren't the least bit sympathetic. Yet ignoring
this unpleasant subset of the immigrant community won't make them go away.  As
long as they continue their unlawful activities, those who commit crimes
continue to hurt the cause of millions of illegal immigrants who work hard, pay
taxes and stay on the straight and narrow. In that way, criminal aliens create
a whole new crop of victims.

Ruben Navarrette Jr. is an editorial board member of the San Diego
Union-Tribune, a syndicated columnist  and a CNN.com contributor.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              189 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 28, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration issue proves difficult for leaders to postpone

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 479 words


WASHINGTON -- Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid on Tuesday backed off a plan to
make immigration the next item on the Senate's agenda, but a controversial new
Arizona law and a push by immigration rights groups has renewed a debate many
lawmakers would rather not have in an election year.

"It's a very tough time right now," said Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., who
favors a comprehensive new immigration bill.

Reid had wanted to push a bipartisan bill authored by Sens. Charles Schumer,
D-N.Y., and Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., that would beef up border security, require
biometric identity cards for employment and create a path to citizenship for
about 11 million illegal immigrants.

Graham said he doesn't want the bill considered this year and threatened to pull
his support for another of President Obama's priorities, an energy and climate
change bill.

Reid said he would move first on the climate and energy bill because it is
ready.

He said he has not given up on immigration legislation but acknowledged passing
the bill "will require bipartisan support."

Battle lines that formed Tuesday ran through both parties.

Former Florida governor Jeb Bush criticized a bill that fellow Republican Jan
Brewer, the governor of Arizona, signed into law this week.

Bush told Politico that the law, which allows police to demand proof of legal
status from anyone they suspect of being an illegal immigrant, could create
"civil liberties issues that are significant."

Democratic senators said they support immigration legislation but questioned
whether such a complicated bill is possible in a busy year.

"I have no idea," said Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy, D-Vt.,
when asked whether he thought he could move an immigration bill to the Senate
floor.

Election year politics comes into play for both parties.

Four years ago, Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., partnered with Sen. Edward Kennedy,
D-Mass., in drafting a sweeping -- but ultimately unsuccessful -- immigration
bill.

This year, McCain -- who faces a strong GOP primary challenge from former
representative J.D. Hayworth, a critic of that bipartisan measure -- has called
for tough border security and praised Arizona's immigration law.

On the Democratic side, pressure is building from Latinos, a key party
constituency. In Nevada, where Reid faces a tough battle for re-election, exit
polls showed Hispanics accounted for 15% of the voters in 2008.

Rep. Luis Gutierrez, a Democrat from Obama's hometown of Chicago, said in an
interview this week that his party leaders need to respond to "the growing
frustration which exists in the immigrant community to the lack of action" on an
immigration bill.

In his campaign, Obama made a "clear and unequivocal promise" to push for an
immigration bill early in his term, Gutierrez said. "You cannot ... promise
you're going to act and then weasel out because it's difficult," he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Harry Hamburg, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              190 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 30, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Arizona law sets off national debate

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 582 words


The Philadelphia Inquirer, in an editorial: "The Support Our Law Enforcement and
Safe Neighborhood Act, signed (April 23) by Gov. Jan Brewer, gives police in
Arizona authority to question anyone if there is a 'reasonable suspicion' that
he is an illegal immigrant. ... But with 12 million illegal immigrants in this
country, a round-them-up-and-send-them-back approach won't work. The cost alone
is prohibitive. And many who came here illegally are living upstanding lives.
People who are working hard, raising families, staying out of trouble and paying
taxes -- on their purchases, if nothing else -- deserve the opportunity to make
amends and be placed on a path toward legal residency and eventual citizenship."

Rich Lowry, editor, in National Review: "The police already have the power to
stop illegal aliens, a power the Arizona courts have upheld; they already can
ask about someone's legal status  ... and they already can detain illegal
aliens.  ... (Arizona) has an estimated 460,000 illegal aliens out of a
population of 6.6 million. They impose countless millions of dollars in
schooling, health care and incarceration costs, more than $1 billion a year in
one estimate. ...  Arizonans needn't, and shouldn't, tolerate this. Critics
accuse the state of unconstitutionally devising its own immigration policy. If
it had unilaterally declared its border open to the poor, violence-plagued
country to its south, this charge might have had force. Instead, Arizona seeks
only to enforce the nominal immigration policy of the United States. Perhaps the
federal government should try it sometime."

The Dallas Morning News, in an editorial: "What would lead a Phoenix cop, a
Maricopa County sheriff's deputy or an Arizona state trooper to suspect that
this person on the street was here without proper documentation? Therein lies
the problem with SB 1070. It does little, if anything, to protect Arizonans from
people crossing the border illegally. But it does add a layer of unreasonable
suspicion to anyone who might look as if they did.  ... If you live in Arizona
and look like you're from Mexico, El Salvador or Guatemala, you're a suspect who
must prove your citizenship or legal status. And if you believe this law might
be applied uniformly to Arizona's non-Latino residents, seriously, is that
really reasonable?"

Michelle Malkin, columnist, in RealClearPolitics: "Mexican President Felipe
Calderon has accused Arizona of opening the door 'to intolerance, hate,
discrimination and abuse in law enforcement.' But Arizona has nothing on Mexico
when it comes to cracking down on illegal aliens. ...  Illegal entry into the
country is equivalent to a felony punishable by two years' imprisonment.
Document fraud is subject to fine and imprisonment; so is alien marriage fraud.
Evading deportation is a serious crime; illegal re-entry after deportation is
punishable by 10 years' imprisonment. Foreigners may be kicked out of the
country without due process. ... There's been no public clamor for
'comprehensive immigration reform' in Mexico, however, because pro-illegal alien
speech by outsiders is prohibited."

Los Angeles Times, in an editorial: "Thank you, Arizona. Despite our strong
condemnation of a new law that will likely promote racial profiling of Latinos
in your state, we must acknowledge that you have accomplished what many others
-- including senators, committed activists and a willing president -- have
failed to achieve. You put immigration back on the national agenda."

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, John Moore, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 4, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

People sympathetic but want security;
Survey shows duality in views on immigration

BYLINE: Alan Gomez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 385 words


Two-thirds of Americans want the government to do a better job of securing the
borders, but they are sympathetic to illegal immigrants who have been working
hard and staying out of trouble, a USA TODAY/Gallup Poll finds.

Eight in 10 Americans are concerned that illegal immigrants burden schools,
hospitals and other government services, and 77% worry that they drive down
wages, the poll finds.

Yet 77% are concerned that stricter laws would mean illegal immigrants and their
families who have lived productively in the USA for years would be forced to
leave.

The seeming contradiction reflects the difficulty in grappling with the issue,
said Tomas Jimenez, a fellow at the non-partisan New America Foundation.

"On the one hand, they don't like the idea that people are breaking our
immigration laws, that it appears we have a southern border that is out of
control," Jimenez said. "On the other hand, they think the people coming here
who work hard, who have dreams of a better life, are really participating in an
American tradition that is as old as this country."

In the poll, 68% say it is extremely important or very important to halt the
flow of illegal immigrants into the country, and 67% say it is extremely or very
important to develop a plan to deal with about 12 million illegal immigrants in
the USA. Yet 74% are somewhat or very concerned that tougher immigration laws
would lead to harassment of Hispanics.

Bob Dane, a spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, said
the numbers mirror the federation's positions against citizenship for illegal
immigrants and for denying them jobs and benefits. "Americans want enforcement,
but they're fair-minded," he said.

Ali Noorani of the Reform Immigration for America campaign, which supports a
process for some illegal immigrants to become citizens, sees a sympathetic
response that recognizes a broken system. "People are frustrated, but they don't
want to take their frustrations out on the immigrants," he said.

Other findings:

*Sixty-four percent are sympathetic to illegal immigrants. Of Democrats, 75% are
sympathetic; among Republicans, 46% are.

*Eighty percent of all respondents are very or somewhat concerned that allowing
illegal immigrants to stay in the USA might encourage others to move here
illegally.

Contributing: Paul Overberg

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: USA TODAY/Gallup Poll of
1,049 adults Saturday and Sunday (Pie chart)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 24, 2010 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

To end illegal immigration, hit employers with high fines

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 366 words


The fastest way to solve the illegal immigration issue is to fine employers who
hire illegal immigrants, and make the fines hurt.

If there is no work for illegal immigrants, they will stop coming to this
country. In fact, the ones who are here would probably leave in droves.

If state, local and federal agencies would perform annual company checks, review
all employer paperwork and follow through on all fines, the illegal immigration
problem would quickly disappear.

Bruce Leffingwell

Braselton, Ga.

We've never gotten it

The USA keeps getting it wrong when it comes to immigration policy.

One of its biggest blunders occurred in 1980 with  the Mariel boatlift, which
allowed Cuba's political prisoners to leave their shores for the U.S., bringing
more than 125,000 Cubans to this country. Fidel Castro took advantage of our
good nature and used the boatlift as an opportunity to empty his prisons and
send us criminals as well as critics.

Then, in 1986 we offered amnesty to illegal immigrants who were already living
in the U.S. That amnesty process was full of fraud and did not stop employers
from hiring illegal immigrants as it was intended to.

Since then, droves of illegal immigrants seeking work have continued to come
into this country. And once again, amnesty is being touted as the solution.

Now, Arizona is being criticized because of its new law that requires police,
during legal stops, to check the documents of anyone thought to be in the
country illegally. All of this because the federal government has not done its
job to control  our borders.

When are we going to get it right?

Robert Peele

Rocky Mount, N.C.

Arizona law on target

Arizona's new law on immigration is right on target. I have to show my proof of
citizenship every time I apply for a job, but I don't cry racism.

Unfortunately, behavior like that of the Phoenix Suns fuels mistaken ideas about
Arizona's law, and Los Angeles Lakers coach Phil Jackson was right to criticize
the team.

It had no business using jerseys with the words "Los Suns" on Cinco de Mayo to
protest Arizona's immigration law. In addition, I strongly believe that holiday
should be celebrated in Mexico and not the USA.

John W. Wittenberg

Fort Wayne, Ind.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, AP file photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              193 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 16, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration re-enters national debate;
Arizona law has pushed issue back to forefront for Nov. 2 races

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 925 words


Four years ago, immigration was a major issue in congressional campaigns across
the country. Democratic Rep. Gabrielle Giffords won her first term representing
a southern Arizona district in 2006 against a Republican she described as "an
immigration hard-liner." Two years later, she says, she was surprised that the
nation's broken borders got hardly a mention in the presidential campaign.

This year, after the still-unsolved March shooting of rancher Robert Krentz
along the Mexican border in Giffords' district, "immigration is back," she said.

A controversial new Arizona statute would allow police officers who are
enforcing another law to demand identification from suspected illegal
immigrants. Giffords says the law was prompted in part by Krentz's death, in an
area traversed by illegal immigrants. The law is set to take effect later this
month unless a federal judge supports a legal challenge from President Obama's
administration.

No matter what its fate in the federal courts, the proposed Arizona law already
is having an impact on the midterm elections that will determine which party
controls Congress and 37 governor's offices. Meg Whitman, a Republican running
for governor in California; Senate Democratic leader Harry Reid, running for
re-election in Nevada; and Republican Lou Barletta, an eastern Pennsylvania
mayor making his third bid for Congress, are among the candidates from coast to
coast making the Arizona law a campaign topic.

This week, nine state attorneys general -- including three Republicans running
for governor -- filed a friend-of-the-court brief backing Arizona in its fight
with the federal government. Latino groups, meanwhile, unveiled polling data
showing the Arizona law has infuriated the nation's fastest-growing voting bloc.

All of this is happening at a time when, according to federal government
statistics, illegal immigration is down and "the border is safer than it has
ever been," says Doris Meissner, a former U.S. immigration commissioner now with
the Migration Policy Institute, a think tank.

That's not how it feels to people living there, Giffords argues. She points to
reports of drug-related beheadings and lynchings in Mexico, just a few miles
from some of her constituents' homes. "The crime in Mexico has created a
different kind of fear than we have seen before," says Democratic pollster Lisa
Grove says.

Elsewhere in the nation, immigration appears to be serving as a stand-in for
even deeper anxieties.

"The problem of illegal immigration only compounds the frustration people are
feeling with the federal government," Barletta says.

Pollsters are tracking two trends that appear to be on a collision course for
the Nov. 2 general election:

*A wide majority of Americans consistently say they favor the Arizona law.
Separate Quinnipiac surveys in the battlegrounds of Florida, Ohio and
Pennsylvania showed overwhelming support for the measure. "This is a very
powerful issue," says Peter Brown, assistant director of the Quinnipiac poll.

*Hispanics are equally unanimous -- on the other side. A survey released this
week by a coalition of Hispanic groups found that eight in 10 Hispanic voters
oppose the Arizona law. Arturo Vargas of the National Association of Latino
Elected and Appointed Officials said those numbers track "a dramatic shift in
Latino attitudes" that his organization found in a separate survey, to be
released next week.

The deep split in the electorate is reflected in campaign strategies. Hispanic
Republicans, including gubernatorial candidate Brian Sandoval in Nevada and
Senate candidate Marco Rubio in Florida, have endorsed the Arizona law.

In Arizona, former congressman J.D. Hayworth is making immigration the
centerpiece of his campaign to oust veteran Sen. John McCain in next month's GOP
primary. Hayworth frequently notes that  McCain, the 2008 GOP presidential
nominee, co-wrote a bill four years ago that would have provided a path to
citizenship for millions of people now living in the USA illegally.

This year, McCain is emphasizing his support for border security. "Build the
dang fence," he says in one of his campaign ads. In Arizona's gubernatorial
race, incumbent Jan Brewer has pulled away from her GOP primary opponents since
signing the immigration law in April, according to a poll by the Phoenix-based
Behavior Research Center.

Elsewhere, other candidates take a different tack. In Nevada, where Hispanics
made up 15% of the electorate in 2008, Reid has made his opposition to the
Arizona law a centerpiece in his re-election bid. In California, Whitman cut a
Republican primary ad promising to be "tough as nails" on illegal immigrants.
For the general election campaign, she has released a Spanish-language ad
touting her opposition to the Arizona law.

Jim Kolbe, a Republican who represented Giffords' Arizona district for 22
years, says the statute may produce some election victories this year for his
party but "will damage Republicans" in the long run by alienating Hispanic
voters.

The solution to illegal immigration, Kolbe argues, is a bipartisan approach that
would include border security, a program to grant citizenship to illegal
immigrants already in the USA and another to allow foreigners to work here
legally. The former congressman says he "got clobbered" politically for
co-authoring such a bill while he was in Congress. A 2007 version by McCain and
Democrat Edward Kennedy, backed by then-president George W. Bush, fell just
short of passage.

"The two sides have been getting further and further apart ever since," Kolbe
said.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W, Photos by Matt York, AP (2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              194 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 20, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Guard troops to head to border states starting Aug. 1;
Ariz. leaders call help 'step in right direction'

BYLINE: Dennis Wagner

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 557 words


National Guard troops assigned to the Southwest border will begin to arrive Aug.
1, and the federal government is sending other reinforcements to stem the flow
of illegal immigrants and narcotics entering the state, Homeland Security
Secretary Janet Napolitano said Monday.

"These troops will provide direct support to federal law enforcement officers
and agents working in high-risk areas to disrupt criminal organizations seeking
to move people and goods illegally across the Southwest border," Napolitano
said.

In addition, Napolitano said, hundreds more Border Patrol agents and Customs
officers are being moved to the Southwest to prowl the deserts and operate
inspection stations. She said Immigration and Customs Enforcement will open an
office in Ajo, Ariz., and the Department of Homeland Security is sending a new
team to Douglas, Ariz.

"We are also reassigning major technology assets, including mobile surveillance
systems, thermal-imaging binocular units, and trucks equipped with detection
scopes, as well as observation and utility aircraft," Napolitano wrote in a
column published Monday in The Arizona Republic.

This spring, the Obama administration announced its plan to deploy the National
Guard soldiers. During a meeting with Republican Gov. Jan Brewer in June,
administration officials said up to 1,200 troops would be assigned, with 524
operating in Arizona.  The Department of Homeland Security said the other troops
will be stationed in Texas (250), California (224) and New Mexico (72).

The beefed-up enforcement comes as Arizona implements a controversial new
immigration law that is under assault in federal court on constitutionality
grounds. The law, set to take effect July 29, makes it a state crime to be in
the country illegally. Napolitano's announcement also comes amid statewide
political campaigns dominated by immigration-related issues, as both Democratic
and Republican leaders complain about Arizona's status as a smuggling corridor.

Gov. Brewer, Republican Sens. John McCain and Jon Kyl, and Democratic Rep.
Gabrielle Giffords have been among the outspoken elected officials clamoring for
heightened enforcement.

McCain and Kyl called Monday's announcement "a step in the right direction" in a
joint news release, but added, "A lot more needs to be done."

Giffords said, "It should not have taken this long to have the troops dispatched
to the border area."

Brewer called the news of more resources "welcomed," but said "it does not
appear to be enough, or tied to a strategy to comprehensively defeat the
increasingly violent drug and alien smuggling cartels that operate in Arizona on
a daily basis."

Napolitano repeated previous assertions that the U.S.-Mexican border has become
more secure, not less, in the past few years.

"Last year, illegal crossings along the Southwest border were down 23%. ... And,
by all measurable standards, crime levels in U.S. border towns have remained
flat for most of the last decade."

Napolitano conceded that the Tucson sector, which covers most of Arizona's
southern flank, is a funnel point for human and drug smuggling because of
heightened enforcement elsewhere.

Arizona's border with Mexico spans about 360 miles, and security fencing is
along 306 of those miles. About 17,000  Border Patrol agents are assigned in the
Southwest.

Wagner reports for The Arizona Republic

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            July 21, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Et cetera;
Smart insights on the news of the day

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 281 words


William Finnegan, comment, The New Yorker: "Illegal immigration, although hard
to measure, has clearly been declining. The southern border ... has been the
beneficiary of security-budget increases since 9/11, which have helped slow the
pace of illegal entries, if not as dramatically as the economic crash did.
Violent crime, though rising in Mexico, has fallen this side of the border. ...
According to FBI statistics, the four safest big cities in the United States --
San Diego, Phoenix, El Paso and Austin -- are all in border states. The problem
of illegal immigration isn't a matter of violent criminals storming the walls of
our peaceful towns and cities. It's a matter of what to do about the estimated
11 million unauthorized residents who are already here."

Walter Shapiro, column, Politics Daily: "Fifteen weeks until the election,
political prophets are peddling the kind of glib certainty about the future
normally found at an astrologer's convention. ... Our all-talk-little-thought
media culture has scant patience for actual events like elections -- by the time
flesh-and-blood voters go to the polls on Nov. 2, everyone's attention will
already be fixated on the 2012 presidential primaries. While the more cautious
analysts footnote their predictions with the caveat 'if the elections were held
today,' such hedge phrases are sloughed off like the motor-mouthed recital of
possible side effects at the end of a drug commercial. In truth, the
congressional elections are still far enough in the future for the political
landscape to be reshaped by the powerful bulldozer of unknowable events. ...
Just remember that no soothsayer has ever offered a money-back guarantee."

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 23, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Arizona pols stoke immigration myths

BYLINE: Raul Reyes

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 397 words


Democrats at the National Governors Association meeting in Boston two weeks ago
expressed their anxiety about the timing of the Justice Department's lawsuit
against Arizona.

"The governors are saying we've got to talk about jobs, and all of a sudden we
have  immigration going on," complained Tennessee Gov. Phil Bredesen. "It is
such a toxic subject."

But Republicans are introducing the toxicity.  The misinformed rhetoric coming
out of Arizona, intended to justify that state's stringent immigration law, has
ensured that we cannot have an honest debate. Let me rebut a few claims.

Statement: Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer said, "Law enforcement agencies have found
bodies in the desert either buried or just lying out there that have been
beheaded" as a result of illegal immigration.  Rebuttal: The Arizona Guardian
was unable to find any instance of beheadings.

Brewer did not respond to requests from CBS News and The Washington Post for
details about these alleged incidents.

Statement: Brewer has also said "the majority of the people that are coming to
Arizona and trespassing are now becoming drug mules."  Rebuttal:  T.J. Bonner,
president of the Border Patrol union, said, "The majority of people continue to
come across in search of work, not to smuggle drugs."   Since October, the
Tucson Sector of the Border Patrol, which covers nearly the entire
Arizona/Mexico border,  has apprehended more than 170,000 illegal immigrants.
Only about 1,000 were the subject of drug prosecutions.

Statement: On Meet the Press, Sen. John McCain wondered, "Why is it that
Phoenix, Arizona, is the No. 2 kidnapping capital of the world?"  Rebuttal:
Politifact, a fact-checking site, said kidnapping rates are higher in many
Asian, Latin American and African cities.

Statement: In April, McCain said  the failure to secure the border "has led to
violence -- the worst I have ever seen."  Rebuttal: In May, The Arizona Republic
reported that violence is not up along the Arizona border, despite Mexico's
drug war. Crime rates in border towns have remained "essentially flat" for the
past decade.

I recognize the costs of illegal immigration. Even one death because of our
broken borders is unacceptable. But Arizona's leaders are playing to
anti-immigrant fears  while making a real solution all the more elusive.

Raul Reyes is an attorney in New York and a member of USA TODAY's Board of
Contributors.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W

DOCUMENT-TYPE: THE FORUM

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 26, 2010 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Voices of Immigration

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 86 words


With the emotional debate over illegal immigration intensifying, we're
interested in hearing your experiences. What is your or your family's
immigration story? When did your parents come to the USA and why? How have you
been affected by illegal immigration? Send us your comments of 250 words or
fewer to letters@usatoday.com or fax to 703-854-2053. Include your contact
number and home address for verification purposes. Comments that are accepted
will be part of a continuing conversation on this page and online.


LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            July 28, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Voices of Immigration

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 86 words


With the emotional debate over illegal immigration intensifying, we're
interested in hearing your experiences. What is your or your family's
immigration story? When did your parents come to the USA and why? How have you
been affected by illegal immigration? Send us your comments of 250 words or
fewer to letters@usatoday.com or fax to 703-854-2053. Include your contact
number and home address for verification purposes. Comments that are accepted
will be part of a continuing conversation on this page and online.


LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              199 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 29, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Voices of Immigration

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 86 words


With the emotional debate over illegal immigration intensifying, we're
interested in hearing your experiences. What is your or your family's
immigration story? When did your parents come to the USA and why? How have you
been affected by illegal immigration? Send us your comments of 250 words or
fewer to letters@usatoday.com or fax to 703-854-2053. Include your contact
number and home address for verification purposes. Comments that are accepted
will be part of a continuing conversation on this page and online.


LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              200 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 29, 2010 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Ariz. reactions range from relief to rage;
Fear subsides, but immigration fight not over

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, By Dennis Wagner, The Arizona Republic

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 870 words


PHOENIX -- Leticia Espinoza's neighbor was ready to go. The illegal immigrant
from Mexico was terrified of the Arizona law set to go into effect today that
would have granted police officers unprecedented powers to stem illegal
immigration.

Within an hour of learning that a federal judge had blocked enforcement of the
most controversial aspects of the law, Espinoza said her neighbor came running
into her house.

"She screamed, 'I'm not leaving anymore,' " Espinoza said. "She's such a great
person, so I'm happy she's staying."

The law, known as S.B. 1070 after the bill that created it, would have required
police officers to question the immigration status of suspects stopped for
another offense if there is a "reasonable suspicion" they are in the country
illegally.

Word of the judge's ruling spread quickly, prompting passionate reactions here
on both sides of the debate.

Rick Gray, a member of the Greater Phoenix Tea Party Patriots, said he was not
surprised by U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton's decision. He paraphrased a quote
from Mahatma Gandhi to explain the position he and other supporters find
themselves in: "First they ignore you, then they laugh at you, then they fight
you, then you win," he said.

Gray said he remains stunned at the federal government's inaction over illegal
immigration. Bolton's decision Wednesday, based in part on a challenge filed by
President Obama's Department of Justice, only reinforced what he called a
troubling double standard.

"They don't want to do their job, but they don't want us to do it," said Gray,
who is running for the state Legislature. "It's illogical and disappointing."

Phoenix resident Tom Trujillo, 68, called the ruling a "travesty."

"I was hoping it would be upheld and our country would be protected," he said.
"I'm hoping at some point the courts will uphold S.B. 1070 or that the federal
government will take action and protect and secure our borders."

In heavily Hispanic western Phoenix, celebrations were muted, but the sense of
relief was widespread.

Imelda De La Cruz said people had grown anxious in the three months since
Republican Gov. Jan Brewer signed the law.

"People were scared to take their children to school. They were scared to go to
the store," said De La Cruz, 41, a Mexico native who is now a U.S. resident.

Maria Teresa Gonzalez said a local store had started delivering groceries to
people's homes because they wanted to minimize their time outside the house.

"A lot of people were doing that. It was a growing business," said Gonzalez, 50,
a legal U.S. resident who has several cousins who are illegal immigrants.

Ramon Sanchez said he was relieved by Bolton's decision to block the law but
distraught about the Hispanics who fled the state out of fear.

He said many of his neighbors had packed their cars with as much as they could,
sold as many of their remaining belongings as possible and headed to Mexico or
other U.S. states.

Sanchez, a 43-year-old construction worker, doubted most of them could afford
the move back to Phoenix. "It's just too expensive to do that twice," he said.

Irasema Peralta said her brother-in-law, an illegal immigrant, told her he will
still pursue his plans to move to California next month because Arizona had
grown too hostile to Hispanics.

"The damage has been done," said Flaviano Vazquez, a construction worker who has
just begun the process of becoming a legal U.S. resident. "There was already
racism before this law. This has elevated it."

Contributing: Stephanie Russo, The Arizona Republic

*Judge's injunction, 1A

List

Portions on hold

Key aspects of the Arizona immigration law will not go into effect today:

*The part that requires an officer to try to determine the immigration status of
a person stopped, detained or arrested if there's reasonable suspicion he or she
is in the country illegally.

*The section that makes it a crime for documented immigrants to fail to carry
registration papers.

*Language that makes it a crime for illegal immigrants to solicit, apply for or
perform work.

*The part that allows for a warrantless arrest of a person when there is
probable cause to believe he or she has committed a public offense that makes
them removable from the U.S.

-- Ruling of

U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton

List

border troops' arrival in air

An Arizona National Guard spokesman said Wednesday that troops will not begin
bolstering security along the Arizona border this Sunday, as had been announced
by the Department of Homeland Security and Department of Defense on July 19.

"We won't have any units deployed by Aug. 1," said Public Affairs Officer Lt.
Valentine Castillo. "We don't yet know when troops will actually arrive."

The Department of Homeland Security  referred questions about the announcements
and the timing of deployment to the National Guard Bureau in Arlington, Va.

Spokesman Jack Harrison said the earlier announcements were "overinterpreted."

"We've said all along that there's a ramp-up time," he said. "In a general
sense, Guard members will begin the process of receiving required training on or
about the 1st of August."

Castillo said the Arizona National Guard is still seeking, screening and
training volunteers to fill 524 border slots.

By Dennis Wagner,

The Arizona Republic

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Charlie Leight, The Arizona Republic

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NATION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              201 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 30, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Voices of Immigration

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 86 words


With the emotional debate over illegal immigration intensifying, we're
interested in hearing your experiences. What is your or your family's
immigration story? When did your parents come to the USA and why? How have you
been affected by illegal immigration? Send us your comments of 250 words or
fewer to letters@usatoday.com or fax to 703-854-2053. Include your contact
number and home address for verification purposes. Comments that are accepted
will be part of a continuing conversation on this page and online.


LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              202 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 2, 2010 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Skin color deeply influences immigration debate

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 379 words


The Common Ground conversations between Cal Thomas and Bob Beckel continue to be
one of my favorite USA TODAY  features. But Beckel's correct identification of
the Arizona immigration debate as having some relationship to "skin color" was
quickly dismissed by Thomas. He responds, "I'm just trying to cut through the
politically correct nonsense." This was a knee-jerk  reply that diminishes
Thomas' insights ("Immigration heats up the desert," The Forum, Thursday).

Thomas could add greater credibility to his conservative musings by
acknowledging that many of the issues that we continue to  deal with today are
shaped by our history of less-than-equal justice.

History  reminds us that it was necessary to wage protests and enact new
legislation in order to make the laws of our nation put in practice the ideals
of the Founders. Farm workers, women, blacks and their advocates, could remind
Thomas that Beckel's comments were not "politically correct nonsense."

Gilbert H. Caldwell

Asbury Park, N.J.

Work together on fix

The debate on illegal immigration is heating up more and more each day. Whatever
your stance is on Arizona's immigration law,  illegal immigration is an issue
that must be tackled.

Bob Beckel and Cal Thomas  have a good suggestion to settle the issue, which is
to allow all 11 million illegal immigrants to register with the government and
set them on  a path to citizenship, though with certain obligations to face
first.

It's an idea that makes sense.  The illegal immigration issue  should be studied
by a bipartisan task force and  its conclusions should be a starting point for
President Obama. Forget political parties and forget your opinion on the Arizona
law for now. Let's focus on the big picture together.

Steve J. Wilson

Manchester, Conn.

Ariz. law mirrors others

I owned and operated a small chain of specialty stores in Southern California
from 1965 to 2007. In 1986, President Reagan signed a bill that made it
mandatory for employers to verify a person's citizenship.  We checked each and
every person's citizenship, regardless of the color of his skin. That wasn't
racism.

The debate over illegal immigration has gotten out of control.  Most people do
not realize that Arizona's law mirrors current federal laws.

Bob Bergstrom

Calabasas, Calif.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Nick Oza, The Arizona Republic

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              203 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 4, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Voices of Immigration

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 86 words


With the emotional debate over illegal immigration intensifying, we're
interested in hearing your experiences. What is your or your family's
immigration story? When did your parents come to the USA and why? How have you
been affected by illegal immigration? Send us your comments of 250 words or
fewer to letters@usatoday.com or fax to 703-854-2053. Include your contact
number and home address for verification purposes. Comments that are accepted
will be part of a continuing conversation on this page and online.


LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              204 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 5, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Murder charge sought in nun's death;
Car crash is flashpoint in immigration debate

BYLINE: Alan Gomez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 432 words


An illegal immigrant charged with drunken driving in a crash that killed a nun
and critically injured two others could face a felony murder charge in the case,
a Virginia prosecutor said Wednesday.

Paul Ebert, the commonwealth's attorney for Prince William County, said he will
seek the charge when he presents the case to a grand jury in September against
Carlos Martinelly Montano, 23. Montano already is facing a third charge of
driving while intoxicated and a charge of involuntary manslaughter after
Sunday's crash. A felony murder conviction carries a maximum of 40 years in
prison.

The crash quickly became the latest flashpoint in the national immigration
debate. Groups that want stricter controls on immigration cited Montano, who was
free while awaiting a federal deportation hearing, as an example of a failed
policy that allows illegal immigrants to stay in the United States.

"This guy would have been identified as being an illegal alien several
violations and incarcerations ago, and he would be back in his home country,"
said Bob Dane, a spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
which wants lower levels of legal and illegal immigration. "He wouldn't be
driving without a license and killing people."

Killed in the crash was Sister Denise Mosier 66,  who was traveling to a
five-day religious retreat at the Benedictine Sisters monastery in Prince
William County  with two other nuns, Charlotte Lange, 75, and Connie Ruth
Lupton, 70. First Sgt. Kim Chinn of the Prince William County Police Department
said the other two women are hospitalized  in "pretty serious" condition.

The Benedictine Sisters of Virginia said in a statement that they were "dismayed
and saddened that this tragedy has been politicized and become an apparent forum
for the illegal-immigration agenda."

David Leopold, president of American Immigration Lawyers Association, agreed. He
said the case was isolated and did not suggest that a large percentage of
illegal immigrants drive drunk or commit crimes.

"The issue in this case is not that an undocumented driver was driving drunk.
The issue is drunk driving, period," Leopold said. "There is not a problem in
this country with any particular ethnic group. It is a national problem from
state to state."

Montano, of Bolivia, was ordered held without bond during a Wednesday hearing,
Ebert said.

Matt Chandler, a spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security, said
Secretary Janet Napolitano has ordered an immediate review to determine why
Montano was released after his second DWI conviction in 2008, when he served 20
days in jail.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, AP
PHOTO, B/W, AP
PHOTO, B/W, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NATION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 5, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Voices of immigration

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 86 words


With the emotional debate over illegal immigration intensifying, we're
interested in hearing your experiences. What is your or your family's
immigration story? When did your parents come to the USA and why? How have you
been affected by illegal immigration? Send us your comments of 250 words or
fewer to letters@usatoday.com or fax to 703-854-2053. Include your contact
number and home address for verification purposes. Comments that are accepted
will be part of a continuing conversation on this page and online.


LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              206 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 6, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Voices of Immigration

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 86 words


With the emotional debate over illegal immigration intensifying, we're
interested in hearing your experiences. What is your or your family's
immigration story? When did your parents come to the USA and why? How have you
been affected by illegal immigration? Send us your comments of 250 words or
fewer to letters@usatoday.com or fax to 703-854-2053. Include your contact
number and home address for verification purposes. Comments that are accepted
will be part of a continuing conversation on this page and online.


LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              207 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           August 18, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

WikiLeaks founder heroic for postings

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 276 words


It is the height of audacity for a Pentagon responsible for the deaths of
thousands of Iraqis, Afghans and Americans, some of whom were innocent victims,
including women and children, to denigrate WikiLeaks' Julian Assange as perhaps
putting lives at risk ("WikiLeaks says it won't be threatened by the Pentagon,"
Saturday, USATODAY.com).

The founder and all others involved in the leaks ought to be hailed as heroes
for exposing misdeeds and making those actions less likely to happen again.

Steve Juniper

Berkeley, Calif.

Arizona governor

I think Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer failed to do her duty as a state executive to
fight crime, and is trying to blame the federal government for her failures
("One Arizona town's take on immigration debate," News, Aug. 9).

She is making  illegal immigrants the unfortunate scapegoats -- a common
practice by some politicians in distressed times.

If Brewer really wanted to solve the immigration and border problem, she could
very well have gotten the attention of Congress or the executive branch of
government in a proper and official way.

By passing a law that could cause the profiling of immigrants and legal citizens
based on their looks, Brewer just set the ball rolling for an escalation of
ethnic division not just in Arizona, but all over the United States.

If border control was the key to fighting crime and stopping illegal
immigration, then Brewer should have placed more focus on just that, border
control.

The mere possibility that a legal ethnic immigrant or citizen could be profiled
on a suspicion is a violation of human rights.

I hope Brewer realizes what she has set in motion.

Sazzad "Sam" Hossain

Kansas City, Mo.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              208 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 20, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Not very American: 'Illegal by birth'

BYLINE: Raul Reyes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 431 words


Here we go again. Joining a building chorus,  some top Republicans have called
for a review of the constitutional guarantee that anyone born in the USA is a
citizen. They say it encourages illegal immigration.

"Birthright citizenship, I think, is a mistake," Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C.,
said.  Sen. Jon Kyl, R-Ariz., wondered, "If both parents are here illegally,
should there be a reward for their illegal behavior?"

Funny how this issue arises periodically, usually near election time, and
nothing ever comes of it. That's because there are legal, practical and moral
considerations in favor of birthright citizenship.

The language of the 14th Amendment is simple: "All persons born or naturalized
in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of
the United States and of the state wherein they reside."

If we were to end birthright citizenship, we would have two classes of children,
both born on American soil. The only difference would be who their parents were
-- which doesn't strike me as very democratic.

The Supreme Court has long upheld the idea that if you're born in the USA, you
are an American. As far back as 1898, in U.S. v. Kim Wong Ark, it ruled that the
U.S.-born son of Chinese immigrants was a citizen.

Foes of illegal immigration call these children "anchor babies," based on the
false idea that undocumented workers have children here to "anchor" their family
in the U.S.  In truth, having a U.S.-born child is no protection from
deportation.  Consider Elvira Arellano, who made headlines  by taking sanctuary
in a Chicago church. Although her son was born in the U.S., she was deported in
2007.  Nor is her case atypical. From 1998 to 2007, federal authorities removed
108,434 parents of American kids.

Perversely, ending birthright citizenship would actually have the effect of
adding to our undocumented population -- because we'd be creating a new class of
children who are "illegal by birth." Think about that.

Politically, the likelihood of changing the amendment is slim. Such a measure
would have to pass in both houses of Congress by a two-thirds majority, and then
win approval by three-fourths of the states.   Not likely.

Let's call this birthright debate what it is: one more distraction to keep
Congress from  passing comprehensive  reform. Yet some  Republicans seem willing
to cast aside core American values and to treat our Constitution like an a la
carte menu. I suggest they leave the kids alone and pick on someone their own
size.

Raul Reyes is an attorney in New York and a member of USA TODAY's Board of
Contributors.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              209 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 31, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Should being born in the USA make you a citizen?

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 559 words


With the economic recovery faltering and midterm elections approaching,
simmering anger against illegal immigrants seems to be reaching a new boiling
point.

Polls show most Americans back Arizona's controversial new law aimed at
arresting undocumented immigrants, and now support is growing for an even more
drastic move to deny citizenship to babies born in the U.S. unless their parents
are here legally. Several leading Republican lawmakers, including Senate
Minority Leader Mitchell McConnell, have called for hearings into the issue.

Any effort to repeal what's known as "birthright citizenship" faces a big
obstacle: the 14th Amendment. Ever since the amendment was ratified in 1868, the
Constitution has repeatedly been held to confer automatic American citizenship
on anyone born in the USA.

The repealers' argument -- logical and enticing -- is that an amendment written
to ensure that the children of slaves received citizenship rights is obsolete in
a modern era of illegal immigration, jetliner travel and international tourism.
As a solution to the nation's illegal immigration problem, though, it is at best
an unworkable distraction, one so fraught with practical difficulties as to make
the effort impractical and unwise.

For one thing, amending the Constitution is difficult to do, and deliberately
so. It takes a vote of two-thirds of both the House of Representatives and the
Senate to propose an amendment, and then three-quarters of the states to ratify
it. In today's polarized political environment, it's hard to imagine that
happening.

Some opponents of birthright citizenship say that an amendment isn't necessary,
that Congress could do the same thing merely by passing a law to "clarify" the
14th Amendment. But such a law would no doubt be challenged, and birthright
citizenship has consistently withstood court tests.

The opponents also tend to give short shrift to the practical difficulties of
enforcement. It's not difficult to envision the joy of childbirth being
encumbered by bureaucratic red tape. Is it worth inflicting citizenship tests on
the parents of all 4.3 million children born in the USA each year in an effort
to identify the estimated 8% born to illegal immigrants? And any sort of
delivery-based enforcement mechanism would undoubtedly cause some women to avoid
hospitals, endangering the health of mother and child.

If babies were really the problem, perhaps it would make more sense to change
the 14th Amendment. But charges that "anchor babies" begin a pernicious "chain
migration" ignore the fact that a baby born a citizen here has to wait 21 years
before trying to bring in most relatives. The undocumented parents of a
U.S.-born baby are still illegal immigrants; they should not be allowed to plead
the citizenship of their child to stave off deportation.

The real ways to fight illegal immigration are the same as they've always been:
Tighten the border. Make it harder for immigrants to work here illegally. Fix
the E-Verify system that lets employers check whether job applicants are here
legally. Set up a temporary worker system. And establish a path to legality for
undocumented aliens already here who pay taxes and stay out of trouble.

Repealing birthright citizenship is so divisive, and so far down the list of
solutions, as to make it an unworthy addition to the national debate on
immigration.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              210 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 1, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

7 myths that have clouded the immigration debate

BYLINE: Darrell M. West

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 668 words


The United States is shockingly irrational in the way it handles immigration.
Unlike other nations that strategically use immigration to pursue national
goals, we lurch from concerns about border security to illegal immigrants to
drugs and crime without considering our long-term political and economic
priorities.

One of the chief sources of irrationality is the myths that have arisen about
immigrants and immigration policy. Befitting a subject that is politically
charged, here's where ordinary Americans and policymakers often get it wrong:

Myth No. 1 -- Illegal immigrants don't pay taxes. They actually pay a variety of
taxes.  Because many undocumented workers hold jobs, a large number pay income,
Social Security and Medicare taxes, as well as sales taxes when they purchase
items in stores and property taxes when they rent or own homes. One study found
that they pay $162 billion annually in federal, state and local taxes.  Another
project found that the average immigrant paid $1,800 more in taxes than
government benefits received.

Myth No. 2 -- The United States rarely deports illegal immigrants. In fact, the
government deports 350,000 people annually.  Since 1999, more than 2.2 million
people have been deported from the United States,  including visitors who
overstayed their visas, lied on immigration forms, or committed serious crimes.
State and federal officials regularly check the immigrant status of those who
are arrested or serving time in prison.

Myth No. 3 -- Economics and business drive U.S. immigration policy. Two-thirds
of the 1 million official visas awarded each year are based on family
unification. Conversely, only 15% of visas each year are awarded for employment
purposes.  Other nations devote a far higher percentage of visas to economic or
employment-related reasons. Canada, for example, grants more than half of its
visas for employment-related reasons.

Myth No. 4 -- The United States makes a special effort to attract scientists,
engineers and technological experts. Right now, we set aside only 65,000 of
America's nearly 1 million visas each year for high-skilled workers.  This is
well below the 195,000 high-skilled visas that the U.S. allowed from 1999 to
2004.  One study found that 25% of all the technology and engineering businesses
launched in the USA from 1995 to 2005 had a foreign-born founder. In Silicon
Valley, that number was 52.4%.

Myth No. 5 -- The courts treat immigrants fairly. In immigration court
deportation proceedings, those who have a lawyer win their cases 46% of the
time, compared with 16% for those without a lawyer.  Because these are civil
courts, defendants have no Fifth Amendment protection against self-incrimination
and no guarantee of legal representation.

Myth No. 6 -- Americans oppose allowing illegal immigrants to stay in the United
States and become citizens. Polling data suggest there is public support for a
"path to citizenship" for illegal immigrants currently in the country, subject
to certain conditions. Results from a Pew Research Center survey show that 63%
favor a "path to citizenship" if illegal immigrants pass a background check, pay
fines and have a job.

Myth No. 7 -- News stories about immigration are balanced. Studies of mainstream
print and broadcast coverage in recent years have found, for instance, that news
outlets are twice as likely to focus on the costs rather than benefits of
immigration.

Given the importance of immigration to our economic growth, security and
national identity, we need a new narrative. We should think about finding the
next Albert Einstein, Sergey Brin, or Andrew Grove, future innovators who can
start businesses and create high-paying jobs. An immigration policy based on an
"Einstein Principle" would increase our odds for economic prosperity and enhance
job creation and innovation.

Darrell M. West is vice president and director of Governance Studies at the
Brookings Institution. He is the author of the new  book Brain Gain: Rethinking
U.S. Immigration Policy.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              211 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 2, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Fewer illegal immigrants entering USA

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 436 words


The number of immigrants coming to the USA illegally since 2007 has plummeted --
the first significant decline in two decades, according to a Pew Hispanic Center
report out today.

The total number of illegal immigrants in the country is down from a peak of 12
million in 2007 to 11.1 million in 2009, the report says.

The annual inflow of about 300,000 illegal immigrants from 2007 to 2009 was
almost two-thirds smaller than it had been from 2000 to 2005, when it reached an
average 850,000 a year.

"These are very sizable drops," says Jeffrey Passel, senior demographer at the
non-partisan Pew Hispanic Center. "Over the last four years, they've been going
down steadily."

The recession and housing collapse have dried up job opportunities. At the same
time, border enforcement is stiffer and more states and local governments are
approving measures to crack down on illegal immigrants.

The drop in illegal immigrants is most dramatic along the Southeast coast and
the Mountain West. It fell in Florida, Nevada and Virginia. The combined total
of illegal immigrants in Arizona, Colorado and Utah also tumbled.

Arizona has been at the center of a controversial crackdown on illegal
immigration that is now stalled in court. The drop may be evidence that the
state's enforcement efforts are having an impact, says Steven Camarota, director
of research for the Center for Immigration Studies, a group that advocates
controlled immigration.

Communities across the USA have passed laws to reduce the number of undocumented
residents. In Virginia's Prince William County, police must ask about the
immigration status of anyone arrested.

The drop is not surprising, says Corey Stewart, chairman of the Prince William
Board of County Supervisors. "It's a combination of the weak economy, the severe
downturn in the construction industry and the increased immigration
enforcement."

The influx will pick up again as soon as the economy improves, Stewart says. "We
can't assume that illegal immigration is permanently on the decline."

Stewart is behind the Virginia Rule of Law campaign that wants anti-illegal
immigration measures statewide.

There were 7.8 million illegal immigrants in the workforce in 2009, the Pew
report says. They made up a smaller share of the total labor force: 5.1%, vs.
5.5% in 2007.

The Pew center estimates mirror those released earlier by the Department of
Homeland Security. The government said 10.8 million unauthorized immigrants were
living in the USA in January 2009, compared with a peak of 11.8 million in 2007.

"Whatever is going on, fewer people are coming, and more people are leaving,"
Camarota says.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Julie Snider, USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NATION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              212 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 7, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Legal immigrants show they respect citizenship

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 403 words


I am completely in agreement with the opposing view "Reject birthright
citizenship." With all the debate over illegal  immigrants and immigration, the
effects both are having on native citizens and the value of citizenship are
often overlooked  (Anchor babies' debate, Aug. 31).

Illegal  immigrants take jobs from Americans, and no, those jobs are not all
ones that Americans won't take. When one is out of work; one will take any job
that is available.

I always thought American citizenship was to be valued. Immigrants came here to
be Americans. Learning English, adapting to customs and valuing the freedom we
cherish were the tenets of the dream.

The idea of having babies as a way to obtain citizenship  cheapens the whole
idea of being American. In my family, the concept of becoming a citizen involved
study, work and assimilation.

Steven Aiello

Howard Beach, N.Y.

'Anchor babies' hard path

As a legal immigrant, I was very interested to read the debate  about birthright
citizenship -- whether babies born to parents who are illegal immigrants should
be given U.S. citizenship ("Should being born in the USA make you a citizen?,"
Our view).

Gaining legal status through family connections is a very difficult process,
especially through children.  A child born here is a citizen under the
Constitution. But that does nothing for the parents. Even if  a mother did
manage to enter illegally and  have a baby,  she would still need to wait until
the child is 21 to apply for legal citizenship status.  That means  the parents
would have to find illegal work and avoid deportation for 21 years.

When they did apply, the applicants' background, as well as the sponsors'
financial stability, would be investigated. If a background check determined
that they had been in the country illegally, the application  could be denied.
The process also involves a face-to-face interview with an immigration officer
who is looking for people trying to claim immigration through illegal processes.

Having a child  who is a U.S. citizen is no guarantee of  citizenship for the
family. The truth is that it is much easier to be an illegal immigrant and slip
under the radar than it is to go through the process legally.

Stopping "anchor babies" won't stop illegal immigration, or even slow it down.
The way to stop illegal immigration is to make it harder for illegal immigrants
to find employment in this country.

Fraser Clements

Reading, Pa.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Kevork Djansezian, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              213 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 14, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Who is a citizen? The Founders left us a riddle.;
The 14th Amendment doesn't answer this question, as today's immigration debate
exposes unsettled business.

BYLINE: Jonathan Turley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 946 words


The raging debate over illegal immigration has grown on a steady diet of
rhetoric and recrimination. However, beneath all the hyperbole is a
long-standing and unresolved debate over what it means to be a citizen. It turns
out that the most foundational right contained in the Constitution --
citizenship itself -- is poorly defined and even more poorly understood.

There has long been a conscious avoidance of the question over so-called
birthright citizenship -- citizenship claimed by the children of illegal aliens.
Indeed, the question has become increasingly difficult to address as the numbers
of birthright citizens grow each year. In 2008, one in 12 babies in this country
was born to illegal immigrants -- 8% of all births.  This is not counting the
millions of prior such births, often referred to by critics as "anchor babies."
With any change in the definition of citizenship assuring tremendous social
changes and upheaval, the question has been left unresolved for more than two
centuries.

Muddled then, muddled now

Given our roots, it should not be too surprising that citizenship was left
ill-defined by the Framers. After all, this was the nation formed by citizens of
other nations -- a common covenant based as much on what we rejected as what we
embraced. Indeed, in the Declaration of Independence, we defined ourselves
largely by process of elimination -- we would no longer live by the long list of
examples of "absolute Despotism."

Notably, one of the complaints was that the king "endeavored to prevent the
population of these states; for that purpose obstructing the Laws for
Naturalization of Foreigners; refusing to pass others to encourage their
migrations hither."

Of course, the matter became more complex with the ratification of the
Constitution and, more important, the later adoption of the 14th Amendment in
1868. That amendment spoke directly to the issue of citizenship, stating in the
very first line: "All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and
subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of
the state wherein they reside."  The amendment has become the battleground for
opponents and advocates of birthright citizenship, with each side claiming
clarity in its meaning. The fact is that the record was as muddled then as it is
now.

The 14th Amendment was adopted in response to the infamous Dred Scott decision
denying former slaves the protections of citizenship as well as "Black Codes"
that created barriers to former slaves in the South. On its face, the language
would appear to support birthright citizenship. However, it has long been argued
that such children are not "subject to the jurisdiction" of the United States
because their parents are properly subjects of their home country.

The original debate itself offered support to both sides of today's debate. The
drafter of the Citizenship Clause -- Sen. Jacob  Howard of Michigan -- stated
clearly that the clause did not include "persons born in the United States who
are foreigners, aliens, who belong to the families of ambassadors or foreign
ministers." This view was supported by critical leaders such as Senate Judiciary
Committee Chairman Lyman Trumbull of Illinois.  However, other senators like
John Conness of California believed that anyone born in the U.S. would be a
citizen.

Citizenship elsewhere

This debate between jus soli (law of the ground)  and jus sanguinis (blood
right) continues to divide leaders and nations with debates similar to our own.
Many countries have long recognized jus soli, or birthright citizenship. Indeed,
at the time of our founding, England recognized birthright citizenship. In
Calvin's Case in 1608, the court ruled that "a person's status was vested at
birth, and based upon place of birth -- a person born within the king's dominion
owed allegiance to the sovereign, and in turn, was entitled to the king's
protection."

Conversely, nations like Germany follow jus sanguinis, establishing citizenship
by one's ancestors or connections to the country as opposed to merely birth
location. Other countries have a hybrid approach. The United Kingdom, for
instance, requires that the parents be legal residents.

For its part, the U.S. Supreme Court has never directly ruled on the issue of
birthright citizenship. In 1898, in United States v. Wong Kim Ark, the court
found that the child of Chinese immigrants was still a citizen under the 14th
Amendment because he was  born on U.S. territory. However, his parents were here
legally as permanent residents.

Congress could force the issue into the courts through legislation. Yet, the
Supreme Court would in all likelihood rule in favor of birthright citizenship.
This process -- legislative and then judicial -- would unfortunately
short-circuit the national debate.  Some senators, as well as others, are
pushing for a constitutional amendment, which is a better approach for this type
of question. While the Framers made the amendment process difficult, it was
designed for this type of question -- to prevent "impulse buy" amendments
adopted in the heat of passion and anger.

Since the founding, we have spent more time defining the rights of citizens than
citizenship itself. It is not clearly answered in the history or language of the
Constitution, despite representations on both sides of the debate. Rather than
continuing to question the citizenship of millions, we should first resolve what
it is to be a citizen. It is not a new question, but it is a question that we
might now want to answer.

Jonathan Turley, the Shapiro Professor of Public Interest Law at George
Washington University, is a member of USA TODAY's Board of Contributors.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Suzy Parker, USA TODAY (Illustration)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              214 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 12, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Deportation fears fuel action plans;
Illegal immigrants' legal papers cover kids, assets

BYLINE: Alan Gomez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 448 words


Illegal immigrants nervous about stronger enforcement have started drawing up
legal documents to spell out what they want to happen to their families and
belongings if they are deported.

Attorneys in New Mexico, Arizona and Texas say illegal immigrants began
approaching them for help preparing the documents as the national debate over
immigration heated up in recent months.

"There's a culture of fear out there," says Jason Mills, a Fort Worth
immigration attorney who was not asked for such help until this year.

Cecilia Menjivar, an Arizona State University sociology professor, says
immigrant families started preparing informal plans in 2006, when Immigration
and Customs Enforcement agents were conducting raids at work sites.

Children were stranded at school when parents were arrested at work, she says.
If workers were caught on the street, relatives didn't know how to phone their
employers. Wives couldn't get access to detained husbands' bank accounts.
Menjivar says families began discussing who would care for children and
preparing emergency lists: "People usually have the firefighters or police on
that list, but in this case, it's people who can take care of the kids, the
number of employers."

Mills says several things sent illegal immigrants to lawyers this year. Congress
has failed to act on legislation that would legalize the status of some of the
country's 11 million illegal immigrants. The Obama administration has increased
deportations -- a record 392,000 people in the past 12 months.

Most striking, Mills says, was the debate that followed passage of Arizona's
immigration law, now on hold. It required police with reasonable suspicion to
check the immigration status of someone stopped for another reason. It prompted
more than a dozen other states to consider similar laws.

"People have gotten scared," he says.

A document drawn up by an illegal immigrant is as binding as any other legal
paper, Mills says.

For people with few belongings, a notarized letter can be enough. For those who
have money and property, Mary Ann Romero, an immigration attorney in
Albuquerque, refers them to lawyers who specialize in wills and trusts.

In Phoenix, a group called Puente Arizona has developed an action plan that
contains information about the person, bank accounts and property and designates
who is responsible for the children.

Silvia Hernandez, 24, an illegal immigrant from Mexico, is five months pregnant.
She is preparing documents to ensure that her partner, a legal U.S. resident,
gets custody of her baby if she is deported, not the state foster care system.
"I don't want my baby to go into the system," says Hernandez, a University of
Texas at Arlington student.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              215 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 26, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

As Election Day approaches, nasty political ads proliferate

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 941 words


"Candidate X is vermin. He secretly agrees with terrorists and once belonged to
a cult. He will open the nation's borders to illegal immigrants. He will gut
Social Security and Medicare and do the bidding of Wall Street."

That is only a slight exaggeration of the tone set by this year's political
advertisements. While every election cycle produces its share of attack ads,
this one has produced a particularly toxic bumper crop that reflects both the
decline of American political discourse and the emergence of shadowy groups
funded by anonymous donors.

With one week to go before Election Day, here are five of 2010's worst:

'Don't Vote.' That is the kicker on an ad run by a previously unknown group
called Latinos for Reform. It tells Latino voters to ignore their civic duty and
stay home. In other words, it brings voter suppression, long a subtle and covert
affair, out in the open. It's hard to imagine a more blatant effort to suppress
turnout in a bloc that is growing rapidly and has returned to the Democratic
fold in the past two elections after showing an openness to former president
George W. Bush in 2004. Latinos for Reform -- based in Northern Virginia and run
by a former Republican Party aide -- urges non-participation to punish Democrats
for not passing comprehensive immigration reform. Never mind that it was
Republicans who were the main roadblock to reform, and that Republicans would
benefit from a low Hispanic turnout.

'Taliban Dan.' Whatever critiques one might make of Florida Republican House
candidate Daniel Webster, being a member of the Taliban is not a legitimate one.
That, however, hasn't stopped incumbent Democrat Alan Grayson from using the
label in an ad so over the top, it almost looks like a parody of attack ads.
Grayson conflates Webster's conservative Christian views with Islamic extremism,
warning voters that "religious fanatics try to take away our freedom in
Afghanistan, in Iran, and right here in Central Florida." The ad is built around
a clip of Webster saying that wives should submit to their husbands, which is
taken entirely out of context. In reality, Webster cited that advice as an
example of Bible verses that men should not focus on (though he added that women
could pray on it if they wished).

'Aqua Buddha.' If Grayson seeks to distort his opponent's religious beliefs,
Kentucky Democratic Senate candidate Jack Conway seeks to undermine his
opponent's. He has run an ad asking a number of rhetorical questions about GOP
nominee Rand Paul. Why did Paul once belong to a secret society that called the
Bible a hoax? Why did he once tie up a woman and order her to worship an Aqua
Buddha? Perhaps the only question he omitted is when Paul stopped beating his
wife. To the extent that Conway's questions reflect any underlying truth, they
stem from a college incident nearly 30 years earlier described as a prank.
Assume for a moment that everything was true. This would hardly be the first
case of someone doing something stupid in college or showing a rebellious streak
that he later dropped. But Conway spins them into a conspiratorial crescendo
suggesting that Paul, if elected, would act in ways detrimental to devout
believers. That, in a word, is nonsense.

'Medicare Scare.' In states that lean Democratic or that have large senior
populations, a group organized by former George W. Bush adviser Karl Rove is
running ads against Democratic Senate candidates that attack the recently
enacted health care reform law. The ads end by saying: "Tell (the Democratic
candidate) stop the Medicare cuts." Cuts? Aren't Democrats supposed to be the
big spenders and Republicans the fiscal purists? The reform law contains the
first meaningful reductions to any entitlement program since 1997, and,
according to Medicare Trustees, will extend the life of the program's trust fund
by some dozen years. But consistency does not seem to be a principle of
operatives such as Rove. Some of the cuts come from an expensive program called
Medicare Advantage that Rove championed as a way for the GOP to do better with
senior voters. Apparently it's OK for Republicans to spend away our children's
future, just not Democrats.

'Social Security Scare.' Trailing his Republican opponent, Marco Rubio, Florida
independent Senate candidate Charlie Crist packs all the usual platitudes into
one highly misleading ad attacking Rubio's plan to raise the Social Security
retirement age. While ads attacking reform proposals are nothing new,
particularly in a state such as Florida, Crist's ad shows what happens when
someone tries to make a good-faith stab at shoring up a program that will go
broke without changes that, inevitably, will be unpopular.  The ad suggests the
program is on sound financial footing, which it is not. It also insinuates that
Rubio's plan would negatively impact today's seniors. It would not. Rubio
follows the long-held approach to curbing benefits, which is to slowly implement
them so as not to rile up today's senior voters.

Ads such as these are designed to push emotional buttons, raise doubts and stoke
insecurities. What they're not meant to do is help undecided voters make an
informed decision.

Such ads are not only vitriolic and misleading, the campaigns behind them are
also unusually brazen. In the past, most candidates steered clear of attack ads,
preferring to let independent groups do the dirty work. This year, however, many
candidates themselves have decided to unload on their opponents with a toxic mix
of lies and half-truths that feeds voters' cynicism.

To that we have this to say: We're the USA TODAY Editorial Board, and we
disapprove of these messages.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W (5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              216 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 29, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Hispanics split on views of migrants;
Those born in U.S. more likely to doubt newcomers' contributions

BYLINE: Alan Gomez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 427 words


Hispanics are growing more divided about how they view illegal immigration, and
native-born Hispanics aren't as convinced of the contributions of illegal
immigrants as they used to be, according to a study released Thursday.

Hispanics are split when asked to assess the effect of illegal immigration on
Hispanics living in the United States: 29% say it has had a positive impact, 31%
negative and 30% believe it made no difference, according to the study by the
non-partisan Pew Hispanic Center. That is a sharp decline from a 2007 survey,
when 50% of Hispanics said illegal immigrants were having a positive impact.

The study finds a split between Hispanics born in the USA and those from
elsewhere. Asked whether immigrants are a strength for the country, 69% of
native-born Hispanics agreed, compared with 85% of new arrivals.

Bob Dane, a spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which
advocates less legal and illegal immigration, said he is disturbed that
Hispanics who call illegal immigration a burden on Americans still oppose
limiting immigration.

The study found 53% of Hispanics believe illegal immigrants should pay a small
fine but not be deported; 28% say illegal immigrants should not face any
punishment.

Dane said that attitude stems from Hispanic organizations trying to "blur the
line" between legal and illegal immigration and painting efforts to curtail
illegal immigration as "discriminatory and draconian."

"Over time, I think we will see a narrowing of that gap between their
recognition of the problem and their opposition to the solution," he said.

Lisa Navarrete of the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic civil rights
group, said the survey does not mean Hispanic immigrants with legal standing are
turning against illegal immigrants. Instead, she said, it shows that the
controversy over illegal immigration has hurt all Hispanics, who feel targeted.

"It's not that people are angry at the immigrants themselves, but they are
concerned over the impact the uproar is having on their lives," Navarrete said.

Mark Lopez, co-author of the report, said the apparent discrepancy -- between
seeing illegal immigration as having a negative effect yet opposing
anti-immigration efforts -- mirrors the complicated opinions of most Americans.
He said polls show that most Americans support an Arizona law cracking down on
suspected illegal immigrants but also favor giving them a way to become legal.

The survey of 1,375 Hispanic adults was done in English and Spanish Aug. 17 to
Sept. 19. Margin of error: +/-3.3 percentage points.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Veronica Salazar, USA TODAY, Source: Pew Hispanic Center
survey (Bar graph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              217 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 30, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Costa Rica feels own ills of migration

BYLINE: Chris Hawley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 728 words


Since 2002, 74,000 people eyeing greener pastures have spilled in, many from
neighboring Nicaragua

LOS CHILES, Costa Rica -- The signs of illegal immigration aren't hard to find
-- groups of immigrants hurrying into the high grass, lookouts on street
corners, cars picking up migrants.

It could be a scene near the U.S.-Mexican border, but this is hundreds of miles
south, where Nicaragua meets Costa Rica.

Illegal immigration is not just a problem in the United States. It is here in
the sweltering lowlands of Central America, too, as people from impoverished
countries try to reach developing nations.

About 86 million of the world's 214 million migrants are in developing
countries, where citizens often complain that the newcomers drive down already
low wages and burden shaky social services. In Costa Rica, the government has
imposed new rules criminalizing immigrant smuggling, raising the financial
requirements for legal residency and making it harder to get residency by
marrying a Costa Rican.

Costa Rica ranks 97th in the world in per capita income, at $10,900 a year --
poorer than Mexico, Venezuela or migrant-sending nations in the Old World like
Bulgaria and Turkey. Nicaragua, just to Costa Rica's north, is worse off: The
average income is $2,800 a year, making it the second-poorest country in the
Western Hemisphere, after Haiti.

The disparity has drawn about 74,000 migrants to Costa Rica since 2002, swelling
its population of foreign-born people by 26%. The country now has 350,000
migrants, out of a population of about 4.5 million, giving it the highest
immigration rate of any country in Latin America.

"There's just no work in Nicaragua, and here you can at least make something,"
said Ingmar Herrera, 17, an illegal immigrant in the northern Costa Rican town
of Peoas Blancas, where he washes tractor-trailers on the Pan-American Highway.
Working with three other men, he can wash a truck cab in 20 minutes, earning
about $3.

"In Nicaragua, you can't earn that in a whole day," he said.

Other Nicaraguans work in construction, as maids and as security guards in San
Jose, the capital. Some guard parked cars, collecting a few colo´nes for the
service. About 30,000 come illegally to work in orange orchards and banana
plantations during the harvest season, said Salvador Gutierrez, an expert at the
International Organization for Migration based in Geneva.

For decades, the migrants were mostly tolerated, Gutierrez said. But the
economic slump has many Costa Ricans worried that migrants are taking their
jobs.

"Suddenly, you notice these guys on every street corner," Gutierrez said.
"People start to think they're everywhere, that the country is being overrun."

In Peoas Blancas, Costa Rican authorities have built a mile-long, 8-foot-high
wall to try to discourage migrants.

But on one morning this fall, the flow of immigrants continued unabated. From
Costa Rica, men with backpacks could be seen on the Nicaraguan side, hiking
along a trail parallel to the wall.

"We catch them and deport them, and a few days later, you see the same people
again," said Dagoberto Briceoo, a Costa Rican federal police officer.

In the past, many of the Nicaraguans in Costa Rica would have gone to the U.S.,
said immigrant Cristian Martinez, 20. But stricter border enforcement and rising
violence by Mexico's gangs have deterred many.

The Aug. 24 mass killing of 72 Central American migrants at a ranch in northern
Mexico struck fear into many Nicaraguans, Martinez said. A Mexican gang known as
the Zetas had kidnapped the U.S.-bound migrants, then killed them after they
refused to work for the gang, Mexican investigators say.

"You hear about the Zetas killing all those people, and you think, 'It's not
worth it,' " Martinez said. "Better to come here (to Costa Rica)."

In San Humberto, about 15 miles south of the town of Los Chiles, officer William
Araya questioned a woman he pulled off a bus bound for San Jose.

"You're telling me you didn't just cross the border today?" he said. He pointed
to her shoes, stained with red clay. "Why are your feet so dirty?" The woman
would likely be deported without a fine, he said.

In Peoas Blancas,  a border crosser clambered back over the wall to the
Nicaraguan side. "You can't help but feel sorry for them," Briceoo said as the
man disappeared into weeds. "Hunger doesn't need a passport."

*Following Arizona's lead, 5A

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Photos by Chris Hawley for USA TODAY
GRAPHIC, Color
PHOTO, B/W

DOCUMENT-TYPE: WORLD

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              218 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 21, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Lawmakers push for immigration limits;
Hispanic vote is at stake, Jeb Bush warns conservatives

BYLINE: Alan Gomez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 541 words


WASHINGTON -- At a recent meeting of conservative leaders in Miami to discuss
how they must appeal to Hispanic voters for the 2012 election, former Florida
governor Jeb Bush spoke of softening the tone some have used against Hispanics.
He pointed to the inflamed rhetoric used throughout the immigration debate.

Despite that plea, most of the bills that have been filed in the new Congress
are aimed at cracking down on immigrants -- both legal and illegal.

There's a proposal by Democratic Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee of Texas to add 1,500
federal agents, 100 helicopters and 250 power boats to patrol the Southwest
border. Republican Rep. Darrell Issa of California wants to eliminate the 55,000
visas awarded through a lottery and grant them to foreigners who graduated from
American colleges.

GOP  Rep. Marsha Blackburn of Tennessee proposed building 20 federal prisons to
house illegal immigrants, and Republican Rep. Steve King of Iowa wants to alter
how the 14th Amendment is interpreted so the children of illegal immigrants born
in the USA are no longer granted citizenship.

The fact that most of the roughly dozen immigration-related bills filed so far
clamp down on immigrants shows that even moderate Republicans will have a hard
time courting Hispanic voters, says Clarissa Martinez, director of immigration
and national campaigns for the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic civil
rights group.

"It is these very extreme voices that are so much more visible on the issue,"
Martinez says. "That begs the question of Republican leadership in the House of
what role they are going to play."

Rep. Joe Baca, a Democrat from California who has filed a bill that would help
illegal immigrants brought to the USA as children become citizens, said he
expects Republicans to soften their tone as the 2012 elections draw closer. He
said GOP leaders will start hammering that point to legislators who have taken
hard stances on immigration.

"They realize the importance of those dynamics," Baca said.

Bush made the point succinctly while addressing the Hispanic Leadership Network
in Miami. "It will be incredibly stupid to ignore the burgeoning Hispanic vote,"
he said.

Some in Congress see a middle road.

Blackburn said he believes the border must be secured first. Blackburn spokesman
Claude Chafin said a "serious and thoughtful" approach to comprehensive
immigration legislation would then be possible.

But some Republicans feel that cracking down on all forms of illegal immigration
remains the best way to continue the wave of Republican gains that started in
November.

King said he believes most Americans support his calls to limit immigration and
end the practice known as birthright citizenship.

He acknowledges there's little chance his revision of the 14th Amendment would
pass the Democratic-controlled Senate or be signed into law by President Obama.
King said, however, that getting the legislation passed in the House of
Representatives would go a long way toward helping Republicans in the 2012
elections.

"It has strong public support. If (Democrats) don't shift, there's a statement
on Harry Reid's desk that weighs on (Senate) Democrats up for re-election," King
said.  "And there's a statement ... that weighs on the presidential election."

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, AP
PHOTO, B/W, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              219 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 21, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Good fences are just one piece of an immigration strategy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 561 words


The Bush administration touted it as a smart, high-tech solution to one of the
nation's most vexing problems: illegal immigration. A "virtual fence" of radar,
sensors and towers equipped with night-vision cameras would feed real-time
pictures of illegal intruders to a central control room. There, the Border
Patrol could see the intruders, safely dispatch agents and apprehend illegal
immigrants and smugglers.

But, like so many grand government schemes, the virtual fence fizzled. A week
ago, the Obama administration put it quietly to rest.

Small wonder. Originally announced in 2006 as a $67 million project to be
completed by the spring of 2007, "SBInet" finally went into operation nearly
four years later along 53 miles of Arizona's porous border with Mexico. The
Boeing project was hampered by bureaucracy, environmental reviews, construction
delays, cost overruns, technology glitches and political wrangling. The usual
stuff. Its ultimate price tag? Nearly $1 billion.

In an assessment of the project, Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, a
former governor of Arizona, said essentially that while the initial section
works to apprehend intruders, the project is not "cost-effective" and would not
be extended elsewhere. And, at $19 million a mile, who would argue?

Newspapers in the Southwest applauded Napolitano's move, as did the project's
critics in Congress. But the decision to let the virtual fence strategy quietly
die is no more a solution to the nation's immigration problems than was the
decision to build it.

Over the past two decades, Congress has thrown billions of dollars, hundreds of
miles of fencing, truckloads of fancy technology and ever-increasing numbers of
border agents into a battle to seal the nation's 2,000-mile border with Mexico.
And now Homeland Security promises to deploy more "proven" technology, from
truck-mounted radar to unmanned aircraft, to cover the other 323 miles of the
Arizona border for what the department touts as "less than $750 million."

So is the public getting its money's worth?

Hard to say. According to Mexican government figures, immigration to the U.S. is
down 50% from 2006 to 2009. What's not clear is how much of that is the result
of border enforcement and how much is because of economic factors. The old joke
among experts in the field goes: "How do you stop illegal immigration? Have a
depression." America came close.

The 850 miles of fencing approved by Congress in 2006 was part of a sensible
overall strategy championed by the Bush administration -- one that coupled
border control with tough workplace enforcement to deter businesses from hiring
immigrants illegally: temporary worker permits so employers could legally hire
the labor they need, and a path to legality for migrants who stayed out of
trouble and paid their taxes. A shortsighted Congress defeated comprehensive
reform in 2007, leaving the nation with "enforcement-only" instead of an
"enforcement-first" approach.

Secure borders and fences are an obvious part of any immigration strategy. But
they don't work as the whole strategy. They don't deal with the millions of
illegal immigrants already in the USA, or stop people who come here legally but
overstay their visas, or create more good jobs in Mexico. Exchanging one
billion-dollar boondoggle for $750 million worth of different technology doesn't
change that reality.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Xavier Gallegos, Tucson Citizen

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              220 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           February 2, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Illegal immigration levels off in '10;
Economy makes risk not worth it

BYLINE: Alan Gomez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 432 words


WASHINGTON -- The number of illegal immigrants living in Colorado, Florida, New
York and Virginia dropped in 2010, while the total number of 11.2 million
immigrants in the country remained roughly the same as the year before,
according to a report released Tuesday.

The number of illegal immigrants skyrocketed in the first half of the decade,
rising from 8.4 million in 2000 to a high of 12 million in 2007, according to
the report by the Pew Hispanic Center. Those numbers started dropping in the
past two years before leveling off in 2010.

Jeffrey Passel, senior demographer at the center, said the continued weakness of
the economy and increased immigration enforcement efforts have kept the illegal
immigration population from growing significantly in the past three years.

"It seems like ... people have decided that at this point the cost and risk is
not worth trying to get into the United States because the jobs aren't here,"
Passel said.

Jack Martin of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which advocates
for lower levels of immigration, said the new figures indicate that the U.S.
still has little control of the border.

The Department of Homeland Security deported 392,000 illegal immigrants in 2010
-- an all-time high. Martin said that if the number of illegal immigrants did
not decrease during that time, then it's a clear indication that the border
remains out of control.

Eric Rodriguez, vice president of the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic
civil rights group, disagreed. From 2000 to 2010, the number of Border Patrol
agents has increased from 9,000 to 20,000, and Rodriguez said that has played a
large factor in stemming the tide of illegal crossings.

"Certainly when you ask people along the border, they'll tell you it's become
very, very difficult coming back and forth," he said.

Among the report's other findings:

*350,000 babies were born in the U.S. in 2010 to at least one illegal immigrant
parent, similar to the total for the previous year.

*Of the parents of babies born in 2010, 61% arrived in the U.S. before 2004, 30%
arrived from 2004 to 2007, and 9% arrived in the U.S. in 2008 or later.

*Florida's illegal immigration population fell from 1.05 million in 2007 to
825,000 in 2010. New York lost about 200,000 illegal immigrants in those years,
Virginia about 115,000 and Colorado about 60,000.

The Pew Hispanic Center report was based on data from the Census Bureau and the
Bureau of Labor Statistics, and the center analyzed demographic characteristics
of the illegal-immigrant population. The report covered a period from March 2009
to March 2010.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: Pew Hispanic Center
(Line graph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              221 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           February 3, 2011 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration report finds no rush across border to give birth

BYLINE: Alan Gomez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 443 words


Republican lawmakers in Congress and in more than a dozen state legislatures are
trying to alter the interpretation of the 14th Amendment so that the children of
illegal immigrants born in the USA are no longer granted citizenship.

When announcing a plan for state legislation, a group led by Pennsylvania state
Rep. Daryl Metcalfe claimed "hundreds of thousands of illegal aliens are
crossing U.S. borders to give birth and exploit their child" to obtain
citizenship.

Critics of those legislative efforts are pointing to a new report by the Pew
Hispanic Center that found a vast majority of illegal immigrants who had
children in the USA in 2010 had entered the country several years earlier.

The report found that 350,000 babies were born in the U.S. between March 2009
and March 2010 to at least one illegal immigrant parent. Of those parents, 91%
arrived before 2008.

"It's real concrete data that I think destroys this notion that immigrant women
are crossing the border illegally and having babies," said Angela Kelley of the
Center for American Progress, a left-leaning think tank.

Metcalfe, who founded State Legislators for Legal Immigration, said that despite
the report's findings, birthright citizenship remains a huge lure for foreigners
as they consider sneaking into the country.

He said many immigrants come to the United States for jobs and public benefits.
But he said he has spoken with people along the Southwest border who tell him
about pregnant women making the dangerous crossing to give birth in the United
States.

"Whether its thousands or tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands that are
born here, it's still a major incentive," he said. "I think it's beyond being
deniable."

Frank Sharry, executive director of America's Voice, which supports a process
for some illegal immigrants to become citizens, said the notion of having a
child to obtain citizenship is a myth.

He said a baby born in the United States to illegal immigrant parents must wait
until they're 21 to sponsor their parents for citizenship, and the parents would
then have to return to their home country for 10 years before qualifying. He
said it's highly unlikely that parents would rush a pregnant woman to the United
States on the hope that they could become citizens three decades down the road.

Rep. Steve King, an Iowa Republican who is sponsoring a federal bill to revise
the 14th Amendment, said that even if the number of people crossing over to
immediately have a child is small, it's still a problem.

"Do the open-borders people think that's all right? It isn't a big enough deal
that we should fix it?" he said. "It's wrong to reward people for bad behavior."


LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Julie Snider, USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: WASHINGTON

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              222 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           February 9, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Take steps to eliminate birth citizenship in U.S.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 496 words


The recent article "Immigration report finds no rush across border to give
birth" leaves out pertinent information  about the birthright citizenship clause
(News, Thursday).

According to the study cited in the article, illegal immigrants  constitute 4%
of the U.S. population.  But because illegal immigrants are relatively young and
have high birthrates, their newborns made up nearly 10% of all births last year.
Other studies have found this same disparity. The Houston Chronicle reported
that an estimated 70% of births at Houston and Dallas public hospitals were to
illegal immigrant mothers in 2005.  And in 2004, more than 40% of births covered
by California's Medicaid program  were to illegal immigrant mothers.

Because these children are eligible for taxpayer-subsidized education and
medical care, which costs  billions each year, we should pass a law  so that
children born here to illegal immigrants are not citizens.  This would help
deter illegal immigration and reduce the burden on the taxpayer.

Rep. Gary Miller, R-Calif.

Brea, Calif.

Amway accountability

Amway and its associated training organizations promise a dream of financial
independence in  two to five years for people working part-time marketing Amway
products and recruiting others to do the same, thereby creating streams of
residual income ("Some multilevel salespeople ask: What profits?," Cover story,
Money, Monday).

In my case, this so-called dream was a nightmare. I sacrificed income, savings,
career, relationships, self-esteem and ethics consistently applying the core
marketing strategies (which included purchasing books and tapes, and paying fees
to attend functions) taught by the training organizations  and never profited.
Perhaps the greatest cost was emotional: I blamed myself for failing in a
business that I now believe was never designed to succeed in the first place.

Amway has left behind shattered dreams and failed expectations of  the many
people who were misled.

It is gratifying, therefore, to see Amway and its associated training
organizations finally being held accountable publicly for their unconscionable
business practices.

Brian Petry

Baltimore

Don't fault baby formula

I must disagree with the study in the article "Childhood obesity linked to
formula, early start on solid foods"  (Life, Monday).

Back in the 1970s, when my children were born, the norm was formula and  my
pediatrician's instructions were  to start cereal  when the baby was 1 month
old, and fruits and vegetables at 2 months old. By age 3, my children were thin
and active. So were their friends. The study blames formula and starting foods
early for childhood obesity by age 3. That was just not  the case in the 1970s.

So what else has changed  since then? How about all the other food choices
available to tots today such as  junk food in convenient packages, especially
juice boxes. Don't blame formula and baby food for today's overweight children.
Other factors are in play.

Marjorie Lieder

Houston

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              223 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           February 10, 2011 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S., Mexico join forces to stem tide of illegal crossings;
Alliance has curbed both undocumented workers and drugs

BYLINE: Dennis Wagner

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 547 words


TUCSON -- A little-known coalition of U.S. and Mexican police agencies has
played a major part in cracking down on smuggling and illegal immigration along
the Arizona-Mexico border, top Homeland Security officials say.

The joint operation among the U.S. Border Patrol, Mexican federal police and
about 60 U.S. state, federal, tribal and local police agencies has had dramatic
success making drug seizures and arresting undocumented immigrants, says Alan
Bersin, director of Customs and Border Protection.

Since the Alliance to Combat Transnational Threats launched quietly in September
2009 with coordinated training, intelligence-sharing and patrols, the program
has resulted in the arrests of 270,000 illegal border crossers, the seizure of
1.6 million pounds of marijuana and the recovery of $13 million in cash in the
border's Tucson sector.

The area became a funnel point when officials clamped down in other states along
the U.S. border with Mexico.

Bersin said that as the program continues, it will be another factor in the
efforts to help stem the flow of illegal immigrants and drug smugglers into the
United States.

Bersin said this alliance is unique because it includes cooperative policing
from the Mexican side.

David Shirk, director of the Trans-Border Institute at the University of San
Diego, said collaborating more closely with Mexico to battle drug trafficking
and human smuggling represents a welcome shift in the way the United States
handles border issues.

"The traditional U.S. approach has been one that focuses on unilateral
solutions," he said. "The result is you can't do much from one side of the
border."

Although working more closely with Mexican law enforcement officials will help
the U.S. tackle drug trafficking and human smuggling, those problems can't be
solved through cross-border enforcement alone.

More emphasis has to be put on reducing drug consumption in the U.S. and
creating jobs in Mexico, Shirk said.

On Tuesday, Bersin said the alliance is part of an overall campaign to plug the
last corridor for contraband and illegal immigration. He predicted that the
cartels "will make a stand here to try to preserve their smuggling routes."

Bersin said the goal of the alliance and other initiatives is to manage the
border and make it safe.

"Border safety and security does not mean sealing the border to a point where
not one single illegal alien comes across," he said. "This is perfection to
which we do not aspire."

Wagner also reports for The Arizona Republic.

Contributing: Daniel Gonzalez, The Arizona Republic.

Action on the border

A by-the-numbers look at efforts to patrol the U.S.-Mexican border:

20,700

Border Patrol agents today, more than double the number in 2004.

1,200

National Guard troops deployed on border assignments.

779,000

Illegal immigrants that Immigration and Customs Enforcement removed in fiscal
years 2009 and 2010, more than half of them convicted criminals.

16%

Increase in border drug seizures. Weapons seizures rose 28% and illicit-currency
seizures were up 35% in fiscal 2009 and 2010.

3,500

Employers suspected of hiring illegal immigrants since January 2009 that
Immigration and Customs Enforcement has audited; 235 businesses were debarred
(prohibited from receiving federal contracts).

Source: Department of Homeland Security

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, John Moore, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              224 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              March 4, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Time for Arizona to rein in vigilantes

BYLINE: By Raul Reyes

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 429 words


Brisenia Flores was a 9-year-old girl in Arivaca, Ariz., 11 miles north of the
Mexican border. In May 2009, armed robbers broke into her family's mobile home,
identifying themselves as law enforcement. One of the intruders shot her father.
Brisenia begged for her life, but was shot in the head twice.

Last Tuesday, a jury gave Shawna Forde the death penalty for masterminding the
home invasion that resulted in the two deaths. Forde thought the father was a
drug dealer whom she could rob to fund her militant anti-immigrant Minuteman
group. No drugs were found.

In this case, Forde got the punishment she deserved. But the killings also
highlight the urgent need for Arizona to do something to deter vigilante groups
from becoming a greater menace along the border.  These groups have no training
in law enforcement and -- as the Forde case shows -- pose a threat to citizens
and undocumented migrants alike. Yet the ability of anti-immigrant groups to
patrol the borders and confront undocumented migrants is perfectly legal.

The Southern Poverty Law Center estimates that  more than 300 "nativist
extremist" groups exist in the USA. By the center's definition, these groups "go
beyond mere advocacy of restrictive immigration policy to actually confront or
harass suspected undocumented immigrants."

Forde's extremism seems to reflect a dangerous trend. Last summer, someone
opened fire on five undocumented immigrants, wounding one,  in Rio Rico, Ariz.
Santa Cruz County Sheriff Tony Estrada said  men in camouflage clothing armed
with assault rifles were responsible.  In January, a neo-Nazi was arrested as he
headed for the border with 12 homemade grenades.

Arizona legislators have done little to confront the problem. Consider the case
of Roger Barnett, who was found guilty of holding undocumented immigrants on his
ranch and assaulting them at gunpoint in 2004.  A court ordered him to pay
damages to his victims. Yet a bill before the  Legislature would bar the payment
of damages to anyone who is undocumented, retroactive to 2004. Bottom line:
Barnett would be off the hook.

I agree with those who say we need to secure our borders. But at the very least,
the Arizona Legislature, which has gone all out on immigration enforcement,
should do something about the Wild West-type approach that citizen enforcement
is bringing to an already difficult-to-control region. In the U.S., we do not
tolerate people taking the law into their own hands; the border should be no
exception.

Raul Reyes is an attorney in New York and a member of USA TODAY's Board of
Contributors.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W

DOCUMENT-TYPE: THE FORUM

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              225 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 11, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Still booming, but at a slower rate;
Analysts point to state's tough law on immigrants

BYLINE: Dennis Wagner

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 412 words


Arizona was the second-fastest-growing state in the past decade, but demographic
analysts suspect the recession and an exodus of Hispanics slowed the pace.

Census data released Thursday show that despite growth of nearly 25% in the past
10 years to almost 6.4 million -- a rate second only to Nevada's 35% --
population in most areas did not measure up to expectations, said Tom Rex of
Arizona State University's W.P. Carey School of Business.

Phoenix and Tucson, the two largest cities, each grew by less than 10% during
that period.

Rex and other experts said the state's passage of tough immigration laws and
increased enforcement against undocumented immigrants probably caused an outflow
of Hispanics and may stunt growth in the future.

The Pew Hispanic Center recently estimated that nearly 100,000 undocumented
immigrants, about one-fifth of Arizona's total, left the state in the past three
years.

"Pretty much across the board, growth slowed down this decade," Rex said. "As
you know, the Census count means money, so this is not good for many of those
communities."

Robert Lang, director of Brookings Mountain West at the University of Nevada-Las
Vegas, said Arizona fell 270,000 residents short of predictions, the largest
amount of any state, which represents a loss of about $750 million in federal
funds.

Lang said Arizona's crackdown on undocumented immigrants probably resulted in an
undercount of residents: "They're probably there, but too afraid to talk to the
Census."

Demographers said the immigration issue was part of a one-two punch: Arizona's
economy, heavily reliant on construction, was among the hardest-hit by the
recession.

Lang noted that Phoenix failed to hit double-digit growth for the first time in
a century.

He and William Schooling, demographer at the Arizona Department of Commerce,
pointed to Pinal County as a major exception to the population slowdown. The
commuter county, a bridge between Phoenix and Tucson, more than doubled in size.
Maricopa, one of its cities, showed a whopping increase of 4,081% -- from 1,040
residents to 43,482.

"Yeah, that's kind of through the ceiling," Schooling said, adding that he was
surprised because new bedroom communities such as Maricopa suffered heavily from
recession and housing vacancies.

Despite the suspected departure of some illegal immigrants, the Hispanic
population did grow. Hispanics make up nearly 30% of the state population, up
from 25.3% in 2000.

Wagner also reports for The Arizona Republic

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: Census Bureau (Map)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              226 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 29, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Should 'illegal,' bright high-schoolers get the boot?;
I teach many undocumented immigrants. Here's why we should give them a path to
citizenship.

BYLINE: Patrick Welsh

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 823 words


A couple of weeks ago, I was sitting with one of my 12th-grade English students
at T.C. Williams High School in Alexandria, Va., helping her edit an essay for a
nursing program to which she was applying. Suddenly a sentence leaped out at me:
"I am illegal." When I told this bright, totally Americanized girl that I was
surprised, she replied: "There are a lot of us here." I didn't have the heart to
tell her -- which is why she shall remain nameless -- that perhaps she shouldn't
mention this fact in her application.

Over the years, I have taught hundreds of Latino kids and naively assumed they
were all legal immigrants. Or for that matter, the many Asian, African and
Middle Eastern students I have taught.  But several staff members who work
closely with immigrant students estimate that as many as 60% of our Latino
students alone -- that is more than 300 kids -- might be illegal.

In my classroom

My high school is only about a half-hour drive from the U.S. Capitol, where
legislators wage divisive battles over what do to about illegal immigrants. But
those lawmakers do not see what I see. When I scan my classroom, I see only the
diverse faces of my students -- but I couldn't tell you who is here legally or
who isn't. Nor do I care. And apparently neither does our educational system,
which is as it should be.

Why else would federal law forbid a school district from denying a free public
education to undocumented children who reside within that district or forbid
schools from disclosing any information about a child's immigration status to
the Citizenship and Immigration Services?  The federal government understands
that it is in the country's best interest to give these children access to a
free public elementary and secondary education.

But why do we stop there?

We are in essence kicking these young people out of America at the point when
they have the potential to become more productive members of our society.

I understand that many Americans see these students as lawbreakers. But like
their parents, these students have already been in the USA for years and have no
plans to leave.

Rather than consigning these young people to lives in the shadows, unable to
vote, to attend a four-year state college, to enter the military  or to get
anything but the lowest-paying jobs that do not require a Social Security
number, we need to come up with an innovative way to put them on a path to
citizenship. And not only for their sake, but also for our own.

If you listen closely enough, you will hear in these students' stories the very
same fears and hopes felt by many of the immigrants who preceded them to this
country:

"I feel caged in. ... I am not allowed to reach for what I want. ... I have
studied as hard as I have so that I wouldn't have to clean houses or work at
McDonalds," said one of my students whose parents brought her here from South
America when she was just 9.

I was stunned when I found out that she was here illegally. "The government
seems to think that by limiting us they will make us go back home. But that's
not happening. My home is here. ... I will not give up my dreams for a better
life," she said.

Don't dismiss them

Even undocumented kids who have ended up living the most difficult of lives here
have no intention of going "back home." Take the senior at my school who told me
that his uncle, who had been living here, paid "coyotes" $7,000 to bring him to
Alexandria. This young man ended up working six days a week for a
year-and-a-half in an Indian restaurant until he made enough to pay back his
uncle. "I wanted to be someone in life, so I went to T.C. Williams after I paid
the money back," he told me.

Granting blanket amnesty for all illegal immigrants would send the wrong message
to those who became U.S. citizens by waiting their turn. Even so, it is long
past the time to begin offering these students a better option. The DREAM Act,
which would have provided these young people a path to citizenship if they
attended college or joined the military for two years, again went down to defeat
in the last Congress.

Perhaps a more palatable option could find its way through Congress. What about
something similar to the H1B visa program, which is aimed at keeping the best
and brightest foreign-born workers in the U.S.? At the very least, high school
students who are illegal immigrants can be given a path to citizenship if they
graduate from a four-year college or a two-year trade school in a field facing
shortages, such as nursing.

Given the billions that has already been spent educating illegal children in our
elementary and high schools, it seems only logical to let the most promising
among them step out of the shadows to become productive citizens in our society.

Allowing them to be "someone in life" can only make all of our lives better.

Patrick Welsh is an English teacher at T.C. Williams High School in Alexandria,
Va., and a member of USA TODAY's Board of Contributors.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Sam Ward, USA TODAY (Illustration)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              227 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              April 4, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Disparity in border security under review;
Some say ports of entry vulnerable as resources go to stop illegal immigrants

BYLINE: Alan Gomez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 706 words


WASHINGTON -- As the battle over illegal immigration has intensified in recent
years, the federal government has responded by flooding the nation's southwest
border with Border Patrol agents and National Guard troops.

Some, such as an interest group on the border and some members of Congress, are
questioning whether those efforts to stop illegal immigrants from entering the
country have come at the expense of the U.S.'s ability to stop the drugs, guns
and cash that also flow across the border.

Up to 90% of the cocaine, methamphetamine, marijuana and heroin that cross from
Mexico to the U.S. goes through the dozens of land ports of entry along the
border, according to the Texas Border Coalition, a group of mayors, judges and
city officials from the border region.

From 2006 to 2010, the number of Customs and Border Protection officers who
inspect people and cargo crossing through the ports of entry along the southwest
border increased by 15%, while the number of CBP Border Patrol agents who patrol
the rugged terrain between those ports increased by 59%, according to CBP
figures.

Some believe that focus on the regions between the ports -- where human
smuggling is the biggest concern -- has been a knee-jerk reaction to the loud
calls in recent years to stem the tide of illegal immigration.

"The emphasis has been because it's kind of sexy," says Nelson Balido, president
of the Border Trade Alliance, which represents companies and government agencies
all along the U.S.-Mexico border. "It's sexy to say you're the crime fighter,
that you're going to go out there and secure the border and we're going to get
them."

That disparity will now be reviewed by Congress.

Rep. Candice Miller, R-Mich., will use her House Subcommittee on Border and
Maritime Security on Tuesday to study the distribution of manpower along the
border. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, sent a letter Friday to the chairman of the
Senate Judiciary Committee asking for a hearing on the issue.

Miller says she wants to determine whether there is a shortage of funding and
manpower at the ports of entry.

"It is a concern that we've all recognized," Miller says. "We'll focus on some
issues that perhaps the agencies are not reacting to appropriately."

Customs officials refused  requests to comment for this story.

The increase in the number of agents who patrol the mountain ranges, rivers and
deserts -- combined with a weakened economy that has dried up many jobs -- has
helped reduce the number of illegal immigrants crossing into the country. After
reaching a high of 12 million in 2007, the number of illegal immigrants in the
United States in 2010 was 11.2 million, according to the Pew Hispanic Center.

At the land ports of entry, understaffing makes proper screening of incoming
cars and trucks difficult.

"We are so understaffed that our inspectors routinely put in 16-hour days,
several times a week," says William Moore, a consultant for the Texas Border
Coalition.

He says drug runners in Mexico closely monitor U.S. ports of entry and
understand the weaknesses. He says they rush drug shipments through during shift
changes. Or they'll send a car with a small amount of drugs to get captured and
then, once Customs officials pull that car out of line for further inspection,
the drug runners push through several cars with larger shipments.

Some also worry about the delays that the understaffed ports of entry are having
on legitimate commerce trying to get through the ports. "We have heard from
southern border officials and advocates about the negative impact on border
economies when delays occur at U.S. ports of entry," Cornyn wrote in his letter
to Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy, D-Vt.

Janice Kephart, director of national security policy for the Center for
Immigration Studies, a group that wants to restrict immigration, says Homeland
Security Secretary Janet Napolitano has done a better job than her predecessors
to balance the number of agents and officers working along the border. Kephart
says more bodies alone won't solve the problems of human or drug smuggling.

Napolitano "is putting more bodies out there because Congress has told her to,
but it is without an overall operational strategy for the border," Kephart says.


LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: U.S. Customs and
Border Protection (Line graph)
PHOTO, B/W, LM Otero, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              228 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 5, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Grappling with immigration;
U.S. Olympic champion wrestler deals with pain of border issues

BYLINE: Vicki Michaelis

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 1414 words


COLORADO SPRINGS -- Henry Cejudo could have stayed away.

He already left his signature on one of America's hottest hot-button issues. The
son of illegal immigrants from Mexico, he held a U.S. flag high while
celebrating his wrestling gold medal in the 2008 Summer Olympics.

Afterward, he spoke openly about his mom naively crossing the border in high
heels, his drug abusing dad dying impoverished in Mexico, his itinerant
childhood spent evading rent collectors. He put the details in a recently
published book titled American Victory.

He settled back in his home state of Arizona. He didn't stay settled for long.

"We're living in the damn '60s, the '50s in Arizona," he says.

A state law passed last year requires police to check the immigration status of
anyone they stop, detain or arrest who they suspect is in the country illegally.
A federal judge's decision to block the law is being appealed. Another proposed
law would deny state citizenship to children born in the USA if neither parent
has legal status.

"They've done a lot of articles on this whole 'anchor baby' law," Cejudo says,
using the pejorative description that refers to U.S.-born children "anchoring"
their illegal parents here. "I feel like I'm a figurehead to that."

He could use the speaking circuit as a platform. Instead, he decided to take on
the issue in the only place he's ever felt truly at home: the wrestling mat.

In February, he returned to the U.S. Olympic Training Center in Colorado
Springs, determined to win another gold at the 2012 Games in London.

"I've done it, and I know I can do it again," says Cejudo, 24, who was born in
Los Angeles. "This time, I want to have more emphasis on this immigration
issue."

Many of his friends have moved away from Arizona to neighboring states, he says,
and an uncle -- his mom's brother, who occasionally lived with them when Cejudo
was younger -- was deported in January 2010 for not having proper documentation,
Cejudo says.

"The majority of my friends are Mexican," says Cejudo, who occasionally travels
to Mexico, including a recent visit to train with the Mexican national team.
"These people are scared."

Whether a second gold would shine opinion-altering light on the issue is a
debate in itself.

"No one person is going to change the tone or the tenor of the divisive
immigration debate," says Ben Johnson, executive director of the American
Immigration Council, which last year presented an American Heritage Award to
Cejudo's mother, Nelly Rico. "Henry's had an impact, but he's one person.

"But there are a lot of one persons like Henry, and the more that they are out
there and willing to tell their story, the more that becomes a really powerful
way to change people's hearts and minds."

At the least, Cejudo would like his mother to be able to go to the 2012
Olympics. She has had permanent U.S. residency since 1986, the year before he
was born, he says (which means he technically wouldn't be subject to the
proposed citizenship law).

But without citizenship, she cannot get a U.S. passport. She wasn't able to
travel to Beijing.

She watched the 2008 Olympics from Colorado Springs, the championship match in
the wee hours on a computer that kept freezing up, she says, according to a
translation of a USA TODAY phone interview with her. She was so nervous she
didn't actually watch much of it. She did see her son's celebration.

"It gave me great happiness (that) you could see something so beautiful with the
American flag," she says. She keeps that flag on her living room wall.

Cejudo's agent, Bill McFarlane, is helping Rico apply for citizenship and says
he expects the process to be complete by the end of this year.

Cejudo dedicated his first gold to Rico, whom he and his six siblings nicknamed
"The Terminator" because of all she has survived, from domestic abuse to
homelessness to backbreaking, soul-crushing jobs.

His dad wasn't part of his life. Cejudo says the last time he saw his father he
was 5; they last spoke when he was 12.

Rico says Cejudo "gave half of the medal to the United States and the other half
to Mexico, but the medal as a whole is mine as a gift from him."

Says Cejudo, "It'll be for her again."

First he must focus on getting back into wrestling shape. Cejudo initially
targeted this week's U.S. Open in Cleveland as his first competition since the
2008 Games. But he is not yet able to make weight for the 121-pound class (he
was up to 150 during his layoff, he says), so he's aiming to return at the world
championship team trials in June.

"Henry needs to focus on wrestling," says Zeke Jones, head freestyle coach for
USA Wrestling, who questions whether Cejudo "has the right attitude yet.

"Those values that are important to him will live through his life and
ultimately through his journey to London," Jones says. "But none of those things
matter if he doesn't win a gold medal."

Giving boxing a try

For a time, Cejudo could not imagine himself reporting daily again to the
wrestling room at the Olympic Training Center. After the Beijing Olympics, he
moved into the same Phoenix high rise as Sen. John McCain (although neighbors,
they haven't met). The $65,000 that Cejudo received in medal bonuses, plus
income from endorsements and speaking fees, made possible a future different
from the past that molded him into the USA's youngest Olympic wrestling
champion.

He quickly realized he still needed an athletic outlet, but he "just didn't have
that passion anymore" for wrestling. So less than four months after returning
from Beijing, he walked into the Central Boxing Gym in Phoenix to train with
Jose Benavidez Sr.

"I thought, 'Oh my god, wrestling and boxing are totally different,' " says
Benavidez, who trains his rising-star son of the same name, "but why not give
him a chance?"

Cejudo seized it. A month into training, he sparred with a boxer ranked No. 2
nationally, and Benavidez said he was "blown away." Within a year, Cejudo won a
title in the Copper Gloves amateur tournament at the Arizona State Fair.

"On boxing, I think he could definitely take it a long way, because he already
has the key of success. He knows that he has to work hard, and he stays really
focused," Benavidez says.

In recent months, Cejudo decided he was not focused enough on boxing to have it
lead to the London Olympic podium. Sponsor appearances, speaking gigs and his
family and friends in Arizona were dividing his attention.

So he packed his bags for the simple grind of wrestling at the Olympic Training
Center.

"I admire him," Benavidez says, "because I'm a Mexican, too. If he wants to
represent the Mexicans and give us hope, that's great."

The tipping point was a newspaper story a friend sent Cejudo in late January
about Arian Lucatero, a California high school wrestler whose parents were
deported to Mexico when he was in seventh grade. Lucatero stayed to finish
school but struggled to improve in wrestling because he had to work and his
living situation usually was in flux, according to the  Visalia Times-Delta.

"I could see myself in his shoes," says Cejudo, who has not talked with
Lucatero.

Champion for a cause

For Lucatero and so many others, Cejudo is again lacing up his wrestling shoes
to take a stand and make a statement -- he hopes from the top of the Olympic
podium.

"If that's what it is that will keep him wrestling, then I'm proud of that --
more than I am of him winning an Olympic gold medal," says Cejudo's older
brother, Angel, 26, also a highly accomplished wrestler aiming for the London
Games. Angel, who is ranked ninth nationally at 145.5 pounds, accompanied Cejudo
to Beijing as his workout partner.

"It's good he should do it," Cejudo's mom says. "It shows how great his heart
is."

She realizes that the heart of the immigration debate can be a dangerous place.

"It's enough to preoccupy me," she says. "There's a lot of crazy people who do
bad things."

Cejudo is familiar with danger, growing up in gang-ridden neighborhoods in New
Mexico and Arizona. He used that as motivation to get out. He plans to use the
hostile rhetoric about immigration to get back to the Olympics.

"I grew up with pressure," he says. "I was a tough little kid. We didn't know
where our next meals would come from. We didn't know who was going to knock at
our door and evict us. I'm used to it. I thrive on pressure."

Cejudo's personal adversity forged him into an Olympic champion. Now his crusade
to show that "being American is not a color" could make him champion for a
cause.

"I just feel the frustration of America," he says.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Tom Kimmell for USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, File photo by Robert Hanashiro, USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              229 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 11, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Obama says immigration fixes would boost economy

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 460 words


President Obama laid out a plan in El Paso on Tuesday that would continue to
strengthen security along the southwest border, make it harder for businesses to
hire illegal immigrants and overhaul the nation's visa system to attract
better-educated foreigners to study and work in the United States.

Critics pounced on one aspect of the president's first push to overhaul the
nation's immigration system: a path for legalization for the 11 million illegal
immigrants in the country.

Obama's plan would require illegal immigrants to register with the government,
undergo criminal background checks, pay back taxes and fines, learn English and
get in line behind people who have already applied to enter the country. Then,
they would be eligible to become legal permanent residents in eight years, and
full U.S. citizens five years later.

Obama argued that correcting the nation's broken immigration system and
legalizing the country's illegal immigrants who "live in the shadows" would
bolster the U.S. economy. "Immigration reform is an economic imperative," he
said.

"One way to strengthen the middle class is to reform our immigration system, so
that there is no longer a massive underground economy that exploits cheap labor
while depressing wages for everyone else," he said.

Rep. Pete King, a New York Republican who chairs the House Homeland Security
Committee, responded by calling the plan an "amnesty" and said more needs to be
done to secure the border.

Rep. Elton Gallegly, R-Calif., who chairs the House subcommittee on Immigration
Policy and Enforcement, said, "Amnesty will not pass Congress, Mr. President."

The  plan could see some action in Congress, as Sen. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y.,
said he and others are working on a similar proposal. Senate Majority Leader
Harry Reid will lead a group of senators today as they announce the
reintroduction of the DREAM Act, which would allow some children of illegal
immigrants to gain legal status.

Not many see Obama's proposal making headway before the 2012 elections. "He's
teeing this up for legislative success in 2013," said Jim Kessler, co-founder of
the centrist organization Third Way.  He said Obama also needs time for his
argument  that the economic benefits of legalizing illegal immigrants outweigh
the costs  to take hold not only in Congress, but also with the general public.

That will be a hard sales pitch to make, said Roy Beck, founder of NumbersUSA, a
group that advocates for lower levels of immigration. Obama's proposal includes
several ways for workers, including those  who would work in restaurants and
farms, to  stay in the USA. Beck said that ignores the high unemployment rampant
throughout the country. "This proposal looks like it was written at a time when
we had full employment."

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Charles Dharapak, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              230 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 13, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Border Patrol agents killed at rail crossing

BYLINE: John Bacon with staff and wire reports

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 637 words


Two Border Patrol agents in Arizona were rushing to pursue suspected illegal
immigrants Thursday when their SUV was struck by a freight train, killing both
agents, authorities said.

Yuma Border Patrol sector spokesman  Kenneth Quillin said agents Eduardo Rojas,
35, and Hector Clark, 39, were trying to position themselves near some other
agents who were chasing a group of suspected illegal immigrants in a rural area
about 85 miles southwest of Phoenix. The crash happened at a marked railroad
crossing that does not have crossing arms, Quillin said.

The suspected illegal immigrants were on foot, and none was arrested, he said.

Police: Empire State Building targeted

Two Americans were ordered held without bond on terrorism charges after
authorities said they bought guns and a grenade from an undercover officer.

New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg said Ahmed Ferhani, 26, and Mohamed
Mamdouh, 20, wanted to carry out a terrorist plot against the Empire State
Building or a synagogue.

Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly said the men were arrested Wednesday after
Ferhani put weapons in his car that were supplied by an officer who spent months
undercover.

Police arrest Calif. teachers, union chief

More than two dozen California teachers, including the president of the state's
largest teachers union, were arrested at the  Capitol in Sacramento as part of a
week-long protest over education funding. The California Teachers Association
said 26 educators were arrested, including president David Sanchez.  Highway
Patrol Officer Sean Kennedy said  they will be charged with trespassing on state
property, a misdemeanor.

Astronauts gather for shuttle try

The astronauts for NASA's next-to-last space shuttle flight returned to Florida
for another try at launching shuttle Endeavour to the International Space
Station.

The six crewmen  led by Mark Kelly,  husband of Rep. Gabrielle Giffords  arrived
at Kennedy Space Center a day before the countdown clocks begin ticking again.
Endeavour, once scheduled to leave April 29, now is due to blast off Monday.

Giffords, D-Ariz., was shot in the head Jan. 8, but she is scheduled to be
there for liftoff.

40-mile pursuit in Mo. ends in arrest

A Missouri man was arrested after a four-hour, 40-mile police pursuit that began
when he reportedly tried to sneak into an Army post  using a fake ID, Rolla
Police Chief Mark Kearse said.

Kearse said Cody Willcoxson, 31, fired on police who pursued him and then
crashed a vehicle at Missouri University of Science and Technology. His motives
for trying  to enter Fort Leonard Wood were not immediately clear, Kearse said.

DNA test brings freedom after 27 years

A Dallas courtroom packed with family and friends burst into applause when a
judge freed a man who served 27 years in prison for aggravated sexual assault
before DNA cleared him.

Johnny Pinchback, the 22nd person to be exonerated through DNA testing in Dallas
County since 2001, was wrongly convicted of raping two teen girls in a field in
1984. Pinchback, 55, said faith and support from his family kept him motivated
to fight for his innocence.

"Even though it took 27 years, (God) did exactly what I asked him for,"
Pinchback said.

Dallas County District Attorney Craig Watkins did not contest the court finding.
An investigation initiated by the Innocence Project of Texas led to tests on
body hair cuttings from one of the victims that showed the DNA of another man.

Pinchback said his immediate plans were to have a steak lunch and visit with his
mother, who  constantly reminded him to have faith. He also will fight for other
inmates: "I promised to help."

Also ...

ASHEVILLE, N.C.  Evangelist Billy Graham, 92, continued to improve while
hospitalized with pneumonia, physicians said. Pulmonologist Shaw Henderson said
Graham's temperature is normal and his congestion is clearing up.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              231 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 7, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

States take sides on undocumented students;
3 more clarify stands on college tuition

BYLINE: Mary Beth Marklein, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 472 words


New laws clarifying tuition charges for undocumented immigrants at public
colleges are poised to go into effect in three states this summer, bringing to
13 the number of states that allow such students to pay lower, in-state rates
and to five the number that forbid it.

Maryland will join 11 other states this summer  in allowing undocumented
immigrants attending public colleges to pay in-state tuition, and Connecticut's
governor has said he will sign a similar bill passed last month in that state.
Indiana's governor has signed legislation making it the fifth state to deny the
lower resident rates to such students.

Illinois, which already grants a tuition break to undocumented students, just
passed a bill that will make it easier for them to receive financial aid. And
California may soon pass a similar proposal.

The recent burst of activity marks a departure from last year, when 18 states
considered 34 bills  eight supporting tuition breaks and 26 opposing them  but
none  passed.

As in previous years, the issue remains divisive. Undocumented students in
Indiana last month  were arrested while protesting the new policy.

A petition drive is underway in Maryland to block the law from going into effect
July 1. Connecticut lawmakers debated for nearly nine hours before passing the
bill.

"I honestly don't know if there is an issue out there that is more emotionally
charged," says Dan Hurley, director of state relations for the American
Association of State Colleges and Universities.

Immigrants-rights groups say tuition breaks would make college more affordable
for more than 65,000 undocumented students graduating each year from U.S. high
schools. At the University of Maryland, for example, the sticker price last year
was $8,416 for in-state students and $24,831 for non-residents.

Federal legislation that would grant legal status to undocumented students who
go to college or into the military has been introduced several times  most
recently this spring  in Congress but has never passed. President Obama has said
he would sign such legislation.

Among developments this year:

Oregon and Rhode Island are among states still considering  education benefits
for undocumented students, and an Alabama proposal to deny resident tuition
rates has passed the House and Senate. Measures to either grant or deny tuition
breaks have died in at least six states.

Though a Georgia bill to ban undocumented enrollments didn't pass, the
University System of Georgia's board of regents OK'd a plan, to go into effect
this fall, that bans undocumented students from state public universities that
have turned away other academically qualified students in the past two years.

A Montana measure that passed this year will allow voters to decide in November
2012 whether to deny public university benefits to undocumented college
students.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              232 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 15, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Don't look now, but Mexican migration is slowing dramatically;
OUR VIEW

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 535 words


To listen to the political debate over illegal immigration, it would be easy to
reach two conclusions: that violence along the U.S.-Mexican border is spiraling
out of control, and that Mexicans are flooding into the United States faster
than ever.

Neither conclusion happens to be true.

As today's USA TODAY cover story documents, rates of violent crime along the
U.S.-Mexican border have been falling for years. And recent data suggest a sharp
decline in people crossing illegally into the U.S. from Mexico.

Border Patrol apprehensions, for instance, dropped from 1.1 million in 2006 to
436,382 last year, even though the number of agents has risen substantially. The
2010 Mexican census, meanwhile,  picked up a noticeable trend of immigrants
returning home, prompting some analysts to believe that the net flow of
migration might actually be southward, not northward.

This is a remarkable, unprecedented and underdiscussed development, though one
of uncertain duration.

One factor that suggests the trend might continue is falling birth rates in
Mexico. The birth rate has dropped from roughly eight children per woman of
child-bearing age in 1960 to 2.4 in 2009. Each decline in the birth rate leads
to a reduction in young adults looking for work in subsequent decades, so fewer
will need to cross the border.

Perhaps a bigger factor  is a Mexican economy that is growing faster than our
own, despite drug cartel-related violence.  More vigorous enforcement on this
side of the border -- heightened patrols, prosecutions and deportations -- also
plays an important role.

The steep drop is a clarion call for sound immigration polices, built on reason,
not emotion. The necessary elements of comprehensive federal reform have long
been apparent: secure borders, tough workplace enforcement, guest-worker
programs and a path to legality for migrants already here who pay taxes and stay
out of trouble.

With gridlock in Washington, however, already this year Alabama, Georgia and
South Carolina have enacted get-tough laws that match or exceed the
controversial measure adopted in Arizona last year.

Illegal immigration creates burdens for states and localities, but it is hard to
see the positive effect of the  new laws. They require police departments (even
school districts, in Alabama's case) to verify people's legality. They also
create new penalties for people who hire or help transport illegal immigrants.
The pressure put on businesses could lead to them holding off from hiring
perfectly legitimate workers out of an abundance of caution.

If these laws stand up in court, their biggest impact could be in creating labor
shortages. In fact, a Georgia Agriculture Department study released in June
estimated a shortage of 11,080 people during the spring vegetable harvest.

Assuming the Mexican economy remains healthy and the birth rate stays low,
demographers see a likelihood that U.S.  employers of low-skilled workers would
start begging Congress and state legislatures for more lenient immigration
policies.

Though it might be too soon to predict such a dramatic turn of events, it is not
premature to conclude that much of the anti-immigration rhetoric is  out of
touch with the reality of border trends.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: graphic

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              233 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 21, 2011 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Adopt zero tolerance for illegal immigration

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 480 words


USA TODAY's thorough assessment of  border statistics and their meaning is
appreciated, but it grossly misses the point of the  debate. The American people
are not looking for statistics and trends; they are looking for the border to be
closed to illegal immigrants ("On U.S. side, cities are havens from drug wars,"
Cover story, News, Friday).

Your report describes improvement in California, which found  only 100,000
illegal immigrants last year as opposed to 389,000 before  improvements to the
border fence were made. However,  100,000 is  unacceptable for our nation's
security.

The trend lines of crime statistics for all four border states  clearly show the
failure of the federal government to do its job and protect Americans there.
Perhaps it would be helpful to take your charts to the border towns and  explain
the great progress reflected in  the statistics  to those residents. I am sure
they would laugh you out of the state, as they should.

The federal government  should solve this problem, but then again it involves
politicians, so what you  get  is just empty words. Stop  analyzing statistics
and seal the border.

Howard Haddock

Rockwall, Texas

Statistics are reassuring

Thanks for the report on  border crime, or lack thereof. It adds some sanity to
all the uninformed rhetoric out there ("Calif. border 'has never been more
secure,'" News, Friday).

Also, your  editorial "Lessons for America" was excellent (July 1). We not only
have a lot to learn from other countries, but we are also in danger of slipping
into  second-rate status if our infrastructure continues to deteriorate while we
squabble over some of the lowest tax rates in the industrialized world.

Rol Hamelin

Vail, Colo.

MSNBC is no Fox News

After being disappointed in Al Neuharth's column on how humorous he found Rush
Limbaugh ("Laughing at Limbaugh eases long car trips," The Forum, June 24), I
wasn't surprised that he would use the "blame the victim" defense for Rupert
Murdoch's media empire. Like Limbaugh, Fox News Channel programs use gender,
race, religion and an ironic mix of pseudo-patriotism  to divide the masses so
the people never unite to challenge the power of the elite ("Murdoch media give
you what you want," The Forum, Friday).

Neuharth then misleads readers by  equating Fox News and MSNBC.  MSNBC started
in 1996  with a balance of shows, including  liberal and conservative hosts.  It
began moving toward progressive opinionated shows later  to counter Fox's
right-wing broadcasting and to be competitive.  However, MSNBC promotes
progressive ideas with fact-based journalism.

The real problem is this: How can the people who work in corporate-owned media,
and sponsored by big business,  create a way to tell news that will empower "we
the people" to challenge those entities, instead of promoting diversionary
misinformation that divides us.

Aaron Pollard

Costa Mesa, Calif.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              234 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 9, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Groups may sue to block immigration checking law

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 445 words


Civil rights groups are considering a lawsuit to try to block the federal
government from requiring all police agencies to screen  people booked into
local jails for  immigration violations.

The Department of Homeland Security on Friday  announced that local police
agencies could not opt out of a program known as Secure Communities, which
started in 2008, is now active in 1,300 local jurisdictions and is scheduled to
be in place nationwide by 2013.

On Monday, civil rights groups said they were reviewing the decision to see why
states such as Illinois and New York -- where governors recently sent letters to
Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) requesting to get out of the program
-- are now being told that they have no choice.

"ICE and the federal government don't get to rule by decree," said B. Loewe, a
spokesman for the National Day Laborer Organizing Network.  He said his group is
considering a lawsuit to try to block the program.

For decades, police agencies have sent the fingerprints of people booked into
their jails to the FBI to check for criminal records. Under Secure Communities,
those fingerprints are also shared with the Department of Homeland Security to
check for immigration violations.

Secure Communities differs from controversial laws being pursued by several
states, including Arizona, that would empower local police to investigate the
immigration status of suspects before they are booked into jails.

Forty-one states had signed contracts with ICE to participate in the Secure
Communities program. But in recent months, Gov. Pat Quinn, D-Ill., and Gov.
Andrew Cuomo, D-N.Y., sent letters to ICE saying they were opting out.  The
governors said people with no criminal record were being unfairly targeted, and
the threat of deportation was eroding public trust in law enforcement.

ICE Director John Morton responded on Friday by saying that the federal
government didn't need a state's approval for a federal agency, such as the FBI,
to share information with other federal agencies, such as Homeland Security,
based on an interpretation of a federal law passed in the wake of 9/11.

That interpretation was based on the Enhanced Border Security and Visa Entry
Reform Act of 2002,  said Joanne Lin, legislative counsel for the American Civil
Liberties Union. The intent of that law was to identify potential terrorists
either living in the U.S. or trying to enter the country, Lin said, so she
questioned how it could be used to justify a nationwide immigration sweep.

She said the only way to stop the rollout of Secure Communities could be in the
courts.

"Ultimately, this is going to be the immigration legacy for President Obama,"
Lin said.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NATION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              235 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 14, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration issue sets Texan apart from the pack

BYLINE: Alan Gomez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 542 words


WASHINGTON--When Tea Party activists

examine Rick Perry, many see a

candidate who embodies their core values,

their limited-government ideals and

the best possible hope for the GOP to

reclaim the White House. That is, until

he starts talking immigration.

"If you wait for the perfect candidate,

they'll never show up," said Sharon Calvert,

founder of the Tampa Tea Party,

when asked about Perry's record on immigration.

The issue of illegal immigration arose

during Monday's Republican presidential

debate in Tampa, and some Tea Party

supporters were disappointed that Perry

held firm to his immigration record during

a decade-long run as the governor of

Texas.

He opposed the idea of a fence to cover

the nearly 1,900-mile border with Mexico.

He defended his decision to sign a

law that granted in-state tuition to some

children of illegal immigrants. And he

emphasized the message he tried to

send to young illegal immigrants in Texas,

that "regardless of what the sound of

their last name is, that we believe in

you."

"It's a position that's not going to win

him any friends in the Tea Party movement,"

Tea Party Nation founder Judson

Phillips said.

Minnesota Rep. Michele Bachmann

and former Massachusetts governor Mitt

Romney voiced their support for a

complete border fence. Former Utah

governor Jon Huntsman called Perry's

opposition to a coast-to-coast fence

"nearly treasonous."

Bachmann, Romney and former Pennsylvania

senator Rick Santorum all chastised

Perry over his granting of in-state

tuition to illegal immigrants.

Hard-line views on illegal immigration

may alienate those candidates from

Latino voters, said Lionel Sosa, who

served as a Hispanic media consultant

for the campaigns of former Republican

presidents Ronald Reagan, George H.W.

Bush and George W. Bush, and the unsuccessful

presidential campaign of Arizona

Sen. John McCain.

"If any candidate comes off too harshly

and too far to the right on the immigration

issue, the Latino views it as an anti-

Latino attitude," said Sosa, who is advising

the campaign of former House

speaker Newt Gingrich.

When President George W. Bush was

running for re-election in 2004, his campaign

estimated that it needed to win

40% of the growing Hispanic vote to

secure the victory.

"That's exactly what he got," said

Democratic strategist Maria Cardona. "If

you just extrapolate the growth of the

Latino vote from 2004 to now, you have

to believe that that threshold has risen to

44%. That is a jaw-dropping gap that is

not addressed by the GOP."

Sosa said that candidates who take

hard stances against illegal immigration

to secure the GOP nomination will have

to shift back to the center or risk losing

swing states such as New Mexico, Nevada,

Colorado and Florida that have large

Hispanic populations.

In an August poll of Hispanic voters,

27% said the Republican Party was being

hostile to Hispanics and an additional

45% said the party didn't care too much

about Hispanics, according to an impre-

Media/Latino Decisions Tracking Poll.

Lumping all Hispanics into one box is

too simplistic, Phillips said. He said the

most important issue for Hispanic voters

is the same for any other American during

the ongoing recession: jobs.

"The idea that the whole Hispanic

community is this monolithic group . . .

is a fallacy," Phillips said. "That community

is as divided as any other."

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              236 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 27, 2011 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 FINAL EDITION

On immigration, a disconnect between rhetoric and reality

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 669 words


If Rick Perry's rivals for the Republican presidential nomination weren't so
hellbent on proving who can be the harshest and least thoughtful on the subject
of illegal immigrants, they could learn something from the Texas governor.

Perry, after all, runs a state with a 1,200-mile border with Mexico. More often
than  his competitors, he has to wrestle with real-world immigration issues, so
when he says building a fence along the entire border is a dumb idea, it's worth
listening. Ditto when he talks about why it's right to give the undocumented
children of illegal immigrants a chance to go to Texas colleges and pay the
in-state tuition rate.

A fence makes perfectly good sense as a way to deter illegal entry in
high-volume crossing areas, but much of the nearly 2,000-mile border between the
United States and Mexico snakes through places so remote and empty it would be a
waste of  billions of dollars to separate one vacant space from another. Better
to focus heavily on areas where crossers actually go, and monitor the entire
border with a sufficient force of Border Patrol agents and troops.

In fact, better border enforcement --  along with  the shaky U.S. economy,
crackdowns on  the hiring of undocumented workers and lower Mexican birth rates
-- have dramatically reduced the flow of illegal immigrants. Apprehensions have
dropped to their lowest levels in decades, and the border is much safer and less
porous than it has been in a generation.

You'd never know that from listening to the GOP presidential debates, though,
where there's a sharp disconnect between the  tough, anti-immigrant rhetoric and
the obvious progress along the border.

Mitt Romney demands a fence even though he admits it wouldn't be all that
effective, and Michele Bachmann wants a fence on "every mile, on every yard, on
every foot, on every inch" of the border. Rick Santorum calls Perry "soft" on
illegal immigration for disputing the need for a fence and backing tuition
breaks for undocumented students.

To hear rivals savage Perry for defending in-state college tuition  for
undocumented students is especially disappointing. Perry's position is, of
course, politically savvy in a state with many Hispanic voters, but it also
stands on its merits: Virtually none of the students had any say in their
parents' decision to bring them to the United States. They are bright enough and
ambitious enough to qualify  for college -- exactly the kind of immigrants the
nation prizes. Texas, and the nation, are better off if they're educated and
productive members of society. A dozen states have already recognized this, but
the federal DREAM (Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors) Act --
has been stalled in Washington by anti-immigrant sentiment.

In fact, the crackdown on illegal immigration is already producing unintended
consequences. States such as Alabama and Georgia that have passed tough
anti-immigrant laws are finding that businesses are suddenly desperate for the
labor that undocumented workers used to supply. Hard-liners such as Rep. Lamar
Smith, R-Texas, are now calling for a broad new guest worker program to provide
enough labor to allow farmers to harvest their crops.

That's sensible -- but only as part of a comprehensive reform that also includes
border security, workplace enforcement and a path to legality for undocumented
immigrants who have lived, worked and paid their taxes in this country for
years. Such a measure nearly passed Congress in 2007 with strong support from
President Bush, Perry's predecessor as Texas governor. Something about serving
in Austin must give Republicans a dose of pragmatism and compassion -- the
antidote to others who needlessly insist on being caustic and harsh.

---

DREAM Dozen

Twelve states permit undocumented immigrants who graduate from high school in
the state to pay the in-state rate at public colleges and universities:

California

Illinois

Kansas

Maryland

Nebraska

New Mexico

New York

Oklahoma

Texas

Utah

Washington

Wisconsin

Source: National Immigration Law Center

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 29, 2011



CORRECTION: A list with Tuesday's editorial on immigration should have noted
that a Maryland law, which allows undocumented immigrants to pay in-state
tuition at public colleges, has been suspended pending the outcome of a
referendum in November 2012.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              237 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 27, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Amnesties reward lawbreaking

BYLINE: Mark Krikorian

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 375 words


Gov. Rick Perry's foray into compassionate conservatism -- his assertion that
critics of in-state tuition subsidies don't "have a heart" -- has shed light on
the fact that too much of the immigration debate is based on weepy
sentimentality. We need to move beyond Oprah-fied storytelling about your
grandma from Minsk and instead focus on reality, with all its trade-offs and
competing values.

The case of in-state tuition for illegal aliens who arrived here as children is
a case in point. These are clearly the most sympathetic illegal immigrants,
which is why advocates have been exploiting their stories in the quest for a
general amnesty.

Our hearts tell us to make accommodation for children who were brought here
illegally at a very young age and who know no other country (in-state tuition
specifically is just a stalking horse for amnesty for these young people in the
form of the so-called DREAM Act). That is a noble and proper sentiment.

But our heads tell us that all amnesties reward lawbreaking and serve to attract
more illegal immigration. It is for this reason that amnesties must be avoided
and why the push for "comprehensive immigration reform" has failed repeatedly,
and will continue to fail.

But if our hearts tell us that there is an exceptional, narrow group that
genuinely does warrant a loophole -- not those who merely went to high school
here but rather those who came as infants or toddlers and whose identities were
fully formed here -- the sound solution would be neither all heart nor all head.

It would balance amnesty with measures to limit its fallout -- front-loaded
enforcement measures to try to prevent future children from being put in this
bind, plus elimination of the immigration category for parents of U.S. citizens,
so that the adults responsible for this situation can never benefit from it.

Our immigration policy in general has been out of balance for far too long, with
too much heart and not enough head. The failure of amnesty and the stiffening of
enforcement over the past several years (weakened but not reversed by the Obama
administration) has begun the long process of restoring balance. But we still
have a long way to go.

Mark Krikorian is executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              238 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 5, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Side with Perry on aiding kids of undocumented immigrants

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 533 words


Learning about some of the Republican presidential nominees' support for
building a fence on the U.S. border to prevent illegal immigration was
disappointing. I  side with Texas Gov. Rick Perry, who defends the rights of
students who are children of undocumented  immigrants and disagrees with
building a fence  ("On immigration, a disconnect between rhetoric and reality,"
Our view, Border politics debate, Sept. 27).

Better  enforcement with Border Patrol agents sounds like  a more effective way
of reducing the flow of illegal immigration. Investing  in that type of border
security and educating undocumented students  will reap fruitful results. Not
only will it help reduce the flow of illegal immigrants, but it also could  be a
great opportunity to see that justice is  done for children who  were brought
unwittingly to the United States and are in need of an education. Our hearts
need to respond to the need of those children.

Building a fence on the U.S. border will not solve illegal immigration.

Karen G. Rodriguez

Northridge, Calif.

E-Verify will help businesses

A recent article in  USA TODAY claims that E-Verify, the free Web-based program
to confirm a prospective employee's legal status, will be a detriment to small
businesses.  However, not only will E-Verify create jobs for American workers,
but already nearly 290,000 businesses voluntarily use E-Verify and an average of
1,300 new businesses sign up each week to use it  ("House immigration
status-check bill faces tough road," News, Sept. 23).

The business community understands that when one employer undercuts others in
the same industry by hiring illegal immigrant labor, often at cheaper rates than
legal labor, the entire industry is hurt. So it's no surprise that the Legal
Workforce Act -- the bill that would require all U.S. employers to use E-Verify
-- is supported by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the National Restaurant
Association and the American Meat Institute, among many other groups.

It makes no sense to rely on the paper-based I-9 system  when a successful
electronic program is available. E-Verify will actually reduce the burdens
employers now face when they are found to have hired illegal immigrants.

More than 25 million  Americans are unemployed or cannot find full-time work. At
the same time, 7 million illegal immigrants work here.  These jobs should go to
U.S. citizens and legal workers. The Legal Workforce Act could open up these
jobs by requiring all U.S. employers to use E-Verify.

Rep. Elton Gallegly, R-Calif.

Chairman, Subcommittee on

Immigration Policy and Enforcement

Washington, D.C.

Strengthen Mexican economy

An economically strong and secure Mexico is the best way to prevent  illegal
immigration to the United States. I have not heard any  of the 2012 Republican
candidates for president speak on  this subject.

A prosperous Mexican economy and job market are essential to providing Mexican
workers with a living wage, thus discouraging them from entering the USA to find
work. Coupled with a guest worker program, both countries would benefit.

Maybe the candidates could elaborate on how their administration would work
toward this end with the Mexican government.

Dennis Brady

Exeter, N.H.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              239 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 18, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Focus on deporting criminals sees result

BYLINE: Alan Gomez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 419 words


The U.S. deported nearly 400,000 illegal immigrants last year, and an increasing
number of them were convicted criminals, according to figures set to be released
today by the Department of Homeland Security.

Deportations have been on the rise for the past decade, and the 396,906 illegal
immigrants deported in fiscal year 2011 is the highest number yet, according to
the figures.

Under the Obama administration, Homeland Security issued new priorities to focus
deportations on convicted criminals, people who pose threats to national
security and repeated border crossers. Last year, 55% of those deported were
convicted criminals, the highest percentage in nearly a decade.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement Director John Morton said the numbers
reflect the administration's "focus on sensible immigration."

"In the face of limited resources, we have to prioritize, and that starts with
criminal offenders," Morton said. "We are making sure that people who game the
system face the consequences."

Critics say the numbers illustrate the administration's intention to find ways
for illegal immigrants to stay in the country.

Obama last year endorsed the DREAM Act, which would have granted legal status to
some children of illegal immigrants, but it failed to pass Congress.

And Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, has
questioned the reprioritizing  of deportations, arguing that it amounts to a
free pass for illegal immigrants who have not committed major crimes.

"It's disappointing that the Obama administration continues to put illegal
immigrants before the American people," Smith said. "We could free up millions
of jobs for citizens and legal immigrants if we simply enforced our immigration
laws."

Others look at the numbers and wonder how they could be interpreted as
leniency.

"For billions of dollars to be spent so that 45% of the people we're deporting
are not convicted criminals is not a good use of our enforcement dollars," said
Ali Noorani, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, which
supports a path for some of the nation's 11 million illegal immigrants to become
citizens.

Of the convicted criminals deported last year, 1,119 were convicted of homicide,
5,848 of sexual offenses, 44,653 of drug-related offenses and 35,927 of driving
under the influence, according to the Homeland Security figures.

The number of illegal immigrants deported has risen from 116,782 in 2000. The
percentage of criminal deportations was at 31% when Obama assumed office.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              240 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 24, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Focus on plight of jobless citizens, not illegal immigrants

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 561 words


Alabama's unemployment rate is 9.8%.  It is not believable that the state's
jobless are unwilling to work in construction or  the other non-farm jobs
available there. Americans will do any job if they are paid a fair wage that
allows them to provide for their families ("Tough immigration law raises fears
in Alabama," Cover story, News, Wednesday).

More than 25 million Americans  can't find full-time work  while the Obama
administration allows many of the  12 million  illegal immigrants in the U.S. to
keep their jobs in manufacturing, transportation, construction, and service and
hospitality.

Many writers focus on the plight of the illegal immigrants, but none seems to be
interested in reporting on the suffering of our citizens.

U.S. citizens are losing their jobs and homes. Their children are suffering, but
there is silence about their hardships and plight.

Trudy Whelan

Forked River, N.J.

Shore up neighbors' economies

The question of what should be done about the many undocumented young people in
our country continues to come up. I believe that they should be given a chance
to continue their education and given a pathway to citizenship. They might as
well be citizens because they've been educated in this country and have lived
the American way for most of their lives. Whether it's called the DREAM Act or
something else does not matter. They would become productive citizens of our
country, helping us move forward.

Also, no one really talks about the true solution to  curbing  illegal
immigration  from Mexico and other Central American countries.  If the U.S.
would  help those countries strengthen their economies, the people would stay
home.  Few people leave their native land when they're doing well.

Maybe we can shift the billions of dollars spent in Afghanistan and Iraq to  our
neighbors. If we don't help them, then illegal immigration will continue, and
more countries will continue to harbor ill will toward the U.S.

Maria Acevedo

Marietta, Ga.

Businesses rely on low wages

Could it be that those "jobs Americans don't want" have pay scales and working
conditions more appropriate to a  Third World country? In USA TODAY's article on
the Alabama law, the leader of a builders' group says he has tried to recruit
locals into construction jobs, but they don't want them.

The reality is the businesses have come to rely on the fat profit margins that
illegal labor provides. Once that source dries up, wages will rise, working
conditions will improve and those jobs will fill with unemployed Americans. I'm
sure the poor CEOs can adjust to one less yacht.

Jerel McDonald

Tucson, Ariz.

Praise for Alabama law

It is outstanding that the Alabama  illegal immigration law is doing what it is
supposed to do: force out illegal  immigrants who broke our laws by coming here.

I do not feel sympathy for those business owners complaining that  business is
down because illegal immigrants have left  or upset about losing low-wage
illegal employees.

Other states need to get a copy of the Alabama law and institute a similar one,
or we will just be redistributing the illegal immigrants  instead of moving them
out of the country. There is  no justification for being negative about this
law. It is not cruelty or bigotry. It is a big step forward in enforcing our
immigration laws and in the long run, it will help Alabama economically.

Joe Sherman

Collegeville, Pa.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              241 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 3, 2011 Thursday
                                 First EDITION

U.S.-born children take fight over tuition to court;
Fla. denies in-state rates to illegal immigrants' kids

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 552 words


State governments have been grappling  with the question of whether to provide
in-state college tuition rates to illegal immigrants who were brought to the
U.S. as children.

Now a Florida lawsuit is highlighting a rare practice of forbidding U.S.-born
students -- citizens by birth -- from getting in-state tuition because their
parents are illegal immigrants.

Five students, all born in the U.S. to illegal immigrant parents, sued the state
last month  for denying them in-state tuition rates even though they had lived
in Florida, graduated from state high schools and were entering state colleges
and universities. They claim the higher out-of-state rates they were charged
either forced them to drop out or take fewer classes, delaying their eventual
graduation.

Kassandra Romero, 18, enrolled at Palm Beach State College in June and was
handed a $4,000 bill for the semester -- more than three times the in-state
rate. She left school to work as a waitress to save enough money to re-enroll in
January.

"I'm an American citizen. I was born here. But now I feel left out," Romero
said. "(My old classmates) are taking their classes, everyone's going to school,
and I just go to work."

The lawsuit illustrates a fractured, state-by-state immigration debate that
questions how many rights children of illegal immigrants -- born in and outside
the U.S. -- should be given.

Twelve states have laws granting in-state tuition to some illegal immigrants
brought to the U.S. as children, according to the National Conference of State
Legislators.

Meanwhile, U.S. Rep. Steve King, R-Iowa, has led a campaign to eliminate the
practice of granting automatic citizenship to children of illegal immigrants
born on U.S. soil. Four states -- Florida, Colorado, Georgia and Indiana -- ban
all illegal immigrants, including those brought to the U.S. as children, from
receiving in-state tuition rates.

Florida's policy is unique because it takes the step of denying in-state tuition
to U.S.-born children whose parents are illegal immigrants. Officials with the
Florida Department of Education, which oversees community colleges, and the
State University System declined comment.

Florida law requires that residency be established for adults, or dependent
children, before granting in-state tuition rates.

Tania Galloni of the Southern Poverty Law Center, which is suing on behalf of
the six students, said state education officials erred when they began
interpreting those rules in 2009 to mean that dependent children had to prove
their parents' citizenship. She said state residency requirements do not mention
citizenship status.

Michael Hethmon, director of the Immigration Reform Law Institute, has assisted
states such as Arizona and Alabama write laws that crack down on illegal
immigration. He said an illegal immigrant parent cannot be considered a legal
resident  because their illegal status  could result in their deportation at any
moment. And since their children are still dependents under Florida law, they
cannot claim residency of their own.

"It's a maneuver in an ongoing legal controversy of enormous significance to the
United States," Hethmon said. "As the question of illegal immigration remains
unresolved, it becomes an obvious flashpoint and you'll see issues like this
coming up repeatedly in the coming years."

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              242 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 5, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

We're just enforcing federal policy

BYLINE: Mike Hubbard

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 394 words


Since Alabama passed a law cracking down on illegal immigration, special
interest groups and the Obama Justice Department have misrepresented facts about
the law in an overt effort to generate fear and anger. They do this because it
is difficult to convince reasonable Americans that it is somehow unfair to
require proof of legal residency from those wishing to receive public benefits,
or that it is somehow discriminatory to require employers to hire only legal,
documented workers.

What they won't tell you is that our law's most  ballyhooed provisions are
virtually identical to federal law. Current federal immigration law penalizes
employers for hiring undocumented workers; requires non-citizens to carry
documentation; and prohibits conduct that aids and abets federal immigration
violations.

Rather than resist federal laws, as was unfortunately the case in the 1950s and
1960s, Alabama today is insisting that federal law be enforced, by state
officers if necessary. That's because, in Alabama, we believe obedience to law
ensures fairness and protects the rights of everybody.

Conversely, the federal government, particularly the Obama administration, has
discouraged fairness and endangered the rights of Americans by refusing to deal
with the nation's  illegal immigration problem.

It's past time to secure this country's borders and build an immigration system
that works. Until the president and Congress get serious and take action, more
states will join Alabama, Arizona, Indiana, South Carolina, Utah and others to
take it upon themselves to ensure the current law is enforced.

In Alabama, we're focused on making our law work better, clearing up
misconceptions and correcting any portions that might be vague or require
additional definitions. We seek to ensure more efficient and less burdensome
application of the law for businesses and local governments. Lawmakers are right
now working with business leaders to see what updates might be necessary to
maintaining what we believe is the most business-friendly environment anywhere
in America.

Alabama wants a positive work environment, and we welcome legal residents to be
a part of it. We can have a thriving business environment that rivals any in the
world while also shutting off the magnet drawing illegal immigrants to our
state.

Mike Hubbard is speaker of the Alabama House of Representatives.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              243 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 26, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Florida could test GOP's stance on immigration;
Issue may be lower priority for state's Cubans, Puerto Ricans, but candidates'
tone matters

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 569 words


During a speech here last year, former Florida governor Jeb Bush warned his GOP
brethren to soften their tone on immigration, fearing the party was alienating
the fast-growing Hispanic electorate.

Since then, GOP-dominated legislatures in Alabama, South Carolina and other
states have passed strict  laws cracking down on illegal immigrants. Republicans
in Congress have pushed for more employment verification systems, and  GOP
presidential contenders have called  for more border security and restrictions
on illegal immigrants.

The Florida primary provides the first, albeit unique, test of that tone among
Hispanics.

The state has 10 times the number of Hispanics than Iowa, New Hampshire and
South Carolina combined, meaning it will give some indication of how Republican
candidates will fare among Hispanics as they prepare to take on President Obama
in November.

Nearly half  of Florida Hispanics came from Cuba and Puerto Rico, meaning their
path to the USA is far different from the South and Central Americans mostly
affected by  illegal immigration laws. Cubans generally are granted asylum if
they reach U.S. land, and Puerto Ricans are U.S. citizens by birth.

"It's less of a concern for Cuban Americans and Puerto Ricans, who don't have to
worry about that," said Camila Gallardo, a spokeswoman for the National Council
of La Raza who has spent years registering Hispanics to vote in South Florida.

Although those differences generally mean that immigration is not high on their
list of concerns, Cubans and Puerto Ricans can still be heavily influenced by a
candidate's harsh stance on immigration, said Fernand Amandi, managing partner
at Bendixen & Amandi, a Miami-based opinion research firm that has studied the
Hispanic electorate.

"As Hispanics in this country, they understand that there is an element of
discrimination and disrespect that undermines the role that Hispanics play in
this country because they're tarred with the same brush," Amandi said.

Given that backdrop, GOP front-runners Mitt Romney and Newt Gingrich
crisscrossed Miami on Wednesday, each trying to strike the harshest tone against
the communist regime in Cuba. Gingrich called for a "Cuban spring," similar to
the uprisings in the Arab world, and said he would use every "non-military tool"
possible to dethrone the regime. Romney criticized President Obama for
repeatedly giving concessions to Cuba while getting nothing in return.

"Negotiations are not a matter of giving and hope," he said.

Yet their stances on immigration to the USA set them apart and gave some Romney
supporters cause for concern.

Former House speaker Gingrich has called for illegal immigrants who have lived
in the country for a long time, have no criminal record and have jobs to have a
way to stay in the country legally.

Former Massachusetts governor Romney  has called for illegal immigrants to
"self-deport" -- a stance taken by many state legislators who have tried to make
life difficult for illegal immigrants and force them to leave.

"Not every candidate is strong in every area," said Sergio Garcia Rangel, 72, a
retired Cuban-American construction engineer from Miami Beach who supports
Romney.

Romney, Gingrich, former Pennsylvania senator Rick Santorum and U.S. Rep. Ron
Paul of Texas are likely to take up immigration and other issues again today at
a CNN-hosted debate at the University of North Florida in Jacksonville,
beginning at 8 p.m. ET.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              244 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 26, 2012 Thursday
                               e_edition EDITION

Florida could test GOP's stance on immigration;
Issue may be lower priority for state's Cubans, Puerto Ricans, but candidates'
tone matters

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 569 words


During a speech here last year, former Florida governor Jeb Bush warned his GOP
brethren to soften their tone on immigration, fearing the party was alienating
the fast-growing Hispanic electorate.

Since then, GOP-dominated legislatures in Alabama, South Carolina and other
states have passed strict  laws cracking down on illegal immigrants. Republicans
in Congress have pushed for more employment verification systems, and  GOP
presidential contenders have called  for more border security and restrictions
on illegal immigrants.

The Florida primary provides the first, albeit unique, test of that tone among
Hispanics.

The state has 10 times the number of Hispanics than Iowa, New Hampshire and
South Carolina combined, meaning it will give some indication of how Republican
candidates will fare among Hispanics as they prepare to take on President Obama
in November.

Nearly half  of Florida Hispanics came from Cuba and Puerto Rico, meaning their
path to the USA is far different from the South and Central Americans mostly
affected by  illegal immigration laws. Cubans generally are granted asylum if
they reach U.S. land, and Puerto Ricans are U.S. citizens by birth.

"It's less of a concern for Cuban Americans and Puerto Ricans, who don't have to
worry about that," said Camila Gallardo, a spokeswoman for the National Council
of La Raza who has spent years registering Hispanics to vote in South Florida.

Although those differences generally mean that immigration is not high on their
list of concerns, Cubans and Puerto Ricans can still be heavily influenced by a
candidate's harsh stance on immigration, said Fernand Amandi, managing partner
at Bendixen & Amandi, a Miami-based opinion research firm that has studied the
Hispanic electorate.

"As Hispanics in this country, they understand that there is an element of
discrimination and disrespect that undermines the role that Hispanics play in
this country because they're tarred with the same brush," Amandi said.

Given that backdrop, GOP front-runners Mitt Romney and Newt Gingrich
crisscrossed Miami on Wednesday, each trying to strike the harshest tone against
the communist regime in Cuba. Gingrich called for a "Cuban spring," similar to
the uprisings in the Arab world, and said he would use every "non-military tool"
possible to dethrone the regime. Romney criticized President Obama for
repeatedly giving concessions to Cuba while getting nothing in return.

"Negotiations are not a matter of giving and hope," he said.

Yet their stances on immigration to the USA set them apart and gave some Romney
supporters cause for concern.

Former House speaker Gingrich has called for illegal immigrants who have lived
in the country for a long time, have no criminal record and have jobs to have a
way to stay in the country legally.

Former Massachusetts governor Romney  has called for illegal immigrants to
"self-deport" -- a stance taken by many state legislators who have tried to make
life difficult for illegal immigrants and force them to leave.

"Not every candidate is strong in every area," said Sergio Garcia Rangel, 72, a
retired Cuban-American construction engineer from Miami Beach who supports
Romney.

Romney, Gingrich, former Pennsylvania senator Rick Santorum and U.S. Rep. Ron
Paul of Texas are likely to take up immigration and other issues again today at
a CNN-hosted debate at the University of North Florida in Jacksonville,
beginning at 8 p.m. ET.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              245 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 25, 2012 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Mexican influx shifts direction

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 392 words


Violent crime rates will remain high. Oil imports will continue to rise. U.S.
manufacturing will stay on a downward trajectory.

All supposedly immutable truths. All  proved wrong in recent years. To these, we
can now add another: Illegal immigration from Mexico will continue to soar.

This week, the Pew Hispanic Center reported that net migration from Mexico has
come to a virtual halt, driven largely by declining birth rates and greater
economic opportunities south of the border, and fewer jobs and stepped-up
enforcement on this side of the border.

Unexpected shifts like these demonstrate the need for  flexibility and
thoughtfulness in public policy as circumstances change.

Illegal immigration has always been something of a two-edged sword. It puts
tremendous stress on public schools, hospitals and other services, particularly
in border states. But it also provides unskilled labor that fuels domestic
industry and holds down prices.

Now, with the evidence suggesting that the net flow of immigrants is southward,
the apocalyptic case is harder to make. States and communities that pass tough
immigration laws -- like Arizona's, which will be argued today at the Supreme
Court -- might one day find themselves wanting for workers, particularly as the
Baby Boom moves into retirement.

The Mexican reversal is also likely to have a big impact on politics. For the
past several years, illegal immigration has been a red-hot issue, as evidenced
by the state crackdowns and  the heated rhetoric in the Republican presidential
primaries this year. With 11 million people already here illegally -- nearly
three-fifths from Mexico -- the fire seems unlikely to cool  any time soon.

But the same was true of crime in the mid-1990s, when President Clinton and
congressional Republicans blamed each other, often using heated rhetoric about
how "juvenile super predators" and crack addicts were taking over the streets.
Now, after a decade and a half of falling crime rates, it is barely an issue.

Similarly, oil imports are falling and exports of manufactured goods are rising
-- changes that are just beginning to penetrate the public consciousness.

Each of those healthy trends is the product of deep, long-term forces and a blow
to the tyranny of conventional wisdom. They're also reason to tone down the
fear-mongering and take a longer view on immigration.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              246 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 22, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Obama right step on immigration?

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 601 words


Los Angeles Times, in an editorial: "When

the Obama administration decided last week to

temporarily suspend the deportation of some

young undocumented immigrants, Republicans

in Congress threw a fit, complaining that such

decisions should be made by Congress, not by

unilateral presidential action. But what else was

President Obama to do? Republicans have long

had the ability to legislate a lasting fix to the

problem but have repeatedly failed to do so. . . .

If the big problem for Republicans is not what

the president did but rather how he went about

it, then Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., and his colleagues

should exert control over the issue by

enacting a real DREAM Act. Surely, those young

people are still in need of a permanent solution."

David Frum, on The Daily Beast: "The decision

to grant residency and work rights to young

illegal aliens who meet certain conditions is an

amnesty in all but name. A conditional amnesty,

yes, but amnesty. . . . It's possible that amnesty

may be a necessary final stage in immigration

reform, but to put amnesty in place before

effective enforcement measures are in place --

and before authorities are certain that as many

illegals as possible have voluntarily repatriated

-- is to invite another wave of illegal migration

just as soon as business conditions improve."

Marshall Fitz, in U.S News & World Report:

"America has already invested in these kids by

educating them through high school. It makes

no sense to deny the country a return on that

investment by preventing them from giving

back as productive, contributing Americans. Enabling

them to pursue higher education and

work lawfully means they will earn more and

pay taxes on what they've earned. . . . Keeping

these kids on the margins of society is economically

self-defeating. If they cannot work lawfully,

they can't earn money, which means their

ability to buy goods and services is diminished,

thereby contributing to an overall drag on the

economy. Enabling them to work will allow

them to contribute their skills, start businesses

and pay taxes."

The Philadelphia Inquirer, in an editorial:

"Most people recognize that, despite whatever

his underlying motive might be, Obama did the

right thing. In fact, a Bloomberg poll Tuesday

showed 64% of likely voters agree with what

Obama did. They should. Children who had no

say inhowthey arrived in this country shouldn't

be punished for being here. . . . The travesty is

that he didn't act sooner. The Pew Hispanic

Center estimates as many as 1.4 million children

and young adults, including 700,000 between

the ages of 18 and 30, could benefit from Obama's

directive. Not among them, though, are

thousands like Marlon Roberto Cortes, 20, profiled

by the Associated Press, who was recently

deported to Honduras after living in Chelsea,

Mass., since he was a child."

Thomas Sowell, on Human Events: "Obama's

latest political ploy -- granting new 'rights' out

of thin air, by executive order, to illegal immigrants

who claim that they were brought into

the country when they were children--is all too

typical of his short-run approach to the country's

long-run problems. Whatever the merits or

demerits of the Obama immigration policy, his

executive order is good only as long as he

remains president, which may be only a matter

of months after this year's election. People cannot

plan their lives on the basis of laws that can

suddenly appear, and then suddenly disappear,

in less than a year. To come forward today and

claim the protection of the Obama executive

order is to declare publicly and officially that

your parents entered the country illegally. How

that may be viewed by some later administration

is anybody's guess."

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              247 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 2, 2012 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

New fight for immigrants;
After law school, those illegally in U.S. seek entry to the bar

BYLINE: Alan Gomez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 780 words


Judges in several states are preparing to answer the latest question in the
complex world of immigration: Can an illegal immigrant legally practice law in
the USA?

Illegal immigrants brought to the USA as children, and who later graduated law
schools in California, Florida and New York, are trying to gain entry to their
state bars so they can work as attorneys.

Sergio Garcia's family illegally crossed into the USA from Mexico when he was 17
months old, and he went on to graduate from Chico State University and Cal
Northern School of Law. He took the state bar exam in July 2009 and passed it
but was told he could not join the state bar - a standard requirement for all
practicing attorneys - because he had checked a box on his application that said
he was in the country illegally.

The California Supreme Court asked for opinions on the question and could hold
oral arguments in Garcia's case before making a decision. The California State
Bar told the court this month that Garcia and others like him should be allowed
to be licensed, but it is awaiting guidance from the Supreme Court.

Though the ruling could apply only to Garcia, the 35-year-old said the court's
opinion could go a long way in determining the fate of others like him.

"This case stopped being about me a long time ago," said Garcia, who is working
alongside his father as a beekeeper until the case is resolved. "The outcome is
going to have a major impact on future generations of attorneys and people in my
situation. At least they will have good guidance."

For some, the idea of allowing people in Garcia's position to legally work not
only would encourage more people to bypass the legal immigration system but
would throw a cloud of illegitimacy over the country's legal system.

"There's a certain level of absurdity to someone trying to practice law when
they're in violation of the law," said Ira Mehlman of the Federation for
American Immigration Reform, which advocates lower levels of legal and illegal
immigration. "It's unfortunate that children find themselves in these situations
due to the decisions that their parents made. But that's unfortunately just the
way it works. We all suffer from poor decisions that our parents made."

Others say forbidding illegal immigrants from the legal profession would be a
waste of talent. Three former presidents of the American Bar Association filed a
friend-of-the-court brief in a similar case in Florida.

'Waste of exceptional talent'

Jose Manuel Godinez-Samperio was brought to the USA illegally by his parents
when he was 9. He graduated from Florida State University College of Law in May
2011 and later passed the Florida state bar exam. The former Bar Association
presidents argue that the resilience exhibited by people in Godinez-Samperio's
position makes them more than qualified to practice law.

"Those who graduate from law school have overcome substantial obstacles -
language barriers, cultural differences, inadequate finances," the former
presidents wrote. "Imposing a blanket ban on their admission to the bar would be
a waste of exceptional talent for our profession."

The debate comes as members of Congress and state legislators around the country
grapple with the fate of the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants living in
the USA.

The Obama administration has pushed for passage of the DREAM Act, which would
grant legal status to some children brought to the USA as children and who
either attended college or served in the military.

Opponents, including House Judiciary chairman Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, say it
would further encourage people to enter the country illegally. Some Republicans,
including Florida Sen. Marco Rubio, call for a different version of the DREAM
Act, which would allow some of those illegal immigrants to stay in the country
but without the possibility of full legal residency or U.S. citizenship.

Cesar Vargas, whose family illegally crossed the border from Mexico when he was
5, graduated from the City University of New York School of Law and passed the
New York state bar exam in November. He hasn't been accepted to the state bar.

Vargas has heard from others in his situation in Texas, Arizona and Connecticut,
and they are creating a DREAM Bar Association to push for the right to practice
law.

Whatever comes of California's decision, Garcia says he's happy it will finally
give people some long-sought clarity.

"If we succeed, then I think the public policy benefits will be incredible, and
it'll motivate people and let them know that the American dream is still out
there," he said. "If there should be a finding against me, then at least people
will know not to go law school because it's pointless."

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              248 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 7, 2012 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Deportation-reprieve program gears up;
Illegal immigrants warned of unscrupulous lawyers

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 593 words


An estimated 800,000 illegal immigrants across the country can start gathering
their  birth certificates, high school diplomas and military records to show
that they qualify for a new Obama administration program that can grant them
deportation reprieves.

Starting Aug. 15, illegal immigrants who were brought to the U.S. as children
(younger than 16), have graduated high school or served in the military can
apply to receive a two-year deferment from deportation proceedings. At the same
time, they can apply for a work permit.

The total cost for the application process will be $465, U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services Director Alejandro Mayorkas said Friday while explaining
how the process will work.

Although supporters  have been relieved since Homeland Security Secretary Janet
Napolitano announced the plan in June, they are now more concerned with illegal
immigrants being fearful of applying or being taken advantage of by real or fake
immigration attorneys.

Gerardo Salinas, 25, an illegal immigrant whose family brought him to Chicago
from Mexico when he was 13, said he heard  ads for lawyers offering assistance
shortly after Napolitano's decision. He visited two attorneys, and they each
said it would cost $1,700 for them to collect his paperwork and submit it to the
federal government.

He refused to pay.  Salinas, who  wants to be an immigration attorney, said he
was stunned to see people taking advantage of this life-altering opportunity for
young illegal immigrants.

"They're Latinos," he said of the attorneys. "They may not be undocumented, but
they have relatives, friends who are or were undocumented. They should know how
much we suffer to work, how much we suffer getting health care, with school.
It's sad."

Similar reports have  poured  into  offices of civil rights groups and members
of Congress. Late last week,  about a dozen congressmen  came together to warn
people who qualify for the deferment against attorneys seeking payment. "Please
don't be taken advantage of," said Rep. Xavier Becerra, D-Calif. "You don't need
an attorney."

Jacqueline Esposito, of the New York Immigration Coalition, said many are
fearful that the government will use the program to identify and capture
relatives who are illegal immigrants.

"There's a lot of skepticism about DHS (Department of Homeland Security) and
this administration," she said. "We are assuring them that they're not putting
their families at risk if they apply."

Program opponents, including Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, chairman of the House
Judiciary Committee, said the guidance issued by Homeland Security  leaves the
door wide open for fraud. He said the program will divert funding and resources
from Citizenship and Immigration Services officers working on legal visa
applications.

"Today's guidance undermines the rule of law and gives lawbreakers an unfair
advantage over legal immigrants," Smith said. "When will this president's
assault on the rule of law and the American people end?"

Contributing: Carla Astudillo

---

Qualifications for program

Illegal immigrants need to meet these  requirements to qualify:

Were younger than 31 as of June 15, and entered the United States before
reaching their 16th birthday.

Are currently in school, have graduated high school or obtained a certificate of
completion or a GED, or are honorably discharged from the U.S. military or the
Coast Guard.

Have not been convicted of a felony, three or more misdemeanors or one serious
misdemeanor, described as either driving under the influence or a range of gun,
sex or burglary offenses.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              249 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 16, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DREAMers line up for reprieves;
Obama policy gets underway as young illegal immigrants sign up to avoid
deportation

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 778 words


Nataly Montano,  who graduated in June from  Washington-Lee High School in
Arlington, Va., with a 4.3 grade-point average,  has  her mind set on becoming a
doctor.

Montano is in the country illegally. Her family brought her from Bolivia when
she was 6, and the prospect of finding a college, medical school, residency
program and hospital that would allow her to study and work was overwhelming.
The family even considered moving back to Bolivia.

On Wednesday, those plans were thrown out when Montano joined thousands of
people around the country who applied for a new federal program that could grant
up to 1.7 million illegal immigrants brought to the U.S. as children a reprieve
from deportation.

"It doesn't feel like it's real," Montano, now 17, said as she filled out her
application at a clinic hosted by the National Immigration Forum in Washington,
D.C. "My biggest worry was working after school, finding a residency program
that would take an undocumented person. Now I see there's something out there."

Democrats in Congress have tried and failed to pass the DREAM Act, which would
grant legal residency and the chance to become a U.S. citizen to young illegal
immigrants with no criminal records and who have completed some college or
served in the military.

President Obama decided in June to take matters into his own hands, announcing a
program that will let that group of immigrants, known as DREAMers, receive a
two-year deferment of deportation proceedings. They would not get any legal
status, but if approved by Citizenship and Immigration Services, those DREAMers
can apply for a work permit and later reapply for another deportation deferment.

U.S. Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said
the program opens the door for fraud and unleashes a torrent of unemployed
workers at a time when the country's 8.3% unemployment rate is already making
life difficult for U.S. citizens and legal residents.

"President Obama and his administration routinely put partisan politics and
illegal immigrants ahead of the rule of law and the American people," Smith said
in a statement.

DREAMers applying on Wednesday at immigration offices from Los Angeles to
Chicago to New York were unrestrained in their excitement.

"This morning when I was getting ready, I was running around the house like a
crazy person because I was so excited," said Evelyn Rivera, 23, a Colombia
native who was brought to the country by her parents when she was 3 and now
lives in Orlando.

"I'm very blessed," she said.

Despite the enthusiasm, many applicants realized how tenuous their position
really is. Since Obama created the program without Congress, it could be
eliminated by a future president or possibly by  Congress.

Obama's Republican rival, Mitt Romney, criticized Obama's new program because it
hurt the possibility of passing a long-term solution in Congress.

Romney was then asked specifically on CBS News' Face the Nation shortly after
the program was announced whether he would repeal it.

"It would be overtaken by events, if you will, by virtue of my putting in place
a long-term solution with legislation which creates law that relates to these
individuals such that they know what their setting is going to be not just done
for the term of a president but on a permanent basis," Romney said.

That explanation does little to calm the nerves of DREAMers such as Montano.
She said Romney's tough stance on immigration -- including his embrace during
the primary of the  idea of making life so difficult for illegal immigrants that
they would choose to "self-deport" -- tempered her enthusiasm for the new
program on Wednesday. "This gives me a little hope  for now," said Montano, who
is going to Texas Tech University this fall.  "It would tear me apart if he
decided to take this away from us."

---

Requirements for program

Illegal immigrants can qualify to have deportation proceedings deferred for two
years and receive a work permit if they meet the following requirements:

Were under the age of 31 as of June 15 and entered the United States before
their 16th birthday.

Are currently in school, have graduated or obtained a certificate of completion
from high school, have obtained a GED, or are honorably discharged from the U.S.
military or the Coast Guard.

Have not been convicted of a felony, three or more misdemeanors or one serious
misdemeanor, described as either driving under the influence or a range of gun,
sex or burglary offenses.

Do not pose a threat to national security or public safety.

All requirements, and links to applications, can be found at
www.uscis.gov/childhoodarrivals.

Source: U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              250 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            September 7, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

In voter tug of war, both conventions play to Hispanics

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 474 words


At times, the 2012 presidential conventions have looked like Spanish-language TV
broadcasts.

In Tampa, Republicans featured Nevada Gov. Brian Sandoval and New Mexico Gov.
Susana Martinez. In Charlotte, Democrats countered with San Antonio Mayor Julian
Castro and Illinois Rep. Luis Gutierrez.

Florida Sen. Marco Rubio introduced Republican nominee Mitt Romney at the
Republican National Convention, and Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa
introduced former president Bill Clinton at the Democratic forum.

Republicans believe President Obama has lost the enthusiasm of those voters and
are  making an all-out effort to snatch them up.

"Obama is going to carry the Latino vote. By a substantial margin," said Alfonso
Aguilar, executive director of the Latino Partnership for Conservative
Principles. "But what we have to ask here is, 'Can Romney make just enough
inroads with Latino voters  in states like Florida, Colorado, Nevada?'"

The 2008 election was a great one for Obama, winning 67% of the Hispanic vote.
But many Hispanics have grown  disillusioned.

The DREAM Act, which would grant legal status to illegal immigrants brought to
the country as children, went nowhere, and Obama couldn't get any traction in
Congress on a comprehensive immigration bill that would address the 11 million
illegal immigrants living in the U.S.

And each year, he sets a  record for the number of illegal immigrants deported
from the country -- nearly 400,000 last year.

But in June, Obama announced a new program that will delay any deportation
proceedings for up to 1.7 million young illegal immigrants for two years, and
grant them work permits.

"We were very disenchanted with Obama," said Carlos Alcala, executive director
of the Chicano Latino Caucus of the California Democratic Party. "But when he
did the executive order, all was forgiven. All was forgotten."

Romney has had his own difficulties reaching out to Hispanics.

He said during the GOP primaries he would support only a limited version of the
DREAM Act and endorsed the rights of states like Arizona to pass  tough
immigration laws. He embraced the idea of "self-deportation," which means making
life so difficult for illegal immigrants that they choose to return to their
home countries.

But Romney supporters point out that immigration is not the top priority for
Hispanics -- it's the economy and jobs, like all other Americans, and there,
they say, Obama is doing poorly.

Both parties recognize the importance of pushing Hispanics to the polls and have
coordinators on the ground in key states to get Hispanics supporters to the
polls.

"You know how you deal with enthusiasm?" Villaraigosa said Thursday. "You knock
on a door, you make a phone call, you make sure that people come out to vote.
And I think with this convention  I think you'll see the enthusiasm build up. On
both sides, by the way."

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              251 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 13, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Delayed deportations get approval;
Obama administration OKs first wave of young illegal immigrants' requests

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 366 words


The Obama administration began notifying some young illegal immigrants this week
that they can stay in the country without fear of deportation and with freedom
to work for up to two years.

In the four weeks since the launch of the "Deferred Action for Childhood
Arrivals" program, more than 72,000 illegal immigrants have sent applications to
the Department of Homeland Security, DHS spokesman Peter Boogaard said
Wednesday. The department would not release exact numbers of those approved.

The program could eventually allow up to 1.7 million illegal immigrants who were
brought to the country as children and maintained a clean record to receive
two-year deferments on any deportation proceedings. They would not receive legal
residency or U.S. citizenship.

"This is only the beginning of a process that will help nearly a million young
contributors inch closer to the American Dream," said Ali Noorani, executive
director of the National Immigration Forum, an advocacy group that supports the
president's decision.

Obama used his executive authority to create the program in June after he was
unable to pass the DREAM Act, which would grant legal residency to a similar
population of young illegal immigrants.  He called it "the right thing to do."

Rep. Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican who chairs the House Judiciary Committee,
said the quick turnaround on the first batch of decisions raises "serious
concerns" about potential fraud in the system and a lack of thorough screening
by immigration officials. He said it was "appalling" that illegal immigrants got
such a quick turnaround on their requests when legal immigrants must wait months
to hear about services and visa issues.

"It's astounding that the president's administration can move so quickly to
approve amnesty applications and grant work authorization to illegal immigrants,
yet his jobs council hasn't met in over eight months to find solutions to put
unemployed Americans back to work," Smith said in a statement.

To qualify for the program, illegal immigrants must have come to the U.S. before
turning 16, must have been 30 or younger as of June 15, have a clean criminal
record and must be enrolled in high school or have graduated.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              252 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             October 1, 2012 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Group says DREAM Act would create jobs;
Sees $329B boost to economy over 20 years

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, USA TODAY,

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 504 words


If illegal immigrants brought to the U.S. as children were given legal status,
their improved access to college and better jobs would add $329 billion and 1.4
million jobs to the nation's economy over two decades, according to a report set
for release today.

The report found that up to 223,000 of the 2.1 million young illegal immigrants
eligible for the DREAM Act would have an easier time enrolling, paying for and
finishing college, which would lead to the increased economic gains.

The study was released by the Center for American Progress, a Washington-based,
left-leaning think tank that supports the DREAM Act, and the Partnership for a
New American Economy, which was created by independent New York City Mayor
Michael Bloomberg and News Corp. CEO Rupert Murdoch. The center has pushed
Congress to pass the DREAM Act and other bills that would grant more visas to
foreign students that specialize in science, technology, engineering and
mathematics.

"This report proves a fundamental truth about the contributions of immigrants to
the American economy: we absolutely need them to continue our economic growth,"
Bloomberg said in a statement.

The report provides an argument in favor of the DREAM Act, which would grant
legal residency to illegal immigrants brought to the country as children who
have completed some college or served in the military.

When the DREAM Act was first introduced in 2001, it was a bipartisan effort
sponsored by Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., and Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah. It has
since become more partisan. The House of Representatives passed it in 2010 with
minimal GOP support, and it failed in the Senate when only three Republicans
voted for it.

President Obama has supported the bill and used his executive authority to give
some relief to DREAMers. He created the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals
program that does not grant legal residency or U.S. citizenship but gives young
illegal immigrants deferred deportations and work permits for two years.
Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney said that he would veto the current
version of the DREAM Act if it came before him but that he supports legalizing
young illegal immigrants who have served in the military.

In recent years, supporters of the DREAM Act have tried to sell the bill by
personalizing the people it would affect. Durbin has told stories on the Senate
floor of individual DREAMers, and young illegal immigrants have increasingly
"outed" themselves in recent years, revealing their status to draw attention to
their situation.

That argument is one that even opponents of the act find persuasive. Steven
Camarota, director of researcher at the Center for Immigration Studies, which
opposes the DREAM Act, said the moral argument is one that "carries weight with
most Americans."

Camarota says he's confused why supporters would push an economic argument that
opens the DREAM Act to criticism.  He says it draws  attention to  how many new,
young, college-  educated people would be fighting native-born Americans for
jobs.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NATION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              253 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 26, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Improved economy draws migrants;
Study: First net gain of illegal Mexicans since '07

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, USA TODAY,

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 484 words


Want a sign that the economy is on the rebound? Illegal immigration from Mexico
is starting to rise again, according to a new report.

Immigration from Mexico fell to historic lows during the worst years of the
recession. After four decades that brought 12 million people from Mexico to the
U.S., people started heading back home and continued doing so from 2007 to 2011.

It's impossible to pinpoint the exact number of people crossing the southwest
border with Mexico, but the study by U.S. and Mexican researchers estimates that
immigrants headed north in the first half of 2012 outnumbered those  heading
back for the first time since 2007.

"Illegal immigration is a market indicator," said Roy Beck, CEO of NumbersUSA,
an Arlington, Va., think tank that advocates lower levels of legal and illegal
immigration. "They all got gigantic networks of family and friends who are
already here sending information back and forth. So this is basically another
sign that the economy is picking up."

The report is a collaboration between the University of Southern California and
El Colegio de la Frontera Norte in Tijuana, a Mexican government-sponsored
research group. Researchers used  interviews with people along the border and
data from the U.S. and Mexico.

Jeffrey Passel -- the senior demographer at the non-partisan Pew Hispanic
Center, who was not involved in the report -- said the findings look legitimate,
but the small increase in people coming from Mexico does not mean the United
States is close to the massive influx of illegal immigrants seen recently.  For
example, in 2000, 770,000 Mexicans immigrated, legally and illegally, to the
U.S. In 2010, that number fell to 140,000.

"Right now, we're in a period where Mexican migration to the U.S. is at very low
levels," Passel said.

Roberto Suro, a public policy professor at USC and co-author of the report, said
people cited the weakening economy and increased enforcement measures  for
returning to, or staying in, Mexico.

Beck said the renewed rise in illegal immigration is due partly  to President
Obama's immigration record. He said a new program that could allow up to
1.8million illegal immigrants brought to the U.S. as children to have their
deportations deferred sends a signal that the border remains open.

"The word has gone out that this administration is going to do all it can to
keep you from having to leave the country," he said.

Ali Noorani, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, which
supported Obama's deportation deferral program, pointed to the fact that Obama
has set records  for the number of people deported as proof that he's serious
about enforcement.

Noorani said the renewed rise in illegal immigration simply shows that the
country's legal immigration system remains broken.

"Now that our economy is recovering, the bigger question is: How is our
immigration system going to serve a growing economy?" he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              254 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 31, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Reject birthright citizenship

BYLINE: Roy Beck

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 386 words


Birthright citizenship is a powerful anchor for keeping illegal workers in a
country -- and for keeping the jobs they fill out of reach of unemployed legal
residents. It is incompatible with a modern age of easy transportation and
organized people smuggling. Every developed nation, except the USA and Canada,
has rejected citizenship for births to tourists and unlawful foreign residents.

An estimated 4 million U.S. residents have received this type of citizenship.
Who's hurt by this? Millions of poor American children live in families
suffering from unemployment or depressed wages because an estimated 7 million
illegal foreign workers are holding construction, manufacturing, service and
transportation jobs.

Anything that slows the decision of illegal workers to go back home prolongs the
disadvantaging of the 30 million less-educated Americans and legal immigrants
who don't have a job and who generally seek work in the same non-agricultural
industries where most illegal workers are found.

Birthright citizenship is a major anchor for illegal workers already here who
are led to feel that their birthright citizen children may give them a claim to
remain. Note that one of the loudest arguments for giving illegal workers
permanent work permits is that it would be wrong to make them go back home if
they have U.S. citizen children.

Of course, ending birthright citizenship is not enough. Congress should pass the
SAVE Act to impede outlaw businesses from hiring illegal workers, and take other
actions to protect legal U.S. workers from an immigration system that is
importing hundreds of thousands of working-age immigrants annually during a jobs
depression. With unemployment high and wages stagnant in most occupations, we
don't have labor shortages and don't need additional foreign labor (or the
illegal labor already here).

Scholars make strong arguments on both sides of what the 14th Amendment's
birthright citizenship provision means. Only the Supreme Court can say, and it
has never ruled about tourists and illegal residents. For now, Congress should
leave the Constitution alone and pass legislation (H.R. 1868) that simply
clarifies the birthright provision in immigration law -- and then see how the
court rules.

Roy Beck is executive director of NumbersUSA, an immigration-reduction
organization.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              255 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 30, 2009 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Work visa requests show decline;
Dip tied to bad economy

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 425 words


Demand has dropped for visas that bring foreigners to the USA for jobs at
software companies, hospitals and other workplaces.

Since the annual application period began April 1, Citizenship and Immigration
Services (CIS) has received 45,000 applications for H-1B visas, those issued to
workers with special skills for up to six years. That's 20,000 fewer than the
yearly cap of 65,000.

In the past two years, all 65,000 spots were snapped up within two days.

"It's because the economy's tanking," says Carl Shusterman, a Los Angeles
immigration attorney whose office prepared about 40 applications this year, half
of what it did last year. H-1B applications are submitted by employers, and many
are doing less hiring, he says.

In addition to the 65,000, there's a separate cap of 20,000 for foreign workers
with advanced degrees from U.S. institutions. That has nearly been met, says CIS
spokeswoman Chris Rhatigan.

Robert Hoffman, vice president for government relations of software maker
Oracle, says demand for the visas tracks the economy. Hoffman is co-chair of
Compete America, a coalition of employers and others that promotes policies that
allow skilled foreigners to work here.

As industries such as biotechnology and renewable energy boomed this decade, so
did their need for skilled workers, he says. In the past two years, anticipating
stiff competition, "there was a rush to get applications in as early as
possible," he says.

Like many other companies, however, Oracle applied for fewer H-1B visas this
year than it did last year, says Hoffman, who says it was related to the economy
but declines to give specifics.

Rhatigan says the slower pace reflects normal fluctuations in applications.

She points to 2006, when it took 56 days to meet the 65,000 cap -- more than
twice as fast as the year before. Figures from 2000 to 2008, though, show
accelerating interest in applications.

Critics of H-1B visas include the Programmers Guild, a professional organization
for computer programmers. The guild argues that H-1B visas allow companies to
get rid of Americans and hire lower-paid foreign workers.

Last week, Republican Sen. Chuck Grassley of Iowa and Democratic Sen. Dick
Durbin of Illinois introduced a bill that Grassley says would require employers
to try to recruit Americans first, including advertising on a new Labor
Department website.

Grassley says that's especially important in the sagging economy. "We want
people to be able to employ people to get the job done," he says, "but it should
be when there aren't enough American workers here."

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              256 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 18, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

American workers benefit from immigration raids

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 540 words


Thank you for the update regarding the aftermath of the controversial raids on
plants employing illegal workers. Though this is an emotionally charged issue,
the outcome proved to be a positive step toward employing jobless Americans,
especially black and Hispanic Americans who are suffering the highest rates of
unemployment.  ("Immigration raids yield jobs for legal workers," News, Monday).

Wages and working conditions cannot help but improve with the continuation of
workplace enforcement and increasing the use of E-Verify, a database that
businesses can use to confirm employees' legal status.

While the federal government continues to allow  legal immigration of workers,
at about 125,000 a month, 15 million unemployed Americans  should have every
opportunity for re-employment and/or full-time employment. Replacing illegal
workers, first with unemployed Americans and then legal immigrant workers, until
the federal government regulates a sustainable legal immigrant worker quota,
will bring integrity and legitimacy back into the American workplace.

Mark C. Ferguson

Salt Lake City

Foreign workers needed

Why in the world would  USA TODAY  cite such a discredited outfit  such as  the
Center for Immigration Studies (CIS) as a disinterested authority in the article
"Immigration raids yield jobs for legal workers"? The organization was started
by John Tanton,  a eugenics advocate who has never found a positive aspect about
immigrants, authorized or unauthorized.

The group has consistently  seen all immigration and all immigrants as harmful,
and strangely enough, all of  its so-called studies confirm that.

Follow the money, rather than the biased "studies" of CIS. Here in  New York's
largest agricultural county, Suffolk,  nurseries, vintners and farmers  have had
a severe shortage of workers.    Immigrant workers make a huge positive
contribution to our economy. It would never recover if we followed the skewed
and slanted recommendations of CIS.

Michael O'Neill

Wainscott, N.Y.

Willing to work

Another myth concerning illegal immigration was debunked in USA TODAY's article
"Immigration raids yield jobs for legal workers."

As Vanderbilt University professor Carol Swain discovered during her research,
illegal immigrants really do take jobs from Americans, and many unemployed
citizens are eager to fill those jobs when they are available, despite what some
politicians and "immigrant rights" organizations have told us for years.  The
notion that some Americans willingly remain unemployed and poor, rather than
work to support themselves and their families, has served as a flawed
justification for narrow special-interest agendas and institutionalized illegal
behavior.

It is, however, interesting that T. Willard Fair, president and CEO of the Urban
League of Greater Miami, said, "We're willing to be exploited for a while," when
commenting on poor or unemployed Americans taking jobs  in fields and factories.

Unfortunately, a few Americans choose to characterize honest labor as a form of
class warfare and exploitation. As long as they view unemployment as a viable
alternative to honest work,  a demand for illegal immigrants to fill jobs that
could be performed by Americans will continue.

Bruce Beals

Copperas Cove, Texas

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, File photo by Richard M. Hackett, The (Longmont, Colo.)
Times-Call, via AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              257 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 12, 2009 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

After raid, fraud trial underway;
Iowa plant saw hundreds of deportations

BYLINE: Grant Schulte

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 327 words


DES MOINES -- A man who managed a once-dominant kosher meat empire heads to
trial Tuesday to face allegations involving what U.S. Attorney Matt Dummermuth
describes as the largest single-site immigration raid in United States history.

The trial, in which Sholom Rubashkin will challenge 91 fraud-related charges,
marks the latest turn in a case that dealt a blow to the northeastern Iowa town
of Postville and stoked the national debate over immigration. Publicity
surrounding the case has been so intense, the trial was moved from Cedar Rapids,
Iowa, to Sioux Falls, S.D.

The 22-year-old plant, Agriprocessors, which had grown into the nation's largest
kosher meat supplier under the Rubashkin family, had become Postville's largest
employer, attracting New York rabbis, immigrant workers and longtime Iowans.

The trial's outcome "will affect our community, especially the Jewish community,
quite a lot," said Paul Ouderkirk,  pastor of St. Bridget's Catholic Church in
Postville.

Prosecutors also have charged Rubashkin with 72 immigration-related counts for
his alleged role in a plan to hire illegal workers, according to federal court
documents.

A second trial on those charges is expected to begin a week after the first
concludes, Assistant U.S. Attorney Peter Deegan said in a memo.

Rubashkin was a top executive at Agriprocessors when agents raided the business
in May 2008. Court documents show that 389 illegal immigrants were arrested and
that most were deported.

Rubashkin ordered employees to create fake invoices so he could obtain advances
on a revolving bank loan, Deegan wrote in court papers.

Rubashkin was supposed to repay the bank, but is alleged to have diverted the
payments to keep the money.

"By diverting the payments, the defendant was, in effect, stealing the bank's
collateral and then lying to the bank about it," Deegan wrote.

Defense lawyer Guy Cook has said his client denies all of the charges.

Schulte reports for The Des Moines Register

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Jonathan D. Woods, Iowa City Gazette

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              258 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 10, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Mexicans find leaving U.S. a hard decision;
Collapse of the economy forcing some illegal migrants to go back home

BYLINE: Chris Hawley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 1378 words


SAN JOSE DE LOURDES, Mexico -- When her 3-year-old son begs for pizza, or when
her family is shivering through a subfreezing night in the Mexican highlands --
those are the moments when Rosario Araujo misses America the most.

Three months ago, Araujo and her husband, Jose Zavala, were still living
comfortably, though illegally, in a suburb of Phoenix. He hung drywall for $10
an hour; she was a housekeeper. Their version of the American dream was modest:
a small apartment, a washing machine and an occasional night out with their two
American-born kids.

Then the economic crisis hit, and work dried up. So in October, the family moved
back to central Mexico's empty plains, joining a small but growing flow of
migrants heading home because of the U.S. recession.

"It was a difficult decision," admits Araujo, 20. "We took a lot of risks to
get" to America. "We miss it."

Life on her husband's family farm seems a world away from sunny Arizona. The
cinder-block farmhouse lacks central heat, so the family wraps in blankets and
huddles around a space heater. They can't afford pizza anymore because they
haven't yet found work here, either.

Those challenges help illustrate why most of the 11.9 million illegal immigrants
that the Pew Hispanic Center estimates are residing in the USA are staying put
for now. Even in bad times, U.S. salaries are still, on average, about four
times higher than those across the border. The Mexican job market is flat and
drug-related violence is at record highs.

Even so, the collapse of the U.S. economy -- particularly the housing industry
-- has forced the Mexican government to start preparing for an influx of
returnees in the months ahead. As was the case with Araujo's family, most
illegal immigrants lack a social safety net in the USA and could have no choice
but to return to Mexico, where at least they can count on family to provide
shelter and food.

"We have to face the possibility of a very large number of Mexicans" coming
home, Foreign Minister Patricia Espinosa said last month.

Besides the faltering economy, tighter border enforcement and increasing numbers
of police raids on undocumented workers have contributed to a modest decline in
the USA's illegal immigrant population -- the first such drop in recent memory,
says Steven Camarota of the Center for Immigration Studies, a Washington-based
think tank.

"People still continue to come and go, but the equation seems to have switched,"
Camarota says. "A lot of people argued that immigrants were so permanently
anchored in the United States that nothing, no enforcement, no cutoff of jobs
would induce them to go home. It seems that's not the case."

If the trend accelerates, it could eventually ease some of the strain that
illegal immigrants place on services such as schools and hospitals in border
areas of the United States, says William Frey, a demographer at the Brookings
Institution, another Washington think tank.

Culture shock awaits

Many of those who return undergo a kind of culture shock after spending so many
years in a more developed country. Zavala, Araujo's husband, says he is most
worried about his children's education.

"The schools there (in the United States), they take the children in a bus and
give them food, books, everything," he says. "Here you walk to school and you
get nothing."

For now, the couple are scraping by with their dwindling savings. Zavala spends
his days tending his father's three cows, waiting for planting season and
worrying about the future.

Just down the road from him in the town of San Jose de Lourdes, population
7,000, about 50 migrant workers have returned from the USA in the past few
months, says Abel Hernandez, the town's administrator.

Even by local standards, the town is not a particularly inviting place.

Tethered horses stand in the dirt streets. A battered welcome sign hangs crazily
from a post, one end resting on the ground; the other post was knocked down by a
drunken driver and never replaced. The town's liveliest businesses are a feed
store and a factory that processes corn husks for wrapping tamales.

The long tradition of migration is obvious everywhere. At a gasoline station
outside town, there is a U.S. highway map on the wall and a Western Union window
where residents can pick up wire transfers from their relatives in the United
States.

Still, several residents who were deported from the USA or came back for family
reasons say they are postponing their return until the economy improves.

"Why go back now? There's no work," says Rogelio Ortiz, who returned from
Memphis in August to visit his wife and children. He's waiting to see whether
the next U.S. president can help the economy. "Let's see if Obama can do
something about it."

Teresa Cervantes, 21, says she and her husband decided their family no longer
could afford to live in the Chicago area after his construction work dried up.

She returned this month with their two children; he probably will join them next
year, she says.

The migrants who remain in the United States are sending home less money,
Hernandez says. Across Mexico, migrant remittances dropped 6.5% from $6.33
billion in the third quarter of 2007 to $5.92 billion in the same period this
year, according to Mexico's central bank. The effect has been amplified in poor
towns that rely heavily on money from migrants abroad.

In San Jose de Lourdes, store owner Ana Maria Guardado says her sales have
dropped 30% as families cut back to staple foods. Rodriguez, the farmer, says
his sisters used to wire him $100 every eight days. They also paid for his phone
line so they could keep in touch with family back home.

He hasn't gotten a wire in six weeks, he says, and now his phone has been shut
off.

Trying to assist returnees

Among the thousands of Mexicans who have been uprooted by the economic turmoil,
most are moving within the U.S. rather than leaving the country, says Arturo
Sarukhan, Mexico's ambassador in Washington.

In some Mexican consulates, the number of requests for consular IDs has doubled
as migrants update their addresses, he says. Many people in Arizona, Colorado
and Virginia are moving to California and the Northeast, places seen as more
migrant-friendly, he says.

"We are seeing very significant and very profound migration patterns within the
United States," Sarukhan says.

For those who do return to Mexico, the Mexican government is expanding the
Seguro Popular health insurance plan to absorb returning migrants and is hoping
to create jobs for them with a raft of new infrastructure projects such as
highways, airports and new border crossings, says Espinosa, the foreign
minister.

In Mexico City -- which estimates it has about 450,000 citizens living in the
United States, out of a total population of 8.7 million  -- officials are taking
more dramatic steps. The local government is bringing in psychologists from a
local university to help migrant children returning from the USA to fit in at
Mexican schools, says Guadalupe Chipole Ibaoez, director of Mexico City's Center
for Migrants.

Many of the new arrivals have trouble in grammar and literature classes, she
says.

"There are children who speak and understand well in both Spanish and English,
but many of them only write in English, and that is causing them a lot of
problems in school," Chipole Ibaoez said during a news conference in October.

Not all of the change is negative -- Araujo, the former housekeeper, says she
won't miss the constant threat of deportation. In Maricopa County, Ariz., where
she lived, Sheriff Joe Arpaio has earned national attention for arresting
illegal immigrants in anti-crime sweeps.

Blanca Castillo, Araujo's sister in-law who also recently returned home, notes
that anti-Mexican sentiment seemed to be growing among Arizonans.

"Suddenly people were shouting things at you on the street," Castillo says. "It
was like, as the economy went down, the racism went up."

Despite all the problems, and the increasing difficulties of getting back across
the border, Araujo's husband says he would try to return to the United States in
an instant if things improve.

"Maybe things will get better next year," Zavala says. "I hope so, anyway,
because there's nothing for us here -- nothing."

Hawley is Latin America correspondent for USA TODAY and The Arizona Republic.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Karl Gelles, USA TODAY, Sources: Pew Hispanic Center
(Line graph)
GRAPHIC, B/W, USA TODAY, Source: ESRI (Map)
PHOTOS, B/W, Chris Hawley, USA TODAY (2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              259 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 29, 2008 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Fewer caught sneaking into USA;
Economy, tougher enforcement cited

BYLINE: Thomas Frank

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 445 words


EL PASO -- The number of people caught trying to sneak into the USA from Mexico
is at its lowest level since the mid-1970s, signs of tougher enforcement and a
weaker U.S. economy, officials say.

The Border Patrol caught 705,000 people along the U.S.-Mexico border in fiscal
year 2008, which ended Sept. 30, according to new agency figures. That's nearly
2,000 a day and the lowest number since 1976, when 675,000 people were caught
entering illegally between San Diego and southern Texas, the figures show.

The Border Patrol has long used the number of apprehensions as an indicator of
how many people try to cross U.S. borders illegally. The latest figures show
that recent security measures -- including building a fence, adding more Border
Patrol agents and prosecuting more people caught sneaking across the border --
are deterring illegal crossings, officials say. The weak U.S. economy also is
discouraging migrants, officials and analysts say.

"We're definitely making it tougher on them," Border Patrol assistant chief
Lloyd Easterling says. "I'm not telling you that we've won the war, but we are
making headway."

Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said in a Dec. 19 speech that
there's been "a collapse in the number of people who come across the border
illegally."

Chertoff cited a weaker U.S. economy and "tough enforcement," including the
addition of 6,000 Border Patrol agents since 2006 and the construction of 526
miles of fence along the U.S.-Mexico border since 2007. About 97% of illegal
border crossers enter through Mexico, and about 90% are Mexican, Border Patrol
figures show.

Josiah Heyman, a border expert at the University of Texas-El Paso, said that
"economic conditions of the U.S. affect migration. Word gets back to Mexico
really fast what the job opportunities are or are not," Heyman said. "It's
possible we've crossed some threshold where it's risky and expensive to try to
get to the U.S. (illegally) so it's beginning to discourage people." Illegal
migrants often pay a smuggler about $2,000, Heyman said.

Border apprehensions have fluctuated widely for decades. They peaked at 1.7
million in the mid-1980s, fell to about 1 million in the late 1980s, and hit 1.6
million again in 2000. Border Patrol staffing has climbed steadily to 18,000
agents from 4,000 in 1993, agency figures show.

The Congressional Research Service said in May that the number of apprehensions
is "the most reliable" measure of illegal crossings but doesn't give a full
picture because "there are no reliable estimates" of those who evade capture.

About 11.9 million illegal immigrants live in the USA, according to an October
estimate by the Pew Hispanic Center.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: U.S. Border Patrol
(LIne graph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              260 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 20, 2009 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Health care plan doesn't require proof of citizenship

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 453 words


USA TODAY's editorial "Misinformation, mayhem mar debate on health care" cannot
cover up for the fact that illegal  immigrants would benefit from  the House
Democrats' health care bill (Aug. 10).

According to the Congressional Budget Office, within  10 years, the non-Medicare
population of the U.S. will include 14.1 million illegal  immigrants.  CBO
projects that up to 8.5 million of those 14.1 million will not have health
insurance, meaning  the Democrats' bill  could benefit as many as 5.6 million
illegal  immigrants.

This is the result of Democrats blocking Republican efforts to require proof of
citizenship. Democrats are on record voting to defeat amendments that would
preserve the proof of citizenship standard.

FactCheck.org and liberal blogs have criticized this conclusion by pointing to
language in the bill stating that illegal  immigrants cannot receive health
benefits.  That language is purely a red herring -- technically accurate but
functionally meaningless except as a diversion.

No Democratic bill contains verification mechanisms, such as proof of
citizenship requirements, to ensure that illegal  immigrants would not receive
benefits. Democrats in two congressional committees defeated Republican
amendments introduced to close this loophole.

Their bill also suggests that if one member of a household were eligible for
benefits (for example, a U.S.-born child of an illegal immigrant), theneveryone
in that household would be considered eligible.  The Pew Hispanic Center
estimated that there are almost 2 million families in the USA with illegal
immigrant parents and U.S.-born children.

With these significant loopholes -- no verification and family eligibility --
illegal  immigrants would benefit if liberals passed their bill that would lead
to a  government takeover of our health care system. Next time, perhaps
FactCheck.org and those who print  its opinions will check with the author of
the facts before they go to print. My number is 5.6 million; what's yours?

Rep. Steve King, R-Iowa

Kiron, Iowa

Fight misinformation

Thank you for your excellent editorial "Misinformation, mayhem mar debate on
health care."

It is time sane people who have Christian values stood up to the corporate
shills and other crazies who are turning the noble art of political discourse
into a terrorist operation, to "break" a Democratic president who is working so
hard to improve this country and the plight of the uninsured who are in such
need.  We must use strong rhetoric and denounce what is going on and stand up
for the truth if we care.

This country could be entering a phase of anarchy because of well-funded,
misguided, shortsighted interests. We can't let that happen.

Camilla Gorham

Ann Arbor, Mich.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Elise Amendola, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              261 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 20, 2009 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Mask controversy spooks retailers

BYLINE: Marisol Bello

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 300 words


Richard Zagone, a Chicago mask designer, says he was trying to be ironic when he
and his brother came up with the "Illegal Alien" Halloween mask, a space alien
with a droopy black mustache.

"We wanted to call it 'Lou Dobbs' Worst Nightmare,' " after he heard the CNN
anchor speak about health care for illegal immigrants, Zagone says, but his
lawyer wouldn't let him.

Now Zagone, who says he is "as left-wing as they come," is caught in a
mini-firestorm over costumes their makers say are "illegal aliens." Some
Hispanic and immigration groups say they are offensive.

One costume is an orange jumpsuit with the words "ILLEGAL ALIEN" on the front, a
space alien mask and a plastic green card.

It created a stir on Facebook and Twitter because it was being sold on the
websites of major retailers, including Target, Toys R Us, Walgreens, Meijer and
Amazon. By Monday, all had quit selling the item.

It's "demeaning," says Brent Wilkes of the League of United Latin American
Citizens. "The costumes say, 'These people are not human, they are aliens.' "

Walgreens spokeswoman Vivika Vergara says the chain's website stopped selling
the costume "so it would not be subject to varied interpretation."

Jalem Getz, CEO of BuySeasons, which owns buycostumes.com, says the get-up is
not offensive and he'll continue to sell it. "It's not a caricature of an
illegal immigrant; it's a play on words," he says.

William Gheen of Americans for Legal Immigration, which favors tighter controls,
put a costume on eBay. Bids went to $116 before eBay pulled it.

"This is a spooky Halloween because, apparently, I no longer live in a country
of free markets, free speech or free political expression," Gheen says.

Getz says the costume was not one of the company's top 200 sellers until all the
attention. Then it sold out quickly.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              262 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 12, 2009 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Don't let them buy policies

BYLINE: Dan Stein

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 372 words


On the surface, it seems logical to allow illegal aliens to purchase health
insurance through an exchange that would be established under the House-approved
reform bill. Upon closer examination, however, there are many good reasons to
bar illegal aliens from it.

The exchange would be indirectly subsidized, maintained and managed by a massive
federal bureaucracy estimated by the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) to cost
$41 billion to $51 billion over 10 years. Even if illegal aliens pay their own
premiums, they are still accessing a government run "store" subsidized by
American taxpayers.

Uncompensated care for illegal aliens already costs taxpayers $11 billion a
year. Extending health insurance to illegal aliens would be even more expensive.
CBO concluded "that for most preventive services, expanded utilization leads to
higher, not lower, medical spending overall."

Greater utilization by illegal aliens could impact health care quality for all
Americans, resulting in longer waits at the doctor's office and reduced access
to services. Thus far, no Capitol Hill hearings have addressed this possibility.

Allowing illegal aliens to participate in the exchange would create yet another
powerful magnet for illegal immigration. If non-legal residents can obtain
coverage, people needing expensive care would come here, purchase low-cost
policies through the exchange and utilize medical services that far exceed what
premiums cover, thereby raising costs for everyone else.

Permitting illegal aliens to access the exchange would also further accommodate
their presence in the USA, creating additional arguments for a mass amnesty.
Amnesty advocates would contend that access to the exchange is tantamount to
government acceptance of their presence in the USA.

The very fact that coverage for illegal aliens has become a part of the health
care debate underscores the failure of our immigration policies. We are allowing
into the USA millions who cannot provide for their own needs.

The best option of all would be to reinvigorate meaningful enforcement that
reduces the number of illegal aliens in the country and require skills-based
immigration.

Dan Stein is president of the Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR).


LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              263 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 12, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Births up for those in USA illegally;
Study stirs debate on birthright citizenship

BYLINE: Alan Gomez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 514 words


The total number of children in the USA born to illegal immigrants on U.S. soil
jumped to 4 million in 2009, up from 2.7 million in 2003, a report released
Wednesday estimates.

Those children -- who are automatically granted U.S. citizenship -- represent
5.4% of all children under the age of 18 in the U.S. That compares to 3.7% six
years earlier, according to data from the non-partisan Pew Hispanic Center. That
percentage will continue rising, as an estimated 340,000 of the 4.3 million
babies born in the U.S. in 2008 alone -- about 8% -- came from illegal immigrant
parents, the report says.

The study comes as some legislators, including Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., are
calling for a revision of the 14th Amendment that grants citizenship to anyone
born in the United States.

The percentage of native-born people in the U.S. has fallen for four straight
decades, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. In 2008, 12.5% of the population
was born outside the U.S., nearing the all-time highs of nearly 15% in the late
1800s.

"The share of the population that is white non-Hispanic is going to drop," said
Jeffrey Passel, senior demographer of the Pew Hispanic Center. "The percentage
that consists of immigrants and their children is going to increase."

Bob Dane, a spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which
wants lower levels of legal and illegal immigration, said automatic citizenship
for children born in the U.S. is one of the main magnets for illegal
immigration.

Dane said many illegal immigrants are searching for jobs. He said many others
come here to have a baby who is entitled to a wide array of government benefits
and can eventually help the parents become citizens as well. He calls the
practice a "corruption of the rule of law."

Ali Noorani, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, which
supports a process for some illegal immigrants to become citizens, said
eliminating birthright citizenship for the children of illegal immigrants would
be a colossal mistake.

"It puts the United States of America on the brink of legalizing apartheid," he
said.

Noorani said some people have always fought for a change to the 14th Amendment's
birthright clause, but he is shocked to see prominent members of Congress
suddenly embrace it. He thinks the upcoming November elections are the reason.

"This is a pathetic attempt to gin up a (voting) base," he said. "This is
political fear-mongering."

A poll conducted by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press found
that 56% of Americans did not want to bar the children of illegal immigrants
born in the U.S. from becoming citizens.

Of people who identified themselves as conservative Republicans, 55% supported a
ban on birthright citizenship for the children of illegal immigrants, while 67%
of self-described liberal Democrats opposed such a ban. The poll of 1,802 adults
was conducted in June and had a margin of error of +/-3 percentage points.

The childbirth study was based on data from the Census, and the center analyzed
demographic characteristics of the illegal immigrant population.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: Pew Hispanic Center
(Pie chart)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              264 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 12, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

The DREAM Act enables fraud and steals American jobs

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 501 words


The  recent column "Why DREAM Act is right for U.S., young people,"  doesn't
tell the whole story about the DREAM Act  (The Forum, June 28).

Millions of unemployed Americans dream of going back to work, but the DREAM Act
prevents Americans from getting jobs since millions of illegal immigrants will
be eligible to work legally in the U.S.

The DREAM Act is also an open invitation to fraud. Many illegal immigrants will
fraudulently claim they came here as children, and the federal government has no
way to check whether their claims are true or not.

Under some DREAM Act proposals, amnesty would be given to those under the age of
30  not exactly children. And an estimated  2 million illegal immigrants could
be eligible for amnesty.

Instead of focusing on a bill that would diminish job opportunities for
unemployed American workers, Congress should pass legislation to require all
employers to use E-Verify.

This federal program quickly identifies those working illegally in the United
States and protects jobs for legal workers. A federal E-Verify requirement could
open up millions of jobs for unemployed Americans.

Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas

Chairman of the

House Judiciary Committee

Washington, D.C.

Give illegal immigrants chance

Millions of students graduate every year from high school. Many of these
students will be able to live the American dream of life, liberty and the
pursuit of happiness, but many will not.  They have entered the country at a
very young age,  are raised here and share in being  Americans who perhaps have
little in common with kids in their native country.

Since they have no documentation, they will be unable to apply for a driver's
license, pursue continuing education, obtain employment, join the military or
access benefits such as public assistance or Social Security.

These youth have lived in the United States for most of their lives and want
nothing more than to be recognized for what they are, Americans.

We made an investment in many of them  by providing an  education. Give them
temporary citizenship for five years. Within the five years, they must obtain
employment and pay taxes. This may be the workforce we are missing after the
Baby Boomers retire. They will keep America working.

Annie Byrne

Cheltenham, Pa.

Just another dream

The DREAM  Act is laudable but has an unacceptable flaw. It is open-ended and
becomes a permanent back door, or alternative immigration policy, which makes it
as flawed as Arizona's  attempt at border control.

Education Secretary Arne Duncan states that the DREAM  Act was, "an important
part of President Obama's comprehensive immigration reform agenda."

Obama often  mentions immigration reform when in  areas with high Latino
populations such as  El Paso or south Florida,  usually only to blame
Republicans.

Obama's comprehensive immigration reform agenda is just another lost campaign
promise like reducing the deficit by half in his first term,  closing Gitmo and
trying enemy combatants in civilian courts.

Larry Sitter

Portland, Ore.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              265 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 18, 2012 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Block this de facto amnesty;
OPPOSING VIEW

BYLINE: Dan Stein

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 374 words


The problem with President Obama's announcement  that he is granting what
amounts to de facto amnesty to upwards of a million illegal aliens is not just
that it was done for naked political reasons. The problem is that in taking this
political step, the president is making an end-run around Congress, which has
sole constitutional authority to make immigration policy, while at the same time
harming the interests of millions of Americans.

In March 2011, the president  stated definitively that he lacked the authority
to do precisely what he announced on Friday. "With respect to the notion that I
can just suspend deportations through executive order, that's just not the case,
because there are laws on the books that Congress has passed," Obama said. "For
me to simply through executive order ignore those congressional mandates would
not conform with my appropriate role as president."

Thus, his actions represent a challenge to the constitutional Separation of
Powers doctrine and a dangerous precedent that is bound to be repeated by this
and future presidents.

Obama has decided to implement a law Congress never approved, while effectively
nullifying numerous laws Congress has enacted because he objects to them.  Not
only will an estimated 1.4 million illegal aliens be permitted to remain here,
nearly all of them will be granted work authorization despite the fact they are
explicitly barred from working here under a 1986 law. Thus, America's estimated
23 million un- and underemployed workers will  find themselves competing with
those who benefited from Friday's amnesty.

While many Americans may understand the difficult circumstances of this group of
illegal aliens, they also understand that it was their parents, not the American
people or American law, who put them there. Moreover, once we establish a
precedent that bringing children here illegally will be rewarded, we are certain
to see millions more follow suit.

Congress must act decisively to block this unauthorized amnesty. It is
lawmakers'  obligation to protect the interests of the American people and to
ensure that the president respects Congress' constitutional authority to make
our laws.

Dan Stein is president of the Federation for American Immigration Reform.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              266 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          November 19, 2008 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 FINAL EDITION

Courts need more interpreters;
Immigrant cases spike U.S. demand

BYLINE: Maite Jullian

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 645 words


An existing shortage of certified court interpreters is worsening, court
officials say, as law enforcement agencies step up actions against illegal
immigrants.

Arrests leading to federal prosecutions and deportations reached record levels
in fiscal year 2008, according to an October report by Immigration and Customs
Enforcement.

Wanda Romberger, manager of court interpreting services at the National Center
for State Courts, says that almost every state is being confronted with a lack
of certified interpreters -- who have to pass difficult exams -- especially in
languages other than Spanish.

"I don't know of many jurisdictions that would say they have enough qualified
court interpreters," she says. There are about 3,000 certified interpreters,
says Isabel Framer, chairwoman of the National Association of Judiciary
Interpreters and Translators.  Only 500, she says, work in languages other than
Spanish.

The association did not estimate how many more interpreters are needed, but
according to a 2007 report by the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts,
there was a 17% increase in the number of events requiring interpreters in 115
languages in federal courts from October 2006 to September 2007.

Framer says that several cases have been reversed because of poor
interpretation.  Parastoo Zahedi, a Virginia-based immigration lawyer says she
"repeatedly had to reschedule cases because there was no interpreter."

Administrative Office spokesman Richard Carelli says federal courts provide
adequate interpreters for most Spanish speakers, who, he says, represent 95% of
immigration-related cases.

However, he says, it can be difficult to find interpreters in some languages.
Carelli also says that "finding interpreters for certain indigenous dialects
from Central and South American countries has presented problems."

The shortage affects state and federal courts equally in languages other than
Spanish, Framer says.  It pushes courts to use freelance interpreters who may
lack training, says Suzan Kern, a former interpreter who is now an immigration
lawyer.

"There is an assumption that if you're bilingual, you can interpret and
translate but it is most definitely not the case," she says.

Certified interpreters have to pass exams, either through a state certification
program, the Administrative Office or the Consortium for State Court Interpreter
Certification, Framer says.

They are  trained in the use of the specific court terms and protocols, Kern
says. Courts also use qualified interpreters -- non-credentialed but with
experience  -- but there are not enough of them either, Framer says.

Framer says one of the main reasons for the shortage is the lack of funding for
training and testing programs. Legislation that would provide federal funds for
state court interpreters has stalled, Romberger says.

The Administrative Office spends $11 million a year in interpreting services,
Carelli says, most of which go to travel expenses.

The skills to pass these tests are "phenomenal," Romberger says.  In 2007, only
77 of 459 candidates passed the Federal Court Interpreter Certification
Examination, according to the Administrative Office of U.S. Courts.

Courts sometimes hire uncertified interpreters because they are cheaper, Framer
says.

According to the Administrative Office of U.S. Courts, a federal certified or
qualified court interpreter is paid $376 a day. Others are paid $181.

When Immigration and Customs Enforcement detained 389 illegal workers at the
Agriprocessors meatpacking plant in Postville, Iowa, on May 12, 32 certified
Spanish interpreters were flown in, according to Robert Phelps, clerk of the
U.S. District Court in Cedar Rapids. Even so, there were snags.

"People were unable to talk some of the South American dialects people were
speaking," says Kathleen Campbell Walker, an immigration attorney who has worked
in Texas for 20 years.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 20, 2008



CORRECTION: Federal courts spend $11 million a year for court interpreting
services, a small portion of which goes to travel expenses. A story Wednesday
incorrectly stated that travel expenses accounted for most of the money spent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Photos by Nati Harnik, AP
PHOTO, B/W

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NATION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              267 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 20, 2008 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Migrants see harder times in downturn

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 441 words


DENVER -- Low-skilled immigrants are taking a hard hit from the faltering
economy, losing jobs, sending less money to families overseas and cutting back
spending at businesses that cater to them.

The effect is most pronounced on immigrants, both legal and illegal, working in
struggling sectors such as construction and manufacturing, says Rakesh Kochhar,
associate director for research at the Pew Hispanic Center, a non-partisan
research organization.  The center estimates there are 11.9 million illegal
immigrants in the USA this year.

"People with less skills or less education, and especially those who are in
blue-collar jobs, are historically more vulnerable to downturns," he says. "The
Hispanic immigrant is more likely to be less skilled, less educated and more
blue collar" compared with the overall labor force.

In October, the jobless rate was 6.5%, according to the Bureau of Labor
Statistics, while the rate for Hispanics was 8.8%.  Slightly more than half of
the Hispanic labor force is foreign-born, Kochhar says.

At La Pioata Loca, a party supply store on Federal Boulevard here, business has
dropped 45% since August, owner Xochitl Alvarez says.

Alvarez blames her falling profits on factors including the bad economy and
immigrants' fears over stepped-up workplace raids by federal agents.  Some of
her customers have lost their jobs and others have voluntarily returned to their
native countries because of the economy or tougher enforcement measures, she
says.

"My Anglo customers are still here," says Alvarez, a U.S. citizen. "My Hispanic
customers just don't want to spend the money."

*Day laborers may be among the most affected.  At the WeCount! Community Worker
Center in south Miami, 20 to 30 laborers come in each day to find work, but only
one or two land jobs that pay about $10 per hour, director Selene Echeverria
says.

*Remittances to some countries, which had been rising steadily, are down.
Through September, Mexican immigrants sent $673 million less back home compared
with the same period last year, a 3.7% drop, says Robert Meins, remittances
specialist for the Inter-American Development Bank.

*Immigrants who make less spend less.  Revenue at Hispanic-owned businesses was
down 15% to 20% from July through September, compared with the same quarter last
year, says David Lizarraga, chairman of the U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce.

In Denver, Alvarez is getting creative. She's cutting prices of some star-shaped
pinatas if customers purchase two and is offering layaway plans.  "I'm trying to
be flexible with the prices.  I will even negotiate with customers," she says.
"We're trying to see if we can make it."

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NATION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              268 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 5, 2008 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Hot rhetoric fuels Latino hate crimes

BYLINE: Raul Reyes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 429 words


Seven teenagers have been charged in the tragic death last month of Marcelo
Lucero, a 38-year-old immigrant who worked at a dry cleaner.  Police say Lucero
was on his way to a friend's house in Patchogue, N.Y., when a gang of drunken
high schoolers out to jump "a Mexican" surrounded him.  Lucero was attacked and
then fatally stabbed in the chest.

I suppose it doesn't matter that Patchogue is a comfortable, relatively
crime-free suburb on Long Island. Or that Lucero wasn't even Mexican; he was
from Ecuador.  The sad truth is that Lucero's death is part of a national trend
of violence against Latinos.  According to new statistics from the FBI, we are
the No. 1 target of hate crimes motivated by ethnicity or national origin.  In
2007, 62% of such victims were Hispanic.

Yet these statistics might not show the full picture.  A 2005 Justice Department
report asserted that the actual number of hate crimes exceeded the FBI's
numbers.  The Southern Poverty Law Center, a civil rights group, confirms that
many hate crimes are not reported.  Many illegal immigrants, no doubt fearing
deportation, would be reluctant to contact law enforcement.

The Patchogue killing reminds me of an incident this summer in Shenandoah, Pa.,
in which four teens were charged in the death of an illegal Mexican immigrant.

What do these two communities have in common?  An increase in the Latino
population and a corresponding rise in anti-immigrant sentiments.

Today, the national anti-immigration fervor has subsided as the economy has
cooled, but it's fair to assume that some violence against Latinos is a
byproduct of the xenophobic debate of previous years.  Hate crimes directed at
Latinos rose 40% during the past four years -- a time frame that roughly
corresponds to the failure of attempts at comprehensive reform.  Some
politicians and activists who oppose illegal immigration often have engaged in
or encouraged anti-Hispanic rhetoric.  They don't seem to realize that
inflammatory language can incite inflammatory acts.

It saddens and angers me that Latinos must still live with the threat of
violence simply because of their ethnicity.  I am worried, too, that in these
tough economic times, fear and anxiety will be  directed at the wrong targets.
Hate speech can hurt, and sometimes kill.

If and when this country revisits the immigration issue under an Obama
administration, we should engage in a debate that is good for all of us --
rather than one that vilifies and endangers some of us.

Raul Reyes is an attorney in New York and a member of USA TODAY's board of
contributors.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W

DOCUMENT-TYPE: THE FORUM

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              269 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 9, 2008 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

More Hispanics fluent in English;
Larger communities have fewer struggling with the language

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser and Paul Overberg

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 751 words


More Spanish speakers are speaking English very well despite a steady influx of
immigrants this decade -- a sign that they are blending in at least
linguistically, according to a USA TODAY analysis of Census data released today.

The drop in the percentage who struggle with English is most noticeable in some
of the largest counties and cities that have attracted immigrants for decades.

In Los Angeles County, the percentage of the Spanish-speaking population that
has trouble with English slid from 21% in 2000 to 19.6% in 2005-07, the three
years measured in the data released today. In El Paso, the share dropped from
32% to 28.5%.

In many places, the share has not increased despite growth in immigration: Pima
County, Ariz., which includes Tucson, at 8.4%; Atlanta's Fulton County at 4.1%.

In many new destinations for Hispanics, however, the inability to speak English
fluently is a growing challenge. In some smaller counties in Colorado, South
Carolina and some other states, the number of Hispanics who say they don't speak
English "very well" has risen.

In Prince William County, in the suburbs of Washington, D.C., the share more
than doubled to 9.3% or almost 30,000 people.

In Oregon's Clackamas County, southeast of Portland, about 5,000 more people who
speak Spanish don't speak English "very well." They total more than 11,000 or
about 3% of the population.

The new American Community Survey offers the first detailed demographic profile
since the 2000 Census of places with as few as 20,000 people.

When people respond to the Census survey by saying they speak English "very
well," it means they're fluent. Anything less means that people often can't read
bank statements, rental agreements and warning labels and have difficulty
communicating with a doctor or police officer, linguists and demographers say.

Homeownership and naturalization are more important gauges of assimilation than
English fluency but language is the most visible, says Dowell Myers, demographer
at the University of Southern California. "What affects people the most is the
language around them. It's the most symbolic ... a real flashpoint."

In Greenville County, S.C., the number of Hispanics who don't speak English
fluently doubled to more than 14,000 -- 3.7% of the population -- this decade.
The county provides interpreters for hospitals, welfare offices and jails, says
Lottie Gibson, a member of the Greenville County Council.

"The faces of Greenville are changing," Gibson says. "They need to be able to
speak English. It's frustrating to a lot of people to go into restaurants and
have them not understand what you have to say."

Winnebago County, an industrial hub 90 miles west of Chicago, had a surge of
mostly Mexican immigrants this decade. The share who are not fluent in English
jumped from 2.8% to 4.4% -- almost 5,000 people.

"It's been difficult to absorb," says Patricia Gomez, executive director of La
Voz Latina, a non-profit group that offers social services to immigrants. The
day and evening English classes the group offers in conjunction with community
colleges are full.

"English fluency is essential for new immigrants ... but the adults often
struggle," she says. "Sometimes we're too impatient for new immigrants to learn
English. Fifty or 100 years ago, it was understood that the first generation
would not be speaking English."

Many smaller counties are experiencing more growth in their foreign-born
populations than large cities.

"It's clear that the foreign-born are dispersing into smaller places," says
William Frey, a demographer at the Brookings Institution who analyzed the data.
"It's pretty widespread and it's pretty dramatic."

New immigrants are almost as likely to go to the suburbs and beyond as they are
to cities, he says. "It's something that we didn't see in the '90s."

The data also show that poverty rates in midsize counties, small towns and rural
areas are greater than in larger places, according to an analysis by Mark
Mather, demographer at the Population Reference Bureau.

Poverty rates from 2005 through 2007 were highest among children, especially
those in less-populated areas: 23% of children in small counties were poor,
compared with 18% in large counties.

The gap between children and seniors is widening, he says. Social Security and
Medicare have helped keep more seniors out of poverty. The data don't capture
the impact of the current recession.

"Families with children have not fared as well and could see even higher poverty
rates in the future," Mather says.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Don Ryan, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              270 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 18, 2008 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'As one threat fades, another may come in';
Chertoff on terrorism, immigration and the challenges of his '24/7 job' at
Homeland Security

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 1198 words


With just a month left before he leaves office, President Bush and his
administration can claim credit for having successfully defended this country
from another terrorist attack. Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said
as much in a recent interview with USA TODAY's editorial board. But the
secretary, who has run the department since 2005, also noted the dangers that
lie ahead, including the possibility of a nuclear, chemical or biological attack
on U.S. soil. What about airport security, for which he is responsible? The
border fence and immigration control, which also falls under his purview?
Chertoff discussed these issues and others. His comments were edited for length
and clarity:

Question: As you look back on your tenure as the secretary of Homeland Security,
what legacy do you and the administration leave behind?

Answer: I always touch wood when I say this, but I do think looking back it's
quite remarkable that we have not had a successful attack against this country
since Sept. 11. It has really been the president's leadership that has allowed
us to avoid attack. In terms of the transition, I've known my successor
(Arizona Gov. Janet Napolitano) for 15 years both as U.S. attorney and when I
was secretary here. I look forward to supporting her in any way I can.

Q: Who is the war on terrorism against? Is it al-Qaeda? Is it the tactic, which
seems impossible to eradicate? Or is it Islamic radicalism?

A: What we're confronting is an ideological conflict with an extremist world
view that I don't think is an accurate representative of Islam, but uses the
language or hijacks Islam for an extremist agenda. It's an ideology that's
reflected in al-Qaeda, and it's reflected in Lashkar-e-Taiba, which everybody
now knows because of  (the Mumbai attacks). That is the struggle, and unlike the
Cold War victory, I don't think there's going to be a wall that comes down. It
will be a process of using hard power to strike back at the leaders and using
soft power to change the breeding ground where people try to recruit.

Q: What lessons do you see for the United States from the Mumbai attacks?

A: Some people say take FEMA out (of Homeland Security) because they're
consequence management and the rest of the department is prevention and
protection. But if you look at Mumbai, you see that's not true. When you have an
event, you have to coordinate your police and your military, and if you have
fire and emergency responders, you have to coordinate those, too.

Q: Our nation's focus has been mostly on al-Qaeda, but shouldn't we be concerned
about other terrorist organizations as well?

A: We're facing an era where as one threat fades, another may come in. The line
between criminality and extremist politics may become a blurry line. And because
of technology, the ability of informal network groups to do damage will become
increasing problematic.

Q: If you were staying for another four years, what would be your top
priorities?

A: Calming my wife down. (Laughs). I would worry long term about a
low-probability, high-cost event. A weapon of mass destruction  -- biological,
nuclear, maybe radiological. That's the area where the most work needs to be
done because it requires the most investment and time.

Q: For several years, the administration has described Iraq as the central front
in the war on terror. Is that still the case?

A: I would look at the whole space from Iraq to the frontier area of Pakistan as
the central front. There's no question that we have dealt very serious blows to
al-Qaeda in Iraq, but if we were to leave it, it would rapidly come back. We
need to simultaneously look at what needs to be done in Pakistan.

Q: A recent congressional report said that there will probably be an attack
somewhere in the world using a weapon of mass destruction within the next five
years. Do you agree, and what about biological weapons?

A: We've seen chemical weapons used, and they're not that hard to make. But
they're not that likely to kill thousands of people. (In terms of) a nuclear
weapon, there is a huge amount of difference in terms of consequence. On the
other hand, I don't see a nuclear weapon being used in the next couple of years
unless we get a proliferator or failed state that puts one in the wrong hands.

Q: A problem cited after 9/11 was that we lacked human intelligence. Is that
still true?

A: Across the board, human intelligence, signals intelligence, open-source
intelligence and the ability to collect, fuse and analyze large amounts of
information allow us to see where the threats are.

Q: Fliers expect security screening, but what's happening to crews and others
behind the security gate, where progress has lagged?

A: We're at (code) orange now, so we're doing a lot of screening in the back
part of the airport. We're running a couple of pilot (programs) where everybody
in the back would go through the same screening that everyone goes through in
the front. We've also tightened up on security badges to make sure they're
reclaimed when people leave.

Q: You said recently that you expected about 90% of the border fence to be
completed by the time you leave. Your successor has questioned its value. Is it
the right answer?

A: Congress overwhelmingly voted for this. But I'm not looking to build a fence
if it's not necessary. Some of the fence we're building is vehicle barriers, not
pedestrian barriers. But we did a ceremony recently where I met with the widow
of a border agent killed by a smuggler who ran him over when he was crossing the
border. Had there been a fence there, this would not have happened. Now is the
fence by itself a be-all and end-all? Of course not.

Q: What do your latest numbers tell you about our progress on immigration?

A: The Pew Hispanic Center a few months ago said for the first time they see the
illegal immigrant population flat or diminishing. Our metrics on border
crossings have gone down. I think it's the economy going down. But also Pew
measured legal immigration and illegal immigration and it was the first time
illegal was below legal. So that tells us it's not just the economy but it's
enforcement also.

Q: Do you have to wear too many hats?

A: The things I've learned from dealing with natural disasters have been very
helpful in terms of thinking about how to deal with terrorism. And some of the
strategic issues we've done at the border on immigration have been extremely
helpful in doing things at the border to keep terrorists from coming across. You
tend to bring things from one area into another area, which I think is helpful.

Q: With your job, what is life like?

A: It's a 24/7 job. Something isn't happening every minute of your life, but you
have to be prepared every minute of every day. So I've had interrupted
vacations; the traditional 3 a.m. phone call.  In August, when most people are
on vacation, I'm working at peak. So next August I'll be able to really take a
vacation and not worry about the weather. It's a job where you know that as long
as you do it, it's going to be a sprint -- and it's going to be a long-winded
sprint. What you're hoping to do is do the job right, protect the country and
then the day you leave, collapse, which is what I plan to do.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W, H. Darr Beiser, USA TODAY (3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              271 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 26, 2009 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Hope and change wasn't only in D.C.

BYLINE: Harlan Jacobson

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 5D

LENGTH: 299 words


It was Obama week not just in the nation's capital last week but also at
Sundance.

Many films seem to be part of the Age of Obama, centering on hot topics like
immigration and education and featuring characters who try to make sense of
their own worn-out infrastructure.

Push: Based on a Novel by Sapphire, which won three key awards, fit the theme.
And there were plenty more.

Cary Fukunaga's Sin Nombre (Without a Name) tracks the harrowing journey of a
young girl from Mexico  as she tries to cross the American border illegally --
and into the heart of the debate over illegal immigration.

In Cherien Dabis' Amreeka, a Palestinian mother and son give up on the West Bank
and come to America, believing it will be a lot easier to make it here than it
turns out to be.

No Impact Man, a documentary about an obnoxious New Yorker who tries to live for
a year while reducing his impact on the environment to zero, seems to scream
that Obama catchphrase, "Yes We Can."

And Ondi Timoner's We Live in Public, which won the best U.S. documentary prize,
follows the strange path of New York-based Internet artist Josh Harris from 1999
to the present, as he tried recording the 24-hour life cycle -- first, of  100
people living in a bunker in New York,  and then his own life with a girlfriend.

That it all fails and Harris ends up broke, alone and living on an upstate New
York apple farm seems to underscore the historic theme of American dreamers who
are dedicated to "Yes We Can," even when conventional wisdom is maybe we
shouldn't.

People pushing the American rock up the hill to do and be better was the order
of the day.

Maybe change is in the air -- or  perhaps these are just the same old
crunchy-granola Sundance films (with better production values) seen through a
different lens.

By Harlan Jacobson

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, First Generation Films

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              272 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           February 4, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Democrats stick to partisanship

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 350 words


It appears that in meeting with Republicans, President Obama met with the wrong
party on  Capitol Hill last week.     House Republicans rejected the stimulus
proposal  of the Democratic leadership,  not the general plan described by the
president. As the editorial "Old ways cloud the dawn of a new bipartisan era"
states, "The Democratic majority refused to yield" (Our view, The tone in
Washington debate, Friday).

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi also expressed partisanship, stating that "we won."
Bipartisanship requires governing from the center and cannot be expected unless
each party reaches out to the other with compromises. Obama will face challenges
from the left wing  of his party.

Also, Obama would be well advised to review the stimulus bill line by line.  He
could immediately identify  those items not consistent with his objectives of
creating jobs in quick, temporary and effective ways.

Donald L. Nordeen

Gaylord, Mich.

Immigration effect

While I appreciate the information regarding the Justice Department's report on
the rise of gang-related crime in the USA, the article's emphasis on the
correlation between gang activity and immigration seems unjustified and
irresponsible  ("FBI: Burgeoning gangs rival foreign drug cartels," News,
Friday).

The article failed to mention that studies have indicated that over the past
decade, violent crimes have decreased while immigration has increased. Focusing
on a possible link between the rise of gang-related crime and immigration
patterns seems premature and lacks the empirical data to indicate a definitive
connection. Instead of providing inferences, let's just stick to the facts.

Douglas Miller

Louisville

Cut mail delivery

The postmaster general has suggested that mail delivery might be reduced from
six days a week to five ("Post office asks to cut its six-day delivery," News,
Thursday).

I have long said that, with the widespread use of e-mail, we should receive mail
every other day, or three times per week. That way, the U.S. Postal Service
could significantly cut the cost of mail carriers, equipment and fuel.

Bob Frick

Auburn Hills, Mich.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              273 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          February 11, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Revisiting immigration ordinances;
Some places cite cost of enforcing and defending, and negative publicity

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 728 words


Some states, cities and counties that plunged into the immigration debate are
having second thoughts.

In Texas, Alabama and elsewhere, lawmakers have repealed or modified measures
that cracked down on illegal immigrants or made English the official language.
In Iowa and Utah, legislators are proposing similar reversals.

They cite various reasons, including the time and expense of fighting legal
challenges, the cost of implementing the measures while tightening their budgets
and the barrage of publicity and accusations of racism that come with such laws.

"For us to spend our time pitting neighbor against neighbor was a sacrilege,"
says Judith Camp, a city councilwoman in Oak Point, Texas, about 35 miles north
of Dallas, who voted to kill the city's English-only resolution in December. The
measure, adopted in 2007 on a 3-2 vote, was rescinded on a 3-2 vote. "We're just
a tiny little city, and we were getting a lot of negative publicity."

Muzaffar Chishti of the Migration Policy Institute, which analyzes immigration
trends and policies, says some states and communities are "taking a more
skeptical view" of immigration laws because of the legal costs and attention.

Most state and local laws that passed as federal immigration efforts failed
remain in place, and some places have mounted expensive campaigns to keep them.
Farmers Branch, Texas, has steadfastly defended its ordinances despite legal
challenges and protests.

Chishti nonetheless expects more lawmakers to reconsider. "The cost of enforcing
and defending these ordinances is enormous," he says. "The appetite for these
things is going down."

Rob Toonkel, spokesman for U.S. English, a group that wants to make English the
official language of the United States, counters that English-only proposals
remain popular. Thirty states have such laws, he says, and there are far more
states and communities proposing new laws than attempting to repeal them.

"The momentum is still on the side of assimilation," he says.

In Iowa, Democratic state Rep. Bruce Hunter wants to repeal a law that makes
English the state's official language and requires most government documents to
be in English. "It's really sent out the wrong message about the state of Iowa,"
he says.

The Madison County (Ala.)  Commission last August toned down a policy that
requires businesses bidding for contracts to sign a pledge saying they don't
knowingly employ illegal immigrants. The change was part of a settlement with a
company that was late in submitting the pledge and did not win the contract. The
new pledge no longer says county officials can inspect contractors' personnel
records.

"I would prefer it to be much stronger," says Commissioner Mo Brooks, author of
the original policy. After studying legal opinions and federal law, though, the
commission had no other choice, he says.

In Utah, two legislators, one from each party, have proposed delaying
implementation of a law set to take effect in July. The bill's provisions
include a requirement that government agencies check the legal status of new
hires against a federal database.

Republican state Rep. Stephen Clark, author of one proposal, wants to delay the
bill for a year to study the economic impact of illegal immigrants on the state.

Gov. Jon Huntsman,  a Republican, supports a delay, spokeswoman Lisa Roskelley
says.

"We are in the process of making major cuts all across the board in government,
including public education," says Clark, who puts the cost of implementing the
immigration law at $1.7 million. "We believe now is not the time to invest that
money into this issue, especially when we don't know whether illegal immigration
is a financial plus or minus to the state."

In Farmers Branch, legal bills haven't kept the city from sticking with its
immigration law. Farmers Branch has spent $1.6 million so far to fight lawsuits
challenging its effort to prevent illegal immigrants from renting apartments and
houses, says finance director Charles Cox. In one case, it will have to pay up
to $900,000 in plaintiffs' legal fees.

The $1.6 million represents 1.5% to 2% of the city's budget, but residents
approved one of its ordinances with more than two-thirds of the vote and want
lawmakers to fight, Cox says.

"We can certainly find other uses for the money," he says. "By the same token,
the residents have made their voices heard that this is a priority."

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Rogelio V. Solis, AP
PHOTO, B/W, File photo by Brian Harkin, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              274 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 13, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Angel Island center for immigrants reopens

BYLINE: Rebecca Heslin

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 291 words


After a decades-long campaign to memorialize Angel Island -- Ellis Island's West
Coast counterpart -- the immigration processing center in the San Francisco Bay
reopens to the public Sunday.

During a dark period in American history from 1910 to 1940, 1 million Chinese
immigrants were greeted on Angel Island with aggressive questioning and racism
as a consequence of the Chinese Exclusion Act.

Angel Island closed in 2005 for vast refurbishment after being nearly demolished
in 1970. The first phase will allow visitors to tour the crowded barracks that
housed immigrants for weeks and even years and the interrogation rooms in the
immigration station.

Guided tours cost $7 for adults and $5 for children. Visit aiisf.org or call
415-435-3522 for more information.

-- Rebecca Heslin

Happy 150th birthday, Oregon

Oregon turns the big one-five-oh on Saturday, but the birthday festivities will
last all year. To toast its sesquicentennial in style, the nation's 33rd state
kicks things off this weekend with fetes and galas across the state.

Throughout May, visit a state park to help remove invasive weeds during the
Oregon State Parks Take Care of Oregon Days. Gold Hill celebrates Gold Dust Day
in June with a parade, craft booths, gold panning and horse-drawn wagon rides.
July celebrates art with the Salem Art Association's 60th annual Art Fair
Festival in the capital city. From the end of August through the middle of
October, Oregon's quilting heritage is celebrated at the Benton County
Historical Museum. In September, the Oregon Territorial Express Stagecoach Run
gives people a chance to take a train through five counties in five days to the
end of the Oregon Trail.

For more information, visit the Oregon Tourism Commission at oregon150.com.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Justin Sullivan, Getty Images
PHOTO, Color, Don Ryan, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              275 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 27, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'Crossing Over': Looks like we've been here before

BYLINE: Claudia Puig

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 10D

LENGTH: 418 words


Crossing Over has hurtled into Crash territory, and the smash-up is not a happy
collision.

In its tale of immigrants seeking citizenship and pursuing the American dream in
Los Angeles, Crossing Over brings to mind that 2005 film,  and its interweaving
tales have a whiff of 2006's Babel. But  Crossing Over doesn't come close to the
power and emotional resonance of either.

While Crash's intertwined story lines went in unexpected directions and Babel
packed an emotional wallop, much of what occurs in Crossing Over is predictable
and leaves the viewer unmoved.

Immigration is a worthy topic, but  writer/director Wayne Kramer doesn't add any
insight. Instead, he offers a collection of characters who feel more like types
than real people and a story filled with coincidences. It would work much better
with about half as many plotlines.

Harrison Ford anchors the cast as a Max, a police officer who handles
immigration and customs enforcement. Though his role is intended to be heroic,
we don't learn anything about Max beyond his pangs of conscience as he rounds up
undocumented workers. His growing distaste for the raids pushes him in
directions that are hard to swallow.

A couple of especially unconvincing scenarios involve Hamid (Cliff Curtis),
Ford's Iranian-American partner on the immigration beat. He's in a convenience
store when an Asian gang bursts in to rob the place. Though he stops much of the
crime with force, Hamid chooses to negotiate with a robber and jeopardizes his
career. "I think you made a mistake and you will not make a mistake like this
again," he assures the thug. The exchange is supposed to highlight his empathy,
but it feels hollow.

Other plot strands: a British musician (Jim Sturgess) seeking citizenship and an
Aussie actress (Alice Eve) who strikes a deal with an immigrations official (Ray
Liotta) who takes advantage of her.

The performances are often strong. Lesser-known actors such as Curtis, Sturgess
and Summer Bishil (Towelhead) come across better than such veterans as Ford and
Liotta. But nearly all characters are underdeveloped.

There is undoubtedly a good movie in the varied experiences of  American
newcomers. But it would need to involve  sagas more urgent and more original.

Crossing Over

Stars: Harrison Ford, Ashley Judd,

Cliff Curtis, Jim Sturgess, Summer Bishil

Director: Wayne Kramer

Distributor: The Weinstein Co.

Rating: R for pervasive language, some strong violence and sexuality/nudity

Running time: 1 hour, 53 minutes

Opens today in New York

and Los Angeles

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, The Weinstein Co.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              276 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 13, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ICE needs to upgrade care for detainees

BYLINE: Raul Reyes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 406 words


Hiu Lui Ng arrived in New York City as a teenager in 1992. He went on to become
a computer engineer, got married and started a family. He also overstayed his
visa. Because his wife is a U.S. citizen, he applied to legalize his status.
Unbeknownst to Ng, he had been ordered deported to Hong Kong. When he went to
interview for a green card, he was sent to immigration detention, where he died
last summer.

On Jan. 15, Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials issued a report of
Ng's death at the Wyatt Detention Facility in Rhode Island. ICE found that Ng
had died of untreated cancer and a fractured spine. His requests for an outside
medical evaluation had been repeatedly denied. ICE has since removed all
detainees from that facility.

ICE opened its inquiry into Ng's death shortly after The New York Times
conducted its own investigation. The Times also reported about Boubacar Bah.
After the 52-year-old from Guinea fell and injured his head at a New Jersey
jail, guards placed him in solitary confinement for hours. He passed into a coma
and later died.

These two cases are  indicative of ICE's challenge. The agency estimates that
about 375,000 people spent time in custody in the more than 350 facilities used
nationwide to house detainees.  Though ICE has standards for detainee care, they
are not being enforced. Studies by the  Government Accountability Office and
Homeland Security have found repeated violations.

Last year, as Congress debated a bill to regulate the delivery of health care to
detainees, ICE revealed a list of 66 immigrants who died in custody from January
2004 to November 2007. Given the scope of ICE operations, this might be a
statistically normal death rate. But because ICE revealed little but the names,
it is impossible to know the stories behind the deaths. Meanwhile, the potential
for abuse continues. Last month, ICE stopped placing detainees at Virginia's
Piedmont Regional Jail because a detainee died.

Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano should charge ICE with ensuring
that detainees receive proper medical and emergency care. Some provisions are in
place, but she should ensure they are enforced. She should also create an
appeals process that includes public reports on detainee deaths. Protecting the
well-being of detainees should not be a political issue, but a matter of basic
decency.

Raul Reyes is an attorney in New York and a member of USA TODAY's board of
contributors.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              277 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 20, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'Sin Nombre': An epic look at immigrant experience

BYLINE: Claudia Puig

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 12D

LENGTH: 360 words


Sin Nombre is a powerful, wrenching  thriller that weaves together several
absorbing stories set in Central America. It also is the most moving and
well-told saga of Latin American immigrants bound for the USA since 1983's El
Norte.

First-time filmmaker Cary Joji Fukunaga spent time riding cargo trains in
Central America to research the film he wrote and directed.

His efforts paid off. The film has a documentary-style realism about it and a
haunting sense of the gauntlet faced by migrants, as well as the far-reaching
implications of gang violence.

That this is Fukunaga's first film is astonishing, given its sharp script,
technical proficiency and suspenseful pacing. The ensemble cast is top-notch.

Casper (Edgar Flores) is a teen in Tapachula, Chiapas, a Mexican state near the
Guatemalan border. He's a member of a gang, the Mara Salvatrucha Brotherhood,
and is in love with a local girl, Marta Marlene (Diana Garcia), who is not in
the gang life.

Casper is put in charge of recruiting a young gang member, Smiley (Kristyan
Ferrer), who is ordered to kill a rival by his gang's vicious leader Lil' Mago
(a scary Tenoch Huerta Mejia).

As Smiley adapts to gang life, Casper grapples with doubts and a desire to
protect his girlfriend.

Meanwhile, Sayra (Paulina Gaitan), a Honduran teen, forges a reunion with her
estranged father. The pair, joined by her uncle, are bound for New Jersey and
her father's new family.

The trek, which entails hopping freight trains and sleeping in ditches, collides
with the lawlessness of Lil' Mago, Casper and Smiley. The course of their
entwined lives is fascinating, sometimes tragic and always unpredictable.

Sin Nombre, in Spanish with English subtitles, is an epic and edge-of-the-seat
thriller. The film's lyrical ending, with a teary smile on Sayra's young face,
is understated and moving, adding redemption and hope to an intense tale of
brutality, cruel misfortune and unexpected courage.

Sin Nombre

****

-- Stars: Edgar Flores, Paulina Gaitan, Tenoch Huerta Mejia, Kristyan Ferrer

-- Director: Cary Fukunaga

-- Distributor: Focus Features

-- Rating: Unrated

-- Running time: 1 hour, 37 minutes

-- Opens today in select cities

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Eniac Martinez, Focus Features

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              278 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 17, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Ponzi schemes date back to a tricky guy in the '20s

BYLINE: Kevin McCoy

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 271 words


What are Ponzi schemes?

They're an illegal investment named after Charles Ponzi, an Italian immigrant
who settled in Boston and duped thousands of New Englanders and others in a
postage stamp speculation investment during the 1920s.

According to the Securities and Exchange Commission, Ponzi said he made large
profits by taking advantage of fluctuations in differences between U.S. and
foreign currencies used to buy and sell international mail stamps.

He raised millions of dollars from investors after claiming he could produce a
40% investment return within 90 days, far higher than the average 5% interest
banks offered at the time for savings accounts.

As money poured in, Ponzi used funds from new customers to pay those who
invested earlier. He ultimately took in an estimated $15 million.

But the investment stream dried up as governments stopped paying cash for
surrendered stamps shortly after Ponzi began his infamous scheme. He was never
able to pay more than a fraction of the promised returns.

Investors, hearing rumors that Ponzi had gone bankrupt, sought their money back.
The redemption demands caused the scam to collapse.

The scams are also  known as pyramid schemes, based on the geometric shape of a
system in which money from large numbers of new investors at the base is
funneled upward to smaller numbers who invested earlier.

Typically, pyramid scheme investors are offered too-good-to-be-true returns for
simply investing their money and convincing others to do the same.

But the schemes ultimately grow too large, promoters can't attract enough new
investors to pay all the earlier ones, and the scams collapse.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              279 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 12, 2009 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Congratulations, graduate. Now leave the USA.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 532 words


Around this time each year, thousands of foreign students graduate with science
and engineering degrees from U.S. universities. Many are eager to stay in
America and contribute to the U.S. economy.

So does the United States welcome them with open arms? No, the government tells
thousands of them to hit the road -- and take their sought-after skills and
brainpower to countries and companies that compete with the USA.

Talk about a self-defeating immigration policy.

Mind you, these immigrants are not seeking to sneak across the border and stay
here illegally. They are educated students, many with professional or masters'
degrees or doctorates, who want to play by the rules. U.S. companies want to
hire them. But they get painted with the same broad anti-immigration brush that
Congress has used to make the nation's legal immigration system a morass of
quotas, caps and unconscionable waits.

For years, Congress has limited the number of highly skilled foreign workers
whom U.S. companies can hire under what's known as the H-1B program. Every April
1, companies -- from high-tech to financial firms -- file petitions to hire
these individuals.

In recent years, the cap of 85,000 (including 20,000 set aside for those with
advanced degrees from U.S. institutions) has been reached within days, sometimes
the first day. Last year, about 78,000 of the best and brightest didn't make the
cut.

High-tech companies, such as Microsoft and Oracle, have long lobbied to
eliminate this counterproductive system. This month, they gained a powerful
ally, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke.

"Our immigration laws discriminate pretty heavily against highly talented
scientists and engineers who want to come to this country and be part of our
technological establishment," Bernanke told a congressional panel. By opening
doors to more people with top technical skills, he predicted, "you'd keep
companies here, and you'd have more innovation here, and you'd have more growth
here."

Instead, Congress has been moved by labor leaders and others who argue that
foreign workers take jobs from Americans, work for lower salaries and push down
wages. These arguments sidestep a number of facts, including the nature of the
free market.

In some U.S. graduate programs, foreign students simply outnumber Americans. In
2006, more than 58% of graduate students in computer sciences were foreign, and
so were more than 68% in electrical engineering, according to the National
Science Foundation. To shun them is to ignore a huge resource.

When companies can't hire the talent they need at home, they go elsewhere. In
2007, Microsoft, for one, expanded from its home in Redmond, Wash., into
Vancouver and did its hiring in Canada.

Because of the recession, this is the first spring in years that visas haven't
been snapped up at a breakneck pace. Even in this tough year, though, 45,000 are
already gone.

The respite marks a good time for Congress to reassess and make the system
flexible enough to meet employer needs. The current policy makes no sense. It
turns away talent educated at top universities, often subsidized by U.S.
taxpayers, at the very moment the nation needs all the smarts and innovation it
can muster.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Alejandro Gonzalez, USA TODAY, Source: Citizenship and
Immigration Services (Bar graph)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              280 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Immigration files paint big picture;
Files offer look at individual plights and a hidden history of America

BYLINE: Andrea Stone

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 460 words


WASHINGTON -- The federal government is opening the immigration files of
millions of refugees, war brides, "enemy aliens" and other foreign nationals in
the USA in the first half of the 20th century.

A gold mine for historians, genealogists, scholars and descendants, the files
include private details on such public figures as Spanish artist Salvador Dali
as well as family heirlooms confiscated from Chinese laborers.

"Individually, these files represent the story of just one immigrant," says
Gregory Smith of the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service, "but as a
collection, they document the story of American immigration ... with its many
wonders and its many blemishes."

The immigration service signed an agreement Wednesday to transfer at least 21
million files to National Archives facilities near San Francisco and Kansas
City. A searchable index is at www.uscis.gov/genealogy.

The files were compiled under the Alien Registration Act of 1940. They include
photos, visa applications, birth certificates, personal letters and transcripts
of interrogations of celebrities and unknowns.

Documents in Guerino DeMarco's creased brown file show the gardener was arrested
in 1942 and held for three months at New York's Ellis Island after visiting his
mother in Italy.

Another Italian, Raffaele Annunziata, registered when he arrived from Salerno in
1948. Like others, he certified that he and his kin were not "idiots,"
"imbeciles," "feeble-minded" or "insane," and that he was not a "professional
beggar" or "anarchist."

French crooner Maurice Chevalier, a 1930s Hollywood star who spent World War II
in Europe, applied for re-entry in 1949. He wrote that he would live with his
son on a farm in Alabama. The application apparently was turned down. The actor
did not return until the mid-1950s, after suspicions that he collaborated with
the Nazis and later harbored communist sympathies had dissipated.

Dali lived in the USA during World War II. His thick file contains many forms he
filled out over the years. The surrealist artist, best known for the melting
timepieces in his painting The Persistence of Memory, apparently couldn't
remember his height. Various documents list him as 5 feet 4 inches tall, 5-7,
5-8 and 5-10.

A bad memory could mean deportation for thousands under the Chinese Exclusion
Act of 1882, the nation's first race-based immigration law. For 60 years, strict
quotas forced Chinese immigrants to endure lengthy interrogations. Some came
under false identities as "paper sons" of Chinese Americans.

Jennie Lew, a San Francisco documentary maker whose father claimed such kinship,
says the files and artifacts, once "a source of fear and torment," hold special
meaning.

"This opens an important and hidden chapter in our history," Lew says.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Truth Leem, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              281 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 16, 2009 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Ellis Island's history -- and ours;
Immigrant experience fills 'American Passage'

BYLINE: Craig Wilson

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 397 words


Over the years Ellis Island has grown to 27 acres from its original three, yet
it still remains a mere dot in New York Harbor. Its small size, however, belies
the huge role it has played in American history.

Some 12 million immigrants passed through its gates from 1892 to 1924, the
greatest mass migration of people the world had ever seen. So, yes, more than a
few stories lurk out there in the harbor mist.

American Passage: The History of Ellis Island is being billed as the first
complete history of the famous island. At almost 500 pages -- 75 of them
footnotes -- the claim should be taken seriously.

Historian Vincent Cannato appears to have overlooked nothing in telling the tale
of the historic island, now a national monument, and 16 pages of black-and-white
photos bring his research to life.

But he concedes in his acknowledgments that he wanted the book's subtitle to be
"A" history of the island and not "The" history.

"No one story encapsulates the Ellis Island experience; there are literally
millions," writes Cannato, a history professor at the University of
Massachusetts-Boston. "For most immigrants, Ellis Island was a gateway to a new
life in America. It was an integral part of their American passage."

Cannato's research takes us from the island's early days of hosting pirate
hangings to its rebirth as a national park in 1986. The good news is that
Cannato is not only a meticulous researcher and historian, he's also a lively
storyteller. A rare combination.

The best thing about American Passage isn't so much the now-cliched history
lesson and timeline, albeit interesting, but the people who move the story
along: the politicians, the WASP elite, the social reformers and the immigrants
themselves, anarchist Emma Goldman being one of the most fascinating. She called
Ellis Island "the worst dump I have ever stayed in."

There's even a morality play -- literally. Vera, the Countess of Cathcart, was
detained at Ellis Island because she was divorced and an "adulterer." So she did
what anyone who calls herself a playwright would do. She wrote a play about her
situation. (She got in, by the way, but the play got panned.)

There are hundreds of stories like Vera's and Emma's here. Some of them
uplifting. Some of them heart-wrenching. All of them quintessentially American.

American Passage:

The History of Ellis Island

By Vincent J. Cannato

Harper, 419 pp., $27.99

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Library of Congress
PHOTO, B/W

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              282 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 16, 2009 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

For immigrants, living the dream is getting tougher;
Business failures may 'have an effect for generations'

BYLINE: Judy Keen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1515 words


CHICAGO -- Raudel Sanchez's American dream was so strong that he tied a few
possessions around his waist in 1967 and swam across the Rio Grande into Texas.

"I wanted to make a better life in America," says Sanchez, 63. "My dream was
bringing my family here and working together."

Sanchez, now a U.S. citizen, joined a brother in Chicago after crossing the
border near Laredo, Texas. He worked as a butcher, making $1.85 an hour, and
took a second job at a candy factory. He often worked 14 hours a day. He saved
his earnings and eventually brought his wife, siblings and parents -- who are
now in their 90s -- to Chicago.

Eventually, he opened several small businesses and built a comfortable life for
himself and his family. But now, the recession has hit him hard. He has sold one
of his three clothing stores and a restaurant, resulting in layoffs of several
immigrant workers. He's considering selling a second store.

Sanchez's story reflects how immigrant-owned businesses -- a key part of the
U.S. economy -- are being threatened by the recession. About 1.5 million
immigrants own U.S. businesses, according to a study for the Small Business
Administration by Rob Fairlie, an economics professor at the University of
California-Santa Cruz. He found that immigrants are 30% more likely to start a
business than non-immigrants. They account for 11.6% of all U.S. business
income.

Many immigrants started with nothing and built businesses that support them and
their extended families and communities.

They epitomize the American dream: Work hard and you can build a good life.

With customers spending less and banks less willing to loan money, some
immigrant entrepreneurs are wondering whether that's still true.

A few years after arriving here, Sanchez bought a foreclosed house, then three
more. He sold two of them in 1985 and used the money to open Sanchez Bros.
Western Wear, a clothing store. He expanded to two more stores in the suburbs,
bought a restaurant and started a record label for Mexican music.

He tried to run his businesses cautiously: He paid cash for merchandise and
didn't use his line of credit at the bank. When people stopped buying $1,000
cowboy boots, he stocked $400 pairs.

Now they aren't selling, even on sale. "Every year we've seen a decline" in
sales, he says.

Besides selling two of his businesses, Sanchez has stopped advertising. He laid
off most employees, and now family members are behind the counters.

The record label is down to its last two acts. "I had a meeting with my family
and told them we've got to work more and more hard," he says.

Sanchez believes his seven children and nine grandchildren will build successful
lives here. He's sure the economy will rebound.

"Maybe next year," he says. Still, he's wondering about his future at a time
when he should be planning retirement.

"I still believe in this dream I had many years ago," he says. "The only thing
is, you have to work hard."

'We just couldn't hang on'

Niall Freyne's dream was snatched away by the recession.

Freyne, an Irish immigrant, closed Galway Tribes Irish Pub last month after
lunch and weeknight business dwindled along with his customers' confidence in
the economy.

"We just couldn't hang on," says Freyne, 43, who opened the restaurant in 2005
in suburban Frankfort, Ill. "We've already lost so much: all of our life
savings, all of the equity in our home."

Freyne wrote a letter to President Obama asking why small businesses like his
can't get a federal bailout -- he says he got no reply -- and he held out hope
until the last minute that some generous millionaire would rescue him. That
didn't happen either, and now Freyne isn't sure how he'll support his wife,
Dorothy, and son James, who is 6, or what will become of his 42 employees.

"I feel like I've let everybody down," he says. "I can't control the economy,
and that's what killed me."

People who leave their countries to pursue success in the USA often are
risk-takers who are optimistic and willing to work especially hard to build
successful futures for their children and grandchildren, says Allert Brown-Gort,
associate director of the Institute for Latino Studies at the University of
Notre Dame.

In difficult economic times, "immigrants are much more likely to battle it out
for longer," he says, in part because they realize that "success or failure is
really on them, and this is going to have an effect for generations to come."

Because immigrant business owners -- particularly those who operate stores or
restaurants -- often depend on their own communities, they can be "more
vulnerable in these downturns," says Gregory DeFreitas, an economist at Hofstra
University.

For the same reason, recovery will come more slowly to immigrant businesses, he
says.

Entire family invested

Susan Patel inherited her American dream from her father, Tulsi, and uncle
Mafat, immigrants from India who founded Patel Brothers, a national chain of 41
Indian grocery stores.

Last year, Susan Patel bought Patel Brothers Handicrafts & Utensils, a small
Chicago shop that sells kitchen items and Hindu statues and temples, from her
father. Since then, she has watched several of the Indian and Pakistani
businesses that line Devon Avenue close and stopped paying herself a salary to
avoid laying off her two employees.

"We've all had to adjust," says Patel, 33, but she's confident she can survive
the recession. She feels obliged to keep her store open to help the neighborhood
get through the recession. "If I close, customers may not come to this area at
all," she says.

Patel's uncle came here from Bhandu, a rural Indian village, in the late 1960s.
Her parents, Tulsi and Aruna, followed in 1971. Everyone shared a house, and
Patel's parents worked in factories.

"They saved their money so they could have the American dream," she says. In
1974, they bought a small grocery. More relatives emigrated from India to join
the growing throng in the Patel home, Patel says, and more stores and a line of
Indian food followed. The family bought restaurants, travel agencies and
real-estate companies, and the two brothers' children work in them.

Patel believes immigrant-owned businesses are more likely to make it through the
recession because owners often invest their life savings -- and their lives --
in them. "Everyone works all the time," she says. "At the dinner table, all we
talked about was business. It's all we knew."

Patel's goals are identical to those that led her parents to risk everything and
come here: "just to make it, to be a success."

Confident in the economy

It will take more than a recession to threaten the dreams of many immigrant
business owners who left their homelands because of political turmoil.

Christos Koskiniotis, 46, and his mother, Panayiota Koskiniotis, 67, own Four
Seasons Cleaners. They came here in the 1970s from Greece after government coups
forced his late father to close the cafes he owned.

The dry-cleaning business is stable for now, Christos Koskiniotis says. His mom
is unfazed because she has "seen everything in her life," he says.

Their confidence in their plan for a better life in the USA is unwavering. "For
the long term, this is the best place to be," he says. "You're going to hit
rough spots no matter where you're at. ... I don't think the American dream is
ever going to die. To think that would be like giving up on hope."

Dana Kapacinskas, 48, moved here from Kounas, Lithuania, in 1979, during the
country's occupation by the Soviet Union. The dream that propelled her family
was simple: "Freedom. At that time in the Soviet Union, you couldn't move, you
couldn't go anywhere. They would follow you," she says.

The family started a bakery/deli here that grew over time. Racine Bakery now has
more than 25 employees and distributes its baked goods to area supermarkets.
Business hasn't been affected much by the recession, Kapacinskas says, "maybe
because it's comfort food. ... People still have to eat."

Things are going well enough that the bakery donates food to area churches,
schools and non-profit groups. Kapacinskas says she, her parents and brother
were motivated to improve their lives and demonstrate to people in their new
country that they were willing to work hard.

"I was very eager and I had good work ethic and I saw the opportunities," she
says. "We left our friends and missed our family, but the freedom and the
opportunities were unlimited."

That's what Freyne thought, too. He opened Galway Tribes after working at hotels
and restaurants in Ireland and the USA. He bought the land and built the place,
furnishing it with items imported from Ireland.

"We were making it. We were fine, and then about a year ago the economy started
going down a bit and people stopped coming out during the week," Freyne says.
Then a new assessment a few months ago pushed his property taxes beyond what he
could afford. "We just couldn't survive on weekends alone," he says.

Freyne wants to believe that his American dream can somehow be revived when the
economy improves.

"You can't know when that will happen," he says. "I put my blood, sweat and
tears in this place. It's a sad story."

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: 2008 study by Rob
Fairlie, Univ. of California-Santa Cruz, for the U.S. Small Business
Administration (Bar graph)
PHOTO, Color, Garrett Hubbard, USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Garrett Hubbard, USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Brett T. Roseman for USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              283 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            July 22, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Report: Fewer Mexicans entering U.S.

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 387 words


The number of Mexicans moving to the USA has dropped sharply since the middle of
the decade, according to a new report by the Pew Hispanic Center.

Figures from various sources, including the Census Bureau, show that 30% to 50%
fewer Mexicans came here -- legally or illegally -- in 2008 compared with 2006,
says Jeffrey Passel, a senior demographer at the non-partisan research center,
who is a co-author of the study.

At the same time, there's no evidence that more Mexicans here are going home,
despite anecdotal reports of reverse migration, he says.

About 11.5 million people born in Mexico call the USA home. They account for
one-third of all foreign-born residents and two-thirds of foreign-born
Hispanics, the report says.

"People in Mexico are very aware that there's an economic crisis in the U.S. and
that there are far fewer jobs," says David Fitzgerald, associate director of the
Center for Comparative Immigration Studies at the University of California-San
Diego.

In January, he interviewed people in the Mexican town of Tunkas. "Most people in
the last year or so have put off their plans to migrate to the U.S.," he says.

U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officials attribute the falling numbers
to tougher border enforcement. The number of Border Patrol agents has ballooned
to about 19,000 now from 9,800 in late 2002.

"Our smart enforcement is deterring people from coming in," says CBP spokesman
Steven Cribby.

Last year, 653,035 of the 705,005 people caught breaching the southern border
were Mexican, he says.

The study cites Border Patrol statistics that show fewer people being caught
entering the USA illegally, which the agency says reflects fewer people trying.
It also uses the Census Bureau's Current Population Survey and Mexican
government surveys.

"If there are jobs available for the Mexican immigrants, they'll come," Passel
says. "If not, it doesn't make sense for them to risk crossing and the expense
of crossing."

From March 2008 to March 2009, 175,000 Mexicans came to the USA, the lowest
point this decade, Census Bureau figures show. In 2006-2007, about 287,000 came.

Mexicans here told Fitzgerald they're trying to weather the recession, spending
less money and sending less home.

Mexico's economy is worse than the U.S. economy, he says. "There are very few
jobs in Mexico to return to."

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: Pew Hispanic Center
analysis of Census Bureau data (Line graph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              284 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 5, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'We will always live' with terror threat;
Homeland Security chief on immigration, Gitmo, an improved FEMA and the expected
fall flu outbreak

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 1367 words


A quick scan of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security website provides a
sense of the broad and daunting tasks for which the department is responsible:
"Counterterrorism," "Border Security," "Preparedness, Response, Recovery," and
"Immigration." Though eight years removed from the 9/11 attacks, terrorism is
still front and center. Four years ago, Hurricane Katrina exposed weaknesses in
this country's disaster preparedness planning.  And though the furor over
illegal immigration has subsided a bit, border security and immigration reform
are evergreen issues. Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, the former
governor of Arizona,  sat down with USA TODAY's editorial board to discuss these
and other topics. Her comments were edited for length and clarity.

Question: It is striking how attitudes have changed since 9/11.  Do you perceive
a reduced sense of urgency about the terrorist threat?

Answer: When I was serving as a governor, I thought I knew a lot about homeland
security from the terrorism aspect. Now that I'm serving as the secretary, I
know that there was much I did not know. I've come to the conclusion that we
will always live in a terrorist threat environment, that it is al-Qaeda, but it
is other groups and wannabes as well, that the environment is constantly
changing, and that it is something that we just have to be prepared to live
with. We need to be in a state of preparation and readiness -- not a state of
fear. We need to do all we can to mitigate the risk. But that means individuals
undergo a certain amount of inconvenience at times.

Q: After 9/11 there were a flurry of stories about our vulnerabilities,
particularly on infrastructure around the country.  Would they still be true
today?

A: Many of the things we have done would prevent all but a couple of the 9/11
terrorists from even being able to get into the country.  In many areas there's
a lot more protection than there was previously.

Q: Where do you see the primary risk now?

A: I don't rank them. This is not preseason NFL football where you rank who's
going to be top of the division. We need to be prepared for all kinds of
realistic risks. We know, for example, that there are risks associated with the
transportation sector. We know that certain parts of the country have greater
risks than other parts. So  we're trying to emphasize  this notion of shared
responsibility. Everybody has some responsibility for themselves, their family,
communities, state, local, tribal, territorial -- shared responsibility among
all our federal agencies and then with our international partners.

Q: Will there ever be a time when fliers can go through security with their
shoes on and with more than 3 ounces of shampoo?

A: Technology ultimately may provide the answer. But people take off their shoes
because there was a shoe bomber and because there's intel about others who would
use materials conveyed in shoes to get on an aircraft to do damage. But some
research is being done to see if there's a better way to scan, particularly with
respect to liquids.

Q: A study last week said the number of illegal immigrants in the country was
down by 1.7 million.  Do your numbers reflect the same decline, and if so, what
do you attribute that to?

A: We see a number of indicators of decline.  There's a decline in remittances
(money sent back to one's home country).  The number of apprehensions is down.
I would say it's a combination of these two things, the declining economy and
increased enforcement. Whenever I hear somebody say, "The border's out of
control!" I know that that's somebody who's just trying to gin people up
because, in reality, there is way more physical infrastructure, technology and
manpower down there than there ever was. So it is not the same border as it was
in the early '90s. It's changed remarkably, and it is very, very difficult to
cross illegally.

Q: As a former Arizona governor, how have you applied your knowledge of that
region to immigration and border enforcement?

A:  We have changed guidance on how we do work-site enforcement to really focus
on building cases against employers. If there were a new comprehensive law, one
of the things that the law needs to do is make it easier to actually bring a
case against an employer. A second is really focusing on how we do these 287(g)
agreements (federal and local law enforcement partnerships), which were kind of
all over the map when I came in office.  We are prioritizing, using training to
focus on jails and prisons so that you don't have people released  who are in
the country illegally. Instead, that immigration removal process actually begins
during their period of incarceration. A third change is we are reviewing the
detention system for immigration detainees. The preliminary parts of that review
will be done  in the next day or two.

Q: Is it possible to close Guantanamo Bay and move some prisoners to U.S. soil
in a way that does not raise concerns for Americans about their security?

A: Before we move any inmates to American soil, there would be a risk assessment
done about the safety of that. Under the Obama administration, that would be a
top priority.

Q: Given the other kinds of prisoners  held on U.S. soil, do you see any reason
why terrorist suspects would create  a special problem?

A: We hold terrorists in U.S. prisons. We hold serial killers in U.S. prisons.
We hold lots of really, really bad people who have been adjudicated in U.S.
prisons and, particularly in the federal system, in the maximum security
process. So  we need to  make sure that Americans are educated about that --
about who already is there, who was already removed from Gitmo to American soil
under the Bush administration. This is not totally new.

Q: The cyberterrorism threat seems to be growing. What is being done to protect
us?

A: We need to move cybersecurity from the 1.0 to the 3.0 quickly. We appointed a
deputy undersecretary for cyber. The direction I gave  him was: Hire the best
and brightest to bolster the cybersecurity center;  we needed more robust
interaction with the private sector because 85% of the critical infrastructure
is controlled by the private sector. We need to be doing more research -- or
contract  for more research -- to protect existing networks with the dot-org,
dot-gov, dot-com side of the cyberworld.

Q: The most spectacular failure of Homeland Security in the previous
administration was during Hurricane Katrina. What's your perception of the
quality of FEMA right now?

A: FEMA (Federal Emergency Management Agency) today is not the FEMA of Katrina.
It's much better prepared. There's still work to be done, but one of the things
I hope happens  over the next year is that I actually read a FEMA story that
doesn't have the word "Katrina" in it, because they've done significant work to
prepare, not just for hurricanes, but  to really  streamline some of their
internal processes.   We've done quite a bit there (in New Orleans) to get the
Katrina recovery going. One of the elements of education that I would like to
get done is that FEMA is not the first responder in emergencies --  the
individual is.

Q: One important subject we haven't touched on is flu. What are you expecting
for the fall flu season? Also, will a vaccine be ready in time, and will it have
to be rationed?

A:  It is highly likely that the flu will be back before any vaccine will be
available, because the earliest the vaccine is going to be available is in
mid-October. There will be prioritization on vaccine, and those decisions will
be made through the Department of Health and Human Services.

Q: Is Homeland Security the agency that will be thinking about what happens if
H1N1 outstrips even our most worrisome expectations?

A: You can speculate about a 1918-type situation, (but) the data suggest that we
will have an outbreak more similar to what happened in the '50s, or perhaps what
happened in 1968. I prefer that we educate  people about what we are more likely
to experience: a heavy outbreak in the fall that has a focus on  young people,
including college-age and pregnant women. Then, we will focus on what we need to
do to work our way through that, such as keeping schools open as much as
possible.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W, Photos by H. Darr Beiser, USA TODAY (3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              285 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 6, 2009 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'Snakehead': Eye-opener on smuggling, stolen lives

BYLINE: Don Oldenburg

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 8D

LENGTH: 401 words


On a June night in 1993, the cargo ship Golden Venture ran aground near Queens,
N.Y., while attempting to smuggle 286 Chinese immigrants into the USA. Ten died.
The survivors, malnourished, dehydrated and practically penniless, were arrested
and imprisoned.

Patrick Radden Keefe's new book, The Snakehead, begins with this shocking event,
which cracked the lid on a large-scale Chinese human-smuggling network and
became a crucible in the U.S. illegal-immigration crisis that continues today.

More an eye-opener than a page-turner, the book reads like the investigative
reporting it is. Keefe's straightforward, no-frills narrative reveals the hidden
world of Chinese "snakeheads"-- organized-crime bosses whose illicit operations
sneak undocumented Chinese immigrants into the USA. Experts estimate that in the
1980s and '90s, some 50,000 illegal Chinese immigrants entered the USA annually.

A contributor to The New Yorker, Slate and National Public Radio and author of
Chatter: Dispatches From the Secret World of Global Eavesdropping, Keefe tells
the engaging stories of Golden Venture passengers, the snakeheads who
transported them here, Chinatown gangsters who did the snakeheads' dirty work,
and federal agents who struggled for years to break the smuggling rings.

The book's central character is Cheng Chui Ping, the most successful snakehead
for nearly two decades. Operating from her variety store and restaurant in New
York City's Chinatown, "Sister Ping," as she was known, made loans to immigrants
and sold money transfers. But mostly she turned human suffering and the lure of
the American Dream into a multimillion-dollar empire smuggling thousands of
Chinese into the USA at $18,000 to $30,000 each. The Golden Venture tragedy
proved to be the beginning of Sister Ping's downfall.

Though Keefe intertwines stories and subplots into a compelling and informative
book, it reads long. Because the subject is largely unknown and foreign to most
readers, he interrupts its mystery-thriller story line with requisite but
sedating "backgrounders," often over-detailed, on topics such as the history of
Chinese immigration in America and  Chinatown's underground economy.

But overall, Keefe maintains a commendable fairness and objectivity reporting a
fascinating story.

The Snakehead: An Epic Tale of the Chinatown Underworld and the American Dream

-- By Patrick Radden Keefe

- Doubleday, 414 pp., $27.50

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W
PHOTO, B/W
PHOTO, B/W, Sai Srikandarajah

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              286 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 20, 2009 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

All's not fine in Sanchez's story of love and war

BYLINE: Bob Minzesheimer

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 263 words


Raul Ramos y Sanchez's provocative but flawed debut novel is set in the second
decade of the 21st century, when a severe recession pits Hispanics against
"mainstream workers in a game of economic musical chairs."

In San Antonio, the fatal police shooting of a young Latina bystander during a
drug bust triggers violent protests. Jittery National Guard troops end up
killing 23 people -- all within four pages.

Before long, Manolo Suarez, an unemployed mechanic, family man and Afghanistan
war vet, is caught up in a civil war, complete with government-run quarantine
zones and relocation camps for Hispanics.

Suarez is a hardworking, third-generation Mexican-American who speaks little
Spanish but is often mistaken for and dismissed as an immigrant.

He's radicalized by Josefina Herrera, a rich, intellectual rebel who "looks like
a movie star and is as smart as Henry Kissinger."

Amid a budding love triangle and the civil war, there are lessons about
stereotypes and a hidden, alternative history: The original illegal immigrants
in Texas came from Tennessee, back when Texas belonged to Mexico.

But the novel, first in a trilogy, isn't as disturbing as it should be. Ramos'
writing, initially self-published and revised here, is clunky. It reads like a
treatment for an action film.

Ramos, a Cuban immigrant who has had a successful career in advertising, is on
to something: the passions about immigration could make for compelling fiction.
But he needs to create more complex characters, not plot devices.

America Libre

By Raul Ramos y Sanchez

Grand Central, 384 pp., $13.99 paperback

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, BOOK COVER ART

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              287 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            September 4, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Tracking not efficient

BYLINE: Stewart Baker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 352 words


Should we fingerprint all foreigners as they leave the country?

I'm all for security, but stopping people as they leave won't keep terrorists
out of the country.

No, this proposal is about immigration enforcement, not security. Here's the
theory behind it: A lot of foreign visitors come here on a visa, then stay
illegally after the visa expires. If we made everyone check out, we'd know who
didn't leave. Then we could track them down.

Just one problem: We already do that.

Travelers coming into the country get a document that they must surrender when
they leave. Ninety percent of all visitors do exactly that. The other 10% fall
into two categories: people who leave without handing in the document and people
who overstay their visas. Right now, the list of that 10% is sent to immigration
enforcement agents, who track them down.

Of course, they don't have enough money or agents to track down everyone, so
they focus first on terrorism risks and criminals.

Would the exit proposal help the agents do their jobs? Sure. It would cut down
on the number of people who don't hand in their paperwork, so the records would
be a little more accurate and the agents would spend less time looking for
people who have already left the country.

But to make our records a little more accurate, we'd have to build barricades at
every outbound border crossing and make everyone stop to show ID and get
fingerprinted. We'd have to hire hundreds or thousands more border inspectors.
And the line to leave the country would be as long as the line to enter. It
would costs billions of dollars.

Right now, we spend about $50 million a year tracking overstayers. Why would we
spend billions to get savings in a program that small?

Maybe you think we should spend more to track overstayers. Me too. But why not
spend it directly on more enforcement agents -- instead of building a slightly
better record-keeping system that doesn't actually catch a single illegal
immigrant?

Stewart Baker, a partner with the law firm Steptoe & Johnson, was assistant
secretary for policy for the Homeland Security Department in the Bush
administration.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              288 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 21, 2009 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

World's talent opts to leave USA

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 448 words


More skilled immigrants are giving up their American dreams to pursue careers
back home, raising concerns that the U.S. may lose its competitive edge in
science, technology and other fields.

"What was a trickle has become a flood," says Duke University's Vivek Wadhwa,
who studies reverse immigration.

Wadhwa projects that in the next five years, 100,000 immigrants will go back to
India and 100,000 to China, countries that have had rapid economic growth.

"For the first time in American history, we are experiencing the brain drain
that other countries experienced," he says.

Suren Dutia, CEO of TiE Global, a worldwide network of professionals who promote
entrepreneurship, says the U.S. economy will suffer without these skilled
workers. "If the country is going to maintain the kind of economic well-being
that we've enjoyed for many years, that requires having these incredibly gifted
individuals who have been educated and trained by us," he says.

Wadhwa surveyed 1,203 Indian and Chinese immigrants who had worked or been
educated here before returning to their homelands and found the exodus has less
to do with the faltering U.S. economy than with other factors:

*Career opportunities. At NIIT, an information technology company based in New
Delhi, about 10% of managers in India are returnees, mostly from the U.S., says
CEO Vijay Thadani.

Most go into mid- to senior management and make "excellent employees," he says.
"They're Indian, so they understand India, and they have lived outside the
country."

China's government entices some skilled workers to return with incentives such
as financial assistance and housing, says Wang Baodong, spokesman for the
Chinese Embassy in Washington. "China needs a lot of well-trained personnel" in
fields such as finance and information technology, he says.

*Quality of life and family ties. People return to India to reconnect with their
families and culture, Dutia says. "They have a support system there, family and
friends."

Purchasing power is greater, he says, which allows returnees to afford more
luxuries than they did in the U.S. Dutia describes a complex of "magnificent
homes" in Bangalore. In the club room, there were "all these Americans and
Europeans and expats on the treadmills with iPhones, watching CNN and BBC," he
says. "Things have changed."

*Immigration delays. Multinational companies that belong to the American Council
on International Personnel tell Executive Director Lynn Shotwell that skilled
immigrants are discouraged by the immigration process, she says. Some can wait
up to a decade for permanent residency, she says. "They're frustrated with
having an uncertain immigration status," she says. "They're giving up."

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              289 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 22, 2009 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Dip reverses foreign-born trend;
Hard-hit areas see bigger drop in the share of U.S. population

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser and Paul Overberg

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 389 words


The share of the U.S. population composed of immigrants dropped slightly in
2008, reversing a 40-year trend that helped fuel the nation's explosive growth
and diversity.

The foreign-born dropped from 12.6% in 2007 to 12.5%, according to Census data
out Monday. The share had been rising every decade since 1970, when it hit a low
of 4.7%.

The dip is more pronounced in areas that have taken a big economic hit in the
recession, such as Los Angeles and Riverside in California and Phoenix. Areas
doing better, such as Houston and Dallas, did not experience as large a drop --
an indication that immigrant numbers could rise again as soon as the economy
rebounds.

"It's short-term, but it's a real marker in terms of immigration slowdown," says
William Frey, demographer at the Brookings Institution.

Since 2000, every state has shown growth in immigrant populations, he says. From
2007 to 2008, however, the share of the foreign-born dropped in 25 states and in
54 of the 102 largest metro areas.

Mexican immigrants, who held a significant share of jobs in the hard-hit
construction industry, showed the largest overall decline among the
foreign-born: down about 300,000 to 11.4 million.

Arrivals of undocumented workers "are way down," says Jeffrey Passel,
demographer at the Pew Hispanic Center.

The number of Indian immigrants, who tend to be more educated and skilled, rose
by about 100,000 to more than 1.6 million. "It's not like nobody wants to come
here anymore," Frey says.

Tucson resident Bruce Bueno, 54, has friends and family from Mexico, and he
knows several who are less likely to come to the USA than in previous years.

"A lot of immigrants are discouraged by the economy," he says. Facing the perils
of crossing the scorching Sonoran Desert to enter illegally may no longer be
worth it. "It's just too expensive," Bueno says. "Might as well just stay
there."

Research based on other Census surveys indicates that the foreign-born who are
leaving tend to be less-educated Hispanics ages 18 to 40, says Steven Camarota,
research director for the Center for Immigration Studies, a group that wants to
limit immigration.

"What that implies very strongly is that it's a significant decline in the
illegal population," he says, attributing the drop to stricter border
enforcement and a dismal job market.

Contributing: Jack Gillum in Tucson

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: Census Bureau (Line
graph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              290 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 24, 2009 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S. needs to streamline immigration for top talent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 362 words


Despite wars on two fronts, the need for a health care overhaul and a troubling
economy, the most worrisome news I've seen lately is from two USA TODAY articles
documenting the coming brain drain of the U.S. ("World's talent opts to leave
USA"  and "Opportunity behind skilled workers' exodus,"  News, Monday).

The USA is a bastion of innovation and progress not just because of our own
citizens' capabilities, but also because we're able to attract and keep the best
and smartest workers in the world.

The U.S. government should be bending over backward to streamline immigration
for highly skilled workers or those looking to enroll in our graduate programs,
or at the very least, increasing the immigration quotas for countries that tend
to send over high numbers of skilled workers.

With our public schools performing so poorly and a generation of American
workers entering the workforce without sufficient proficiency in math, the
sciences and engineering, the best short-run solution for this country is to
bring in the talent from the rest of the world.

If our government leaders fail to address this problem soon, the United States
will be at such a disadvantage that even health care reform and the rebounding
of the economy won't be able to fix it.

Carson Reeling

Lafayette, Ind.

Land of opportunity?

"Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free."
Is this still a possibility or just a nice thought? I found it interesting to
read that many skilled immigrants in managerial positions and so forth are
moving back to their native countries.

It seems as if America still consists, and always will, of every nationality.
Nonetheless, because the U.S. dollar is faltering, a person has  greater
purchasing power in another country, as Suren Dutia, leader of a network of
professionals, stated in your article "World's talent opts to leave USA."

As someone who wants to move abroad, I'm constantly amazed at how easy it seems
for citizens of the  European Union to live here in Los Angeles. But for those
of us wanting to emigrate to other countries, the hoops that you have to jump
through are enough to tire anyone out.

Rachel Erwin

Los Angeles

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Jeff A. Kowalsky for USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              291 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             October 2, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Major players in the Ponzi Playhouse;
Charles Ponzi: Had some great swampland for sale

BYLINE: John Waggoner

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 562 words


Some people are just born to scam, and Charles Ponzi was one of them.

Ponzi, an Italian immigrant born in 1882, had run afoul for forging checks in
Montreal and, later, smuggling immigrants into the U.S.

He hit his stride in 1919,  when he discovered a curious fact about the Postal
Service. If you sent a letter abroad, you could buy an international postal
reply coupon. The recipient of the letter could use the coupon to buy return
stamps in his own currency. In theory, you could exchange coupons bought in one
country for currency in another, making a profit.

In reality, international postal coupons were ridiculously difficult to trade,
and tough to profit from. But the concept made for a good story. Ponzi promised
investors a 50% return in 90 days, and eventually upped the ante to 100%. Orders
poured into his Boston office, and he took to carrying a gold-tipped cigarette
holder and driving about in a cream-colored Locomobile.

At its height in 1920, Ponzi's scheme was pulling in $250,000 a day,  or about
$2.7 million in today's dollars. The problem: Ponzi wasn't buying or trading any
international postal coupons. He was paying departing investors with money from
new investors. And, because investors were promised such huge returns, very few
were departing.

Ponzi's scheme began to attract the attention of reporters and bank regulators,
and in August 1920, it all collapsed, leaving investors with about 30 cents on
the dollar and causing the collapse of six local banks. Investigators found just
$30 of  postal coupons. Ponzi served three years in jail and, upon release, was
charged with additional crimes. He jumped bail and went to Florida, where he
sold real estate. He promised investors a 200% profit and, auditing showed,
managed to get 23 lots out of an acre. Many of those lots were underwater.

Ponzi was convicted of fraud in Florida, jumped bail again, and was recaptured
and sent to Massachusetts, where he served another seven years in jail.
Afterward, he was deported to Italy. He died penniless in Brazil.

Allen Stanford

CEO, Stanford Financial Group

The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has charged Stanford with fraud,
alleging that he and three of his companies, including an Antigua-based bank,
perpetrated an investment fraud scheme. He has denied allegations.

Estimated losses: $8 billion.

RaeJean  Bonham

CEO, World Plus, Alaska

In the early 1990s, she told investors her company would purchase frequent-flier
miles and turn them into discount airline tickets to be sold for profit. She was
convicted and sentenced to prison.

Estimated losses: $40 million.

Louis Jay "Lou" Pearlman

Founder Trans Continental Airlines Travel Services

Pearlman became famous in the 1990s for pushing pop music sensations Backstreet
Boys and 'N Sync into the public eye. But he had created a fictitious company
known as Trans Continental Airlines Travel Services in 1981 and sold shares in
it while trying to convince investors the scheme was legitimate by also creating
a fake accounting firm and fake German bank. He was convicted and sentenced to
prison.

Estimated losses: $300 million.

Gerald Payne

Minister, Greater Ministries International, Florida

Promised thousands of church members in the 1990s that he could double the
church's (actually non-existent) stake in precious metals. He was convicted and
sentenced to prison.

Estimated losses: $450 million.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, 1935 AP photo
PHOTO, B/W, Pat Sullivan, AP
PHOTO, B/W, John Raoux, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              292 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 9, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigrants prop up metro areas;
But recession puts skids on U.S. resettling

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 483 words


The recession has brought a nation built on moving from place to place to a
standstill not seen since World War II, but immigration continues in major
metropolitan areas, according to a report out today.

Despite a slowdown fueled by fewer jobs in construction and service industries,
immigrants are helping metro areas such as Chicago, Miami and New York make up
for the net loss of residents to other parts of the USA.

Los Angeles gained about 90,000 more immigrants, people from other countries,
than it lost from 2007 to 2008. The trend was reversed for residents leaving Los
Angeles for other parts of the state or the country: 115,000 more left than
moved in.

"The ups and downs of the economy don't affect immigrants as much," says
demographer William Frey, who wrote The Great American Migration Slowdown for
the Brookings Institution, a think tank. People who move within the USA "are
much more susceptible to the pushes and pulls of the housing market and job
market" than those coming from other nations.

This recession has marked a turning point in the nation's pattern of settlement
by greatly reducing long-distance moves.

"We've been a nation on the move ever since people settled here from Europe, and
we've been moving westward," Frey says. "All of a sudden, this stopped because
of external forces. People stopped moving for housing reasons. People stopped
moving for jobs reasons. The exurban growth stopped."

What's not clear is whether the itch to move will return when the economy
rebounds.

Scenarios abound, Frey says. Among them: Sun Belt areas that boomed because of
cheap housing -- from Las Vegas to Orlando -- may never boom again.
Suburbanization may slow as the environmentally conscious balk at living in big
homes on cheap farmland. Others believe Americans may just stop moving so much.

"Migration overall is going to slow just for the simple reason that the
population is getting older," says Joel Kotkin, a fellow at Chapman University
in Orange, Calif., and author of the upcoming book The Next 100 Million: America
in 2050. "People will be moving less for lots of reasons," Kotkin says.

Connections via the Internet and other media are available in the most isolated
places and will allow more people to work from home, he says, offering less
incentive to pull up roots.

Frey, however, believes Americans will return to their wanderlust to seek better
opportunities.

"As soon as this recession clears, you're going to go back to people moving
again," Frey says.

His research found:

*Migration to exurban counties -- far-flung places miles from central cities
where growth was driven by cheap land and cheap housing -- fell dramatically as
the housing bubble burst.

*Metro areas that experienced the biggest declines since 2007 in people moving
in had the biggest gains during the housing boom earlier in the decade.

"This really is an aberration of American history," Frey says.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: Brookings Institution
analysis of Census data (Bar graph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              293 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 25, 2010 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S.-bound fliers required to register;
Year-old program applies to travelers from 35 countries

BYLINE: Thomas Frank

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 429 words


WASHINGTON -- Citizens from 35 countries could be barred from boarding
U.S.-bound flights starting in March if they don't register online before
flying, according to the Homeland Security Department.

The government hopes that registration will flag visitors with criminal records
or immigration problems before they enter the USA.

Travel groups worry that thousands of people could be kept from the country
because they don't know about the requirement.

"We lose if these people don't come," said Geoff  Freeman, senior vice president
of the U.S. Travel Association, a trade group. The association is urging the
government to launch an aggressive publicity campaign.

The registration requirement affects 35 countries -- including the United
Kingdom, Japan and Germany -- whose citizens can enter the United States without
a visa. In 2009, about 15 million people from those 35 countries visited the
United States.

Online registration enables Customs officials to keep convicted criminals or
illegal immigrants from boarding planes to the United States, Customs
spokeswoman Joanne Ferreira said. "This makes sure travelers who do not require
a visa do not pose any threat by traveling to the U.S.," she said.

The registration requirement is not connected to the Dec. 25 attempted bombing
of Flight 253 near Detroit. Suspect Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, a Nigerian, would
not have registered because he had a visa, which requires a background check.

Congress mandated the registration program in 2007, and Customs launched it one
year ago. The online form asks biographical information and background
questions, and it can be completed a few hours before boarding.

Before the registration program began, Customs agents checked visitors when they
arrived at U.S. airports.

In recent months, about 91% of the people flying to the USA without visas had
enrolled online, Customs figures show. Even with that compliance rate,
travel-industry groups note that more than 4,000 people a day had not.

Those people have been allowed to board flights to the U.S. But starting March
21, Customs said it may start fining airlines up to $3,300 for each passenger
who has failed to register and is allowed on a U.S.-bound flight. That will
likely result in airlines barring such passengers, Freeman said.

Freeman said people fail to register because they don't know about the program
or don't have Internet access.

"We've come a long way in improving compliance," said Steve Lott of the
International Air Transport Association. "But it's important we close that gap
before the summer travel period begins."

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              294 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 26, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Poll: Most OK long-term U.S. role in Haiti;
53% oppose increased immigration

BYLINE: Ken Dilanian

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 394 words


WASHINGTON -- More than six out of 10 Americans believe U.S. troops and relief
workers should remain in Haiti until life is more or less back to normal, a USA
TODAY/Gallup Poll released Monday found.

The findings came as Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, traveling to
Montreal to discuss longer-term rebuilding efforts, said the $100 million
pledged so far by the U.S. was "just for the emergency ... there will be more to
come."

Getting life back to normal for Haitians could take years and cost billions of
dollars.

For example, the Haitian government and international development experts, such
as Jeffrey Sachs of Columbia University, are calling for a $3 billion fund to
rebuild Haiti's flattened public buildings. That would help house the estimated
1 million made homeless by the Jan. 12 earthquake.

Though Americans are skeptical about some types of foreign aid, they
consistently support humanitarian disaster relief, said Steven Kull, who studies
public opinion as the director of the Center on Policy Attitudes at the
University of Maryland.

"Americans are particularly generous in this regard," he said.

With about 10,000 U.S. troops and hundreds of civilians helping the relief
effort, just a quarter  of the poll's respondents said U.S. aid to Haiti should
continue "only long enough to help put a system in place for providing food and
shelter for the victims," and only 10% wanted aid flowing "only long enough to
provide emergency rescue services."

Most Americans approve of the relief effort so far, the poll found. About 73% of
Americans believe the United States is doing enough to help their impoverished
neighbor in the wake of the magnitude-7 quake, which the Haitian government said
killed at least 150,000 people. Nineteen percent said the United States should
be doing more.

The poll of 1,067 adults  last weekend has a margin of error of +/- 4 percentage
points.

One thing most Americans don't want, the poll suggests, is for their government
to allow more Haitians to immigrate here. Fifty-three percent of those polled
opposed increased immigration, while 41% said more Haitians should be allowed
in.

A majority of those polled are also concerned that the large amounts of U.S.
aid, which is coming from both the government and private donations, may not
reach the earthquake victims fast enough or that it would not aid them directly.


LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              295 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 29, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Help Haitians, but don't throw open U.S. borders

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 593 words


It's natural to want to help suffering Haitians by almost any means. Such
generous impulses are one of the things that make America great.

But emerging proposals to bypass immigration rules and bring Haitians here by
the tens of thousands are rooted in impulse, not reason. They will not help
Haiti or its people in the long term. And they surely are unfair to people from
other nations who have been waiting in line, some for more than a decade, to get
into the USA.

For starters, inviting thousands to flee Haiti is no way to help Haiti rebuild.
To the contrary, Haiti's survival depends on encouraging its best and brightest
to remain and work on its revival.

The U.S. government has already taken some sensible humanitarian steps. It has
accepted more than 650 Haitians in desperate need, including orphans who already
had adoptive parents waiting and victims in need of emergency medical care not
available in Haiti. And it offered "temporary protected status" to Haitians
living illegally in the U.S., allowing them to apply to stay for 18 months so
they could work and send money home.

But some Haitian advocates want to go further and let thousands more in. A
sizeable minority of Americans, 41%, according to a USA TODAY/Gallup Poll
released this week, wants Haitian immigration increased. The calls have come
from all parts of the political spectrum. Lavinia Limon, a former Clinton
administration official who heads the U.S. Committee for Refugees and
Immigrants, argues below for a liberalized policy. In a Washington Post op-ed,
Elliott Abrams, a State Department official under Ronald Reagan, suggested
increasing the flow of Haitian immigrants by several times what is has been for
the past decade, about 25,000 a year.

Some advocates suggest letting in those with family here who are already
approved to immigrate and on a waiting list -- roughly 50,000 Haitians. That
suggestion has some merit. Some may already be here, for instance, on student or
other visas, so the numbers are manageable. They're going to immigrate anyway;
it's just a matter of time.

Yet even that proposal presents troubling questions. Should those entrants
include people from parts of Haiti untouched by the earthquake? Or only those
from earthquake-ravaged areas? Or only those who've lost their homes? Or limbs?

And as long as America is reaching out to those in need, what about citizens of
other dirt-poor nations? Bangladesh, for example, has about 50,000 approved
people with U.S. family connections waiting in line, too. No, they haven't just
suffered a horrific natural disaster. But millions in Bangladesh are routinely
displaced by monsoons. It doesn't seem fair to make them wait while Haitians
jump ahead.

There's also this: A firm stand on immigration could hold down the number of
Haitians who are likely to take to the sea to make the treacherous 600 mile
crossing to the USA. Many could die trying. Those not approved to enter would be
detained and deported.

The more one weighs the consequences, the less appealing the immigration option
seems.

So far, the Obama administration has gotten the policy about right: It's not
throwing open the doors, but it is doing a great deal to ease Haiti's burden.

America will do the most good by doing what it's capable of doing more
efficiently. Finding ways to make Haiti more livable, more quickly, will
encourage citizens to stay. Helping to finance reconstruction will create
thousands of jobs for Haitians, in Haiti. That might not feel as good as saying
"ya'll come," but in the long run, it will be far more beneficial.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Veronica Salazar, USA TODAY, Source: State Dept. (Bar
graph)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              296 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 1, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Lawyers must point out deals' deportation risks;
Supreme Court's 7-2 decision cites right to effective counsel

BYLINE: Joan Biskupic

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 604 words


WASHINGTON -- Attorneys must tell their immigrant clients if pleading guilty to
a crime carries a risk of deportation, the Supreme Court ruled Wednesday in a
decision bolstering the constitutional guarantee of effective assistance from a
lawyer.

"It is our responsibility under the Constitution to ensure that no criminal
defendant -- whether a citizen or not -- is left to the mercies of incompetent
counsel," Justice John Paul Stevens wrote for the majority. "Our long-standing
Sixth Amendment precedents, the seriousness of deportation as a consequence of a
criminal plea, and the ... impact of deportation on families ... demand no
less."

Seven of the nine justices agreed that the constitutional rights of a Kentucky
drug defendant had been violated because his lawyer gave bad information about
the possibility of deportation. Two members of the majority disagreed with
Stevens' broad reading of the Sixth Amendment guarantee of effective counsel.

Justices Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas fully dissented.

The case of Padilla v. Kentucky had been closely watched by immigrants rights
advocates concerned about how federal laws over the years has greatly expanded
the types of crimes that warrant deportation.

Michelle Fei, co-director of the New York-based Immigrant Defense Project, said
immigrants "often plead guilty unaware that the result would be permanent exile
from their families and communities." She praised the court for recognizing that
"deportation is an extreme penalty."

The U.S. Justice Department, which had argued that lawyers do not have to
provide advice on the deportation consequences of a guilty plea, had no comment.

The Supreme Court case centered on Jose Padilla, a native of Honduras, who has
been a lawful permanent resident for 40 years. Stevens noted that Padilla served
in the U.S. military during the Vietnam War.

In 2002, Padilla pleaded guilty to transporting marijuana.

After agreeing to a plea deal, Padilla discovered that it exposed him to
deportation proceedings. He claimed his lawyer told him that he "did not have to
worry about immigration status since he had been in the country so long." He
says he would not have pleaded guilty if he had not received the flawed advice.

The Kentucky Supreme Court ruled that the Sixth Amendment guarantee of effective
counsel does not protect a defendant from bad advice about deportation. Like
some other state and federal courts, the Kentucky top court minimized
deportation as merely a "collateral" consequence of the guilty plea.

The Supreme Court's decision Wednesday treats deportation as a far more serious
consequence. Stevens referred to the "steady expansion of deportable offenses"
and said, "The importance of accurate legal advice for non-citizens accused of
crimes has never been more important."

The justices returned Padilla's case to lower courts for proceedings on whether
his lawyer's bad advice sufficiently hurt his case to require a new hearing.

Joining Stevens were Justices Anthony Kennedy, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Stephen
Breyer and Sonia Sotomayor.

Chief Justice John Roberts and Justice Samuel Alito agreed that a lawyer should
not mislead an immigrant about deportation but disagreed with Stevens on how far
the lawyer must go to explain potentially complex immigration law.

In dissent, Scalia, joined by Thomas, said the majority too expansively
interpreted the protections against ineffective counsel. "The Constitution ...
is not an all-purpose tool for judicial construction of a perfect world; and
when we ignore its text in order to make it that, we often find ourselves
swinging a sledge where a tack hammer is needed."

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, 2008 photo by Jason Miller, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              297 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 27, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Arizona's immigration witch hunt challenges federal authority

BYLINE: DeWayne Wickham

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 588 words


Though it has been settled law since the Civil War ended that a state cannot
secede from the union, Arizona's extreme action suggests it imagines it can.

Given this existential loophole, Gov. Jan Brewer has signed a bill that
unilaterally gives her state the power to enforce federal immigration law and
mandates that people who cross its borders carry an identity card acceptable to
Arizona. The law defines this as an Arizona driver's license, identity card,
tribal identification, or any federal, state or local government ID issued after
a person proved he's a legal resident of the U.S. Anyone caught in the Grand
Canyon State without one of these  IDs will be subject to up to six months in
jail and a $2,500 fine. The law takes effect 90 days after the Legislature
adjourns.

Arizona's law ostensibly targets "alien(s)" who are "unlawfully present in the
United States." But there's little doubt it will be used disproportionately
against Hispanics, who are 30% of the state's population. "We cannot sacrifice
our safety to the murderous greed of drug cartels," Brewer said at the bill
signing ceremony. "We cannot stand idly by as drop houses, kidnappings and
violence compromise our quality of life. We cannot delay while the destruction
happening south of our international border creeps its way north," she said in
an apparent reference to the drug war raging in Mexico.

But the law doesn't target drug dealers so much as it stigmatizes Arizona's
large Mexican population. "The way it's tailored is very clear. You're looking
for brown-skinned individuals. ... It's people coming across the border
illegally and they're talking mostly about Mexicans," Santa Cruz County sheriff
Tony Estrada told Tucson TV station KGUN9.

Keeping people from illegally entering this country isn't a bad idea. But
Arizona's law is an "ends justify the means" attempt that enjoys widespread
support among its voters. According to a Rasmussen poll, while 53% of the
state's likely voters think enforcement of the law will potentially violate the
civil rights of some U.S. citizens, 70%  support it anyway. The law is backed by
84% of Republicans, 51% of Democrats and 69% of unaffiliated voters.

There are, fortunately, some pockets of resistance. Phoenix Mayor Phil Gordon, a
Democrat, has threatened to file suit against the new law. Interim Maricopa
County Attorney Rick Romley, a Republican, tried to talk Brewer into vetoing the
immigration bill. More than a 1,000 Phoenix high school students, who used
Twitter and Facebook to organize, walked out of class and marched to the state
capitol to protest the measure a day before Brewer signed it Friday.

But it will be left to the federal government to counter Arizona's immigration
witch hunt.  The Obama administration can do this by refusing to take custody of
any non-violent illegal immigrants whom local police charge with "misdemeanor
trespassing" -- the immigration offense the new law creates. Faced with a $3
billion budget deficit, Brewer is pushing a controversial 1-cent sales tax
increase that will be on the state's ballot on May 18. If illegal immigrants are
left in the state's custody, Arizona will have to bear the financial cost of its
decision to usurp the federal government's authority to legislate immigration
laws.

While such a stance isn't likely to produce a surrender like the one at
Appomattox Court House that ended the Civil War, it could force Arizona's
governor and lawmakers to end their legislative insurrection.

DeWayne Wickham writes on Tuesdays for USA TODAY.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              298 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 30, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Arizona's problems only beginning

BYLINE: Raul Reyes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 442 words


When Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer signed the most restrictive immigration bill in the
USA into law, that was not the end of the debate -- but just the beginning.

The law is ripe for constitutional challenges, as it appears to be an intrusion
of state authority into federal jurisdiction. Latino civic groups such as the
Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund have vowed to fight the law,
most likely by invoking the Supremacy Clause and the 14th amendment.

Although it's impossible to predict the outcome of such cases, one thing is
certain: Arizona will be wasting a lot of money defending this new law.

The law, in my opinion, gives state and local police the right to stop and
question anyone based on a "reasonable suspicion" of his being illegal, and to
arrest that person if he's not carrying proper identification. It makes it a
misdemeanor for anyone to knowingly give a ride to an illegal immigrant, even a
relative.

Certainly, the people of Arizona are tired of bearing the costs of our nation's
broken immigration system. But the state's new law will do little to solve this
crisis and will, in fact, create more problems.

I find it troubling that the law provides no guidance for police as to what
constitutes a "reasonable suspicion" that a person is an illegal immigrant.
Since Arizona is nearly one-third Latino, according to the Census Bureau, this
sets the stage for racial profiling, harassment and discrimination against
Hispanics on an unprecedented level. The Pew Hispanic Center estimates that
Arizona is home to 500,000 unauthorized migrants. How will the police identify
them? By skin color, accent, or whether they are speaking Spanish?

While many rank-and-file police officers supported this legislation, the Arizona
Association of Chiefs of Police did not. They rightly feared it would sow
distrust in the Latino communities and take resources away from other
crime-fighting activities. What's more, the law includes a provision that allows
anyone to sue his local law enforcement agency if he thinks they are not
enforcing the law. Arizona, already facing deep budget cuts, cannot afford all
these court challenges.

In fact, the law is already costing Arizona money. The American Immigration
Lawyers Association just announced that it has cancelled its fall convention in
Scottsdale. Spanish-language media, the blogosphere and Facebook are awash in
calls to boycott the state.

The new law will not make the border safer. Instead Gov. Brewer has done little
more than appease angry voters at the expense of the civil rights of Hispanics.

Raul Reyes is an attorney in New York and a member of USA TODAY's Board of
Contributors.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              299 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 14, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

NYC car-bomb inquiry crosses four states;
FBI arrests 3 on immigration charges as it looks for ties to Times Square
incident

BYLINE: Kevin Johnson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 399 words


WASHINGTON -- The probe into the failed Times Square car-bomb plot spread across
four states Thursday as investigators looked for links between possible
conspirators in the U.S.

Justice Department spokesman Dean Boyd said three people were arrested Thursday
on immigration violations, not criminal charges. He declined to identify the
detainees or elaborate on their links -- if any -- to the plot.

Attorney General Eric Holder told a House panel Thursday that a series of recent
searches in New York, New Jersey and Massachusetts were the "product of evidence
that has been gathered" since the May 1 incident in Manhattan, when a Times
Square street vendor spotted a parked SUV filled with explosive material.

Holder said the searches are not in response to any immediate threat or active
plot against the United States.

Faisal Shahzad, a naturalized U.S. citizen of Pakistani heritage, was arrested
53 hours after the SUV was found. The FBI said Shahzad had boarded a plane at
John F. Kennedy International Airport in an attempt to flee to the Middle East.

Holder has said Shahzad admitted his role in the operation shortly after his
arrest. Holder said evidence links Shahzad to the Taliban in Pakistan.

"This is an ongoing investigation, and we are actively pursuing all those who
were involved in it," Holder said.

Two of the three arrested Thursday are Pakistani men living in the Boston area,
where authorities were investigating allegations that they gave money to
Shahzad, said two law enforcement officials briefed on the matter. The officials
declined to be identified because they are not authorized to comment publicly on
the case.

The officials said investigators are unsure whether any of the suspects had
knowledge of the bomb plot.

A third person, also Pakistani, was arrested in Maine. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement spokesman Brian Hale said the arrest is connected to the Times
Square case, but he declined to provide further details.

In New York, FBI spokesman Richard Kolko said agents carried out searches
Thursday in Long Island.

And in New Jersey, FBI spokesman J.J. Klaver said investigators seized
undisclosed items at a home in Cherry Hill and a business in Camden.

"This is a wide-ranging investigation," Klaver said. "At this point, a lot of
pieces have to be put together."

He said there was no evidence to indicate that Shahzad had ever visited the New
Jersey locations.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NATION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              300 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 9, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Who deserves the Latino vote?;
Neither party. Republicans fan the immigration flames while Democrats neglect
the fire altogether

BYLINE: Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 883 words


SAN DIEGO -- In the movie How to Lose A Guy in 10 Days, Kate Hudson plays a
young woman intent on proving that any man can be scared off. Case in point: her
love interest, played by Matthew McConaughey. The result is an amusing look at
how much punishment one can withstand before running away.

That's how it is with Latino voters this election year. Democrats and
Republicans seem to be trying to outdo each other in terms of mistreating,
neglecting and scapegoating America's largest minority. Both parties are eager
to appeal to the mainstream, and they think one way to do it is to declare their
independence from Latino voters -- especially in the immigration debate.

This bipartisan chill is quite a change from where we were two years ago. During
the 2008 election,  Barack Obama and John McCain spoke to three national Latino
organizations and promised, if elected, to make immigration reform a top
priority.

These days, McCain has retreated from a comprehensive approach that includes a
pathway to earned legal status for illegal immigrants. The Arizona senator, who
is facing a tough re-election campaign, now prefers the "enforcement only"
alternative he used to ridicule. McCain has called for the deployment to the
Arizona-Mexico border of 3,000 National Guard troops and 3,000 border patrol
agents. President Obama does him one better and actually decides to send 1,200
National Guard troops to the border.

That 'danged fence'

McCain also wants the Obama administration to finish building 700 miles of
border fencing. In fact, he has a television ad that shows him talking with a
county sheriff about violence on the Arizona-Mexico border. The solution is
simple, says McCain, let's just "complete the danged fence."

The senator also supports Arizona's controversial new law that requires local
and state law enforcement to determine the legal status of anyone who, during a
lawful stop, is suspected of being an illegal immigrant. Critics rightly call
the law a how-to manual for racial profiling, despite broad approval of the
proposal in national public opinion polls.

An NBC News/Wall Street Journal Survey  last month showed that while all
respondents back the Arizona law by almost 2-to-1, 70% of Hispanic voters oppose
it, with eight in 10 saying they believe it's likely to lead to discrimination
against legal immigrants.

See what else is out there. Rep. Steve King, R-Iowa, told Fox News that he
wondered whether the congressional district of Rep. Raul Grijalva, D-Ariz.,
hadn't already been "ceded" to Mexico given Grijalva's criticism of Arizona's
law. Rep. Duncan Hunter, R-Calif., told a "Tea Party" rally in San Diego County
that he backs the "deportation of natural-born American citizens that are the
kids of illegal aliens," which would be unconstitutional.  Rep. Ted Poe,
R-Texas, asked why the U.S. could prevent "illegal grasshoppers" from  Brazil
but couldn't capture "thousands of people that cross the border every day on the
southern border of the United States."

Republicans like to say that Latinos vote for Democrats because the Democratic
Party offers giveaways. Actually, it's because Republicans give away the Latino
vote with incendiary and insulting rhetoric.

There is one saving grace for Republicans. They're called Democrats, and they're
also in the sights of Latino voters. After all, Democrats control Congress and
the White House, yet immigration reform appears as elusive as ever.

Sen. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., promised to have a bill ready by Labor Day 2009.
Now it looks like he might propose one as late as March 2011.  All we've seen so
far are "outlines" and "sketches." Yet this much is clear: Schumer's approach
is heavy on enforcement and light on giving illegal immigrants a path to legal
status.

Meanwhile, Obama piles up even more disappointments:

*The administration continued raiding work sites in search of illegal
immigrants.

*The president dedicated a measly 38 words to  immigration in his State of the
Union address.

*Immigration and Customs Enforcement used quotas to ratchet up deportations. The
goal: Deport more people in Obama's first year than the Bush administration did
the year before. It met the goal.

*Obama dispassionately referred to the Arizona law as simply "misguided."

*The president  threw cold water on the prospect of Congress overhauling
immigration laws, suggesting that "there may not be an appetite" to fix the
system this year.

Words. Just words.

But Obama also can't resist manipulating Latino voters, as again demonstrated on
Cinco de Mayo when he told a Latino audience at the White House that -- appetite
or not -- he wants to begin work on immigration legislation this year. Those are
encouraging words. And Obama is good with words. But action, and inaction, speak
louder. And what Obama's inaction on immigration reform is saying is that he
really doesn't feel an urgency to deal with the issue -- in spite of his
promises.

Latinos have the right to be disillusioned by the failure of both parties to
address the immigration issue. The choice they face in November is between the
party that harassed them and the one that abandoned them. And that's no choice
at all.

Ruben Navarrette Jr. is an editorial board member of the San Diego Union-Tribune
and a syndicated columnist with the Washington Post Writers Group.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Mike Fuentes, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              301 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 18, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Mexico invests, puts its mark on more U.S. brands;
Seen as win-win, boosting both nations' economies

BYLINE: Sergio Solache

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 846 words


MEXICO CITY -- A new kind of Mexican immigrant is making it big in the USA: huge
Mexican corporations that are snapping up U.S. brand names, opening U.S.
factories and investing millions of pesos north of the border.

From Thomas' English Muffins to Borden milk, Saks Fifth Avenue department stores
to The New York Times newspaper, Mexican investors have taken advantage of low
interest rates and depressed prices during the economic downturn to expand their
holdings in el norte.

"These companies show we're not just a bunch of uneducated migrants," says Jorge
Smeke, a business professor at Iberoamerican University in Mexico City. "Clearly
there are Mexican investments (in the USA) that are creating jobs."

In some cases, Mexican companies have taken over U.S. brands. Others have
expanded their U.S. operations or increased their investments in U.S. companies.

A slice of the pie

Newcomers include Grupo Lala, Mexico's largest dairy company, based in Gomez
Palacios in the northern state of Durango.

Lala bought a yogurt plant in Omaha in 2007. In 2009, it purchased Dallas-based
National Dairy Holdings, which controls the Borden brand and 18 regional dairies
selling milk under the names Flav-O-Rich, Dairy Fresh, Velda Farms, Sinton's,
Cream O' Weber, Goldenrod and others.

Grupo Bimbo, Latin America's largest baked-goods company, has also expanded its
U.S. operations.

In 2009, Mexico City-based Bimbo bought the U.S. baked-goods operations of
Weston Foods for $2.4 billion, taking over 22 industrial bakeries and 4,000
distribution routes. In all, the Mexican company has 35 bakeries in the USA
turning out national brands such as Entenmann's pastries, Boboli pizza crusts
and Thomas' English Muffins to regional brands such as Brownberry bread and Mrs.
Baird's snack cakes. About 43% of Bimbo's 2009 sales were in the USA.

New investment in the USA by Mexican companies rose from $3.6 billion in 2005 to
nearly $8 billion in 2008, according to the latest statistics from the U.S.
Department of Commerce. Mexican companies employ about 59,000 people in the USA.

Like Bimbo and Lala, many of the Mexican companies operate regional
subsidiaries, a structure that obscures their immense size.

Cemex, the world's third-largest cement maker, markets its products as Victor,
Dixie, Richmortar and other names depending on the U.S. state.

"Many people don't even realize (the companies) are Mexican," says Teresa
Gutierrez-Haces, an economist at the National Autonomous University of Mexico.

Cemex became a giant in 2008 after acquiring Australia's Rinker Group for $14
billion. The deal included 415 U.S. plants that produce concrete, gravel, blocks
and other building materials. The company says it employs about 18,000 people in
the USA.

The Mexican investment in the USA is good news for both countries, says Lorraine
Eden, a professor of management at Texas A&M University. The USA benefits with
jobs and tax income, while the stream of foreign profits strengthens Mexico's
economy.

"In the end, it improves growth and competitiveness back home in Mexico," Eden
says. "It's a two-way flow, and it's good for both of us."

Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim has expanded his empire into the USA. In March,
Forbes magazine ranked him the world's richest person, beating out Americans
Bill Gates and Warren Buffett with a net worth of $53.5 billion.

In 2008, Slim bought a 6.9% share in The New York Times Co., making him the
largest shareholder outside the Ochs-Sulzberger family. He increased his stake
in the Saks Fifth Avenue department stores from 10.9% to 18%.

Tuesday, Slim entered the Manhattan real estate market, buying an office
building on Fifth Avenue for $140 million.

America Movil, a cellphone company controlled by Slim, has increased its U.S.
subscribers 26% since 2008 from 11 million to 15 million. The company sells
prepaid cellphone service under the names TracFone, Straight Talk and Net10.

Adding foreign flavor

Some Mexican companies have benefited from the spread of Hispanic culture in the
USA.

Gruma, which claims to be the world's largest maker of tortillas, wraps and corn
flour, makes 47% of its sales in the USA and Europe, thanks to the growing
popularity of Mexican food.

The company has 25 bakeries and flour mills in Texas, California, Indiana and
Kentucky. It is a major supplier to restaurants and fast-food chains. The
Gonzalez Barrera family, which controls Gruma, owns one of Mexico's largest
banks, Banorte, which bought Texas-based Inter National Bank in 2009.

"They're not going (to the USA) just to sell to Latinos anymore," says Juan
Enciso, an economics professor with the Institute for Advanced and Continuing
Studies in Monterrey.

Contributing: Chris Hawley

Co-opting brands

Some brands that are Mexican-owned:

Grupo Bimbo

Entenmann's pastries

Thomas' English Muffins

Arnold bread

Brownberry bread

Oroweat bread

Mrs. Baird's snack cakes

Boboli pizza crust

Grupo Lala

Borden dairy products

Flav-O-Rich milk

Dairy Fresh milk

Grupo Mexico

Asarco copper mines

America Movil

TracFone cellphone service

Straight Talk cell service

Net10 cellphone service

Source: USA TODAY research

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Alexandre Meneghini, AP
PHOTO, B/W, Paul Sakuma, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              302 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 22, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Et cetera;
Smart insights on the news of the day

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 244 words


Michael Schuman, blog, Time: "After months of debate, denial and conflict, China
finally announced a new policy on its controversial currency, the yuan. ... Any
change in yuan policy that brings into play any degree of flexibility is a good
one -- especially for China. A more rationally determined yuan will help China
make that difficult but crucial adjustment from an invest-and-export economic
model to one based more on domestic demand. It will also give Beijing another
tool by which it can moderate inflation. China also clearly wants the yuan to
play a bigger role in world trade and finance, and a more market-based valuation
system will be an absolute necessity to make that happen."

Tamar Jacoby, column, the Los Angeles Times: "Polls show that some 60% of
Americans support (Arizona's new immigration law). The polling hasn't probed
deeply, so it's hard to say exactly why they endorse the law. Some supporters
talk about stemming border violence and controlling crime -- particularly the
mob-style crimes committed by international smuggling cartels. Others, judging
by talk radio and blog chatter, seem more bothered by the simple illegality of
illegal immigration. Few surveys, now or in the past, show voters to be
particularly angry at unlawful immigrants or eager to punish them. But many are
very angry at the dysfunctional immigration system -- and at a political class
that doesn't seem bothered by millions of people making a mockery of the law."

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              303 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 13, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GOP Hispanic candidates go against trend;
Immigration debate may be a weak spot

BYLINE: John Fritze

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 704 words


WASHINGTON -- From a sprawling district on the U.S.-Mexican border to the
northernmost reaches of Idaho, a handful of Hispanic candidates in competitive
races are bucking political conventional wisdom. They're running as Republicans.

In some cases, such as in Idaho, they are competing in House districts with
small Hispanic populations. Others are running in majority-Hispanic districts,
such as in Southwest Texas, where voters usually send Democrats to Washington.

The campaigns are playing out as an increasingly intense debate over immigration
unfolds in Washington and border states such as Arizona. Democratic leaders,
including President Obama, have called on Congress to pass an immigration bill
this year.

"It's exciting that we have a lot of Hispanic conservative candidates," said
Raul Labrador, a state lawmaker who was born in Puerto Rico and who is
challenging Idaho Democratic Rep. Walt Minnick this year. "What's notable is
that it's not people who are afraid of saying they're conservative."

There are 28 Hispanic or Latino members of Congress and 24 of them -- including
two non-voting delegates -- are Democrats, according to the two Hispanic
lawmaker groups in Congress. The nation's only Hispanic governor, Bill
Richardson of New Mexico, is also a Democrat.

Hispanics voted for Obama by a better than 2-to-1 ratio over Republican John
McCain in the 2008 presidential election, according to the non-partisan Pew
Hispanic Center. A July Gallup Poll found 55% of Hispanics approve of Obama,
compared with 89% of blacks and 38% of whites.

Even so, Republican candidates said they aren't willing to cede the nation's
fastest-growing minority group to Democrats.

Some point to George W. Bush, who aggressively campaigned among Hispanics when
he ran for president, sometimes speaking Spanish on the campaign trail.

Bush captured 35% of the Hispanic vote in 2000 and 44% in 2004, according to
surveys of voters leaving polling places.

"The Republican Party gave Hispanics a voice when we were not a targeted group,"
said Alci Maldonado, chairwoman of the Republican National Hispanic Assembly.
The group was initially created as part of the Republican National Committee.

The efforts by both parties to target Hispanics are complicated this year by the
immigration debate. It has turned largely on an Arizona law that requires police
to determine a person's immigration status if they are stopped or arrested and
there is a "reasonable suspicion" they are in the U.S. illegally.

Republicans, including Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer, have defended the law. The Obama
administration, arguing that it will lead to a state-by-state patchwork of
immigration rules, sued to block its enforcement. A Gallup Poll in April found a
majority of Americans who had heard of the law supported it.

"We've haven't secured the border," said Francisco "Quico" Canseco, who is
running for the Texas district Rep. Ciro Rodriguez, a Democrat, has held on and
off since 1997. "Arizona acted because of a failure on the part of the federal
government."

Democrats say the issue is a weak spot for the Republican Party among Hispanic
voters. Joe Garcia, a Democrat, is running for the South Florida House district
held by Republican Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart. He said Bush did a good job courting
Hispanics but that the rest of the party has made them feel unwelcome.

"If you can overlook that the party ... says, 'You don't belong,' then the
Republican Party may be a good place for you," he said.

Among the GOP Hispanic candidates:

*District Attorney Susana Martinez is running for governor of New Mexico along
with GOP lieutenant governor nominee John Sanchez. In June, Martinez aired a
television ad in which she speaks directly to voters in Spanish.

*Marco Rubio, a Cuban-American, is running in a three-way Senate race in
Florida, which the non-partisan Cook Political Report calls a tossup.

*Jon Barela is challenging Democratic Rep. Martin Heinrich, a freshman, for the
New Mexico House seat that includes Albuquerque. Barela said he hears from many
former Democratic Hispanics who are upset with the direction the country is
taking under the Democrats.

"It's no surprise that you're seeing Hispanics feel at home within the
Republican Party," Barela said.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Joe Jaszewski, Idaho Statesman, via AP
PHOTO, B/W, William Faulkner, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              304 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 15, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

List fouls Utah's immigration debate;
Anonymous mailing calls 1,300 illegal

BYLINE: Marisol Bello

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 431 words


It's known as "the list," and it has Utah's Latino community in a panic.

The list -- which was mailed anonymously to federal and state agencies,
legislators and news media -- contains the names and detailed personal
information about 1,300 people, all with Spanish surnames. The sender says they
are illegal immigrants and should be deported.

Next to the names: home addresses, phone numbers, Social Security numbers,
workplaces and names of children. It lists pregnant women and their due dates.

"It's the most outrageous thing I've ever seen," says Tony Yapias, director of
the Utah Latino Project, an advocacy group, and former director of the state
Office of Hispanic Affairs. "This is the new level of the debate over
immigration."

He says he has spoken with about 12 families on the list. Some are legal
residents. All are fearful, he says, and some have asked him whether they should
leave the state.

"The phone calls keep coming in with people asking, 'Is my name on the list?' "
Yapias says. "This has terrorized our community."

The personal details indicate the list came from a state database, says Angie
Welling, spokeswoman for Republican Gov. Gary Herbert.

Herbert told state agencies to investigate.

Welling says the type of information on the list has investigators focusing on
the Department of Workforce Services, which handles Medicaid and food stamps;
the Labor Commission, which oversees workplace safety; and the Department of
Health. The agencies are tracing who has accessed the information recently.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement confirmed that it received the list earlier
but would not say whether it is investigating the people on it.

The release of the list violates state and federal privacy laws, Welling says.

It comes as Utah considers a law similar to one in Arizona that makes it a crime
to be an illegal immigrant in the state.

The Arizona law is scheduled to take effect July 29, but seven lawsuits have
been filed attempting to halt it, including one by the Justice Department.
Hearings are set for today and July 22.

"The Legislature and governor of Arizona have played a part in unleashing this
kind of racial hatred," says Mark Potokof the Southern Poverty Law Center, a
liberal group that tracks hate groups. He says 17 states are considering similar
bills.

Utah state Rep. Stephen Sandstrom, a Republican, says he plans to introduce a
bill similar to the Arizona law next month.

The list is "unfortunate," he says, but it shows the level of frustration with
illegal immigration. He says he expects some illegal immigrants fleeing Arizona
to move to Utah.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, (Salt Lake City) Deseret News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              305 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 1, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

We all share the American dream

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 202 words


My father escaped from communist China to Hong Kong in the 1960s. Knowing that
Hong Kong  would one day become communist territory, he left his family behind
in 1977 and immigrated to the USA, hoping to pave a way for his wife, son and
daughter.

Speaking no English, he worked various restaurant jobs during the day and
studied English by night. Finally, he saved up enough money to send us airline
tickets. We waited until approved by immigration and, in 1983,  we finally were
reunited with  Dad in San Francisco.

Our family has worked hard, very hard, to achieve a dream. That dream is not to
own a fancy car or a big house. It is simply freedom and the ability to pursue
happiness in our own way.

Although I am frustrated by illegal immigrants' lack of contribution to a
society that they expect so much from, I also recognize that their dream is the
same as ours.

I don't know what the answer is.  Perhaps a workable compromise could be a
system that allows freedom of passage for individuals, after background checks,
between Mexico and the U.S. and that also mandates payment of taxes.

In the end, we all came to this country looking for a better life for ourselves
and our  families.

Ching McColligan

Cocoa, Fla.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Family photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              306 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 9, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Answer to immigration problem should transcend party lines

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 390 words


The immigration debate touches everyone differently. When the subject comes up,
I'm surprised at the range of stances taken by people I know and love. I also
know that I probably shouldn't be so shocked, because this issue has roots that
far outreach those of simple political partisanship.

To get in touch with my own true feelings on the subject, all I have to do is
spend an afternoon with my 92-year-old mother, Vickie, and listen to stories of
her experiences.

She was born in Italy and came to our shores with the type of enthusiasm
befitting the storybook view we cling to when we think of the traditional
immigrant experience.  Mom learned English with a fervor fueled by her desire to
"fit in" with a citizenry she admired and dreamed to be a part of. She, and
others just like her, joined the Army to serve this same nation without
hesitation because of her  love of America.

I write all this not to glorify my mom --  many other immigrants of that time
did what she did. And many people are currently working through the complex maze
that is our present immigration policy with the same fervor Mom had then.

I don't claim to know the perfect answer to the immigration problem, but any
partisan effort, left or right, to use this issue to its imagined benefit, will
amount to a slap in the face to those who immigrate -- or immigrated years ago
-- within the law.

Vince Santoro

Nashville

Family ties hard to trace

I am an American-born adoptee. My birth mother believed that she was English and
Irish and that my biological father was German. I have never met them.   The
information I have is scant or impossible to verify. So how their ancestors got
here is not something I think about at all.

But I researched my adoptive family successfully. One line arrived in 1810 as
stowaways aboard a ship. They excelled as naturalized citizens and raised large
families.

Today, looking at a person on the street, no one in America  could tell whether
that person's ancestors arrived unconventionally. Many  descendants often don't
know. I wonder whether some of those same descendants protest illegal
immigration.

We adopted our daughter, who is 14, from China.  I carry a copy of her U.S.
passport in my wallet now, and so does she. Others may look at her as a
stranger. The joke's on them: I am far stranger than she is.

Deb Wasserbach

Frederick, Md.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              307 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 15, 2010 Wednesday
                                 CHASE EDITION

Local police shun immigration role;
Controversy, economy blamed for lack of interest in federal program

BYLINE: Alan Gomez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 498 words


A federal program that deputizes local police officers to act as immigration
agents has seen a sharp drop in interest from law enforcement agencies.

Seventy-two agencies have signed up since the program began in 2002, training
more than 1,100 local officers in 26 states to perform immigration checks and
begin deportations. Nine agencies signed on last year and one so far in 2010.

Jim Denney, a former Sutter County, Calif., sheriff who is executive director of
the California State Sheriffs' Association, says local departments have been
turned off by the controversy that comes with the program, known as 287(g). Only
four agencies in California participate.

He says the program makes Hispanics suspicious of police and less willing to
cooperate to solve crimes. "There has to be a level of trust that both sides
enjoy in order to work together," he says. "There are going to be times when we
have to rely on illegal immigrants to conduct an investigation, and they are
going to be concerned if the first thing they think is we're going to round them
up."

The program has supporters, including Lexington County, S.C., Sheriff James
Metts, whose department joined this year.

Metts says his area's agriculture industry has had a large influx of Hispanic
immigrants and he has seen "murders, gang activity, drug activity, coming in"
with the immigrants.

His office did not provide statistics but cited cases in which illegal
immigrants were suspects in violent crimes and a 2008 study that found 8.5% of
those in his jail were in the USA illegally. "We're not trying to profile,"
Metts says. "We're just trying to keep the quality of life in our community."

Critics of the program, including the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic
civil rights organization, say it leads to racial profiling. Supporters,
including the Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates tighter
immigration controls, say it's a needed tool in the absence of tough federal
enforcement.

Using local police to enforce immigration law was at the heart of Arizona's
immigration law, which would require the state's 15,000 law enforcement officers
to check the immigration status of people stopped for another offense if there
was "reasonable suspicion" they were in the country illegally. The core of the
law was put on hold by a federal judge; Republican Gov. Jan Brewer is appealing
that ruling.

Richard Rocha of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), says part of
the reason for the decline in interest in the program is economic. "Law
enforcement agencies ... are faced with limited resources, and in some instances
the 287(g) program may not be a viable option," he says.

A less labor-intensive ICE program, Secure Communities, is more popular with
police agencies. It is in use in 574 jurisdictions in 30 states. Under that
program, everyone booked into a jail has fingerprints sent to the Department of
Homeland Security to determine immigration status. Follow-through on illegal
immigrants is done by ICE.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              308 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 22, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration process is costly, complicated

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 360 words


Our granddaughter participated in a mission trip through our church to Senegal.
She met a wonderful young man from Senegal. They fell in love and tried to
figure out how they could be together. It's four years later; he is here, and
they are married.

You could say they are living happily ever after, and in a way they are.
However, the cost of his immigration (lawyers, fees, etc.) is well over $10,000.
Our new grandson speaks five languages, including fluent English. However, the
forms were so complicated, he could not have completed them on his own. In
addition, her parents were required to commit to supporting him  for  10 years.

My question is one I have not heard discussed. How much would it cost for a
person to immigrate legally to the USA from Mexico? If the process is anything
like  the one our family has been through, I can understand why people come
illegally.

Isn't there a compromise position? Can we not provide amnesty for those
currently in the U.S. and a reasonable way for others to get through the
process?

Nancy L. Anderson

Waukesha, Wis.

Abide by our rules

My father came to the USA in 1923 from Aachen, Germany;  my mother came in 1926
from Meiningen, Germany.  I remember well my father talking about arriving in
New York City with $5 in his pocket. But, most important, he had a place to stay
and a sponsor.

My parents both worked for a doctor in New York, my father as a chauffer and my
mother as a house helper. They knew the importance of learning English for their
survival and learned it quickly. My parents came to America for a better life
but knew they would face extreme hardships in doing so.  They did not expect
handouts. You worked for what you  needed or did without.

On any American national holiday, my father proudly flew the  U.S. flag. Even
after a stroke that left him unable to speak and made it difficult for him to
walk, he  would stand for  the national anthem with his hand over his heart. He
felt nothing but pride to be an American.

I welcome anyone from any country as long as he or she abides by our rules.
Immigrate legally. Learn our language. Have a sponsor. Respect America.

Sandi Ashton

Camp Verde, Ariz.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              309 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 23, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Pentagon says DREAM Act could boost ranks;
Dems vow to reintroduce plan to offer immigrants residency

BYLINE: Alan Gomez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 545 words


Immigration advocates have long pushed for the DREAM Act as a way to give
children who were brought to the U.S. illegally by their parents a chance to
become legal residents and have access to higher education.

The less publicized part of the Development, Relief and Education for Alien
Minors Act is that the Pentagon is pushing for it as a means to staff the armed
forces.

Prospects dimmed Tuesday when Senate Republicans prevented a vote on a defense
spending bill, because the DREAM Act was attached as an amendment. Senate
Democrats vowed to reintroduce it.

When the Department of Defense published its three-year strategic plan, it
listed the DREAM Act as a way it could replenish its ranks.

"If we needed to expand the pool of eligible youth, the (DREAM) initiative would
be one of several ways to do it," spokeswoman Eileen Lainez said in an e-mail.

Retired Army lieutenant colonel Margaret Stock says a "crisis in military
manpower" is looming as the population ages and the economy improves. She says
the military struggled to recruit enough people when the economy was booming
just a few years ago because people had more employment options.

"DREAM would give us the ability to tap into a huge number of people who grew up
in the United States, were educated here, they talk like Americans, they look
like Americans and their loyalty lies with America," says Stock, a former West
Point professor who teaches political science at the University of
Alaska-Anchorage.

The act would allow illegal immigrants who met several requirements -- 35 or
younger, came to the U.S. before turning 16, have lived here at least five
years, no criminal record and have earned a high school diploma -- to become
conditional residents for up to six years. They would be eligible to become
permanent residents if they completed two years of college or two years in the
military.

The Migration Policy Institute, a non-partisan research group that supports an
overhaul of immigration law, estimates that more than 725,000 people would be
eligible immediately for conditional residency. An additional 1.4 million would
meet all the requirements except the high school diploma.

The military part of the act worries Jorge Mariscal, director of Latino studies
at the University of California-San Diego.

He says many illegal immigrant families are too poor to pay for college.

"Our concern is that people are just going to get trapped for economic reasons
into the military," says Mariscal, who otherwise supports the DREAM Act.

Roy Beck, executive director of NumbersUSA, which advocates lower levels of
legal and illegal immigration, opposes the DREAM Act because it does not address
the larger problems of illegal immigration.

Felipe Matos would be glad to join the military under the DREAM Act.

Born to a single mother in the slums of Brazil, he came to live with relatives
in the U.S. at 14. He graduated from high school, got an associate's degree at
Miami Dade College and hopes to get a four-year degree and become a high school
teacher. He says he wants to repay the country that gave him the opportunity to
succeed.

"I have friends who would have loved to join the military," says Matos, 24. "I
feel that all of us are just trying to serve and contribute to the only country
we know and love."

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              310 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 28, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Ways immigrants can get visa;
Family, boss or lottery could help open doors to USA

BYLINE: Chris Hawley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 416 words


There are two types of visas under U.S. law: immigrant and non-immigrant.

Non-immigrant visas allow foreigners to travel or work temporarily in the USA.
The tourist-visa requirement is waived for citizens of 36 countries, most of
them in Europe.

Many people coming to work in the USA want to immigrate there permanently.

There are three main ways of getting an immigrant visa: through a family member
in the USA, through the sponsorship of an employer or through a lottery aimed at
increasing diversity in the USA.

Family sponsors:

Spouses and minor children of U.S. citizens can get immigrant visas almost
immediately.

There are no limits on the number of visas given out to them.

For other kinds of relatives, or relatives of permanent residents who are not
citizens, the number of immigrant visas is capped at 226,000 a year.

Some kinds of relatives have preference over others, and relatives of U.S.
citizens take priority over those of immigrants who are permanent residents.

Unmarried children of U.S. citizens are at the top of the list. Parents, aunts,
uncles and cousins of permanent residents are at the bottom.

Because of the caps on different categories, unmarried adult children from most
countries face a four-year wait for a visa. For married children, it's eight
years.

For Mexican children older than 21, it's an 18-year wait either way.

Employer sponsors:

An additional 140,000 immigrants can come to the USA each year sponsored by
their U.S. employers, but there are two major hurdles.

*Applicants must have a job offer from a U.S. company.

That's often a Catch-22, said Margarita Silva, an immigration lawyer in Phoenix:
If State Department officials suspect someone is traveling to the USA to look
for a job, they won't issue a travel visa.

*Applicants must convince an employer to spend the money and time to sponsor
them. The process is difficult even for a six-month temporary worker visa.
Sponsoring someone for permanent residency can take 10 years of work.

Diversity visas:

Every year, the United States gives out 50,000 "diversity visas" aimed at
increasing the country's cultural mix.

They are divvied up by region, and the largest portion goes to Africa.

In 2010, 29,450 visas were given out there, mostly in Egypt, Ethiopia and
Nigeria. Europe got 9,600 visas, and Asia got 9,000.

Would-be immigrants apply through an online lottery system.

People from some of the world's most populous countries are not eligible because
there are so many emigrants from those nations already in the USA.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Chris Hawley, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              311 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 28, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration has grown more complicated;
Even if conditions met, wait to get in can take decades

BYLINE: Chris Hawley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 1497 words


When Yudi went to the U.S. consulate in San Pedro Sula in Honduras to see
whether she could get into the USA, the receptionist ticked off the documents
she would need to apply for a visitor's visa.

She would need to show whether she had a bank account and how much was in it,
whether she owned real estate or a car and that she had a good-paying job for at
least five years -- all evidence that might indicate she was not trying to get
into America to stay and work illegally. Her heart sank.

"I realized it was impossible," she said, speaking on the condition that her
full name not be used because she said she was assaulted by smugglers. "I would
never have those things."

So Yudi, 23, did what millions of other Latin Americans have done. She came
anyway.

Many people in Latin America have requested legal visas to come to the USA, but
the wait can be decades, if approval is given at all. Diversity visa programs
aimed at increasing the USA's cultural mix are skewed against Latin America
because there are so many of its people already here. All of which provides a
powerful inducement to sneak in, critics of the U.S. immigration system say.

U.S. visa laws have changed and become so much more complex since the days of
Ellis Island that it is simply impossible for many hardworking people around the
world to legally immigrate to the USA, they say.

"It's not a system that is at all geared to reality," said Nic Suriel, an
immigration lawyer in Phoenix.

Immigration-control advocates say the system is doing its job and the true
problem is that the USA cannot afford to take in more people.

"America is already at an unsustainable level of hyperlegal immigration," said
William Gheen, president of the Americans for Legal Immigration Political Action
Committee. "Anybody that's complaining about us not letting enough people in
legally is full of it."

Until the 1920s, immigrating to the USA was relatively easy. America needed
people to populate its Western frontier and work in its factories.

In 1921, Congress passed the first law setting numerical limits for visas based
on countries of origin.

As the USA moved toward a service-oriented economy in the 1960s, immigration
officials became more selective about the kinds of workers the nation wanted.

These days, U.S. immigrant visas are limited mostly to the educated, the
affluent or people who have spouses or parents in the USA, said Gustavo Garcia,
an immigration lawyer in Mexico City. If the ancestors of most Americans had
tried to immigrate to the USA under today's rules, their American Dream would
have ended before it began, Garcia said.

"These days, you need a visa before you can even embark on a trip to the United
States," Garcia said. "They couldn't have even gotten on the boat."

Under today's rules, most immigrants must be sponsored by a family member or by
an employer, who must prove to the U.S. government that the immigrant has skills
that are in short supply.

Even for those who meet the requirements for a visa, getting approval to
immigrate to the USA can take 20 years or more, compared with the three to five
hours it took immigrants to pass through Ellis Island during the peak of
European immigration from 1900 to 1914.

Back then, there was no national immigration law setting quotas: People could
enter as long as they were healthy and had no criminal record. General
immigration laws limiting total numbers of immigration were passed in the 1920s.

Today, U.S. citizens trying to bring a spouse or young child to the USA can get
visas for them almost immediately, said Chris Bentley, a spokesman for the U.S.
Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services. Other people face a longer wait.

U.S. citizens trying to bring an adult, Mexican-born son or daughter to the USA
face an 18-year wait before a visa becomes available, according to the U.S.
State Department's monthly visa report. For a U.S. citizen trying to help a
Filipino sibling immigrate, the wait is 19 years.

Bentley said the system works well, noting that about 1 million people legally
immigrate each year and the biggest backlogs are for a handful of countries that
have historically sent large numbers of people, mainly Mexico, India, South
Korea, China and the Philippines.

"To say that we don't have a robust legal immigration system in the United
States would be erroneous," Bentley said.

So how does an unskilled worker from Mexico, with no job offer and no family in
the USA get to legally immigrate there?

He can't, said Mike Franquinha, a Phoenix immigration lawyer.

"There's no vehicle for these people to immigrate. It just doesn't exist," he
said.

From March 2007 to March 2009, about 300,000 people either entered the USA
illegally or overstayed temporary visas, according to the Pew Hispanic Center, a
non-partisan think tank based in Washington. Half of them were Mexicans.

In all, there were about 11.1 million illegal immigrants in the USA in 2009.
That's one of every four foreign-born people in the country.

In recent years, lawmakers and immigration experts have proposed several changes
to reduce the illegal population, including:

*Making more visas available for Latin America and nearby countries. The
shortage of visas and the resulting 18- to 25-year wait prompt many people to
enter the USA illegally, Garcia said.

*Reinstating Section 245(i), a provision in the immigration law that expired in
2001. It allowed spouses and children in the country illegally to stay while
awaiting an immigrant visa and after paying a fine.

*Passing the Dream Act, which would allow children brought to the USA illegally
by their parents to achieve permanent residency if they attend college or serve
in the military.

The bill, first introduced in 2001, was part of the Defense Authorization Act
the Senate shelved last week.

Immigration-control activists say people will continue to try to enter the USA
illegally, no matter how easy it is to get a visa.

"You're never going to have enough legal immigration slots for everybody who
wants to come here," said Ira Mehlman, a spokesman for the Washington-based
Federation for American Immigration Reform.

The real troublemakers, said ALIPAC's Gheen, are employers who hire illegal
immigrants, politicians who praise their contributions and authorities who make
them feel welcome by, for example, offering forms and services in Spanish.

"If you follow the (immigration) rules, you're penalized; if you break the
rules, you're rewarded," Gheen said.

To speed up the visa process, U.S. officials should limit family-based immigrant
visas to spouses and children only, Mehlman said.

Cracking down on illegal immigrants and their employers would open up jobs for
U.S. citizens and legal immigrants. Only then could the United States raise the
number of visas it hands out, reducing the wait, he said.

Yudi, who has an eighth-grade education and comes from a poor family, said she
decided to try to emigrate after struggling to make ends meet on her salary of
about $31 a week, two-thirds of which went to food and transportation to and
from her job.

"One day I realized I was only making enough to feed and clothe myself," she
said. "I wanted to have a house someday, maybe start a business, and with what I
was earning I would never be able to do it."

After visiting the U.S. consulate, Yudi went back to her job at a potato chip
factory. But she couldn't stop thinking about her meager salary and the
opportunities in America, she said.

Her brother had crossed the border illegally several years before, and he was
working in Colorado.

In March, she struck out alone for the border.

The trip took her six months. On the Guatemala-Mexico border, she says, she was
robbed and sexually assaulted by four men. Near Mexico City, she saw a freight
train slice off the leg of a fellow traveler after he fell onto the tracks.

On the Arizona border, she hiked through the desert for three days with no food.

In Phoenix, she was held captive and assaulted again by smugglers. She escaped
from the house where she was held and ran toward a passing car and begged for
help.

The driver gave her a ride out of the neighborhood. From there, she made her way
downtown and into an office to ask for help. The office workers called Respect
Respeto, an aid group for illegal immigrants in Phoenix.

The group plans to apply for a U visa, one given to victims of violent crimes,
because of the rapes Yudi said she suffered in Phoenix, Garcia said. A U visa
would allow her to live and work in the USA for up to four years while
authorities investigate the crimes.

"All I wanted," Yudi said, "was a better life."

Yudi says she knows many Americans accuse her and other undocumented migrants of
simply not wanting to follow the rules.

"All I can tell those people is that if we immigrate illegally, we're not doing
it for fun," she said, her voice cracking. "If they really want people to stop
immigrating illegally, then give us an opportunity. Give us a chance."

Hawley is Latin America correspondent for USA TODAY and The Arizona Republic

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Luis Alberto Cruz Hernandez, AP
PHOTO, Color, Michael Chow, The Arizona Republic
PHOTO, B/W, David McNew, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              312 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 5, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S. policy fails to meet needs of immigrants, Americans

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 424 words


I read with amazement that, according to a spokesman for the U.S. Bureau of
Citizenship and Immigration Services,  "U.S. citizens trying to bring a spouse
or young child to the USA can get visas for them almost immediately." He must
have a different understanding of the word "immediately" than most of us
("Immigration has grown more complicated," News, Sept. 28).

An American friend of mine sponsored the immigration of her British husband, and
the process entailed six trips to the embassy, thousands of dollars in fees and
travel costs, and months of paperwork.

I sat in a  consular services meeting this year  in which officials plainly
stated that it is, in fact, more difficult for a foreign-born spouse of an
American to get a tourist visa than someone who is not related to an American. I
am looking forward to my own marriage and realize what I face. I cannot
realistically get my foreign-born fiancee a tourist visa to have her travel to
meet my family before the wedding. Any application for an immigrant visa likely
will take months. And unless I quit my job in the midst of this horrid economy
and move back to the USA, we cannot begin the process of applying for an
immigrant visa.

America is in dire need of immigration reform. Laws  that keep spouses apart do
not support the goals of  U.S. immigration policy. Failure to control illegal
immigration results in an overwhelmed system, which fails to meet the needs of
American families, too.

Andrew Wilmoth

Cayman Islands

Improve conditions elsewhere

In articles about  illegal immigrants and their travails in arriving here, why
is the  USA made out to be the bad guy? Why are some of these  illegal
immigrants complaining to us about lack of opportunities, poverty  and poor
education in their homeland? Shouldn't they direct these  questions  to the
government of their countries?

Why have Mexico, Guatemala and other countries south of the Rio Grande escaped
hostility for the continued economic oppression of their citizenry? It seems as
if the sole recipient of  anger is the United States.

Doesn't it make good sense for the USA to aid work within those countries to
improve the lot of their  people, rather than trying desperately to absorb these
unskilled, poorly educated peoples year after year?

I am tired of being on the receiving end of this anger. I am weary of being
accused of being racist and a bigot simply because I want better for my country.
If you love your native land, stay there and work to improve it. Don't come here
and complain about us.

Janice Kushner

Severn, Md.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Luis Alberto Cruz Hernandez, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              313 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          November 24, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Screeners deserve more rights

BYLINE: Nita Lowey

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 392 words


The potential human and economic catastrophe from a successful terrorist attack
on a commercial airplane requires we do everything possible to maximize the
effectiveness of our transportation security personnel and procedures.

Remember the old saying, we reap what we sow? Transportation security officers
lack basic rights provided under the civil service system for other front-line
federal security agencies.

Unlike employees at Customs and Border Protection, Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, Citizenship and Immigration Services, Federal Protective Service,
Federal Emergency Management Agency, civilian Coast Guard, and the Pentagon and
U.S. Capitol police forces, workers at the Transportation Security
Administration are denied collective bargaining rights, strong whistle-blower
protections and the federal system for compensation and promotions.

So, it should come as no surprise that TSA suffers from low morale, high injury
rates and high turnover. The vicious cycle of losing experienced screeners, then
recruiting, hiring and training new and inexperienced replacements clearly
weakens our air security.

Yet some continue to argue this rigid system provides the discipline and
dependability to protect us during heightened threat levels. However, my
legislation would give TSA personnel the rights of workers who hold comparable
positions in the federal security industry without granting them the ability to
strike or compromising the TSA administrator's flexibility or powers in times of
emergency.

The current controversy surrounding TSA scanning and pat-down procedures
underscores the need for these improvements. We expect these individuals to
treat us with respect and dignity when we pass through airport security, rarely
giving much thought to the skill, experience and training we expect them to
utilize when screening a would-be terrorist.

The safety of air travelers is no less critical than the protection of our
nation's borders, the Pentagon, the U.S. Capitol, and other critical homeland
security components. It is time to make our skies more secure by granting TSA
workers the same rights and protections as other federal security officers.

Let's put into the system the high standards of excellence we expect to get out
of it.

Rep. Nita Lowey, D-N.Y., is the senior member of the Homeland Security
subcommittee on appropriations.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              314 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 30, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Create jobs by bringing in immigrants;
The U.S. should grease the skids to give foreign entrepreneurs (i.e. job
creators) access to the American dream of business

BYLINE: Katrina Trinko

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 916 words


Mark your calendars: In about 1,500 days, normal life returns. In around  48
months of mortgage payments and credit card bills, of buying groceries and gas,
economic prosperity is scheduled to make a comeback.

An August prediction by the Congressional Budget Office estimates that by the
end of 2014, the unemployment rate will finally decrease to 5%, the regular rate
in a healthy economy.  While various factors could make that estimate hooey, it
remains a reasonable -- and terrifying -- prediction based on the information
currently available.

Lingering for four more years in an era where a reality show titled The Fairy
Jobmother has a built-in audience should be unacceptable.  With unemployment
hovering around the 10% mark for a year-and-a-half now,  8 million jobs lost
since the recession's start,  and no immediate prospect of the economy producing
the 200,000 jobs a month necessary to launch the country back to economic
health,  it's time to fight for any and all jobs.

That's why it's essential that the U.S. attracts and retains international
talent. Harnessing the creative brainpower of the best scientists,
mathematicians and technology whizzes currently living across the globe could
help the nation's economy soar back to prosperity. High-skilled immigrants'
ideas and innovations can launch new companies or revitalize established
businesses, generating jobs for all.

Expand the visa process

But the current U.S. immigration policy doesn't recognize the potential these
new entrepreneurs have for invigorating our stalled economy. Strict caps on the
number of immigrants allowed per year, and numerous laws and rules,  legal tape
and fees,  ensure that for many would-be immigrants, starting a life in the USA
is about as easy as it is for an American to find a non-texting teen. What we
need to do is gradually change our immigration policy, beginning with
establishing visas targeted at entrepreneurs interested in launching start-up
companies.

Currently, a foreign entrepreneur who invests at least $1 million in opening a
new U.S. business that will employ 10 or more people receives an EB-5 (or
employment-based) visa.  A bill sponsored by Sens. John Kerry, D-Mass., and
Richard Lugar, R-Ind., would change that. Instead, foreign entrepreneurs with at
least $250,000 in financial backing from a U.S. investor and the intention of
hiring five or more employees would receive a two-year visa.  Those specific
parameters aren't ideal: Critics point out that companies have been launched
with an average of $31,000  and that some start-ups initially employ fewer than
five workers.   Regardless, it's crucial to make these visas easily accessible.

That's because high-skilled immigrants have a proven record of generating jobs.

From 1995 to 2005, a quarter of start-up technology or engineering companies had
at least one immigrant founder. (At the front end of the Internet boom in 1995,
Jerry Yang, who was born in Taiwan, co-founded tech giant Yahoo.) Those
companies produced 450,000 jobs in the U.S. over the decade, according to a 2007
paper written by Duke University professor Vivek Wadhwa.  To put that number
into context, last year's $814 billion stimulus  is estimated by a November
White House report  to have created or saved 2.7  million-3.7  million jobs.
High-skilled immigrants might not top that number, but whatever jobs they do
create don't cost taxpayers a dime.

And odds are, foreign entrepreneurs could help tens of thousands of Americans
re-enter the working world. Entrepreneur and start-up visa promoter Brad Feld
figures the visas could create 5,000 to 25,000 jobs annually, while the National
Foundation for American Policy (NFAP), a public policy think tank, estimates
that up to 100,000 jobs could be created over three years if 10,000 start-up
visas were issued per year.

H-1B 'brain drain'

In addition to start-up visas, the U.S. should make   H-1B visas easier for
high-skilled workers to obtain. With these visas requiring filing fees up to
$6,000  and allowing workers to stay a maximum of six years,  it's no wonder
that the combination of the recent recession and the expanded economic
opportunities in many would-be immigrants' home countries has resulted in a
sharp decline of those seeking H-1B visas. That trend -- what Wadhwa calls a
"brain drain"  --  is unfortunate because it deprives the U.S. of the chance to
the reap the economic rewards that the innovations and skills of these talented
workers could bring.

Nor does research suggest that H-1B visa holders are snatching jobs that would
otherwise go to Americans. A 2008 study from NFAP found that for every immigrant
hired by a technology company, five Americans were also hired.  That correlation
indicates that there's no need to assume Americans lose when internationals are
hired.

As Americans have painfully learned in recent years, there's no guaranteed
amount of jobs. The upside to that, however, is there's no limit on how many
jobs could be created if there's technology and creativity fueling new
inventions and products.

In these dismal times, why wouldn't we want to do some insourcing, harvesting
the potential that the world's brightest and most talented could bring to U.S.
companies? Ultimately, the best way to restore the American dream to the
millions of Americans unemployed or underemployed might just be to open the
country and share that dream with immigrants all over the world.

Katrina Trinko is a freelance writer and former editorial page intern at USA
TODAY.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Suzy Parker, USA TODAY (Illustration)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              315 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 10, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Good reasons to fill immigrant DREAMs

BYLINE: Raul Reyes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 387 words


For most of his life, Pedro Ramirez was a typical American kid. Yet everything
changed in his senior year of high school when he found out that his parents had
brought him from Mexico when he was 3 -- illegally. After learning of his
status, Ramirez kept it secret. He went on to Fresno State University, where he
was elected student body president. Last month, however, an anonymous tip to the
school newspaper outed him.

Now 22, Ramirez would like to become an attorney, but his future is in limbo.
Lacking papers, he cannot legally work in this country and remains at risk for
deportation. He is a prime candidate to benefit from the DREAM Act.

The House has approved, but the Senate has yet to vote, on the DREAM Act, which
was written with people like Ramirez in mind. The bill would allow undocumented
youth who were brought to the U.S. as children to become eligible for permanent
residency, provided they meet good character provisions  and complete  two years
in the military or college.

There are strong arguments why Congress should approve this measure. For
starters, the Migration Policy Institute, a non-partisan think tank, estimates
that 825,000 students are likely to take advantage of the opportunity. This is a
drop in the bucket compared with the total undocumented population of 11
million. Young people like Ramirez are the cream of the crop, and we should help
them become Americans.

From a business standpoint, since taxpayers have paid for their education, it
would be a poor return on our investment to deport these students. A University
of California study estimated that beneficiaries of the bill could contribute
$1.4 trillion to the economy over the long run. The act would also boost
military enlistment and Latino college enrollment.

Anti-immigration groups such as Numbers USA charge that the plan would lead to
large numbers of newly legal kids bringing their families over. But most of the
DREAM kids are already here with their families.

Last month, a poll by Lake Research Partners found that 66% of voters support
the DREAM Act. So now it is up to the Senate to do the right thing and pass it.
The DREAM Act would not fix our immigration mess, but it could be an
incremental, bipartisan step forward.

Raul Reyes is an attorney in New York and a member of USA TODAY's Board of
Contributors.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              316 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             January 7, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Southern Sudanese in U.S. to vote on independence;
8 polling places for referendum to divide nation

BYLINE: Clint Brewer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 499 words


NASHVILLE -- Thousands of Southern Sudanese immigrants will cast votes in eight
U.S. cities starting Sunday to decide whether their region of the country will
part ways with northern Sudan and its government.

At stake is whether Africa will see its first new country form in more than 20
years while avoiding the kind of violence that has seen Sudan fight two bloody
civil wars since it won independence from the United Kingdom in 1956.

Polling will take place through Jan. 15 in Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Nashville,
Omaha, Phoenix, Seattle and Washington.

African foreign policy experts say the vote and its aftermath will serve as an
important test for U.S. policy in the region, specifically the 2005
Comprehensive Peace Agreement.

The agreement, signed by both Sudan's north and south, established that after a
six-year interim period the south would get a vote for self-determination, said
Andrew Blum, a senior program officer with the United States Institute of Peace,
a non-partisan institution that helps prevent and resolve  conflicts. Juba would
be the south's capital.

The referendum was a cornerstone of that accord, which ended two decades of
civil war that had claimed more than 2 million lives.

"The Comprehensive Peace Agreement was a key U.S. peace building
accomplishment," Blum said. "This is the crux moment for it. The question is,
does what it sought to accomplish come to fruition."

Sudanese immigrants in the U.S. are eager for the referendum and for seeing the
south win its freedom. Ensuing violence that could affect family and friends
back home is on their minds, too.

"I think it is a bad time that we have been going through," said John Majiok, a
Sudanese immigrant in Nashville who supports the vote. "We are going to solve it
without bloodshed, given the time. Hopefully, our people will get freedom."

The international Southern Sudan Referendum Commission, which is running the
balloting, reports almost 8,800 Sudanese immigrants in the U.S. have registered
to vote.

Recent U.S. Census Bureau data show that slightly more than 35,000 people in the
U.S. identify themselves as born in the Sudan.

Should Southern Sudan choose to secede, there is a danger of violence. The most
likely flash points are along the north-south border, particularly around the
oil-rich region of Abeyi, Blum said.

Many Sudanese in the U.S. are from the southern region, including refugees from
the last civil war. The area does not include Darfur, where the north has been
accused by the United Nations of crimes against humanity.

Gatluak Thach, 38, was a child when the second civil war erupted in Sudan. He
eventually fled the war and came to the USA.

In Nashville to register for the referendum, Thach noted this would be the first
time he would get to vote for anything concerning his country. "This is the
first time that many get to vote for Sudan," he said. "First time to have a
voice for Sudan."

Brewer also reports for The Tennessean in Nashville.

Contributing: Chris Echegaray, The Tennessean.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, USA TODAY, Sources: CIA World Factbook
South Sudan Medical Journal (Map)
PHOTO, B/W, Khaled Desouki, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              317 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 27, 2011 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Number of U.S. Muslims to double;
Study looks at future of Islamic population

BYLINE: Cathy Lynn Grossman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 405 words


Muslims will be more than one-quarter of the Earth's population by 2030,
according to a study released today.

The number of U.S. Muslims will more than double, so you are as likely to know a
Muslim here in 20 years as you are to know someone Jewish or Episcopalian today.

Those are among key findings in "The Future of the Global Muslim Population,"
the first comprehensive examination of Muslims, whose numbers have been growing
at a faster rate than all other groups combined.

"We're not surprised. Our mosques and schools are already overflowing," says
Imam Johari Abdul-Malik, outreach director of a mosque in Falls Church, Va.

The Pew Forum on Religion & Public Life analyzed statistics from United Nations
data and census material from more than 200 countries and studies by 50
international demographers.

If immigration patterns and Muslims' comparatively higher birth rates continue,
Pew projects:

*U.S. Muslims will go from a tiny minority now, less than 1% of the nation, to
1.7%. That's a jump from 2.6 million people in 2010 to 6.2 million.

*Muslim immigration to the USA and Muslims' share of all new legal permanent
residents will continue to rise. Most of the immigrants will arrive from South
Asia, the Middle East and Africa.

*Though 64.5% of U.S. Muslims today were born abroad, that percentage will fall
to 55% as the number of native-born Muslims rises.

*Worldwide, Muslims will climb from 23.4% to 26.4% of the population, going from
1.6 billion people in 2010 to 2.2 billion in 2030, concentrated in
Muslim-majority countries.

Just as now, about 3% of the global Muslim population will live in the world's
most developed regions.

In several northern and eastern European nations, the percentage of Muslims will
near or pass 10%, raising their political and cultural clout, particularly in
urban areas.

Alan Cooperman, Pew Forum associate director of research, says the Muslim rate
is "growing but slowing" and political and economic uncertainties can make
dramatic shifts in projections.

"The study does not project Muslims' religiosity or their politics," Cooperman
says. "People will say, 'I don't care how many Muslims there will be, I care how
many radical Muslim terrorists there will be.' But no one knows that."

Ibrahim Hooper, spokesman for the Council on American-Islamic Relations, says,
"We Muslims need to redouble our outreach efforts because of growing challenges
from the vocal minority who see us as suspect."

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Frank Pompa, USA TODAY, Source: The Future of the
Global Muslim Population, Pew Forum on Religion & Public Life (Bar graph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              318 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           February 17, 2011 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

U.S. agencies joining probe of fatal shooting in Mexico;
One ICE agent killed, another hurt as they drove through high-crime area

BYLINE: David Agren

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 433 words


MEXICO CITY -- U.S. and Mexican authorities Wednesday promised a full
investigation into the attack on two Mexico City-based U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement special agents as they drove through a state rife with
organized-crime violence.

ICE said they were driving Tuesday from Mexico City to the city of Monterrey --
more than 600 miles -- when "unknown assailants" attacked them.

Five-year veteran Special Agent Jaime Zapata of Brownsville, Texas, died in the
shooting, ICE said. A second special agent was not identified, but ICE said he
was shot twice in the leg and is in a hospital in the United States.

The U.S. Homeland Security and Justice departments joined a task force headed by
the FBI to work with Mexico in investigating the attack.

"Working with our Mexican counterparts, we have already launched an aggressive
investigation, and this joint task force will ensure that every available
resource is used to bring the perpetrators of this terrible crime to justice,"
Attorney General Eric Holder said.

The agents were attacked in the central state of San Luis Potosi, which has
turned violent in recent months as a turf war between the Gulf Cartel and its
former armed wing, the Zetas, spills southward from the border region. The
newspaper Reforma reported the men were driving an armored SUV with diplomatic
plates -- a transportation choice questioned by some observers.

"Why you have agents drive ... across Mexico is something hard to understand,"
said George Grayson, a government professor at the College of William & Mary in
Williamsburg, Va.

The number of U.S. agents based in Mexico has expanded in the past four years
during a Mexico-led crackdown on organized crime that has claimed 34,000 lives,
Grayson said.

ICE investigates drugs, money laundering and the smuggling of weapons and
contraband in Mexico. The motives for the attack remain unknown.

Security expert Pedro Isnardo de la Cruz of the National Autonomous University
of Mexico suspects organized crime, saying the attack appeared professional and
not random. "There's been strong penetration of the (state) government by the
cartels operating in the zone," he said.

Zapata's violent death marks perhaps the highest-profile slaying of a U.S. agent
in Mexico since the 1985 murder of Drug Enforcement Administration agent Enrique
Camarena in Guadalajara.

U.S. officials responded to the Camarena slaying by mounting a massive
investigation into the murder, which soured governmental relations and led to
the arrests of cartel boss Miguel Angel Felix Gallardo, "The Godfather," and
several of Gallardo's associates.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              319 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 15, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Hispanic population outpaced estimates

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 394 words


The Hispanic population grew more dramatically than expected in states with
smaller and newer immigrant populations, according to an analysis of Census data
out today.

The 2010 Census counted almost 600,000 more Hispanics than the Census Bureau had
estimated in the 33 states for which data have been released so far, according
to the Pew Hispanic Center. Twenty-eight states had more Hispanics than
expected.

The Census count of 38.7 million Hispanics is 1.5% higher than the bureau's
estimates.

"Hispanics are in some places growing faster than we had thought," Pew
demographer Jeffrey Passel says. "This sort of broad pattern suggests
immigration into these new areas was a bit higher."

The Census found 186,000 Hispanics in Alabama -- 26,000 more than estimated. In
North Carolina, Hispanics total 800,000, or 54,000 more than was estimated.
Louisiana, where construction jobs soared after Hurricane Katrina, the Census
counted 22,000 Hispanics -- or 13.2% -- more than estimated.

The underestimates show that immigrants continue to spread into the South and
the Midwest from traditional gateways, such as California and New York.

"When they do these population estimates, they build on existing data," Passel
says. "The data don't always pick up on new trends."

In Arizona, the opposite happened: The Census counted almost 1.9 million
Hispanics, 8.7% or 180,000 fewer than estimated.

Arizona passed tough immigration laws and beefed up enforcement against the
undocumented, which pushed some out of state and discouraged others from
responding to the government count. Arizona's participation in the 2010 Census
was 69%, below the national rate of 74%.

"The whole toxic environment against immigrants in Arizona probably contributed
to the suppression of the count," says Arturo Vargas, of the National
Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials.

The recession was expected to encourage immigrants to return to their countries
of origin, but it does not seem to have had a significant impact.

"It could be an indication that what we had thought was a falloff in immigration
is not as severe," says Steven Camarota of the Center for Immigration Studies,
which advocates immigration controls.

In 2000, the estimate of 274.5 million was about 7 million short of the Census
count. Much of the gap was due to a low estimate of Hispanics -- mostly illegal
immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              320 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              April 8, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Emily's case exposes 'anchor baby' plight

BYLINE: Commentary By Raul Reyes

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 435 words


Four-year-old Emily Ruiz arrived home in New York about a week ago  after a
visit to relatives in Guatemala. The flight was not your typical homecoming. It
was her second attempt at re-entering the country. The first time, she was, in
effect, deported -- despite being born in the USA.

On March 11, Emily and her grandfather were returning to New York from
Guatemala. Their flight was diverted to Washington, D.C., where her grandfather
was found to have an immigration violation from the 1990s. He was detained, as
was Emily. There are two versions of what happened next.

Emily's father says he received a call from a Customs and Border Protection
official, explaining the situation and asking about his immigration status. He
admitted that he and his wife were undocumented.  Then, he says, he was given a
choice: Emily could be placed in a Virginia juvenile facility, or she could
return to Guatemala with her grandfather. Afraid of losing his child to foster
care or adoption, Ruiz let Emily leave the country with her grandfather.

Custom officials, however, say Ruiz was given the chance to retrieve  Emily. Her
father, who speaks limited English, says he was not aware of such an offer.

I find Emily's case troubling, as it appears she was denied entry because of her
parents' status. She had a right to re-entry, not to mention due process.
"Mixed status" families -- undocumented parents with U.S.-born children -- are a
byproduct of our broken immigration system. According to the Pew Center, in
2009, 4 million American kids had at least one undocumented parent. Immigration
officials also might have violated regulations in dealing with Emily. As a
result of a 1997 Supreme Court case, immigration agencies must make more than a
good faith effort to reunite children with their families.  It's debatable
whether the agency met this standard by offering Ruiz the chance to come get
Emily from more than 200 miles away.

Our enforcement-only approach to immigration doesn't allow for the nuance needed
to deal with such mixed-status families.  We should not be deporting -- or
essentially rejecting -- our citizens. A path to legalization for people like
Emily's parents remains the only way out of our current mess.

While Emily's story had a happy ending -- so far, no action has been taken
against her parents, though her grandfather remained in Guatemala -- Customs and
Border Protection should investigate her case.  It looks as if someone made a
mistake in treating a U.S.-born child as less than a full citizen.

Raul Reyes is an attorney in New York and a member of USA TODAY's Board of
Contributors.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W

DOCUMENT-TYPE: THE FORUM

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              321 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 11, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Foreigners are taking their tech talents back home;
Silicon Valley's loss is brain gain for India, China

BYLINE: Jon Swartz, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1732 words


At a time when the U.S. could use all the tech jobs it can get, Kunal Bahl is
creating hundreds of them  in India.

The rub is he wanted to stay in the U.S. and build a company here, but visa
issues forced him to leave and start SnapDeal in his native country. Four
hundred employees later, he's ready to take on Groupon.

"Some things happen for the better," says Bahl, 28, whose H-1B visa permitting
him to work in the U.S. expired in 2007. "I see huge opportunity in India
because there are no mature companies, like Google and Microsoft, over there.
The feeling  is like  in the U.S. in 1999."

The numbers speak for themselves:  SnapDeal, with $20 million in annual revenue,
is on pace to top $100 million next year, he boasts. It is hiring 70 people a
month.

"Rather than dreaming about being acquired by Groupon, (Bahl) dreams of
acquiring it. This kid is building the Amazon.com of India," says Vivek Wadhwa,
a visiting scholar at University of California-Berkeley  who released a report
on immigration in late April, reflecting the trend.

What's happening is the nation is experiencing a brain drain.

"For the first time, immigrants have better opportunities outside the U.S.,"
Wadhwa says. Indeed, nearly half of 264 immigrants surveyed by Wadhwa said they
wanted to start companies back home.

Silicon Valley may be the cradle for tech start-ups, but some foreign-born
executives, engineers and scientists are leaving because of better opportunities
back home, strict immigration laws here and California's steep cost of living.

President Obama highlighted the quandary in a speech Tuesday in El Paso. He
pointed out that immigration reform is essential and that Intel, Google, Yahoo
and eBay were all founded by immigrants.

There are no hard data available, but authorities agree the number of
foreign-born workers returning to India and China annually is in the tens of
thousands. The Chinese Ministry of Education estimates the number of Chinese who
returned to China last year was a record 134,800, up 25% from 108,000 in 2009.

The Valley's loss is apparently India's gain. Once a haven for top-flight
software engineers yet lagging in Internet use and e-commerce, India is now
flush with Internet service companies vying to become the country's version of
Amazon.com, Groupon or Expedia.

In China, where billions have been invested in research and development with
limited success, American-educated and trained Chinese are returning home and
playing a key role in helping major R&D labs innovate, Wadhwa says.

At the same time, the IPO market for tech companies in China is simmering.
RenRen, the country's largest social-networking site by page views, surged in
trading during its stock market debut this month. NetQin Mobile, an Internet
security software developer, filed for a public offering this month.

The combination of  limited visas for foreign-born engineers and a dearth of
college-educated engineers in the U.S. could help create a new wave of
billion-dollar tech companies in India. Entrepreneurs such as Bahl are
relocating to India and elsewhere to fulfill their start-up dreams  and compete
with the very companies they once worked for in the U.S.

The reverse brain drain is thick with irony: While talented engineers return
home to India, China and elsewhere by choice or by law, U.S. tech companies are
furiously looking to hire engineering and tech-related talent.

The mini-exodus has also fomented a thriving industry of Valley-based
investments in India-based tech start-ups. Vinod Dham, often called the "father
of the Pentium chip," is founder of NEA-Indo US Venture Partners, which has put
money into SnapDeal and other Indian start-ups.

Naren Gupta, co-founder of Nexus Venture Partners, has invested heavily in
India-based tech firms, including PubMatic. The 5-year-old start-up, which helps
publishers maximize their online ad revenue, was established in India and the
U.S. but maintains its 100-person development team in India. "It is easier to
find and retain engineers in India," says CEO Rajeev Goel, who has dual Indian
and U.S. citizenship. "And it is more affordable."

"This market definitely has a lot of potential for technology professionals,"
says Amit Somani, 39, who earned a master's  at the University of Wisconsin and
worked at IBM for 12 years before returning to India in 2007. He's now chief
product officer at MakeMyTrip.com, India's largest e-commerce company.

Eric Diep hasn't given up entirely on the U.S. But most employees at his
Redmond, Wash.-based social-gaming start-up, A Thinking Ape, are in another
office in his native Canada. The 3-year-old company is shifting people to
Vancouver, where it says engineering talent is more affordable, the government
is more supportive and work visas are less hassle.

"It is super hard to hire talent in the U.S.," says Sabrina Parsons, CEO of Palo
Alto Software, which provides software and Internet services to small
businesses. The 50-person firm is struggling to fill four openings for Java
developers.

A national issue

With tech workers in such high demand yet visas in short supply,  Obama is
committed to an overhaul of the nation's immigration laws and wants to push
Congress to pass a bill. Often, a lack of work visas blocks foreign talent from
staying.  In the early 2000s, the national cap on work visas was 195,000. Today,
it is about 65,000.

"If we bring high-skilled immigrants to come here, why wouldn't we want them to
stay?" Obama said during a town hall meeting at Facebook in April. "They are job
generators. We don't want them starting an Intel in China or France. We want
them starting it here."

The talent-exodus problems don't end there. Fewer foreign students are coming to
the Valley to earn engineering and science degrees, according to the Silicon
Valley Index, which takes the economic pulse of the Valley each year. Obama said
he is confident about passage of a federal education law by 2012  to help
schools "do a better job of math and science education for women, Hispanics and
blacks," the president said, to loud applause at Facebook. "We have to lift our
game up for the Internet, math and science."

Previous research by Wadhwa revealed 52% of Silicon Valley start-ups were
launched by immigrants, many of them highly educated products of Stanford,
UC-Berkeley and other schools.

"It makes no sense (that) we put up barriers to talented people," says Brad
Feld, a tech venture capitalist and co-founder of Startup Visa Project, a
grass-roots initiative.

Feld's organization has helped shape the Startup Visa Act of 2010, reintroduced
this year by Sens. John Kerry, D-Mass., and Richard Lugar, R-Ind. It would grant
immigrant entrepreneurs a two-year visa if they have the support of a qualified
U.S. investor for their start-up venture.

"We want to establish a way for the smartest and most entrepreneurial
individuals in the world to come to the United States and create jobs," Lugar
says. "Many are already here studying at our great universities. Helping them
stay to invest in their ideas and create jobs benefits all Americans."

But things are good enough economically in India and China that there is little
incentive for many foreign-born to come to the U.S.  let alone stay.

Rather than worry about his job status, Bahl returned home and in short order
built one of India's fastest-growing companies. SnapDeal  which sells travel
packages, consumer goods such as shoes and electronics, and services for
restaurants  has blossomed into the No.1-rated e-commerce site in India,
according to Dataquest magazine and Sapient. SnapDeal is also listed among the
top 1,000 sites in the world, says DoubleClick, an online advertising company
owned by Google.

"E-commerce is growing four times faster than retail in India," says Bahl, who
studied at the University of Pennsylvania and spent 2006-07 at Microsoft. "There
is a general propensity to buy things online in India for convenience and access
to aspirations."

Most of SnapDeal's hires are from India, where the company doesn't have to
compete with Google and Microsoft for workers.

"After Groupon implodes, we will buy them," he says, laughing.

Irony abounds

Many employers note the irony of competing with the very people they wanted to
retain or hire.

"That great engineer you want? He or she has easier access to capital and (is)
starting companies with their friends, who are also top talent," says Michael
Morell, managing partner at executive-recruiting agency Riviera Partners. Morell
has helped place 200 developers at tech start-ups over the past year.

"A great engineer is 10 times more valuable than a good engineer," Morell says.
"There is a war for top 10% talent."

Start-ups have adopted a number of strategies to cope with the dearth of
top-flight workers.

Business data-sharing service Box.net is spending a chunk of the $50 million in
funding it landed in February to  hire 40 people in the first quarter.  It plans
to double its workforce, to up to 240, this year. "Google has more money than
God, so we need cash to compete," says Aaron Levie, CEO of Box.net.

The cap on H-1B visas has prompted Meebo to use Skype and interactive
whiteboards to collaborate with its six workers overseas, says Sandy Jen,
Meebo's co-founder and vice president of engineering.

Many tech companies simply are going offshore to hire talent. The Praetorian
Group, an online media company for first responders such as police officers,
firefighters and paramedics, has outsourced about 14% of its 70 jobs to Web
developers in Russia.

Ooyala, an online video-content service that works with Disney, Yahoo Japan and
others, has a hybrid solution: 100 hires over the past year, most of them in the
U.S., with pickups of engineers, support staff and salespeople in Mexico,
Australia, Japan and the U.K. The 130-person company plans to add 50 more
engineers this year.

In the end, talented tech workers who remain in the U.S. can expect to reap the
benefits. The confluence of more start-ups, a tech-hiring binge and limited
visas has set off a furious bidding war for talent  whether for folks looking
for work or those comfortably employed.

"The winners are clearly those being wooed  here and abroad," says Rob McGovern,
CEO of Jobfox, an online job service that has placed employees in the U.S. and
helped outsource work to Pakistan and the Philippines. "The surprising number of
people returning to India also reflects rising salaries there."

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Karl Gelles, USA TODAY (Illustration)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              322 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 5, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Sworn on the 4th of July;
Thousands get to mark citizenship this week during nation's 235th birthday
celebrations

BYLINE: Mary Beth Marklein, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 698 words


Amilia Adri fled her native Togo, West Africa, in 1997 to escape political
persecution. Mexico-born Miguel Hernandez was brought to the United States by
his parents 22 years ago, when he was a toddler. And a job offer enticed
Kyeongsook Oh, a software engineer, to leave her home in South Korea for America
in 1999.

On Monday, their journeys led them here, to the historic home of the USA's first
president, where they and 97 other immigrants  100 in all, from 41 countries
were sworn in as naturalized U.S. citizens as their new nation celebrated
Independence Day.

"Today is an outstanding day. I can't explain the feeling," says Hernandez, 26,
a Marine based in Quantico, Va., as he cools off under a shade tree after the
ceremony, daughter Mikayla, 3,  in his arms. "Now, I'm 100% part of this
country."

Each year, about 680,000 U.S. immigrants from all corners of the globe take the
Oath of Allegiance, in which they promise to "support and defend the
Constitution and laws of the United States of America against all enemies," says
the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, which conducts naturalization
ceremonies year-round.

To mark the nation's 235th birthday, more than 24,000 immigrants over the past
week were invited to celebrate in such historic locations as George Washington's
Mount Vernon Estate and Gardens here, Independence Hall in Philadelphia,
Monticello in Charlottesville, Va., and aboard the USS Constitution in
Charlestown, Mass. Nineteen ceremonies were held Monday.

Eight celebrations, including events in Baghdad on Monday, and Kabul and Kuwait
last week, were held for members of the military, who are given priority
treatment as a thank you for their service to the country. Immigrants who are
lawful permanent residents  are eligible to serve, and more than 70,000 members
of the military have been naturalized since September 2001.

Sarah Taylor, a district director of the U.S. citizenship and immigration
services, says officials are "working more and more with the military" to
naturalize eligible servicemembers before they deploy.

At the Mount Vernon ceremony, men and women in uniform filled the front row, and
Army Spc. Gusmer Jamil Herbas Rojas, 21, a native of Bolivia who returned last
month after serving a year in Iraq, led the crowd in reciting the Pledge of
Allegiance.

Last week, Citizenship and Immigration Services  Director Alejandro Mayorkas
said he notified the widow of a servicemember recently killed in action that her
husband would be offered citizenship posthumously. "It's really breathtaking
that individuals serve in the armed forces and risk their lives for a country
and its principles, a country of which they are not yet citizens," Mayorkas said
in a phone call.

During Monday's ceremony, dignitaries from the past and present offered their
congratulations, and reminded the nation's newest citizens of their rights and
responsibilities.

"Today, you begin to write your own chapter of America's great story," said Mark
Zuckerman, deputy director of the White House Domestic Policy Council. He urged
participants to "dream big, live large."

One speaker, Gen. George Washington (as portrayed by Philadelphian Dean
Malissa), reminded the audience that when the founding fathers signed the
Declaration of Independence on July 4, 1776, "We were the only nation on earth
not under the control of a king or queen"  or similarly  unelected leader. "We
alone raised up a nation of laws that ultimately empowered all of its citizens.
You are now part of that."

While each new citizen's story is unique, many of those gathered here say they
were drawn here by the promise of a better life.

"It opens more doors for me," says Hernandez, an Iraq War veteran.

"We all know America is the land of opportunity. We believe in hard work,
regardless of what type of job you do," says Nepal native Gopi Upreti, 57, of
Fairfax, Va., who with his wife, Samita, 49, became citizens Monday.

The Upretis, who moved to the United States six years ago after Gopi retired as
a professor, wanted their two sons to earn U.S. college degrees, just as Gopi
Upreti had decades earlier. "If you have determination, if you have some talent,
you can achieve something."

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              323 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 1, 2011 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Nation briefs

BYLINE: From staff and wire reports

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 586 words


A New Mexico judge on Wednesday blocked Republican Gov. Susana Martinez's
administration from requiring some immigrants to recertify their driver's
licenses and verify whether they continue to live in the state.

Judge Sarah Singleton issued an order temporarily halting the license
verification program while it's being challenged in court.

A lawsuit was filed last week against the administration's plan to check a
random sample of 10,000 license holders who are foreign nationals to determine
their residency.

New Mexico is one of only three states -- the others are Washington and Utah --
where an illegal immigrant can get a driver's license because no proof of
citizenship is required.

CDC: Sugary drink habit widespread

One in 20 people drinks the equivalent of more than four cans of soda each day,
even though health officials say sweetened beverages should be limited to less
than half a can.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention released the  figures in what it
said is the government's first report to offer national statistics for both
adults and kids.

According to the CDC, about half the population drinks a sugared beverage each
day. Males consume more than females, with teenage boys leading the pack. On
average, males ages 12 through 19 drink the equivalent of nearly two cans of
soda each day.

Feinberg to oversee stage collapse funds

Indiana turned to the man who oversaw victims compensation for the 9/11
terrorist attacks and the BP oil spill for help deciding who will receive money
donated to help victims of a deadly stage collapse at the state fair.

Indiana State Fair Commission Chairman Andre Lacy said victims compensation
specialist Kenneth Feinberg is donating his services to distribute the money "as
soon as we can."

Seven people died and at least four dozen were injured Aug. 13 after high winds
toppled the stage scaffolding.  About $263,000 has been donated so far. That
does not include about $554,000 in concert proceeds donated by the bands Maroon
5 and Train.

Judge allows horse roundup, bars abuse

A federal judge in Nevada took the federal government to task for misconduct by
a helicopter contractor during a mustang roundup.

U.S. District Judge Howard McKibben granted a rare emergency order sought by
wild horse protection advocates who argue that all roundups on public lands are
inhumane and illegal.

He denied a request to halt the roundup,  but he issued a temporary restraining
order banning mistreatment of mustangs such as that the Wild Horse Freedom
Federation said it caught on camera last month. The Bureau of Land Management
denied the group's claims that a helicopter pilot  struck a horse with a
helicopter skid.

The roundup of nearly 1,300 horses, which began July 20, is scheduled to end
this week.

Also

GAUTIER, Miss. -- Five people died in a multivehicle accident on Interstate 10
involving cars, a tractor-trailer and a trailer carrying several horses, Jackson
County Sheriff Mike Byrd said.

HARRISBURG, Pa. -- John Perzel, 61, onetime speaker of the state House of
Representatives, pleaded guilty to eight charges stemming from a public
corruption investigation, making the Republican the highest-ranking Pennsylvania
politician convicted in the 4-year inquiry.

WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. -- Katia became the second hurricane of the season in the
Atlantic Ocean, but it's too soon to know whether it will come near the U.S.,
the National Hurricane Center said Wednesday night. Katia, with sustained winds
of 75 mph, was about 1,800 miles east of the Leeward Islands.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              324 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            September 2, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Some detainees win faster bail hearings

BYLINE: From staff and wire reports

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 575 words


The Justice Department cannot hold immigrants fighting deportation for years
without bail hearings, a U.S. appeals court ruled Thursday, echoing the rulings
in two other federal circuits.

It was unreasonable to detain a Pennsylvania man for nearly three years as he
fought deportation to his native Senegal over a 1995 drug case, the 3rd U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals panel ruled.

The ruling in Philadelphia grants other detainees held within the 3rd Circuit --
which includes Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Delaware -- the right to faster bail
hearings. The 9th Circuit, based in California, and the 6th Circuit, based in
Kentucky, have issued similar rulings, according to Judy Rabinovitz,  of the
Immigrants' Rights Project at the American Civil Liberties Union.

The ACLU, arguing for plaintiff Cheikh Diop, said  500 to 1,000 of  35,000
people then detained by the Department of Homeland Security were held at least
six months without bail hearings.

Ohio first to make private sale of prison

A lockup along the shores of Lake Erie has become the first state prison in the
nation to be sold to a private company.

Lake Erie Correctional Institution in northeastern Ohio's Ashtabula County is
the only one of five state prisons up for sale that will be sold, the state
said. Corrections Corporation of America (CCA) will buy it for $72.7 million,
more than the $50million needed from the privatization effort to balance the
state's prison budget.

CCA, the nation's largest prison operator, takes control of the Lake Erie
facility in Conneaut on Dec. 31, pending the outcome of a lawsuit challenging
the constitutionality of the move.

Mansion death ruled suicide, sister says

Investigators concluded that a woman found  hanging, bound and naked in a
Coronado, Calif., mansion in July had committed suicide, the woman's sister
said.

Mary Zahau-Loehner of St. Joseph, Mo., said  she was disappointed by the
decision about the death of her sister, Rebecca Zahau, 32.

Zahau's body was found July 13 hanging  from a makeshift noose with her hands
and feet bound. She died two days after Max Shacknai, 6, suffered fatal injuries
in a fall at the same house.

The home is owned by Max's father and Zahau's boyfriend, Jonah Shacknai, founder
and CEO of  Medicis Pharmaceutical. The San Diego Sheriff's Department plans a
news briefing today  about its investigation.--William M. Welch

CDC: Antibiotics prescribed less to kids

The push to get pediatricians to stop prescribing antibiotics for the wrong
illnesses is paying off, a new government report found.

Since the early 1990s, there has been a 10% drop in prescription rates for
antibiotics for kids 14 and younger, the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention (CDC) reported. The CDC found larger declines, about 25%, in how
often doctors used antibiotics against sore throats and colds.

Va. city limits flying Confederate flag

A rural Virginia city where Robert E. Lee and Thomas "Stonewall" Jackson are
buried voted to limit flying the Confederate flag on poles on several downtown
streets.

The  vote  by the Lexington City Council allows only the Virginia, U.S. and city
flags to be displayed. Personal displays of the flag are not affected. About 100
people led by the Sons of Confederate Veterans rallied before the vote,  and the
group said it would legally challenge the ban.

Also

LOS ANGELES -- A magnitude-4.2 earthquake  rattled  the Los Angeles region, but
police said there were no immediate reports of damage.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              325 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 16, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Secure Communities fails original goal

BYLINE: Raul Reyes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 399 words


Last month, the Department of Homeland Security  got an earful from a crowd in
Arlington, Va. In the last of a series of public meetings held around the
country, a task force heard speaker after speaker denounce the  Secure
Communities program.

Secure Communities is an immigration enforcement effort that began in 2008 as a
voluntary program but is now mandatory. Ordinarily, anyone  arrested has his
fingerprints run through an FBI database to check for a criminal history. Under
Secure Communities,  fingerprints  are also sent to DHS to check for immigration
violations. Sounds reasonable, but  the program has strayed far from its mission
of deporting dangerous criminals who are here  illegally. In practice, the
program does more harm than good and should be suspended.

DHS says the program prioritizes the removal of those "who pose a potential
threat to public safety." Yet  from October 2008 through this  July,  74% of
those deported under the program had low-level criminal records or none at all.
Of the 126,705 removed  during that period, only 26% were the type of  offenders
the program is designed to apprehend.

Immigrant advocates say  the program tears families apart and spurs racial
profiling. Law enforcement officials  also say  that when  police are seen as de
facto immigration agents, witnesses and crime victims are afraid to come
forward, making  neighborhoods less safe, not more secure. I support efforts to
control our borders. The Obama administration's shift to cracking down and
charging employers instead of arresting undocumented workers themselves shows
that effective immigration enforcement is possible.

Even so, I understand why hearings on Secure Communities resulted in a public
outcry.  DHS is forcing the program on local governments without good faith. In
July, a U.S.  court  found  "there is ample evidence that ICE and DHS have gone
out of their way to mislead the public about Secure Communities." The program
was never intended to be an immigration dragnet, sweeping up as many
undocumented immigrants as possible.

DHS failed to prioritize its immigration enforcement efforts. The result has
damaged the department's credibility, antagonized local lawmakers and police,
and compromised  public safety. To me, that's three strikes. The program should
be phased out.

Raul Reyes is an attorney in New York and a member of USA TODAY's Board of
Contributors.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              326 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 23, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Perry, Romney point out vulnerabilities;
Immigration, jobs debated at 3rd GOP forum

BYLINE: Susan Page

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 1012 words


Call it a Sunshine State smackdown.

In the third Republican presidential debate in three weeks, immigration joined
Social Security as an issue creating fireworks between the two men leading in
national polls.

Former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney accused Texas Gov. Rick Perry of
creating a "magnet" in Texas for illegal immigrants by offering in-state tuition
at colleges for children regardless of their immigration status.

"That shouldn't be allowed," Romney said. "It makes no sense at all."

Perry, drawing boos from an audience of 5,000 at the Orange County Convention
Center, defended the Texas law. "If you say we should not educate children who
come into our state  by no fault of their own, I don't think you have a heart,"
he replied.

Nine GOP presidential contenders bashed President Obama, vowed allegiance to the
Constitution's 10th Amendment on states' rights and detailed the federal
department they would most like to eliminate in a two-hour debate sponsored by
Fox News and Google.

Former Pennsylvania senator Rick Santorum joined Romney in attacking Perry on
immigration, and businessman Herman Cain spoke with emotion about his battle
with cancer. Former Utah governor Jon Huntsman suggested the other candidates
could rise and seize the nomination because the two contenders at the center of
the stage "might bludgeon each other to death."

From the start, however, the spotlight was on Perry and Romney, and the other
candidates sometimes struggled to get in the conversation.

The Texas governor, who shot to the top of national polls soon after joining the
race six weeks ago, was on the defensive for much of the evening, batting back
criticism on Social Security, immigration and his lack of a specific jobs
proposal.

Toward the end of the two-hour debate, he seemed to flag, and his position on
immigration put him at odds with his Republican base.

Romney was direct, confident and prepared, showing the benefits of his debate
experience in two presidential runs. He sometimes simply deflected Perry's
attacks by replying, "Nice try" before moving on to make his preferred point. "I
don't think he knows what he's talking about in that regard," he said when asked
about Perry's criticism that he is "Obama-lite" because of the health care law
he signed.

He suggested Perry was a career politician. "I was in government four years," he
said. "I didn't inhale."

They each hit on what are likely their biggest vulnerabilities: Perry's
suggestion in his 2010 book that Social Security was unconstitutional and should
be administered by the states, and Romney's signature on a Massachusetts
health-care law similar  to Obama's federal program.

Romney said Perry was trying to back away from what he wrote just six months
ago. "There's a Rick Perry out there" espousing that, Romney said to laughter.
"You better find that Rick Perry and get him to stop saying that."

An hour later, Perry turned a similar charge against Romney. "I think Americans
just don't know sometimes which Mitt Romney they're dealing with," he said,
saying Romney had changed positions on gun control and abortion rights. "I mean,
we'll wait until tomorrow and see which Mitt Romney we're really talking to
tonight."

He attacked Romney as an unreliable conservative and accused him of trying to
back away from the Massachusetts health care law

Four months before the Iowa caucuses, the Republican field is beginning to
coalesce. Perry and Romney led the GOP field, at 31% and 24% in a USA
TODAY/Gallup Poll taken last weekend. Paul was the only other candidate in
double digits, at 13%.

Also participating were Minnesota Rep. Michele Bachmann, Texas Rep. Ron Paul,
House speaker Newt Gingrich and former New Mexico governor Gary Johnson.

Bachmann was struggling for traction just six weeks after she won the Iowa straw
poll, only to see Perry peel away support among conservative evangelicals and
Tea Party supporters. She was at 5% in the USA TODAY survey, tied with  Gingrich
and  Cain.

She urged conservatives not to "settle" for a candidate who didn't share their
values, saying Obama  hadn't hit "the basement" yet. "That's why we need to
choose a candidate who represents conservatives and constitutional conservative
positions," Bachmann said.

Earlier in the day, at the Florida Faith and Freedom Coalition meeting, Santorum
took a similar tack, urging religious conservatives to look at the Republican
contenders' records.  "Don't just look at what box they check, what pledge they
take; take a look at what bullets and arrows they've taken for the causes they
believe in," he said.

In the debate, Perry was asked about his relationship with former president
George W. Bush, with whom he shares a Texas drawl but has had sometimes prickly
relations. "We've got a great rapport," Perry said, saying the two men talk on
"a relatively regular basis."

Still, he noted that he had been "very vocal" in disagreeing with Bush on
creating the Medicare Part D drug benefit and on the No Child Left Behind
education law. "It gets back to the federal government has no business telling
states how to educate our children," he said.

There's still time for the Republican standings to shift, of course. Four years
ago this month, former New York mayor Rudy Giuliani was at the top of the Gallup
Poll at 30%, followed by former Tennessee senator Fred Thompson at 22%. The
eventual nominee, Arizona Sen. John McCain, trailed in third place at 18%.

Even so, history indicates that the hurdles are high for contenders who haven't
broken into double digits by now. In the past two decades, only once has a
candidate who was in single digits at this point ended up winning the
nomination. (That was Democrat Bill Clinton in 1992.)

Johnson, at 1% in some national polls,  drew hoots of laughter with a jab at the
White House economic policy.

"My neighbor's two dogs have created more shovel-ready jobs than the president
of the United States," he said.

Within minutes on Twitter, debate-watchers noted that was a slightly-modified
version of a joke Rush Limbaugh had used on his talk-radio show earlier in the
day.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              327 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 28, 2011 Wednesday
                                 CHASE EDITION

Medicaid waiting period presents dilemma;
Immigrant's family facing huge bills

BYLINE: William D'Urso, The Arizona Republic

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 409 words


The young wife of a 23-year-old man who collapsed during a soccer game may face
a difficult choice: take her severely brain-injured husband to Mexico for
treatment or seek hospice care here.

That's because Jesus Cornelio, a Mexican immigrant who originally came to the
United States about 10 years ago on a tourist visa with his family is not
eligible for Medicaid.

His family says he was in the process of applying for a green card and received
his Social Security card just this Saturday. Cornelio married his wife, Evelyn,
a U.S. citizen, in April 2010.

Monica Coury, a spokeswoman for the state's Medicaid program said benefits only
are available to people who have been legal residents for at least five years.

The five-year waiting period exists for most legal residents nationwide,
according to Brian Cook, spokesman for the federal Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services. The waiting period, he said, is required by a federal law
passed in 1996. There is no waiting period for those who become U.S. citizens,
Cook said.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials said they could not confirm
Cornelio's status without a signed release from the family.

Jesus Cornelio collapsed Sept. 19 while he was playing soccer, stricken by a
heart ailment, Evelyn Cornelio said. She also said he was without oxygen for 10
minutes and suffered severe brain damage as a result. He is  on life support,
maintains some brain activity and can still obey basic commands, she said.

Jesus Cornelio is being treated at Banner Good Samaritan Medical Center. Thus
far, he has incurred about $120,000 in medical expenses, his wife said.

Evelyn Cornelio, 23, says  doctors have told her that her husband could live
about four days off of life support.

Banner Health declined to comment directly on Cornelio's condition and status.

"Our focus remains on ensuring the best options for the ongoing care of Mr.
Cornelio. Without the family's consent, we are unable to discuss this matter
further due to privacy regulations," Banner Health said in a statement. "We are
hopeful that Mrs. Cornelio will speak to hospital caregivers to further discuss
the care options for her husband that have been presented to her."

Evelyn Cornelio said she originally had until Monday  to decide which option to
take for her husband, but she requested more time to make the decision. Sandra
Valdez, president of the Arizona Dream Act, said Banner Health has given her
seven more days to decide.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              328 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 5, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

On immigration issues, Romney's record is thin;
Board appointee says governor 'ill-informed'

BYLINE: Jackie Kucinich, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 776 words


Former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney has slammed Texas Gov. Rick Perry as
soft on immigration while touting his own conservative positions on the issue.

But beyond a handful of decisions, including one issued the month before he left
office and never fully implemented, Romney's experience with immigration issues
in his home state is sparse, according to immigration experts in Massachusetts.

As governor, Romney moved from being positive on immigration to negative,
particularly as it became apparent he was going to run for president, says Westy
Egmont, co-chair of the Governor's Advisory Council for Refugees and Immigrants.
Egmont held the same position during Romney's term as governor from 2003 to
2007.

"Immigrants have had a place at the table and a place in the economy that is
substantial," he said, noting that one in six Massachusetts residents are
foreign born. "The fostering of it as an issue was distressing."

Egmont, who has served on the board for five governors, said Romney was
"remarkably ill-informed" about immigration issues during his tenure.

He described Romney's relationship with  the board, which is appointed by the
governor, as "uncomfortable."

"We were his appointees, but it was an uncomfortable relationship. And at one
point, he changed the rules on the committee to disband most of it," he said.

Ryan Williams, a spokesman for Romney, said the former governor "supports legal
immigration" but believes the government should not "turn a blind eye" to those
who are in the United States illegally.

"As governor, he consistently opposed policies that encouraged illegal
immigration while supporting programs that helped legal immigrants participate
fully in the workforce," Williams said.

While governor, Romney vetoed a bill that would have allowed some illegal
immigrants to pay in-state tuition at Massachusetts public universities. Romney
is now one of the loudest detractors of Perry's 2001 decision to sign a law that
allowed some children of illegal immigrants to pay in-state tuition at Texas
universities.

Last week, the Romney campaign released a video quoting former Mexican president
Vicente Fox thanking Perry for the action and noted the position was shared by
Democratic leaders including President Obama.

Romney said he vetoed the Massachusetts bill because it would be a "magnet" that
attracts illegal immigrants to the United States. Perry defended his policy and
said its critics didn't "have a heart." He later apologized for that comment.

Romney also lists his opposition to a measure that would have allowed illegal
immigrants to carry driver's licenses and signed a "memorandum of agreement"
with the federal government that allowed Massachusetts state troopers to enforce
federal immigration laws.

Romney was not considered particularly friendly to immigrants but was also not
deemed a threat, said Eva Millona, executive director of Massachusetts Immigrant
and Refugee Advocacy Coalition.

"I wouldn't say he was very involved when he was governor; he was never here
because of his national ambitions," she said.

Also, Millona said, illegal immigration is not a serious problem in
Massachusetts. Of the 1 million immigrants in the state, about 90% are either
citizens or legal residents with green cards.

Romney's decision to sign the federal memorandum allowing state troopers to
arrest suspected illegal immigrants had more to do with politics than public
safety, Millona and Egmont said. "It came late in his administration as a
political statement more than as a well-thought-out policy," Egmont said.

Bristol County Sheriff Thomas Hodgson, who also worked with Romney as governor,
said Romney's focus was "protecting our public safety and protecting the
interest of the people who pay taxes, who are permanent legal residents or
people who are U.S. citizens."

The measure was overturned by Gov. Deval Patrick, a Democrat, before it could be
implemented.

Supporters of stronger immigration laws outside Massachusetts say Romney's
record is better than many of his opponents.

Romney used to be "all over the board" on immigration but appears to have
settled on a platform in recent years, said former representative Tom Tancredo
of Colorado, a vocal opponent of illegal immigration.

Tancredo endorsed Romney after he dropped out of the Republican presidential
race in 2007.

Tancredo said while Romney's views differed on some aspects of immigration
reform, the two agreed on increased border security and punishing employers who
employ illegal immigrants knowingly.

"I will say he has not wavered on immigration since we talked just before I
endorsed him in the last election," Tancredo said. "That's a good sign."

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              329 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          November 23, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Rivals focus on foreign policy issues;
GOP contenders also spar over immigration, defense

BYLINE: Susan Page and Jackie Kucinich, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 814 words


Republican presidential candidates clashed Tuesday on when to pull U.S. troops
from Afghanistan, how to approach a hostile regime in Iran and whether to accede
to cuts in the Pentagon budget as they sought to define themselves on national
security issues.

Just six weeks before the opening Iowa caucuses, the contenders drew clearer
contrasts and challenged one another more sharply than before in a debate
focused on foreign policy and national security issues.

Much of the attention was on a new front-runner, former House speaker Newt
Gingrich, who toward the end of the two-hour forum waded into one of the most
contentious issues in Republican politics: Immigration.

"I'm prepared to take the heat for saying, 'Let's be humane about enforcing the
law,'" Gingrich said, saying some illegal immigrants who had been in the United
States for a long time should be able to gain legal status. Such a policy would
protect families, he said.

Former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney and Minnesota Rep. Michele Bachmann
immediately criticized the proposal as a "magnet" that would draw more illegal
immigrants to this country.

There were other disputes.

Bachmann called Texas Gov. Rick Perry "highly naive" in calling for a cut-off of
U.S. aid to Pakistan and other countries that don't support the United States.
Romney and former Utah governor Jon Huntsman sparred on maintaining U.S. forces
in Afghanistan.

And former Godfather's Pizza CEO Herman Cain said he would consider having the
United States join Israel in bombing suspected Iranian nuclear facilities, an
idea that Texas Rep. Ron Paul warned would be dangerous and unwise.

The evening featured a reconfigured Republican field.

In the USA TODAY/Gallup Poll released Monday, Gingrich edged Romney for the lead
by a single, statistically insignificant percentage point, 22%-21% -- making him
the sixth candidate or potential candidate to top the field this year in a
roller coaster race.

He is the latest contender to benefit from a search by some Republican voters,
including more conservative ones, for an alternative to Romney.

Gingrich, whose rise has been fueled by his performances in a string of debates,
spoke with a characteristically professorial tone and laced his responses with
references to U.S. history. Still, on immigration and defense, he took positions
at odds with conservative orthodoxy, saying savings could be found in the
Pentagon budget without endangering national security.

Both issues could prove to be a test of his appeal with GOP primary voters.

Romney, in contrast, called for increased defense spending.

The sometimes contentious  forum was televised on CNN and co-sponsored by the
Heritage Foundation and the American Enterprise Institute.

Many of the questions were posed by conservatives and neoconservatives from the
two think tanks, including several veterans of  past Republican administrations.

The eight candidates arrayed across the stage at Constitution Hall, just a few
blocks from the White House, faced distinct and pressing challenges:

Cain was trying to recover from a video that went viral from a session last week
with the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel editorial board in which he struggled and
stammered in response to a question about Libya.

In the debate, however, he spoke  less often  than the candidates who have dealt
with foreign policy issues in Congress or as a diplomat.

Perry, who has fallen to single digits in national polls after once leading the
pack, needed to demonstrate a command of national issues after a string of
stumbling debate performances.

He said he would impose a no-fly zone on Syria.

Huntsman, a former U.S. ambassador to China, hoped to finally break through by
demonstrating his foreign policy expertise. At the moment, his 1% standing in
national polls just barely qualifies him to participate in the nationally
televised debates.

Also participating in the debate was former Pennsylvania senator Rick Santorum.

In the opening exchange, the candidates differed on how to balance fighting
terrorism with preserving civil liberties.

Gingrich said he would support not only extending but also strengthening the
controversial Patriot Act.

"You want to use every tool that you can possibly use" against a terrorist armed
with a nuclear weapon, Gingrich said.

But Paul called the Patriot Act "unpatriotic."

"You can prevent crimes by becoming a police state," he said. "You might prevent
a crime. But the crime then will be against the American people."

On Afghanistan, Huntsman said the time had come to pull out all U.S. troops,
criticizing Romney's argument that he would listen to the commanders on the
ground in deciding when the mission was completed.

A president "ought to be informed by a lot of different voices," he said.

"This is not a time to cut and run," Romney replied.

Tuesday's forum was the 11th debate of the political season. Two more are
scheduled in Iowa next month.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              330 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          November 23, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

All together now: Extended families;
Economy, immigration alter living arrangements

BYLINE: Sharon Jayson, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1874 words


This Thanksgiving, many families are closer -- really closer -- than they've
been in years.

An increasing number of extended families across the USA are under the same
roof, living together either permanently or temporarily. Sometimes these
arrangements are multigenerational, with adult children, grandchildren or an
elderly parent sharing quarters. In other cases, an extended family bunks
together, with siblings, cousins, nieces or nephews sharing space.

The reasons are economic, social and demographic. The recession and its
aftermath have pushed extended families to share space at a time when the
average age at first marriage has climbed to 28.7 for men and 26.5 for women.
And life expectancy -- now 75.7 for men and 80.6 for women in the USA --
continues to rise.  The flow of immigrants into this country also has been a
factor; immigrants are more likely than other groups to live with members of
their extended family.

Taken together, the trends suggest that the rise of the extended family is going
to be with us for a while, analysts say.

In Hicksville, N.Y., Gina Moscato, 26, her husband, Ian Roche Tilden, 31, and
their 22-month-old son, Tyler, live with her grandmother, Christine Moscato, who
will be 95 next month. The young family stays upstairs with a living area, two
bedrooms and bath, while grandma is downstairs.

"We originally moved in to save money," Gina Moscato says. "We wanted to buy a
house. She didn't mind because she wanted the company."

Moscato says that Thursday, they'll have a traditional Thanksgiving meal, with
touches of their Italian heritage, at her father's home in the area. "We'll do,
like, 7,000 courses," she jokes, listing antipasto, appetizer, lasagna, salad,
turkey, dessert and dessert wines.

Living with extended family is nothing new for Valda Ford, 57, who last year
moved from Omaha to High Point, N.C., to live with her son Alphonso Becote, 37,
and his wife, Ronnida, 35. Ford's 80-year-old disabled cousin, T.J. Countee,
also lives in the home. Alphonso Becote is his guardian.

"We always had the equivalent of an extended family, with either multiple
generations in the same house or the same cul-de-sac," she says. "In Omaha, half
the reason I moved there was because my oldest sister was less than a mile away
with her grown daughter and her grandchildren."

So many family members live nearby that when 45 family members arrive for
Thanksgiving at Becote's home, Ford says, "no one is really traveling to get
there."

New 2010 Census data show that 5.1 million  households in the USA (4.4%) are
multigenerational, with three or more generations sharing quarters. That's a 21%
increase from the 4.2 million (3.7%) such households  in 2000.

"Siblings are supporting each other. Brothers-in-law are supporting their wives'
sisters and brothers," says social psychologist Susan Newman of Metuchen, N.J.,
author of the 2010 book Under One Roof Again: All Grown Up and (Re)learning to
Live Together Happily. "Other cultures have always lived in multigenerational
families. We are slowly seeing that happening here."

Moscato and Roche Tilden moved to her grandmother's home in late 2007. "My
family says it's adding years to her life," she says.

Roche Tilden, a project manager in construction,  got laid off six months later
and was out of work for a year. Moscato, an executive assistant, was in her last
year of college. She says her husband found a job but was laid off two more
times. He's employed now. She found a job in March after being home almost a
year with her son.

Moscato says living with her grandmother also benefits her young family. "I see
her every day. Sometimes we watch TV together. She's a big part of our lives,"
she says.

That's not the case for Dianah Stehle, 57, of Plymouth, Mich. This year, both
her son, John Hogg, 26, and her cousin, Jim Bradford, 51, moved into her
three-bedroom, one-bath home. But because of their work schedules, they barely
see one another.

"I get up first and I leave the house around 5 in the morning. I think Jimmy
leaves about 5:30.  My son, I think he leaves around noon. I get home around 4.
Jim can show up from between 5 and 9,  and my son gets home around 11 or 11:30
at night," she says.

Hogg, who works two jobs, one full-time and another part-time, moved back home
in June after being away three years to try to save up for a house with a
garage.

Bradford, a truck mechanic who had been out of work for  three years, moved
there in April to be closer to his new job. A divorced father of two adult sons,
he stays there during the week and spends weekends at his own home more than two
hours away.

Stehle, a computer-aided designer who has been divorced 15 years, says her son
and cousin each pay her $100 a month to cover utilities.

"I had some reservations because I had been in my house by myself such a long
time," Stehle says.

"It was harder mentally," Hogg says. "In my book, you move out, you get a good
job, you continue to progress through life. Coming back home, I felt like I was
falling back a little bit. But then I just told myself this is a way to save
money."

Young adults return home

This is a pattern that will continue, predicts Neil Howe, 60, a historian,
economist and demographer in Great Falls, Va., who has written about
generational issues.

"We are clearly going to be in this era for a while," he says. "High rates of
multigenerational family living had been the norm" until after World War II,
when the emphasis shifted to the nuclear family enabled by construction of
interstate highways, the rise of suburbs and the affluence of young adults. But
by the late 1960s and '70s, "there was a generation gap and almost generational
war," Howe says.

"There was a time in the 1970s when no one wanted to live together," he says.
"Seniors were moving to Leisure World to get away from the culture of the kids.
Couples were divorcing -- it was the high tide of the divorce revolution, and
Boomers wanted to strike out on their own."

But now, many young adults do return home, at least temporarily.

New Census data from the Current Population Survey 2011, out earlier this month,
found that between 2005 and 2011, the proportion of young adults ages 25 to 34
living in their parents' home rose from 14% to 19% for men and from 8% to 10%
for women.

Destiny Young, 26, is among them.

She earned her bachelor's degree in communications from Fayetteville (N.C.)
State University in May 2010 and stayed but couldn't find work in her field. She
worked part time as a receptionist at a nursing home and then moved to Raleigh
for a marketing job.

Although it was full-time, Young says, it was commission-only, and she left
after two months. She moved back to her parents' home to Amityville, N.Y., in
April.

"They knew I was struggling," she says. "I couldn't even pay my rent. My parents
were like, 'You need to come home.'"

"We gave her the option to come home one time," says her mother, Renee Young,
58. "It's not a revolving door."

Now, Destiny Young works full time as a customer-service representative; many of
her employed friends aren't  in their career field, either. She doesn't pay rent
but  does contribute to groceries. She pays for her phone and  car, as well as
the storage fee for her furniture, still in North Carolina. In January, she'll
have to start paying on her student loans, which she had deferred. "It is
difficult because I got used to being on my own," she says. "Now that I'm home,
I really don't have space."

Goodbye, empty nest

Michele Beatty, 54, of Waynesville, Ohio, and her husband, Gordon, 56, had an
empty nest for almost  2 years between the time the youngest of their three sons
went to college and the return in August of their oldest, Patrick, who had been
living in Dayton for about eight years. He had left his job as a graphic
designer in February.

"We said, 'You can come home to your old room and continue to look for
employment,' never dreaming it would go on this long," she says.  "One thing we
did not want was his stuff. His stuff is in storage. He came home with clothes
and his cat, Sprite."

There are two closets in his room, but  he lives out of  suitcases, his mother
says.

"It felt too permanent -- like I was stuck there," says Patrick Beatty, 28. "We
were all brought up with the cultural expectation that once you leave the nest,
you are not supposed to return."

He's working two days a week as a freelance graphic designer and three or four
days part time stocking boxes. Two of those days, he works 10 p.m. to 6:30 a.m.

"I feel part of the time like a burden," he says. "I try to contribute to the
house when I can. I try to stay out of their way as much as possible. It's home,
but not the home I'd be building for myself if I had my way."

According to a Pew Research Center report released earlier this month, about one
in five adults ages 25-34 live in a multigenerational home. However, Pew's
definition includes two or more adult generations, unlike the Census definition,
which bases its data on three or more.

Caring for family elders

A survey of 2,226 adults, done in September by Harris Interactive for the
non-profit Generations United, found that of those in a multigenerational home,
40% reported that job loss, change in job status or underemployment was a reason
for the living arrangement; 20% said it was because of health care costs; and
14% said it was because of foreclosure or other housing loss. The report, Family
Matters: Multigenerational Families in a Volatile Economy, will be released Dec.
6.

Bill Fragoso, 57, of Cleveland says his parents, both immigrants from Puerto
Rico, set an example  to care for family elders.

"I have to do this. That's one of the things both parents instilled  in us," he
says. "They took care of their parents."

Fragoso says his parents lived with his family during the last year of his
father's battle with cancer. After he died in 2003, Fragoso's mother, Sarita,
now 81, returned to  Campbell, Ohio, about an hour away.

In 2005, she moved back in with him, his wife, Raquel, and daughter Joanna, now
17, a high school senior. Two older sons, ages 26 and 29, don't live at home.

Families don't always move to the same house to stay close. In 2008, Betty Cook,
72, and her boyfriend got an apartment at Azalea Trace, the  retirement
community in Pensacola, Fla., where her mother, Jean Phillippi, 98, had moved a
couple of years earlier. They live in separate buildings connected by a
breezeway.

On Thanksgiving, they'll gather --  with Cook's son, daughter-in-law and
granddaughters -- in Azalea Trace's dining room.

Cook is among a growing number of seniors  moving into the same retirement
communities as their elderly parents. She says  it allows her mother to continue
living independently and is much less time-consuming and more efficient for her.
In the five years before Cook moved, it was an hour's drive to Pensacola several
times a week.

"When she would have a doctor appointment, it would take all day," she says.

Newman says "families have lived so far apart for so many decades" that they're
now realizing that for the most part -- except for some families that can't get
along -- their relatives are "the people they turn to when the chips are down."

"Once you work out the kinks," she says, "people realize they like the
relatives."

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Frank Pompa, USA TODAY (Bar graph)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              331 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 5, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Start-up floats solution to tech visa problem

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 493 words


Getting a visa to live and work in the U.S. can be hard, even for highly skilled
immigrants and foreign entrepreneurs looking to start businesses.

A California start-up company may have found a way to alleviate the
time-consuming process of obtaining those hard-to-get visas. The company is
planning to anchor a ship capable of holding 1,000 people off California's shore
-- far enough away to be in international waters, but close enough to Silicon
Valley so occupants, using easier-to-obtain tourist visas and short-term
business visas, can hop a quick ferry ride to meet with tech employers and
investors on shore.

Max Marty, a 27-year-old who founded the start-up, Blueseed, came up with the
idea after seeing so many of his classmates at the University of Miami's
business school head back to their home countries after failing to secure work
visas.

"I thought: 'This is terrible. These people could be here adding a lot of
value,'" says Marty, who seeks to raise at least $10 million for the venture.
"There's a lot of job creation and job growth that could be happening if this
situation were changed."

Marty's proposal comes amid deadlock in Congress over reforms to the nation's
immigration system.

The House of Representatives on Tuesday passed a bill that would end the
practice of giving out the same number of visas for high-skilled immigrants to
all countries. That would make it easier for engineers and technology experts
from India and China, who are aggressively pursued by U.S. companies, to enter
the U.S.

The bill would not increase the total number of those visas, about 140,000 a
year. Despite its bipartisan support in the House, the bill has been blocked in
the Senate by Sen. Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa. Grassley says it would do nothing to
"better protect Americans at home who seek high-skilled jobs during this time of
record high unemployment."

Angela Kelley of the Center for American Progress, which supports a revamped
immigration system to allow more highly skilled foreign workers into the
country, says Blueseed's plan demonstrates why reform is needed.

Others say the project shows how far U.S. companies will go to displace American
workers. Bob Dane of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which
favors reduced immigration, said money would be better spent paying better
salaries to retain the "cream of the crop" of American high-tech workers.

Blueseed got a big jolt last week when Peter Thiel, co-founder of the online
payment service PayPal, announced he would invest in the project and lead the
company's search for funding. Thiel has been a strong proponent for other
"seasteading" projects that aim to create autonomous ocean communities.

"Tech innovation drives economic growth, and we need more of both," Thiel said
in a statement. "Many innovative people have a really hard time getting visas,
and Blueseed will help bring more innovation to California with a solution that
is itself as innovative as it is clever."

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              332 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 6, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S. economy benefits from skilled immigrants

SECTION: BONUS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 515 words


USA TODAY's article "Start-up floats solution to tech visa problem" points to
the need of visa policy reform in our country, especially for technical experts
whom  American companies want to hire (News, Monday).

I applaud the creative thinking that led to the idea of Blueseed, the start-up
discussed in the article. Its creation points to a lack of incentives for these
foreign experts to return to their home countries.

This brain drain is their loss and our gain. Through my work with a membership
group of Latin American CEOs, I have heard that many of these executives
struggle to find competent technical experts. If these experts and entrepreneurs
want to work in the U.S., we should welcome them with open arms.

Given the  economic downturn, companies in the U.S. can use all the innovative
minds they can get. According to  Duke University researchers, in 2005
immigrant-founded tech companies contributed $52 million in revenue to the
American economy and employed 450,000 workers.

Until Congress realizes how much we benefit from the expertise of immigrants,
companies such as Blueseed will most likely thrive. And they should.

Lara Ballou

Arlington, Va.

Basic needs vs. bonuses

What a sad and ironic front page for Thursday's  News section.

Above  the fold, an article was printed about needy children's letters to Santa.
They want simple things -- new shoes, a job for a parent, some warm clothes
("Santas face daunting lists to fill this year," Cover story).

Below  the fold featured an article about college football coaches and their
multimillion dollar bonuses and salaries ("Bonus time for LSU's Miles, others").

We have some very skewed values in this country.

Chris Rohrs

Columbus, Ga.

Coverage for wheelchairs

Marc Siegel's  commentary "Don't take 'medi' out of Medicaid" offers a woefully
biased portrayal of the program's financial problems and merits a more robust
response than space allows. Particularly irking was his ignorance about what he
suggests is Medicaid's liberal wheelchair coverage (The Forum, Wednesday).

I require a power wheelchair to maintain a productive and independent life.
Medicare is the primary source of government support for wheelchair purchases,
and Medicaid programs, only after lengthy review based on stringent medical
qualifications, will pay the difference in costs not otherwise met.

This approved medical equipment is not soon replaced  but typically must fulfill
at least a minimum five-year useful life, with long waits for approval of
maintenance and necessary repair costs.  During that useful life, significant
changes in the medical condition of the patient that would be benefited by
wheelchair upgrades are generally ignored.

Siegel also disregards the following:

The unjustifiably steeper costs of health care in the U.S. without appreciably
better outcomes compared with other industrialized nations.

The hidden costs now shifted to the insured for care of the uninsured.

The contributions of providers to our unacceptable imbalance between health care
cost and value.

Paul J. Tobin

President and CEO

United Spinal Association

East Elmhurst, N.Y.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              333 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 9, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Sacrifice today needed for retirement tomorrow

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 259 words


In your recent article  about Americans not saving enough for retirement, two
people highlighted stood out ("Many have little or no savings as retirement
looms," Cover story, Money, Monday).

One man stated that he made a lot of money and spent a lot of money.  He lived
for today and didn't worry about tomorrow.

Another man was an on-again/off-again  corporate jet pilot. In the photo that
accompanied the report, he was shown on what looked like  an  expensive
motorcycle.

To save for retirement tomorrow, we all need to make sacrifices today. Those
people who  don't will be looking for a bailout when they are not ready for
retirement.  Wake up, Americans, before it's too late.

John Sheppard

Murfreesboro, Tenn.

Ala. right on immigration

I am in full support of Alabama House Speaker Mike Hubbard's efforts to deal
with illegal immigration ("We're just enforcing federal policy," Opposing view,
Immigration debate, Monday).

Hubbard is attempting to enforce federal law because the administration is not
only ignoring the problem, but it's also making make it much worse through
non-enforcement and harassment of the states  trying to take care of their
borders.

I don't for a minute believe the  claims that deportations are up and border
crossings are down,  knowing that  President Obama and  many liberals  support
amnesty.

Enforcement is beginning to work,  but that is thanks to the fine people of
states such as Arizona and Alabama who have had enough of illegal  immigrants
taking jobs that belong to law-abiding citizens.

Gerald Smith

Evansville, Ind.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              334 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 10, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'A perfect recipe for a predator';
Abusers used school in poor, immigrant area as stalking grounds

BYLINE: William M. Welch and Marisol Bello, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1881 words


The charges are shocking, but the choice of victims comes as little surprise.

The horrors alleged at Miramonte Elementary School echo previous cases of sexual
abuse: vulnerable children, plied with attention and gifts and groomed to trust
adult predators.

The abuses claimed here may be different -- children blindfolded, gagged and fed
a substance investigators say was semen. But the setting follows a pattern
alleged at Penn State University, where former assistant football coach Jerry
Sandusky is accused of using a charity he founded to target vulnerable boys from
single-parent homes or troubled families, people unlikely to speak out.

At Miramonte, the victims could hardly have been more disadvantaged: The 1,400
students are virtually all from poor Latino homes, a majority from immigrant
families where English isn't spoken at home, and some with parents lacking legal
immigrant status. It's a voiceless community where fear is ingrained -- fear of
authority, fear of the police, fear of immigration enforcement, fear of
retribution.

The hard-pressed barrio school is just the kind of place where an adult with bad
intentions could take advantage of a child, knowing there was little chance a
victimized family would report the acts. Or if they did, little chance they
would be believed.

"You have lots of the very poor who don't even know what their rights are," says
Martha Escutia, a former state senator  who once represented the south Los
Angeles neighborhood. "You have the undercurrent of immigration, undercurrent of
poverty. Miramonte is not Malibu. It's not a sophisticated community.

"It's a perfect recipe for a predator."

It's a recipe that's been followed here before.

A former teacher's aide, Ricardo Guevara, is serving a 15-year sentence in state
prison  after being convicted in 2004 of sexually abusing three kindergarten
girls at Miramonte. The Los Angeles school system was ordered to pay $1.6
million to his three victims' families.

"There are striking similarities," says Beverly Hills lawyer Keith Davidson, who
represented those girls. "It's amazing that you'd have lightning strike twice
and then three times in the same school."

Davidson now represents four children, three boys and one girl, ages 9 to 13,
who were students of accused teacher Mark Berndt, the man at the center of the
scandal.

Berndt, 61, who was removed from his third-grade class a year ago, was charged
last month with 23 counts of committing lewd acts on children ages 6 to 10 from
2005 through 2010. Investigators say they have found 600 photographs Berndt took
of the children, many performing  what he told them was a game. In some, the
children are eating cookies with a substance the district attorney's office
alleges was Berndt's semen.

While investigating claims against Berndt, the Los Angeles sheriff's department
brought charges against another Miramonte teacher. Martin Springer, 49, pleaded
not guilty this week to charges he fondled a second-grade girl.

Springer taught at Miramonte for 26 years. Berndt taught there 32 years, a span
that saw the  neighborhood transform from a heavily African-American population
to almost uniformly Latino.

Berndt had been the subject of complaints before. The sheriff's department
investigated  a September 1993 incident at the school, but prosecutors decided
they didn't have enough evidence to charge him, said Sandi Gibbons, spokeswoman
for District Attorney Steve Cooley.

The school's principal, Martin Sandoval, did not respond to a request for
comment.

In a separate incident, school system officials said they fired a female
teacher's aide at the school in 2009, after a mother reported finding love
letters the aide wrote to her 11-year-old son.

A father's dilemma

One father complains that he did not learn his 10-year-old daughter was a victim
until after Berndt's recent arrest. Raymundo, 39, who spoke only on condition
his last name not be used because he immigrated illegally,  says that when
Berndt was removed from teaching early in 2010, parents were not told why.

"For a year, we didn't know anything about this," he says in Spanish. "The
school was trying to keep this under wraps.  This is very bad. The school is
almost 100% Latino. It's because of that they discriminate against us. We are
poor people."

He says the school has not responded to his requests for information. So far,
he's spoken about the case only with someone from the sheriff's office. His is
one of eight families represented by a lawyer, Jessica Dominguez, who filed
three lawsuits against the L.A. school system Tuesday.

Raymundo says when he first heard about Berndt's arrest, he didn't want to do
anything about it. He didn't want to  call attention to his family because he
has been living in the country illegally for six years. He says the allegations
have been so traumatic, he went to the emergency room twice for anxiety attacks
and migraines.

Still, he didn't want to come forward until Dominguez and his sister convinced
him that he would not be deported.  In fact, the family may qualify for a
special visa  providing legal status to crime victims who cooperate with
prosecutors, Dominguez and other lawyers  say.

"I was scared," Raymundo said. "Whenever the police are involved, no one who is
here illegally will come forward, even if he's been robbed  But if we don't
speak out, then there will be no justice for our children."

Gregory Owen, a lawyer working with Dominguez,  says sheriff's investigators
have counted 23 alleged victims of Berndt, but he represents four more children
whose families have not been questioned and who have not come forward because of
fear of deportation. Some of those families have photos of Berndt with their
children at family functions to which they invited him.

Owen says some parents framed the photos Berndt gave them and proudly displayed
them on shelves, thinking their children had received special attention from a
beloved teacher.

That the children thought it was all a game is "actually worse than when the
child knows it's happening," Owen says. "When they are told, they say to
themselves, 'Why didn't I realize that? Why didn't I stop it?' They feel even
more guilty."

Dominguez says the parents have taken the children to doctors to test for AIDS
and other sexually transmitted diseases. "These mothers can't sleep at night,"
she says.

The school will have counselors in the school for the rest of the year.

Ricardo Antonio Prez, a lawyer representing several other Miramonte families,
says: "The outrage in this community really is with the LAUSD's (Los Angeles
Unified School District) habitual failure to protect children."

Many parents of Miramonte students say they now feel victimized a second time by
the school system's reaction to the scandal. Superintendent John Deasy ordered
the unprecedented reassignment of the entire faculty and staff of the school.
When it reopened Thursday after a two-day closing, new teachers and staff were
in their place.

Official: Removals are a try for 'fresh start'

Parents protested all week: first, because they were upset that they had not
been told before about the sex abuse allegations, and then because the district
replaced the entire staff.

On Thursday, parents protesting the teachers' removal brought their children to
school but did not bring them inside. A group of girls played the guitar and
sang songs they made up about their teachers leaving. Police patrolled the front
of the school as some parents took their children inside.

During a news conference outside the school, teachers union President Warren
Fletcher called the district's move to replace the teachers "nothing more than a
cheap media stunt intended to deflect attention from the fact that a tragedy
occurred at the school that had no supervision."

For children already struggling to understand the arrests of two of their
teachers, losing the rest  is traumatic, says Maria Guadalupe Garcia, 40, who
has two children at Miramonte. She has been a single parent to three children
since her husband was deported three years ago.

She says Miramonte teachers have helped her survive. They took up collections to
help her pay her electric bill when she was short, and they counseled her on how
to help her children through the deportation.

"We don't have a lot, so I'm so grateful to those teachers," she says in
Spanish. "That's why we are despondent over these drastic changes.

"It would be as if they took a child away from a parent and put him in foster
care," she says. "And the district is not listening to us. Many of us don't
speak English. We are poor and ignorant -- at least that's how they treat us."

Raymundo's family also is upset by the loss of untainted teachers. "They
shouldn't all have to pay for the wrongdoing of a few," he says. "There have to
be good teachers there."

He says his family's situation reminds him of a Spanish-language song about
illegal immigrants:  "The song says being undocumented is living in hell. Now, I
know what (the singer)  means."

School officials acknowledge the controversy over throwing out the good with the
bad. Tom Waldman, spokesman for the school system, says administrators felt it
was "the best thing to do" because of the trauma of the allegations and the
disruption that investigations may pose for teachers and students who are still
to be questioned. He called it an attempt "to approximate a fresh start.''

Investigators are considering whether a "culture of silence," as Deasy put it,
may have existed among adults at the school.

Dan Domenech, executive director of the American Association of School
Administrators, says he's never heard of a mass staff replacement at a school.

"To pull the plug on an entire school -- that's dramatic," Domenech says. He
says Deasy may have more information that he can't disclose.

Ellen Greenwald, a University of Texas-Dallas psychologist, says kids who are
victims of sex abuse often fear that going to adults will get them in more
trouble and that no one will believe them, or that adults will blame them.

"That's what really creates the silence that continues," she says.

Lisa Aronson Fontes, a psychology professor at the University of Massachusetts
who wrote Child Abuse and Culture: Working with Diverse Families, says, "There's
a culture of silence at most schools  and a culture of disbelief and denial."

"Families who feel disempowered in a variety of ways are going to have trouble
challenging authorities like a teacher," she says. "If they're first-generation
immigrants, if their English skills are limited, if they're low-income, they're
going to have an even harder time challenging authority."

She notes that other predators, from a Delaware dentist to mass murderer Jeffrey
Dahmer, targeted immigrants. "Immigrant children are particularly disempowered,"
she says.

At more well-to-do schools, parental involvement could be a check on
inappropriate behavior, Escutia says. In the Miramonte neighborhood, parents are
often working or simply too shy and unskilled to volunteer at their schools.

"It would never happen in Malibu," says Escutia, referring to the wealthy
beachfront strip of land that is more familiar than inner-city ghettos for most
visitors to Southern California. "The moms in Malibu have time to be active in
kids' lives at school."

Contributing: Greg Toppo in McLean, Va.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              335 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          February 15, 2012 Wednesday
                                 CHASE EDITION

New law pumps $63B into aviation updates

BYLINE: John Bacon with staff and wire reports

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 596 words


President Obama signed legislation Tuesday that modernizes the nation's aviation
system, speeding up the switch from radar to an air-traffic-control system based
on GPS technology.

The law also opens up the skies to military, commercial and privately owned
drones. The legislation faced opposition from some labor unions because it set
new union election rules at airlines and railroads. Controversy surrounding the
bill shut down the Federal Aviation Administration for two weeks.

The law authorizes $63.4 billion for the FAA over four years, includingt $11
billion toward the air-traffic system and its modernization.

Feds settle in immigration civil rights suit

The government has agreed to pay $350,000 to settle a civil rights lawsuit filed
by 11 men arrested in Connecticut immigration raids more than four years ago,
officials said.

Mark Pedulla, a Yale law student working with the plaintiffs, said the deal
appears to be the largest monetary settlement paid by the U.S. in such a suit.
Deportation proceedings against the New Haven plaintiffs also will be halted, he
said.

The men claim federal agents invaded their homes without warrants in June 2007
in retaliation for a local program to offer identification cards to all city
residents. Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokesman Ross Feinstein said the
government settled to avoid  litigation.

Mormons apologize for baptism

Mormon leaders apologized to the family of Holocaust survivor and Jewish
advocate Simon Wiesenthal after his parents were posthumously baptized, a ritual
that Mormons believe allows deceased people a way to the afterlife.

Wiesenthal died in 2005 after surviving the Nazi death camps and spending his
life hunting down perpetrators. Jews are particularly offended by an attempt to
alter the religion of Holocaust victims, and the baptism of Holocaust survivors
was barred by a 1995 agreement.  Asher and Rosa Rapp Wiesenthal were baptized in
proxy ceremonies  last month.

Hundreds protest Ala. immigration law

Hundreds packed the Alabama Statehouse courtyard to rally against the state's
tough immigration law, with organizers saying they chose to send a message on
Valentine's Day that lawmakers need to love and respect immigrants.

Protesters carried signs, one addressing Republican Gov. Robert Bentley,
reading, "Gov. Bentley, don't you have a heart?" Legislative leaders plan to
introduce a bill to make subtle changes to the law. However, House Majority
Leader Micky Hammon, a Republican, said the proposal will not make major
changes.

Rally organizers, including Zayne Smith  of the Alabama Coalition for Immigrant
Justice, said a full repeal is needed.

Arizona celebrates 100 years as state

Arizona marked 100 years since becoming the 48th state with a celebration at the
Old Capitol in Phoenix. Gov. Jan Brewer shouted "Happy birthday, Arizona!" to
kick off a series of events.

Arizona shed its five-decade status as a U.S. territory when it became the last
state in the contiguous 48 on Feb. 14, 1912.

Empire State Building hosts a first

Two women who met as college students in Alaska and two men who met at a
nightclub in Manhattan became the first same-sex couples to be married at the
Empire State Building. Same-sex marriage became legal in New York last year.

"I cannot wait to spend the rest of my life with you," Stephanie Figarelle told
Lela McArthur as they exchanged rings in a ceremony at the iconic skyscraper.
New Yorkers Phil Fung and Shawn Klein, in brown suits and checkered ties, walked
up the aisle to the strains of the Michael Bolton song How Am I Supposed to Live
Without You.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              336 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 20, 2012 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Growth of U.S. slowest since '30s;
Births, immigration still hit by recession

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 463 words


The U.S. population is growing at the slowest rate since the Great Depression
after two decades of robust increases.

For two consecutive years since 2009, the population has grown just 0.7% a year,
down from annual increases around 1% in previous years and the lowest since the
late 1930s. The U.S. gained 2.2 million people from 2010 to 2011 -- fewer than
the 2.8 million added a decade earlier -- reaching a total of 311.6 million.

"Almost anybody who observes these things over the years can say this is almost
all recession-related," says Carl Haub, demographer for the Population Reference
Bureau.

The government says the recession  ended in June 2009. Although the economy has
improved,  the downturn's effect  on birth and immigration lingers. The number
of babies born from July 1, 2010, to July 2011 dropped 200,000 from the same
period in 2008-09. The number of additional immigrants fell 150,000.

"It's an indicator of an unhealthy economy," Haub says. "People are obviously
still delaying births, and immigration has continued to drop because job
opportunities are not there."

The U.S. fertility rate -- which has been close to the replacement level of 2.1
children per woman in contrast to many developed nations that are well below
that level -- now is estimated to have fallen to 1.9, says demographer Joseph
Chamie, former director of the United Nations Population Division and more
recently research director at the Center for Migration Studies.

Demographers expect population growth to pick up when the economy rebounds
fully, but a bounce-back in births is likely to lag.

"Many -- but likely not all -- of the postponed births can be expected to be
made up," Chamie says. "Even with the slight current downturn in births, the
U.S. population will very likely reach 400 million midcentury."

For much of the nation's history, a booming population symbolized economic
vitality and growing influence in the world. But environmental groups have
questioned how many more people the nation can support, fueling a push for
"sustainable" communities that encourage conserving green space and relying less
on autos.

"Population does not necessarily equal economic growth anymore," says Bill
Fulton, vice president for policies and programs at Smart Growth America, a
coalition of environmentalists, planners and others working to slow sprawl.

He points to Las Vegas' population boom, which created low-paying jobs that
disappeared when the housing market collapsed. By contrast, he says, cities such
as Pittsburgh lost population but household wealth went up.

"We're still talking about adding a lot of people," Fulton says. "We know we
can't environmentally sustain those people living in sprawled locations.  Local
governments are not going to be able to afford sprawl anymore."

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: Census Bureau (Bar
graph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              337 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              March 9, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Romney foolish to ignore Latino vote

BYLINE: Raul Reyes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 396 words


Considering his family history, Mitt Romney might be expected to have moderate
views on immigration. In 1885, Romney's great-grandfather fled Utah for Mexico
because of U.S. laws against polygamy. The Romney clan lived in Mexico until the
revolution forced family members to return to the U.S. in 1912.

Unfortunately, the GOP presidential front-runner has shown little interest in
Hispanics -- a big mistake. On Super Tuesday, he barely eked out a win in Ohio,
where Hispanics represent 3% of the population, by a margin of just 0.8
percentage points. He also lost in Georgia to Newt Gingrich, the only GOP
candidate who supports limited amnesty for undocumented workers and where the
Hispanic population has soared by more than 90% in the past decade.

Romney opposes "amnesty" and says undocumented immigrants should "self-deport."
Though it is normal for candidates to play to the base in primaries, and move to
the center later, Romney is boxing himself in. His decision to be an immigration
hard-liner ignores history, demographics and sound strategy.

GOP adviser Mark McKinnon says a successful presidential candidate must win at
least 40% of the Hispanic vote. George W. Bush, who supported immigration
reform, reached this level in 2004 and won. Four years later, Sen. John McCain,
R-Ariz., who supported reform until he swung right, got 31% of the Latino vote
and lost.

Romney opposes the DREAM Act, which would allow undocumented youth to legalize
their status provided they serve in the military or attend college. This puts
him at odds with the 91% of Latinos who support the act, according to the Pew
Research Center.

Romney should remember Sharron Angle, Nevada's 2010 GOP Senate candidate, who
ran TV ads denounced for their use of anti-Hispanic stereotypes. Her rhetoric
mobilized Latinos, and she was defeated.

It's puzzling that Romney seems to be conceding Hispanic votes because many
Latinos are dissatisfied with President Obama. "Romney has now thrown Obama a
lifesaver (on immigration)," GOP strategist Ana Navarro toldPolitico. I couldn't
agree more. Romney has potential appeal to Latinos, but he is pursuing a
shortsighted strategy by playing to the anti-immigrant crowd. In the long run,
this will only alienate Hispanics -- and might even cost him the general
election.

Raul Reyes is an attorney in New York and a member of USA TODAY's Board of
Contributors.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              338 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 3, 2012 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Jail strip-searches for minor offenses OK'd

BYLINE: John Bacon with staff and wire reports

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 619 words


Jailers may perform invasive strip-searches on people arrested even for minor
offenses, the Supreme Court ruled Monday.

In a 5-4 decision, the court ruled against a New Jersey man who was
strip-searched in two county jails following his arrest on a warrant for an
unpaid fine that he actually had paid. The majority found that security trumps
privacy in an often-dangerous environment.

Before the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, courts generally prohibited routine
strip-searches for minor offenses. In recent years, courts have allowed jailers
more discretion to maintain security, and the high court ruling ratifies those
decisions.

Agency chief quits in spending inquiry

General Services Administration chief Martha Johnson resigned  after her agency
spent lavishly at a training conference in 2010 near Las Vegas.

The White House accepted her resignation after she dismissed two deputies and
suspended  career federal employees over an $820,000 conference.  The 300-person
event  included $3,200 for a mind reader and $75,000 on a training exercise to
build a bicycle.

White House chief of staff Jack Lew said President Obama  "was outraged by the
excessive spending  and disregard for taxpayer dollars."

Feds arrest 3,100 illegal immigrants

Federal agencies combined last week to arrest more than 3,100 illegal immigrants
in a six-day sweep dubbed "Cross Check," the Immigration and Customs Enforcement
said Monday.

The operation, led by ICE agents, netted 2,834 convicted criminals that spanned
all 50 states. ICE Director John Morton said the administration is performing
the proper balancing act by setting records each year for the total number of
illegal immigrants deported -- nearly 400,000 last year -- but focusing more and
more on dangerous illegal immigrants rather than otherwise law-abiding families.
"We are not refusing to enforce the law, nor are we targeting families and
low-priority cases," Morton said.--Alan Gomez

Small plane hits Fla. shopping center

A small plane sputtered and crashed in flames into a Florida shopping center
Monday evening, injuring at least five people as frightened shoppers rushed from
the building, authorities said.

Several people in the Publix supermarket in Deland, about 20 miles west of
Daytona Beach, dialed emergency services  to report the plane had plunged into
the complex, the Volusia County sheriff's office said. The sheriff's office said
a pilot and a passenger were airlifted to a  hospital.

Slain teen's parents seek wider probe

The parents of a black teen who was fatally shot by a neighborhood watch
volunteer in his Florida community  asked the U.S. Justice Department to expand
their investigation to look at the prosecutor who recused himself from the case.

Trayvon Martin's parents allege in a letter sent to the Justice Department that
State Attorney Norm Wolfinger met with the Sanford police chief hours after the
17-year-old's death and that together they overruled a detective's
recommendation that the shooter, George Zimmerman, be charged with manslaughter.
Wolfinger called the allegations "lies" and said no meeting took place.

Warm, dry winter could aid wildfires

The nation's unusually warm, dry winter could lead to a bad wildfire season
across parts of the western and southern USA, fire experts said.

"Florida will remain the highest fire risk area into May,"  the National
Interagency Fire Center said in its national  wildfire forecast.

Other parts of the Southeast, such as coastal areas of the Carolinas and
southern Georgia, are  at risk  the next four months, says Ed Delgado, a
meteorologist with the fire center. Delgado said wildfire danger will also be
high in  California, Nevada and  much of the Southwest from May through
July.--Doyle Rice

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              339 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 24, 2012 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Mexican influx does a U-turn;
Jobs, tougher laws stunting migration

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 545 words


Mexican immigration to the United States is on the brink of a historic reversal:
More Mexicans may be going back to Mexico than coming in, a Pew Hispanic Center
report says.

The influx of Mexicans, which has dominated U.S. immigration patterns for four
decades, began to tumble in 2006 and 2007 as the housing bust and recession
created a dearth of jobs. At the same time, the number of Mexicans returning to
their native country along with their U.S.-born children soared.

Stricter border enforcement, more deportations and tough state immigration laws
such as the Arizona statute being challenged before the Supreme Court on
Wednesday probably also contributed to the shift, says Jeffrey Passel, lead
author of the report out Monday. The study analyzed data from  censuses  and  a
variety of other sources in both countries.

"There was a suspicion that people were going back" but results of the Mexican
census confirmed it, he says. "They point to a fairly large number of people
going back to Mexico."

From 2005 to 2010,  1.4 million Mexicans came to the USA -- down by more than
half from the 3 million who came from 1995 to 2000. From 2005 to 2010,  the
number of Mexicans who moved from the USA to Mexico rose to 1.4 million, roughly
double the number who had done so 10 years before.

Passel says the data  suggest that the return flow to Mexico probably surpassed
the incoming flow in the last two years.

He attributes some of the changes to lower fertility rates in Mexico (an average
of 2.4 children in 2009, compared with 7.3 in 1960) and improving social
conditions there. According to the report, a growing share of illegal immigrants
who are sent home say they won't come back to the USA: 29% 2010, vs. 7% in 2005.

Will this reversal in Mexican migration continue when the U.S. economy rebounds?

"We can't tell," Passel says.

"What it does tell us is that immigration is not   something that's outside the
control of human agencies," says Steven Camarota, director of research at the
Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates controlling immigration. "People
do, in fact, go home based on the economy and based on enforcement."

"People come for jobs," says Arturo Vargas, executive director of the National
Association of Latino and Elected Officials. "They try to improve their lives
for their families. If they can't do that here, they're going to find someplace
else. I wouldn't categorize it as good or bad  (but)  as the new normal that
we're entering."

Mexican flows are key to the immigration debate because 58% of the 11.2 million
immigrants in the USA illegally are Mexican. Slightly more than half of all
Mexican immigrants in the USA are here illegally.

Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., last week proposed a bill that would allow young
undocumented immigrants to remain in the USA but would not let them become
citizens. He calls it a conservative alternative to the DREAM Act, a  bill that
would let young people here illegally become citizens if they attend college or
join the military.

The decline in Mexicans coming to the USA is not expected to soften the debate
over illegal immigration, Camarota says.

"The big question," Camarota says, "is what will happen if the economy begins to
create jobs, what happens if some of these state laws get overturned."

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Julie Snider, USA TODAY (Bar graph, line graph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              340 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 27, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigrants shine on U.S. civics lessons;
But survey finds native citizens need to study up

BYLINE: Gregory Korte, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 519 words


Immigrants applying for U.S. citizenship have to pass a 10-question civics test
asking basic questions about American history and government, and about 93%
succeed.

But only 65% of native-born Americans could get the required six out of 10 right
answers when asked the same questions in a telephone poll.

That's the finding from the Center for the Study of the American Dream at Xavier
University in Cincinnati, which commissioned the telephone survey of 1,023
native-born Americans last month. Michael Ford, the director of the center, said
the results are particularly troubling in an election year featuring competing
visions of a Constitution that many citizens may not  understand.

"If we are civic illiterates, the chances of losing our freedom is greater than
being invaded by aliens or a foreign country," he said.

Most Americans agree. In a separate survey, 77% said all Americans ought to be
able to pass the citizenship test, and 60% said it should be a requirement for
high school graduation.

The survey was designed to mimic the actual test. The 10 questions were selected
from the same bank of 100 questions that U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services (USCIS) uses. Like the test, the answers are open-ended -- no multiple
choice -- and can have multiple valid answers.

One difference: Unlike citizenship candidates, the survey respondents didn't
have time to study.

"The citizenship candidates who have decided to file their application for
naturalization and begin their life in the United States, they want it really
bad," said Christopher Bentley, a USCIS spokesman. "That said, it is stuff that
people would have learned in Civics 101 class."

They are not learning it, said Gene Koo, director of iCivics, an education
non-profit founded by Sandra Day O'Connor, a former Supreme Court justice. Many
schools aren't teaching civics as they used to -- an unintended consequence of
the justifiable emphasis on science and math, he said.

"We always assumed that those who grew up here were getting that in the school
system. That stopped being true a couple decades ago, and you can see the
results of that in this study," he said.

Ford noted that 44% of those with a high school education or less passed the
test, rising to 82% among college grads. "They're still getting whupped by
immigrants.  I don't blame the educational system. We have personal
responsibilities as citizens. Not just rights."

---

Americans blow a pop quiz

The civics test administered by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services uses
10 questions selected

from a bank of 100. A sample of the questions, and the percentage of native-born
Americans answering

them correctly in a survey:

Q: What are the two parts of the U.S. Congress?

A: The House of Representatives and the Senate. (61% answered correctly)

Q: What does the president's Cabinet do?

A: Advises the president. (56% correct)

Q: What is an amendment?

A: A change to the Constitution. (43% correct)

Q:Whowas president during World War I?

A: Woodrow Wilson. (21% correct)

Sources: U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Center for the Study of the
American Dream at Xavier University

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              341 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 8, 2012 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Colleges look at immigrants;
More institutions look at policies to handle qualified student candidates who
happen to be here illegally

BYLINE: Mary Beth Marklein, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 840 words


Social justice is central to the mission of Dominican University, a small
private Catholic college in suburban Chicago. Serving poor immigrants is part of
its history.

So as the school began to get more applications where Social Security numbers
weren't provided, there was never a question of turning qualified undocumented
students away, President Donna Carroll says. This year, the school pulled
together $274,000 in financial aid for 17 undocumented students. Despite
pushback from some donors and alumni, Carroll says her only regret is that she
can't help more students.

"Is it controversial? Yes," she says. But "it's against the law to discriminate
against any student group. You need to start from that premise."

Each year, about 65,000 undocumented students graduate from U.S. high schools,
says a report by the College Board.  The American Association of State Colleges
and Universities estimates that between 5% and 10% go on to college.

Most of the debate about illegal immigration and higher education has centered
on whether undocumented students should be allowed to pay lower in-state tuition
rates at public schools, but as undocumented students become more visible and
vocal about their status, some higher-priced private colleges are being pressed
to consider policies to make tuition more affordable for them.

The Association of Catholic Colleges and Universities, of which Dominican is a
member, is urging its schools to enroll and assist undocumented students. On
many campuses, though, students are leading the charge.

At Cornell University in Ithaca, N.Y., where tuition alone will run about
$43,000 next year, a student group this spring raised $10,000 to help an
undocumented classmate pay tuition. It's also calling on its administration to
offer scholarships, work-study options and advising for undocumented students.

At Haverford College, just outside Philadelphia, students recently passed a
resolution asking the school  to  give undocumented students "fair, need-blind
admissions consideration." Similar campaigns were launched at nearby Swarthmore
and Bryn Mawr.

'Encourages illegal aliens to remain'

Organizers say such policies would encourage more undocumented students to go to
college.

"Our most important goal is to empower and liberate undocumented students, so we
can come out of the shadows," says Jessica Lee, 20, an undocumented Bryn Mawr
student from South Korea and co-founder of Students for Undocumented Dreams &
Decision Equity Now.

The non-profit Federation for American Immigration Reform, an advocacy group
that opposes tuition breaks for undocumented students.  "Just because there's an
absence of a legal prohibition does not mean it is ethical," says spokeswoman
Kristen Williamson. "It still encourages illegal aliens to remain in the
country."

Raj Kannappan, 21, president of Cornell's College Republicans, says that if
Cornell offers financial aid for undocumented students, "there's going to have
to be a justification for why that aid can't go to students who are enrolled
legally." But he doesn't expect much to happen in favor of undocumented
students. "There's a lot of talk about it, but no one's really doing anything
about it because a lot of people would not be in favor," he says.

Many  college officials aren't resisting student demands, but they're not
exactly embracing them either.

"We don't have any philosophical objection to what the students are proposing
and in fact agree with them," says Jess Lord, Haverford's dean of admissions and
financial aid. But "we have limited funds available to provide financial aid,
which dictates how many students with need we can take."  To Lord's knowledge,
Haverford doesn't enroll  undocumented students.

Illinois takes welcoming approach

A study last year involving 447 colleges found that 57% of private and 29% of
public schools provide undocumented students with  aid. That suggests some
schools "are trying to work with students to resolve this problem," says John
Burkhardt, director of the National Forum on Higher Education for the Public
Good, based at the University of Michigan.

Even so, of 2,650 institutions surveyed for the study, just 17% responded,
suggesting to Burkhardt that "institutions feel they can serve more students and
take care of more cases by staying under the radar."

In Illinois, lawmakers and activists have approached the issue from another
angle. A law passed last year allows immigrant families to contribute to the
state's two college savings programs, authorizes private donors to create a
government-backed scholarship for undocumented students and requires that high
school counselors be trained on college options for undocumented students.

For students at Dominican, the word is  out. "When undocumented students apply
to a school it's because they've already heard that it's welcoming," says
freshman Arianna Salgado, 19, an undocumented student who was born in Mexico and
has lived in the USA since age 6. "It makes you really comfortable with the
whole application process."

Contributing: Elizabeth Held

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Janet Loehrke, USA TODAY (Bar graph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              342 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 18, 2012 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Obama's deportation decision combines raw politics, fairness;
OUR VIEW

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 625 words


On rare occasions, the nakedly political thing to do and the right thing to do
are the same thing. So it is with President Obama's decision  not to seek
deportation of a million or more young illegal immigrants.

The politics are simple enough: The president needs Latino votes to win
re-election in November, particularly in battleground states such as Florida and
Nevada. His directive, announced Friday, could help him with Hispanic voters
who've been distressed by the administration's aggressive deportation policy,
which has resulted in more than 1 million people sent home since Obama took
office.

Politics notwithstanding, the substance of Obama's decision reflects  common
sense, humanity and U.S. national interest. Of all the people subject to
deportation, those who had no say in their parents' decision to enter the U.S.
illegally merit the most leniency.

Obama's directive provides no route to citizenship, and the protection it offers
young immigrants is good for only two years at a time. To qualify,  immigrants
must be no older than 30, have been brought here by their parents before age 16
and have lived in the U.S. for at least five years. They must have clean
criminal records and have graduated from high school or served honorably in the
U.S. military.

In most cases, these are exactly the sort of ambitious and productive young
people the nation needs to build its future -- people such as Yohanny Medina
Herrera, 19, whose parents brought her here from the Dominican Republic when she
was 9 years old and spoke no English. She struggled to learn the language and
eventually excelled at Boston's Urban Science Academy, where she was named
valedictorian of her graduating class. But without legal status, she told The
Boston Globe, she was effectively blocked from going to college. Until now.

Obama's guidelines resemble those of the DREAM Act, which, had it passed, would
have granted legal status to the same sort of immigrants and gone further to
provide them a path to citizenship. Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., who has been
readying his own  version of the DREAM Act, objects that the president's action
makes it harder for the parties to come together on a broad reform. What
chutzpah. Republicans have consistently worked to block the DREAM Act and the
sort of broader immigration reform the nation desperately needs. So they
shouldn't be surprised when their intransigence gets a reaction.

Opponents are also complaining that the order gives an unfair advantage to
hundreds of thousands of undocumented immigrants who shouldn't even be in the
job market. Do the critics really think so little of the skills and competitive
abilities of legal Americans?

The objection that carries the most weight is that Obama is flouting immigration
law by deciding to enforce only part of it, an argument not to be taken lightly.
Reality is, though, every recent president has selectively enforced immigration
law. To do otherwise would mean trying to round up an estimated 11 million
illegal immigrants -- nearly the population of Ohio -- and deport them.

That's not going to happen, regardless of who is in the White House. So it makes
sense to focus limited enforcement resources on violent criminals and others who
pose a threat. It's also true that prosecution without discretion can undermine
confidence in the law rather than enhance respect for it.

A far better solution, of course, would be for Congress to pass comprehensive
reform that combines tough border enforcement and employer sanctions with a
guest-worker program and a path to legality for immigrants who stay out of
trouble. In the meantime, Obama's very political decision was also the sensible
one. Those who disagree will have a chance to express their feelings on Nov. 6.


LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: graphic

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              343 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 22, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Did Obama make the right call on deportations?

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 176 words


We asked readers whether they agreed with President Obama's decision to stop
deportations of the  children of illegal immigrants.  Tweets have been edited
for clarity:

These kids only know the U.S. as home. Republicans only care about the rich.

-- @NETRetired

Right move by President Obama, as these kids grew up American. This is their
home, so I can't blame them.

-- @HardtimesCookbk

No. You want citizenship? Earn it. Deport anyone without papers regardless of
cause or concern. No exceptions.

-- @albertmenefee

If they are doing well in school and staying out of trouble, they deserve to be
here.

-- @richmed

They should not become victims. We are a "nation of immigrants." Welcome!

-- @JeffOstach

I believe children should not be separated from their parents. If the parents
are deported, they should be also.

-- @Titus12tnt12

No. How about we fix the legal immigration system?

-- @KevinPIvey

I'm OK with these children, under strict rules, staying. The parents have to go
though.

-- @bonsaibean

Visit @USATOpinion on Twitter for more comments and next week's question.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              344 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 5, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

New-citizen parties accent nation's 236th birthday;
Food, floats, flags -- and some fireworks

BYLINE: Natalie DiBlasio and Jessica Tully, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 354 words


The nation marked its 236th birthday Wednesday with parades, fireworks, an
iconic hot-dog-eating contest -- and a cake-and-ice-cream party featuring new
citizens at the home of the  first president.

At  George Washington's  sprawling estate overlooking the Potomac River, 103
immigrants took the oath of citizenship in a special ceremony. Afterward, 6,500
people  swarmed the  sunny field in front of the  mansion for the reading of the
Declaration of Independence.

Pedro Lopez, 43, said he  put American flags on his lawn for the first time
Wednesday morning. A few hours later, the Guatemalan native and his wife,
Siomara, became naturalized citizens.

"It feels perfect to be here at Mount Vernon," Siomara says.

Ariana Lara, 32, originally from Mexico, says the long journey to citizenship
was worth it, though she could hardly wait for the day to come.  "I'm excited to
say I'm a citizen," Lara says.

More than 4,000 new citizens are being  recognized at special naturalization
ceremonies from June 28 through Tuesday to commemorate  the nation's birthday.

About 750,000 people are naturalized every year, and this year could be a bit
higher because of the presidential election, says Bill Wright, spokesman for
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services.

"People want to become citizens and vote," Wright says.

Marwan Sadiq, 31, from Baghdad, plans to register to vote for this year's
elections.

"It is a dream come true,'' Sadiq says. "I'm going to be a proud American."

Elsewhere:

Joey Chestnut ate 68 hot dogs in 10 minutes to claim a sixth straight win and
the $10,000 top prize at the Fourth of July hot-dog-eating contest at New York's
Coney Island.  Sonya Thomas, 45, ate her age in hot dogs  to win the women's
competition and claim the $10,000 prize.

President Obama marked the holiday at the White House, where he welcomed 25 U.S.
servicemembers as newly sworn American citizens. His Republican rival, Mitt
Romney, marched in a parade near his summer home at Wolfeboro, N.H.

Holiday fireworks were canceled across most of Colorado and other Western states
where wildfires continue to burn.

Contributing: The Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              345 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 6, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Obama takes realistic step on immigration

BYLINE: Raul Reyes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 400 words


President Obama's recent decision that young people brought illegally to the USA
as children will no longer be deported made rights groups ecstatic, but
Republicans and conservative political pundits are irate.

Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, called the move a "decision to grant amnesty to
potentially millions of illegal immigrants." Fox News commentator Charles
Krauthammer called it "out and out lawlessness."

Hardly.

The policy shift gives these young people relief from deportation and allows
those who meet certain requirements to apply for work permits. This incremental
move  is overdue.

No one will be getting amnesty, citizenship or  a green card as a result of this
policy.  Even the relief from deportation is only good for two years. Deferments
can be extended or canceled by  the next occupant of the White House.

Charges that Obama is exceeding his authority are also invalid.  Other
presidents have used their administrative authority to give temporary relief to
immigrants. They include Presidents Jimmy Carter (to Cubans in 1980), George
H.W. Bush (to the Chinese in 1989) and Bill Clinton (to Haitians in 1997).

Still, Sen. Lindsay Graham, R-S.C., said Obama's decision "avoids dealing with
Congress and the American people." But Republicans in Congress have refused to
act on relief for undocumented youth for more than 10 years. That's how long it
has been since the DREAM Act, which offered a path to citizenship to these young
people, was introduced. Although it initially enjoyed bipartisan support,
Republicans later deserted it and the measure died in 2010.

Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., has talked  about a proposal that would have provided
the same type of relief as the White House is now granting. Yet Rubio's proposal
never stood a chance of passing Congress, whereas Obama's policy takes effect
immediately.

Sure, unemployment remains high and this act will allow as many as 800,000 young
people to work in the USA. But that means more people paying taxes, starting
businesses and growing our economy.

Hopefully Obama's new policy -- as well as last week's Supreme Court decision
striking down most of Arizona's controversial law -- will be a down payment on
the future of immigration reform.  The president is allowing young undocumented
youth to come out of the shadows and live and work openly.

Raul Reyes is an attorney in New York and a member of USA TODAY's Board of
Contributors.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              346 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 10, 2012 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Et cetera: Smart insights on the news

BYLINE: Jeff Jacoby, The Boston Globe; Peter Beinart, The Daily Beast

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 184 words


Jeff Jacoby, The Boston Globe: "For all the storm and stress of our national
immigration debate   the basic architecture of U.S. immigration policy itself --
with its strangulating confusion of quotas and regulations, and its core
assumption that immigration must be strictly limited and regulated -- nearly
always goes unchallenged. It shouldn't. For the problem with America's
immigration system isn't that too many people are breaking the rules. It's that
the rules themselves are irrational."

Peter Beinart, The Daily Beast: "America is an 'aspirational' country, but it's
also a country where people distrust elites. It's a country where people with
money and pedigree are vastly overrepresented in government yet risk their
careers if they can't connect to ordinary voters. Mitt Romney will be judged by
those same rules: Do middle class Americans find him personally appealing? Do
they believe his success has benefited the nation as a whole? For much of the
last half-century, Republicans have understood these rules better than
Democrats. If Mitt Romney doesn't, he has no one to blame but himself."

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              347 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 28, 2012 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GOP's harsh immigration stances repel a natural constituency

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 617 words


Hispanic voters represent one of the biggest opportunities for the Republican
Party in winning the White House. They skew conservative on social issues such
as abortion and gay marriage. They value hard work and have shown, in the case
of former president George W. Bush, a willingness to support Republican
candidates.

But today's GOP is  in the clutches of illegal-immigration hawks, the same
people who helped torpedo Bush's efforts at comprehensive reform and who have
pushed stringent laws in a number of states under GOP control. Their dominance
in the party is hampering one of its best opportunities to expand its base and
position itself for the future.

To be sure, this week's Republican convention will not lack for Hispanic
speakers. Florida Sen. Marco Rubio, passed over for the No. 2 spot on the
ticket, will introduce Mitt Romney on Thursday night. New Mexico Gov. Susana
Martinez and Texas Senate candidate Ted Cruz are among the others getting slots.

Even so, the party's platform, endorsed just days before the convention, is
hardly likely to help the party's outreach efforts. It calls for a double fence
along the nation's southern border. It would also federalize  provisions in
Arizona's controversial immigration law that are likely to result in
discrimination against Hispanics who are here legally.

Positions like these help explain why, in polls, Romney has been unable to hit
30% support among Hispanic voters -- at a time when no Republican in the past
five elections has won the presidency with less than 35%. Bush narrowly won
re-election in 2004 with 44% of the Hispanic vote, a high-water mark for GOP
candidates.

Romney could, of course, win this election even with a poor showing among
Latinos if he musters an overwhelming number of disaffected working-class white
voters. He might also still be able to improve his standing among Latinos
despite  his tough  rhetoric (illegal immigrants should "self deport")  if he
can convince them that he would do more than President Obama to improve the
economy.

But these approaches are like a fighter compensating for having one arm tied
behind his back.

More ominously for the party, they won't work  going forward. Republican
nominees won't be able to count on the economy working in their favor every
election. And, with the Latino vote at close to 10% of the electorate and
growing fast,  they won't be able to win without a more diverse  coalition. In
Florida, the battleground state where the convention is being held, 13.1% of
registered voters are Hispanic.

For these reasons, sensible voices are urging the party to be less rigid on
immigration matters and to find ways to appeal to immigrant voters. Former
Florida governor Jeb Bush, for one, has urged a change in tone. He is one of
several GOP insiders who has backed a proposal known as the DREAM Act, which
would give legal status to people who came here as a child and meet certain
requirements.

This type of approach, of being for tough immigration enforcement but tempering
it with policies that show a humane touch, is the right one for the Republican
Party and the nation. The specific elements of smart reform remain the same as
when George W. Bush proposed them: securing the borders, combined with sanctions
on employers who hire illegal workers, a guest-worker program for certain manual
laborers, and a path to legality for immigrants already here who pay taxes and
stay out of trouble.

For the GOP, a harsh, enforcement-only approach is a sure fire route to being
labeled as anti-immigrant and mean-spirited. That's not a place where it wants
to find itself. Which is why it will need to do more than load up its convention
program with native Spanish speakers.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              348 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           August 29, 2012 Wednesday
                                 First EDITION

Immigration waivers leave migrant children behind

BYLINE: Grace Meng

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 617 words


Any American who has turned on the news lately could watch many young immigrants
taking a first step toward the American dream. The Department of Homeland
Security began taking applications on Aug. 15 for "deferred action for childhood
arrivals," temporary relief from deportation for unauthorized immigrants who
were brought to the USA as children.

But what you did not see in the stories of thousands lining up in Chicago or
packing churches in New York were the many children who should benefit but
won't. Deferred action is intended for children who are "American" in everything
but legal status, but the program's idea of "American" is unlikely to include
the children who picked the oranges for your juice or the tomatoes on your
hamburgers.

It is common knowledge that the U.S. agricultural industry depends on immigrant
labor. What is less well-known is that hundreds of thousands of children, often
starting full-time at age 11 or 12, are working in the fields. Under federal
law, children can legally work in agriculture at younger ages, for longer hours
and under more hazardous conditions than other working children. Many of them
are U.S. citizens, but there are also plenty of unauthorized migrant children.

We learned, for example, of Ingrid Perez, a 17-year-old migrant farmworker who
is unlikely to benefit from deferred action. To be eligible, applicants must be
in school, have graduated from high school or have a GED, or be an honorably
discharged veteran. But Ingrid, an honor roll student, dropped out of school to
work. Children who move with their parents from state to state with planting and
harvest change schools, on average, three times a year. They are also often
under financial pressure to help support their families. As a result, child
farmworkers drop out at four times the national average.

Applicants must also prove they have been in the country since June 15, 2007,
but the usual ways of proving "continuous presence" through utility bills and
leases will be difficult for children who live in migrant housing. Child
farmworkers in rural areas are less likely to find lawyers who can help them
with the application, especially because federally funded legal services
organizations are barred from serving unauthorized immigrants.

Even getting identification, proof of who they are, can be challenging in rural
communities. Ingrid has been trying to enroll in a GED course but can't without
identification, which she does not have as an unauthorized migrant. She could
apply for a passport at the Guatemalan Embassy in Washington, D.C., but that
would mean a trip she cannot afford.

Some of these barriers might be addressed through administrative decisions on
evidentiary requirements for deferred action. But what is clear is the program
of deferred action was not designed for child farmworkers who, like many
immigrants throughout U.S. history, live very different lives than middle-class,
suburban  kids.

Given the tenor of debate over illegal immigration, it's not surprising that the
Obama administration designed a program for the best and the brightest immigrant
children. But the fact that deferred action will probably exclude many
farmworker children underscores how much  immigration law is out of sync with
the reality of an economy that depends on unauthorized immigrants and American
families whose loved ones are unauthorized.

The children who help feed this country have American dreams, too. Congress
should create the immigration system these children deserve.

Grace Meng is a U.S. researcher at Human Rights Watch and author of the report
"Cultivating Fear: The Vulnerability of Immigrant Farmworkers in the U.S. to
Sexual Violence and Sexual Harassment."

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              349 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 30, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

What politicians do often clashes with what people want

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 400 words


USA TODAY's editorial  mentions what politicians do  to appeal to  Latinos for
votes. I think  the writer failed to see what  the American people want. The
DREAM Act was defeated not by politicians but because the people made  very
clear that it was unacceptable ("GOP's harsh immigration stances repel a natural
constituency," Our view, Hispanic voters debate, Tuesday).

America is very badly in need of news sources that are willing to tell the truth
and give the facts on what  immigration -- legal and illegal -- is doing to our
country.

At a time of very high unemployment, our government is giving out  green cards
and work visas.  This affects all ethnic groups.

Yes, there  are politicians willing to give concessions to people  who have
violated our borders and visa laws. They say we must reach out to the Hispanics
because they have 10% of the vote.  Politicians did that in 1986 with the
Immigration Reform and Control Act granting amnesty to some illegal immigrants,
and that is why we have this problem.  Very soon, Hispanics will make up 30% of
eligible voters,  then open borders for everyone will follow. That is not what I
want for my country, nor what I have worked for.

Percy Mervyn

North Port, Fla.

Conventions launch rising stars

If one doubts that national conventions still matter, recall the case of Barack
Obama.  His keynote convention speech in 2004 galvanized a movement that put him
into the White House in 2008 ("Do conventions still matter?", Editorial,
Monday).

Certainly, the array of speakers at the conventions allows the public to
evaluate up-and-coming stars in the party of their choice, propelling a
candidate to prominence on the national scene. Hopefully, this year's
Republican and Democratic  conventions  will uncover some individuals who will
be not only future party leaders but also presidential and vice presidential
candidates.

For those individuals, it will be their big moment  to make  their political
futures.

Incidentally, despite the absence of the two Bush presidents, Jeb Bush  will be
a speaker, acting  as the family's representative without the political burdens
of his sibling.

Nelson Marans

Silver Spring, Md.

Who is missing from the picture?

Your article "Party conventions spotlight 2016 stars" states that both
conventions will highlight women and minorities (News, Monday). Yet all seven
speaker photos are male.

Beverly Wettenstein

New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              350 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 14, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Longer lives, later families and greater diversity;
Demographer sees a new face for America

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser, USA TODAY,

SECTION: BONUS; Pg. 10F

LENGTH: 650 words


The fundamental demographic force that has shaped the nation since its founding
and fueled its robust growth in recent decades will endure another 30 years:
immigration.

"We have always prided ourselves on being a nation of immigrants," says William
Frey, senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington. "We will
continue to be a nation of immigrants."

An analysis of population trends and projections by Frey, one of the nation's
premier demographers, creates a vision of the USA in 2042 that combines change
and status quo.

The greatest immigration flow might  not come from Mexico and other Latin
American countries but Asia instead, Frey says.

"They may come from large Asian nations, and in the next 30 years, we'll be
smarter in how we deal with immigration," he says. "We'll figure out a way to
bring people into the country that will help the economy.   It will be 'Who
should we bring in?' and not 'Should we bring them in?'"

Frey, 65, is convinced that racial division will evaporate,  a trend fueled by
globalization and technology.

"The reason is today's youth," he says. "There are younger people with parents
from different parts of the world. There is interconnectedness to all parts of
the community. We're seeing interracial marriages, even among blacks and whites,
which is the last bastion of racial differences in the United States."

The share of non-Hispanic whites is expected to slip below 50% by 2042 (now at
63.4%), while the share of Asians will jump to 7% from less than 5% now.
Hispanics will jump above 27%, from less than 17% now, and blacks will remain at
about 12%.

Today's racial and ethnic categories, as defined by the government, may no
longer apply. "People already have been confused enough with racial
classifications" on forms, he says.

Since 2000, in recognition of the USA's growing multiracial populations,
respondents can select multiple races.

The 79 million Baby Boomers (born from 1948 to 1964), who have dominated
cultural, social, political and economic trends for more than five decades
because of their sheer numbers, will still wield enormous clout. The youngest
Boomers will be 78, and this generation will dominate the growing  senior
population.

"It will be a stage when the number of older people will be almost the same as
the number of children," Frey says -- about 20% in each age group compared with
13% seniors and 23% children today.

Healthier living and medical advances are expected to push life expectancy far
beyond today's 79 (81 for women, 76 for men), Frey says. Research shows  it
could exceed government projections and hit 90 in 2042, he says.

"People will work longer, will put off marriage, put off having children," Frey
says. "As part of this very long life span, young people will expect having to
put off marriage and might expect marriages won't last forever."

What won't change: "People will still value something like traditional family,"
he says. "It may take different forms, but it's something people will aspire
to."

Despite a recent decline in birth rates, Americans will keep having enough
children to sustain growth,  unlike many developed nations, where fertility
rates have slipped far below replacement levels, Frey says.

The need for family extends to a need for community, whether it's a city
neighborhood, a suburban cul-de-sac or a  social networking website, he says.
And this ease of virtual connections could change where Americans choose to
live. The need to live near work -- at least some kinds of employment -- might
vanish and transform the development patterns of the country.

Global events and technology also will continue to shape the fabric of the
nation, he says.  "We can take good advantage of our history as an immigrant
nation in incorporating new people and ideas into our society and economy, which
will become even more important as the economy becomes more globalized. The
sky's the limit."

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Julie Snider, USA TODAY (Bar graph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              351 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 20, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigrant program not a permanent fix;
Deportation deferral still means 'purgatory' to some recipients

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, @alangomez, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 542 words


The text message came at 4:15 a.m.

Carlos Martinez looked at the text on his cellphone early Saturday morning,
scrambled to his computer and logged on to the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services website. Shaking in his chair, Martinez clicked onto his case and saw
the news.

"I am not illegal anymore," said Martinez, 30, of Tucson, who then ran to wake
up his mother with the news.

Martinez was one of the first 29 people approved for a new program created by
President Obama that grants illegal immigrants brought to the U.S. as children a
two-year deferral on any deportation proceedings. The "Deferred Action for
Childhood Arrivals" program does not grant legal residency or U.S. citizenship,
but recipients can obtain work permits during that two-year period, after which
they can reapply.

Even as the first to win approval celebrate the long-awaited news, their
reactions show just how tenuous their position remains.

Six approval recipients contacted by USA TODAY said they don't want to be
identified  because they fear for relatives that are still in the country
illegally.

And Alberto Ibarra of Los Angeles, who was one of the first to win his approval,
said his new status has merely upgraded his situation from always "looking over
my shoulder" to "immigration purgatory."

That temporary nature of the program is leading to a sense of false hope for
many applicants, according to John Miano, a New Jersey attorney and fellow at
the Center for Immigration Studies, which opposes the program. An executive
order can be rescinded at any time and Miano said a future president could end
the program and use the reams of information provided by applicants to sweep
them all up.

Ibarra was brought to the U.S. by his family 24 years ago, when he was  3.  He
graduated high school and earned a mechanical engineering degree. But he said it
has been a difficult road,  always worried about getting pulled over by police.

Recently,  Ibarra said he was forced to quit his job at a  development company
when he was offered a promotion and knew his status as an illegal immigrant
would be uncovered.

"I don't think words can explain the excitement I felt after  my employment
authorization card had been approved," Ibarra said. "I could see the light at
the end of a tunnel."

Obama created the deferral program after he failed to get Congress to pass the
DREAM Act, which would grant legal residency to young illegal immigrants who
have either served time in the military or completed some college. Republican
presidential rival Mitt Romney  only supports the military component of the act,
and says a comprehensive immigration fix  eliminates the need for Obama's
deportation deferral program.

But the election is the last thing on the minds of the young illegal immigrants
who are busy celebrating their temporary reprieve. Martinez just wants to apply
for a job.

He was brought to the U.S.  when he was 9.  He  graduated from the University of
Arizona in 2003 and got a master's in software systems engineering.  But he said
no  firm would hire him because of his status.

"Now I will start applying for entry-level software engineering jobs," he said.
"Because of the broken immigration system, we are now allowed to contribute.
That opportunity has arrived."

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              352 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 21, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LETTERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 106 words


Mitt Romney is the candidate that Latino immigrants need ("Romney jabs Obama on
immigration in key speech," USATODAY.com, Monday).  The American dream, which
has for generations attracted Latin Americans to our shores, is not one of
dependence on the government but one of dependence on individual ambition.

President Obama appears to believe immigrants -- and the general American public
-- desire government programs to provide them with success. Success is not
something that is given.  It has always been something that is earned. That is
the dream my mother (a Dominican immigrant) came here to realize.

Matthew Mirliani

Hanover, N.H.


LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              353 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 3, 2012 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Romney softens stance on immigration, other issues;
Camp tries to keep conservative appeal as it courts undecideds

BYLINE: Jackie Kucinich

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 392 words


Mitt Romney told a Denver newspaper he would not revoke temporary visas for some
young illegal immigrants in what appears to be the latest attempt to soften his
tone on key issues as the general election nears.

Romney told the Denver Post in an interview Monday that those who qualify for
the deferred action program created by President Obama in June would be
permitted to stay for the allotted term.

"The people who have received the special visa that the president has put in
place, which is a two-year visa, should expect that the visa would continue to
be valid. I'm not going to take something that they've purchased," Romney said.
"Before those visas have expired, we will have the full immigration reform plan
that I've proposed."

In a statement, the Obama campaign dismissed the "pivot" as a response that
"raises more questions than it answers."

Romney's decision to take a nuanced position on the issue comes nearly two weeks
after he dodged a question about whether he would keep the policy in place
during a Florida forum organized by Univision.

Asked several times whether he would continue the program, Romney responded,
"Well, we're not going to -- we're not going to round up people around the
country and deport them."

He said a long-term solution is needed and reiterated support for granting
permanent residence to illegal immigrants who serve in the military.

The Romney camp has pledged to give more details about their policies in
response to voters' demands for more information about what a Romney
administration would do.

In a conference call Monday, Romney advisers Ed Gillespie and Kevin Madden said
that though they are targeting voters who are undecided or have "very soft"
support for Obama, they are doing so with an agenda that still appeals to
conservatives.

"There are also a number of voters out there who may be registering some level
of support for President Obama that is very soft.  The question is, what are we
going to do to make the case to them that Gov. Romney has a better vision for
the future,"  Madden said.

Gillespie said Romney's conservative bona fides would be evident in the debate:
"This choice is a choice about going forward with a stagnant,
government-centered economy that results in greater government  or a dynamic,
free-enterprise-based economy that's pro-growth and fosters our economic
opportunity."

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Charles Dharapak, AP Republican presidential candidate Mitt
Romney makes an unscheduled stop Tuesday at a Chipotle restaurant in Denver.
Romney and President Obama will debate tonight at the University of Denver.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: ELECTION 2012

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              354 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 3, 2012 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Sports: In Brief

BYLINE: Compiled by John Tkach from staff, wires

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 627 words


New Zealand cancels Mike Tyson's ENTRY visa

New Zealand officials canceled an entry visa for former heavyweight boxing
champion and convicted rapist Mike Tyson, days after the country's prime
minister spoke out against his planned visit. Tyson earlier had been granted an
exemption to New Zealand immigration rules to speak at a November charitable
event, "Day of the Champions." Tyson's 1992 rape conviction normally would have
made him ineligible to enter the country. Associate Immigration Minister Kate
Wilkinson said today (Tuesday night ET) the original decision to let Tyson enter
was "a finely balanced call" and the charity to benefit from his visit had now
withdrawn its support. Prime Minister John Key spoke out against the planned
visit this week, questioning the decision by immigration officials and saying he
personally disapproved.

Germany wins first mixed-gender swim relay

In swimming's first top-level event featuring both sexes, Britta Steffen held
off two men to anchor Germany to victory in a 4x50-meter mixed relay in the
World Cup meet Tuesday in Dubai. Steffen, a world recordholder in the 50-meter
freestyle, started the final leg with a lead of half a pool length. Hungary's
Krisztian Takacs and Ukraine's Sergii Frolov left the blocks after her and
closed the gap, but Steffen made sure Germany won. Germany finished in 1 minute,
43.21 seconds -- 2.10 seconds faster than Hungary. Ukraine was another 0.58
seconds back. FINA, swimming's governing body, says mixed relays could be
introduced at the short-course world championships in Istanbul in December.

Olazabal rules out staying on as Ryder Cup captain

Jose Maria Olazabal has ruled out continuing another two years as Europe's Ryder
Cup captain. He guided Europe to a 14-13 victory vs. the USA in a comeback
Sunday at Medinah (Ill.). Darren Clarke and Paul McGinley are the favorites to
replace the popular Spaniard for the 2014 match in Gleneagles, Scotland. "These
two deserve a chance, but I think Thomas Bjorn deserves a chance and also Paul
Lawrie," Olazabal said. "We have at least eight or nine guys. It would be hard
to name just one or two." Olazabal also said Ian Poulter "will be a wonderful
captain."

Leagues say N.J. sports betting law is hypocritical

Major professional sports leagues and the NCAA say New Jersey's proposed sports
betting law is hypocritical because it prohibits gambling on New Jersey college
games but allows it on all other college and pro contests. The NCAA, NFL, NBA,
NHL and Major League Baseball are suing to block the law from taking effect,
possibly as soon as December. In their response to New Jersey's efforts to have
the case dismissed, the leagues note New Jersey says sports betting won't harm
pro or college leagues. Yet the leagues say the state forbids gambling involving
New Jersey college teams or any college game played in New Jersey. The state
argues billions of dollars already are bet illegally on sports, and it hasn't
made the leagues crumble.

Australian Open prize money increases to $31 million

Australian Open organizers have increased prize money to a record $31.1million
for the first tennis major of 2013 in response to player concerns about
compensation at Grand Slam tournaments. Tournament director Craig Tiley also
said Tuesday that Rafael Nadal was targeting the event for his return from a
knee injury. The 11-time Grand Slam singles champion partially tore his patella
tendon and hasn't played since losing in the second round of Wimbledon in June.
Tiley said the $4.15million increase was the largest from one year to the next
in tournament history. The move followed reports that some players were
considering bypassing the tournament if prize money was not increased,
particularly for losers in the early rounds.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Stephen Lovekin, Getty Images Mike Tyson's planned visit to New
Zealand was denounced, then canceled.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              355 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 12, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Hispanic heritage runs deep in the USA;
This nation isn't becoming Hispanic. It always has been.

BYLINE: Jean-Benoit Nadeau, and Julie Barlow,

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 570 words


"Hispanics," "immigration" and "immigrants," whether "illegal" or not, have been
hot topics during the presidential campaign. But these discussions have all
missed the point: The United States isn't becoming a Hispanic nation; it always
has been.

Whether Hispanics account for 15% or 16% of the population today is immaterial.
Hispanic culture has been part of "America" longer than the United States has
existed.

Spanish shaped America

Understanding Hispanic heritage is key to understanding the roots of American
culture, whether it is the dollar sign, cowboy icon, barbecue and mustangs or
Texas chili -- which is as old as the Constitution.

Five states have Spanish names (Florida, California, Nevada, Colorado, Montana)
and four more (Texas, New Mexico, Utah and Arizona) have Hispanicized native
names. And it's no wonder: Until the mid-19th century, they were all part of New
Spain, and then part of Mexico after independence, before the U.S. took them
over.

Technically, Spanish language and culture became part of the national fabric of
the United States when the U.S. expanded West of the Mississippi and South of
the Carolinas. Over a period of 82 years, the U.S. penetrated deeply into the
Hispanic sphere, annexing or occupying Florida (1821), Texas (1845), Northern
Mexico (1848 and 1854),  Puerto Rico (1898) and the Panama Canal zone (1903).

In so doing, the U.S. acquired a Hispanic personality that has lasted to this
day. But that personality started developing long before the annexation of
Florida and Texas. The oldest records of European explorers and settlers on the
territory of United States were written in Spanish. The oldest European town,
St. Augustine, Fla., was founded by Spain in 1565 -- 42 years before the
founding of Jamestown.

Americans owe the words tornado, canyon and ramada to early 16th century quests
for gold carried out by Spanish explorers Francisco Vasquez de Coronado,
Hernando de Soto and Alvar Nunez Cabeza de Vaca. The Comanche, Apache and Sioux
warriors got their trademark horsemanship from the Spanish, who re-introduced
the horse to the continent. The word "mustang" is a deformation of the Spanish
term mestengo (for stray cattle). Ranching was originally Spanish. Conquistadors
brought it with them to the New World. Lasso, chaps and shack are all anglicized
Spanish ranching vocabulary.

U.S. law has been influenced by the Spanish legal tradition, as symbolized by
the carving of Castillian monarch Alfonso X in the House of Representatives.

Our Spanish stock exchange

Even the U.S. dollar has Spanish roots. From 1500 until the mid-19th century,
the Spanish dollar, commonly referred to as "pieces of eight,"  was the de facto
currency of international commerce. It served as a model for currencies ranging
from the U.S. dollar to the Chinese yuan, and was legal tender in the U.S.
before Congress approved the Coinage Act of 1857.

The dollar sign, the ubiquitous $, is widely believed to be derived from symbols
related to the Spanish currency circulating in the American colonies. Stock
prices were quoted on the New York Stock Exchange in eighths until 1997.

In short, the USA's Hispanic heritage runs much deeper than Tex Mex and recent
immigrants. It shaped daily life for Americans of every race long before
Hispanics became a sought-after political constituency.

Jean-Benoit Nadeau and Julie Barlow are the authors of The Story of Spanish, to
be published by next year.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Casa Monica Hotel opened in 1888 in St. Augustine, Fla., and is
still operating. St. Augustine, the oldest city in the USA, was founded by the
Spanish in 1565. That's 42 years before the founding of Jamestown.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              356 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 30, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Lawmakers pitch different paths to solving immigration;
Elections spur search for where plans intersect

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, @alangomez, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 759 words


Republicans and Democrats emerged from the fall elections agreeing on at least
one thing: that it was finally time for both sides to come together to fix the
nation's broken immigration system.

But judging from the first week of legislative action on immigration, figuring
out how to do that will be a contentious battle between, and within, the two
parties.

On the Republican side, Sens. Jon Kyl of Arizona and Kay Bailey Hutchison of
Texas introduced a bill that grants illegal immigrants brought to the country as
children a series of visas to remain in the USA for years. That bill, known as
the "Achieve Act,"  requires  immigrants to go to the back of the line to apply
for green cards and, eventually, U.S. citizenship, a requirement not supported
by  Democrats and immigration advocates.

The senators' pitch was followed  Thursday by debate on the House floor on a
proposal from GOP Rep. Lamar Smith of Texas that increases the number of visas
for highly skilled immigrants. Smith's bill would  cut a diversity visa program
that brings in 55,000 people a year from mostly African countries, another
requirement opposed by Democrats and immigration advocates.

"Incredibly tone-deaf," said Frank Sharry, executive director of America's
Voice, a group that supports the legalization of the country's illegal
immigrants. "What the election has shown is there's real juice, there's real
power behind the movement to win citizenship for immigrants who are Americans in
all but paperwork."

Sharry was referring to the success that President Obama had with Hispanics,
winning that vote 71% to 27% over Republican challenger Mitt Romney,  Pew
Hispanic Center statistics show.

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which
opposes widespread legalization, said Republicans need to reach a compromise on
the issue of young illegal immigrants to show they're "serious and engaged in
the debate." But, he said, interpreting the election results as a mandate to
legalize all illegal immigrants is "laughable."

"I understand the tone-deaf story line, but it's baloney," he said. "Republicans
just aren't doing what the Democrats want them to do."

The Congressional Hispanic Caucus -- a group of 21 Democratic members of
Congress -- on Wednesday outlined their priorities, which included a pathway to
citizenship for the nation's illegal immigrants and more visas for families,
highly skilled immigrants and "guest workers." All of that, they believe, should
be done in one sweeping bill.

There is  disagreement even within Republican circles on how to approach
immigration bills during the lame-duck session and in the new Congress that
convenes in January.

Some conservatives, like Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., say  it's best to tackle the
problem piecemeal. Rubio has been drafting  legislation to address the young
illegal immigrant population. From there, he would  tackle border security,
ways to screen job applicants to ensure they're in the country legally and the
refinement of the nation's guest-worker program, which allows non-citizens to
work int the U.S. for a while before returning to their home countries. Only
when  that is finished would he address the fate of  the nation's illegal
immigrants, Rubio spokesman Alex Conant said.

Some in his party disagree with that strategy.

"We have a window of opportunity to fix this problem, and I think it has to be
fixed in its entirety," said Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart, R-Miami, who has been
meeting with members of both parties to craft a solution.

Many Democrats, including President Obama, agree on that point. The White House
issued a statement Wednesday saying it supports some aspects of Smith's bill for
highly skilled immigrants. But the administration made clear it opposed the bill
partly because it did not address the immigration system as a whole.

"The administration does not support narrowly tailored proposals that do not
meet the president's long-term objectives with respect to comprehensive
immigration reform," the statement read.

The road to an immigration solution likely will be rocky,  but many are
encouraged that the debate is  taking place. Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., has
been working on immigration legislation for years and remembers a time when his
Democratic colleagues were uncomfortable tackling the subject. He recalled
caucus meetings where he and a few others were the lone voices calling for
action.

"We stood alone sometimes in the corner," he said. "All of the sudden, we're the
belle of the ball. We're here to say it's time to start the dance."

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              357 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 13, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Economy drags down population growth

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser, and Paul Overberg, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 548 words


The Great Recession may be over, but the repercussions will echo for decades by
braking the nation's population growth and steering it on an unprecedented path,
the Census Bureau predicted Wednesday.

Fewer immigrants and fewer babies -- a decline caused largely by the poor
economy and high unemployment -- are shifting the shape of the nation's
population: It will be older and smaller than had been predicted just four years
ago.

By 2050, the nation is projected to have 399.8 million people -- 39 million
fewer than the previous predictions during the recession in 2008. The country
will now reach the 400million milestone in 2051, 12 years later than previously
projected, the Census Bureau said.

"The United States is on a new demographic trajectory," says Mark Mather,
demographer at the Population Reference Bureau. "The decline in immigration
dampens U.S. population growth in two ways. Fewer immigrants means there are
fewer new residents  but the decline in immigration also reduces the number of
potential births."

Diversity will continue to grow, a trend led by children. By 2019 -- four years
earlier than expected -- no single racial or ethnic group under 18 will be a
majority, says William Frey, demographer at the Brookings Institution. The
nation as a whole will reach that point in 2043, a year later than had been
projected.

"The U.S. will become a plurality nation where the non-Hispanic white population
remains the largest single group, but no group is in the majority," acting
Census Bureau Director Thomas Mesenbourg says.

"The change is coming much faster for kids than the country as a whole," says
Kenneth Johnson, demographer at the University of New Hampshire's Carsey
Institute. "It's not just because the minority population of children is
growing, but also because the number of white children is diminishing." Much of
the minority increases come from births rather than migration, he says.

Shape of the nation in 2060, according to government projections:

The population 65 and older will double to 92 million, or one in five residents.
Those 85 and older will more than triple to 18.2 million.

In just eight years, there will be more seniors (65 and older) than
schoolchildren. By 2060, the older will outnumber the young for the first time
in U.S. history.

Baby Boomers will slowly fade away. In 2060, when the youngest would be 96, they
will number just 2.4 million, compared with more than 76 million now.

Whites who are not Hispanic will peak in 2024 at about 200 million and will be
the only major racial or ethnic group to decline after that.

The number of Hispanics will more than double from about 53 million to almost
129 million. Nearly one in three Americans could be Hispanic, compared with
about one in six today. Asians will more than double, too, reaching 34.4
million.

The black population will grow from 41 million to about 62million. Blacks' share
of the population will inch up from 13.1% to 14.7%.

Despite the slowdown in population gains -- annual growth is expected to drop
from almost 1% in 2010 to 0.77% in just three years -- Mather does not expect
the U.S. population to decline this century. "We're nowhere near Japan or some
of the other countries with low fertility rates," he says, "but these numbers
show we are headed in that direction."

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Frank Pompa and Paul Overberg, USA TODAY (Line graph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              358 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 12, 2009 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Invest in American workers

BYLINE: Dan Stein

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 386 words


One of President Obama's highest policy priorities is making America energy
independent. The president has correctly observed that our reliance on others
for essential energy needs is both a source of weakness and an impediment to the
development of new technologies that would also strengthen our economy and help
the environment.

In much the same way that we have avoided investing in domestic energy sources
and new technologies, we have developed an unhealthy reliance on foreign workers
to fill our science and technology needs. As technology has become increasingly
important to our economy, U.S. companies have spent millions of dollars lobbying
for increased access to foreign workers, rather than investing in American
workers to fill jobs.

Despite more than 84,000 high-tech layoffs in the first quarter of 2009, by late
April, U.S. employers had filed more than 45,000 new petitions to hire foreign
workers, under what's known as the H-1B visa program, instead of investing in
training and developing American workers. Worse yet,current law allows American
workers to be replaced with new H-1B workers.

The free flow of these workers creates a disincentive to America's own best and
brightest to train for many of the jobs that are critical to our economic
future. Depressing wages by increasing the labor pool of high-tech workers often
directs our most talented people to other professions.

Besides depressing opportunities for American workers, importing large numbers
of H-1B workers forestalls the urgent need to recruit and train American workers
for the jobs of the future. Instead of perpetuating this dependency through
ever-larger H-1B quotas, our nation would be better served by making a
commitment to cultivate the talents of our own current and future workers.

The original purpose of the H-1B program was to give our nation access to a
small number of people who possessed unique skills, and whose presence here
would complement our own labor force. We need to get back to that original
intent. What America needs is public and private investment in our people, not a
convenient substitute for a well-trained domestic labor force.

Dan Stein is president of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which
advocates reducing legal immigration levels and strict legal-immigration
enforcement.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              359 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 19, 2009 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Help businesses invest in workers

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 493 words


Why not assess a tax on employers for each worker who holds an  H-1B visa. The
amount could be based on two times  the worker's gross wages and benefits for
the duration of the visa. An adjustment could be made for any pay rate changes
before the visa is  renewed. These funds would go 100% into grants for legal
U.S. residents  to pursue graduate work in the  areas of higher education that
are in demand and that these visa holders are filling ("Congratulations,
graduate. Now leave the USA.," Our view, Legal immigration debate, May 12).

Allow the employers to propose the skill areas that they claim are in short
supply so training can be targeted to  their needs.  If  other countries can
anticipate these needs and train their citizens, then surely we can do the same.

This  also would remove the criticism that  the H-1B program is just a back door
to cheap labor.

Rod Scales

Dallas

H-1B visa has side effects

The H-1B visa program was never intended to result in the replacement of the
training and development of American high-tech workers. As implemented, however,
it has contributed to the decline in the U.S. economy and an increase in the
U.S. unemployment rate.

Stop parading around the song and dance of Microsoft and Oracle  executives who
have lobbied to eliminate the cap on these skilled workers. They are only
interested in getting cheap, high-tech labor and are willing to sacrifice the
interests of the very country that made their tremendous success possible  to
achieve that goal.

Wilma J. Vass

Leesburg, Va.

A true 'clunker'

I mentioned  the  proposal to give vouchers of up to $4,500 to people for
trading in gas-guzzlers to some friends. All had the same response: The dealers
will just jack up prices $4,500, and the consumer will still lose   ("Put the
brakes on 'cash for clunkers,' " Our view, Vehicle vouchers debate, Wednesday).

Why can't the government make a program that is simple  and benefits all the
people who are hurting in this bad economy. This  program would benefit only a
few.  Think about it: Those with clunkers probably can't afford a new car  right
now anyway. This proposal makes me shudder to think what  a government-run
health care program would be like.

Mary Herbers

Dyersville, Iowa

Trend on pitchers

The Major League Baseball trend of carrying 12 or more pitchers has changed the
game for the worse ("Plenty of pitchers populate rosters," Sports, Wednesday).

Instead of watching two stellar starting pitchers duel until possibly the  ninth
inning, when the ace closer would be brought in to shut down a potential rally,
we now see what used to be called "mop-up men" parading in from the sixth inning
on.

USA TODAY's article noted that "relievers have been woeful this season,"  blown
saves are on the rise and bullpen ERAs are ballooning. Is there any wonder?
These two or three extra pitchers on each roster are pitchers who'd still be in
the minor leagues back in the glory days of baseball.

Frank J. Boch

North Irwin, Pa.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              360 of 360 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 3, 2011 Thursday
                                 First EDITION

Cost of business in China rises;
Tax on foreign workers rolls out

BYLINE: Kathy Chu, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 457 words


A controversial new tax on foreign companies and workers is adding to rising
business costs in China.

The tax requires foreigners to contribute to China's social welfare system for
pension, medical, unemployment, work-injury and maternity benefits.

Doing so allows foreigners to access social services in China. But it could end
up duplicating benefits that workers retain in their own countries while working
in China and saddle employers with thousands of dollars in extra costs each
year.

The new policy -- which took effect Oct. 15 but has yet to be rolled out in most
of the country -- requires foreigners to pay up to 11% of their salary and
employers to contribute up to 37% of workers' pay to these social programs. The
maximum tax varies by city: In Shanghai, employers and employees pay a combined
maximum of about $882 per month, while in Beijing, it's about $837.

Meanwhile, the city of Dalian has removed a cap on employers' social insurance
contributions,  raising concerns that other cities could follow suit. This
expense will take a toll on small and midsize businesses. Such companies may
reconsider hiring foreign staff, experts say.

"This change might lead to the perception that foreign staff is going to be more
expensive," encouraging some companies to replace junior to midlevel managers
with Chinese citizens, says Martyn Huckerby, a partner at Mallesons Stephen
Jaques, an Australian law firm that represents multinationals doing business in
China.

Xinhua, China's official news agency, has defended the necessity of the tax.
Chinese companies are required to buy social insurance for their employees, so
not requiring foreign companies to do the same would give them an "unfair cost
advantage in hiring," said in an Oct. 30 Xinhua editorial.

At the end of 2010,  of the 600,000 foreigners in China, 231,700 had work
permits, according to China's Ministry of Human Resources & Social Security.

Germany and South Korea have negotiated pacts with China to exempt their workers
from portions of the new tax.

U.S. workers won't get the same treatment. The Social Security Act requires that
any country the U.S. strikes an agreement with meet certain requirements: The
partner country's social security system, for instance, must pay regular
benefits and apply to the general population. China's system does not meet those
criteria, says Kia Green, a spokeswoman for the Social Security Administration.

At a time  labor expenses are rising in China, some see the new tax as just one
more unavoidable cost to doing business there.

"Everyone's blowing this out of proportion," says K. Lesli Ligorner, a Shanghai
attorney for the Paul Hastings firm. "There's nothing wrong with the country
making sure that everyone has basic insurance."

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
