
                               1 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 10, 2008 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Strict immigration law rattles Okla. businesses;
Undocumented workers have left by the thousands, creating hole in economy

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1961 words


PARK HILL, Okla. -- Autumn had arrived in eastern Oklahoma, and workers at the
sprawling Greenleaf Nursery were prepping for deadly frosts. They needed to ship
plants, erect greenhouses and bunch trees together to protect them against the
cold.

But in late October, about 40 employees disappeared from the 600-acre nursery
about an hour's drive from Tulsa. "Some went to Texas, some went to Arkansas,"
nursery President Randy Davis says. "They just left."

Why did the workers, all immigrants, flee? "Those states don't have 1804," Davis
says.

In a matter of weeks, "1804" has become part of the Sooner State's lexicon. It
refers to House Bill 1804, the Oklahoma Taxpayer and Citizen Protection Act of
2007, arguably the nation's toughest state law targeting illegal immigrants.

Dozens of state legislatures, citing inaction by Congress, have adopted measures
aimed at curbing illegal immigration. Oklahoma's new law, which took effect Nov.
1, is particularly far-reaching and has begun sending ripples through the
state's economy and its immigrant communities. Besides highlighting the impact
of illegal immigration on Oklahoma, the law has made the state a laboratory in
the national debate over immigration.

The Oklahoma measure is broader than a controversial Arizona law that suspends
or revokes business licenses of employers who knowingly hire illegal immigrants.
Among other things, 1804 makes it a felony to transport or shelter illegal
immigrants. It also denies illegal immigrants driver's licenses and public
benefits such as rental assistance and fuel subsidies.

Many business owners are especially nervous about provisions of 1804 that kick
in July 1, when employers with government contracts must start checking new
hires against a federal database to make sure they are legally eligible to work.
If the employers don't, they won't get the contracts.

"I've already had customers who came in here and told me they've fired employees
because they didn't know if they were here legally," says Tim Wagner, an owner
of Cocina De Mino, a Mexican restaurant in Oklahoma City. He predicts industries
such as agriculture will face worker shortages.

Widespread reports of vanishing employees and schoolchildren suggest thousands
of illegal immigrants have left Oklahoma for neighboring states or their native
countries. Cotton gins, hotels and home builders have lost workers. Restaurant
and grocery store owners complain of fewer customers.

Some businesses and lawmakers are warning that the economic effects will hit
consumers hard. Having a smaller pool of workers for certain jobs will cause
delays and create competition among employers, leading them to raise wages and
prices, Davis and others say.

Republican state Rep. Shane Jett, who opposed 1804, offers a more dire
prediction. Without changes, the law "will be the single most destructive
economic disaster since the Dust Bowl," he says.

State Rep. Randy Terrill, the Republican author of the law, counters that 1804
will save money because taxpayers won't be subsidizing services for illegal
immigrants. "There's significant evidence that HB 1804 is achieving its intended
purpose, which is illegal aliens leaving the state of Oklahoma," he says. "HB
1804 is a model not only for Oklahoma, but for other states and the nation as
well."

An exodus from Tulsa

Legislatures in 46 states adopted 244 immigration-related measures last year,
the National Conference of State Legislatures says. Before the passage of 1804,
Oklahoma's immigrant population was growing, fueled by an expanding economy.

Nearly 5% of Oklahoma's 3.6 million residents are foreign-born, Census figures
show. The Pew Hispanic Center estimated in April 2006 that up to 75,000 were
illegal immigrants.

Texas, which borders Oklahoma and Mexico, has a longer history with immigration
issues. Daniel Kowalski, a Texas immigration lawyer who edits Bender's
Immigration Bulletin, believes a measure such as 1804 couldn't win approval in
Texas, in part because about 16% of that state's 23.5 million residents are
foreign-born. The center estimates that up to 1.6 million of them are illegal
immigrants.

Since 1804 was approved in Oklahoma, 15,000-25,000 illegal immigrants have left
Tulsa County, the Greater Tulsa Hispanic Chamber of Commerce says. Executive
director Francisco Trevioo bases the estimate on school enrollment, church
attendance and reports from bus companies with service to Mexico.

"People are leaving to Mexico or Canada or other states," says Jim Garcia,
manager of Tulsa's El Mercadito, a Hispanic grocery. He says sales have fallen
40% since Nov. 1. "A lot of people are going to Missouri or Arkansas because
they think it's safer."

Arkansas state Rep. Rick Green, a Republican, says he has heard from a doctor
who complained that illegal immigrants from Oklahoma have crossed the state line
for medical care.

"With Arkansas being a very poor state economically, the concern is whether we
can shoulder these expenses" stemming from any influx of immigrants from
Oklahoma, he says.

Supporters of 1804 say the state will benefit from illegal immigrants leaving.
"That's money in our pocket," says Carol Helm of Immigration Reform for Oklahoma
Now.

Not all of those leaving Oklahoma are in the USA illegally. "I've lost two
housekeepers out of a staff of 12," says Joe Geis, general manager of the Sleep
Inn & Suites in Edmond. "They were here legally, (but) they have family" members
who were not.

Immigrant activist Blanca Thames says she has helped more than 1,000 families
prepare power-of-attorney papers to protect children in case parents are
deported. Many illegal immigrants have U.S.-born children who are citizens.

Constitutionality challenged

At Iglesia Piedra Angular (Cornerstone Hispanic Church) in Tulsa, senior pastor
Jose Alfonso estimates that he has lost 15% of his 425-member congregation.

His church was a plaintiff in two lawsuits filed by the National Coalition of
Latino Clergy and Christian Leaders that challenged the constitutionality of the
law. Both were dismissed, the latest last month when U.S. District Judge James
Payne ruled that the plaintiffs, who included illegal immigrants, didn't have
standing to sue. He said they would not have been hurt if they had not violated
U.S. law.

The coalition says it will appeal.

Several national and statewide business groups say they are considering their
own lawsuit to challenge the law. "You're basically putting employers in the
middle of this fight," says Jenna Hamilton of the National Association of Home
Builders, one of the groups.

Lawmaker Terrill says he has little sympathy for businesses that hire illegal
workers. He believes 1804 will create jobs for U.S. citizens.

"There is no job that an American citizen is unwilling to do," he says. "They're
just not willing to do it at the wage rates that are being paid to illegal
aliens."

But some employers say it's hard to hire citizens in their industries.

"We have extremely low unemployment. ... The people in southwest Oklahoma who
want to work are working," says Tom Buchanan, a cotton, cattle and wheat farmer
in Jackson County.

Chris Ellison, manager of the Motley Gin cotton gin in Hollis, lost eight of 16
workers since Nov. 1. He says the loss sent his overtime costs soaring.

"I would love to hire 20 U.S. citizens here," Ellison says, but "local people
are not going to quit a job to work three weeks during the year."

Both men say they obey U.S. laws and check workers' identity documents, but they
acknowledge that some may have fake papers.

"We are not documents experts," Buchanan says.

Like farmers and landscapers, builders say they're struggling.

Earlier in 2007, Portillo Construction, which specializes in masonry and stone
work in the Tulsa area, employed about 15 people, co-owner Natanael Portillo
says. All were immigrants.

"On Nov. 1, not one employee showed up for work," he says.

He has since hired several laborers but lost a contract on a house, he says.
"We're looking at between a $15,000 to $20,000 loss" for 2007, Portillo says.

Home builder Caleb McCaleb, who works in Oklahoma City and Edmond, says his
framer lost 30 of his 80 workers, his painter lost 10 of 35 and his landscaper
lost 15 of 40. That has put homes three or four weeks behind schedule.

"If we continue to lose workers, we are going to have to raise prices," he says.

Cocina De Mino has seen its Hispanic clientele decline, especially on Sundays,
Wagner says.

"After church, usually at 2 or 3 in the afternoon, they (would) bring their
family. It's usually groups of eight, 10 and 12," he says. "Those groups are not
coming in."

At Plaza Santa Cecilia, a mall filled with Hispanic shops in Tulsa, Simon
Navarro's customer base has evaporated. Navarro, owner of a money-wiring
service, says 500 people would come in every day to send money to relatives in
Mexico and Central America. "Now," he says, "I have 100."

'Son of 1804' on horizon

Terrill plans to introduce a follow-up bill this year that he calls "Son of
1804."

"HB 1804 does not represent everything that can or should be done in this area,"
he says. Among other things, he says, the new measure would make English the
state's official language and allow police to seize property of those who
violate 1804, including landlords.

Terrill says he has been contacted by legislators in at least a dozen states who
have introduced or are drafting legislation similar to 1804.

Arkansas legislators may introduce bills when they next meet in January 2009,
Green says. Some Arkansans who don't want to wait will try to get a measure on
the ballot this year.

"We're getting a lot of pressure at home because they see what Oklahoma's done,"
Green says.

In Oklahoma, some of Terrill's colleagues say 1804 needs fixing.

State Rep. Kris Steele, a Republican who voted for the bill, has received calls
from non-immigrants complaining that they had to produce a document such as an
original birth certificate or certified copy to renew an expired driver's
license. "I want to make sure we're not necessarily putting the general public
in a quandary," he says.

Jett would like to create a state-run program that would allow illegal
immigrants to pay a fine, then work and pay taxes. Those people, he says, would
be exempt from 1804 at the state level but not from federal immigration law.

Jose and Esperanza Becerra, both 38, hope he succeeds.

The Tulsa couple came to Oklahoma from Mexico illegally, Jose 10 years ago and
his wife five years ago. They were drawn here "because it was a pretty state and
there was work," Jose says.

Since 1804 passed, the Becerras have closed their bank account and put their
home on the market, just in case they are forced to leave quickly or against
their will. "Since the law went into effect," Esperanza says, "we are in fear
every day."

Key provisions of Oklahoma's law

House Bill 1804, the Oklahoma immigration law that took effect Nov. 1:

*Makes transporting, concealing, harboring or sheltering illegal immigrants a
felony.

*Denies illegal immigrants from having driver's licenses and other official
government identification, such as occupational licenses.

*Requires government agencies to check new hires against a federal database to
make sure they are legally eligible to work. Private businesses with government
contracts must do the same starting July 1.

*Allows legal workers to sue employers who fire them but keep illegal immigrants
on the payroll. Takes effect July 1.

*Denies some public benefits, such as rental assistance and fuel subsidies, to
illegal immigrants.

*Prohibits local governments from adopting "sanctuary" policies that bar police
and other municipal employees from cooperating with immigration authorities.

*Allows the state to negotiate with the federal government to give state and
local police the authority to enforce immigration law.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Brandi Simons for USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Brandi Simons for USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 29, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Suit aims to stop illegal-immigrant law;
Tough Okla. measure takes effect Thursday

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 536 words


One of the toughest state laws targeting illegal immigrants takes effect
Thursday in Oklahoma, prompting efforts by immigrants trying to block it and
work by state agencies to comply.

The law makes it a felony to transport or shelter illegal immigrants.
Businesses, which are barred by federal law from hiring illegal immigrants, can
be sued by a legal worker who is displaced by an illegal one.

The measure denies illegal immigrants certain public benefits such as rental
assistance and fuel subsidies.

"It's clearly one of the most restrictive policies" in the country, says Cecilia
Muooz of the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic civil rights organization.

Muooz says she's particularly concerned about a provision that gives local
police the authority to check immigration status. Such policies create fear
among all Hispanics, including those in the country legally, and may contribute
to discrimination, she says.

On Thursday, the National Coalition of Latino Clergy and Christian Leaders filed
its second lawsuit against the measure. The group says it is unconstitutional
because immigration is a federal, not state, responsibility.

A federal judge threw out the first lawsuit days earlier, saying the group
failed to show that the law had harmed anyone. This time, the coalition cited
people they said have already been harmed, including illegal immigrants whose
landlords threatened to evict them if they could not prove they're in the
country legally, says Miguel Rivera, president of the coalition.

Lead attorney William Sanchez says the court scheduled a hearing for Wednesday.

State Rep. Randy Terrill, author of the law, says he doesn't want Oklahoma to be
a comfortable place for illegal immigrants.

"Illegal aliens won't come to Oklahoma or any other state if there aren't jobs
waiting for them," he says. "They will not stay here if there is no taxpayer
subsidy."

He says he's "99.9% confident" the law can withstand legal challenges but says
the lawsuit may delay its implementation.

Some public agencies aren't waiting for the legal wrangling to end before
altering their policies. Last week, the Oklahoma State Regents for Higher
Education tightened the rules on financial aid.

Previously, illegal immigrants were eligible for state financial aid if they
lived in the state for two years and graduated from an Oklahoma high school or
got a general equivalency diploma in the state, says Ben Hardcastle, regents
spokesman. They also had to file an affidavit vowing to apply for legal
residency, he says.

In the 2005-06 school year, 244 students met the criteria and received $112,039
in scholarships and grants and paid an additional $238,785 in tuition, he says.

The regents' new policy says illegal immigrants would be eligible for aid by
meeting most of the same requirements, but they must have already applied for
legal residency.

Charles Kuck, president-elect of the American Immigration Lawyers Association,
says that means state financial aid will not be available to illegal immigrants.

"There's nothing you can legally apply for if you're here illegally," he says.
"If you're attesting that you've applied for (legal residency), you'd either be
lying or putting yourself into deportation proceedings."

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, National Council of La Raza

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 17, 2008 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Oklahoma's immigration law brings accountability

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 201 words


In the mid-1990s, as a professor at the University of Oklahoma, I watched school
districts struggle to educate Spanish-speaking students ("Strict immigration law
rattles Okla. businesses," Cover story, News, Jan. 10).

As the Hispanic population in Oklahoma has grown in response to employment
opportunities, more obligations have been assumed by the state, and therefore by
the state's taxpayers. But they haven't been assumed by some employers, who have
hired workers at lower wages and without benefits such as health care.

I congratulate Oklahoma for enforcing House Bill 1804, the Oklahoma Taxpayer and
Citizen Protection Act of 2007. It might be a tough law, but it is what is
needed to enforce accountability. I hope other states adopt similar measures.

Francie Entz

Loudon, Tenn.

Respect immigration law

I have lived in Oklahoma my entire life, and I do not have a problem with
immigrants coming to my state to make a better life for themselves. But I think
they should immigrate legally. As a taxpayer, I am tired of paying for services
they use while they don't contribute their own money to the system. It's unfair
to immigrants who go through the legal process and to Oklahomans.

Paula Cooley

Edmond, Okla.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 26, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

States weigh immigration controls;
Congress moving too slow for some

BYLINE: Dennis Cauchon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 411 words


Frustrated by slow action in Congress, state legislatures are debating whether
to increase border enforcement at their own expense, fine employers who use
undocumented workers and get local police involved in deporting them.

It's unclear how far the proposals would go because, like Congress, legislatures
are divided on what to do about the estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants
who provide a low-wage workforce in the USA. Federal law may limit state power
on actions such as penalizing employers, says Ann Morse, an analyst at the
National Conference of State Legislatures.

Immigration policy is one of the hottest issues as 37 legislatures convene this
month. Last year, states considered 300 immigration laws and approved 40. That
number is expected to rise this year, Morse says.

The immigration proposals are part of a larger trend of states getting involved
in traditionally federal issues ranging from pollution control to prescription
drug prices. Congress is considering changes to immigration policies -- a border
fence, a guest worker program -- but it's uncertain whether action will be taken
this year.

Among the state proposals:

*Arizona is debating installing a radar system and video cameras along the
state's 340-mile border with Mexico. The proposed $50 million system would alert
law enforcement when crossings occur.

*About a dozen states are considering employer sanctions, Morse says. Kentucky's
proposal, for example, would fine employers up to $5,000 for knowingly hiring
undocumented workers.

*Border states and a few others are ready to spend their own money on
immigration enforcement. State and local police would be asked to check the
residency status of people arrested or given traffic tickets under some
proposals.

Away from the Mexican border, Minnesota Gov. Tim Pawlenty wants to create a team
of 10 state agents to police undocumented immigrants, charging them with state
crimes such as identity theft or turning them over to federal authorities. "The
federal government hasn't been doing a good job, so states have to play a role,"
says Pawlenty, a Republican.

Flavia Jimenez, a policy analyst at the National Council of La Raza, a Latino
civil rights group, says the legislative activity "reflects real concern about
the failure of Congress to pass real immigration reform." She says the job is
best left to the federal government, and states will face a costly task if
police get involved in determining people's immigration status.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: Pew Hispanic Center
(Bar graph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              April 3, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GOP uses immigration to gain political ground

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 456 words


Republicans in Congress are at it again. This time, they're exploiting the
immigration debate ("Senate committee supports overhaul of immigration law,"
News, Tuesday).

President Bush asks for civility in the immigration debate. What is so civil
about the immigration proposal passed by the Republican-controlled House of
Representatives, which would make illegal immigration a felony, toughen
penalties on those who employ or aid illegal immigrants and extend border
fencing?

The House bill would criminalize undocumented farm workers, gardeners,
construction workers and nannies.

And Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn., the man who would be president,
also has a plan for immigration reform: Essentially make a gated community out
of the USA by increasing security along the southern border with Mexico.

Republican anti-immigration forces are demonizing Latino workers coming into the
country to feed the frenzy of the party faithful. GOP hard-liners are trying to
disguise their bigoted policy by casting immigrants crossing the border as
security risks and positing that Hispanic workers are taking jobs away from
middle-class Americans.

Is your nanny or gardener in cahoots with Osama bin Laden?

Ron Lowe

Grass Valley, Calif.

'Guest worker' questions

I have a few questions to ask our lawmakers as they proceed with the immigration
problem, particularly if they enact a "guest worker" program:

*Who would cover guest workers' health care costs?

* Who would handle the background checks for possible past felonies, DUIs and
sex offender crimes?

*Who would be responsible for covering losses if, for example, an uninsured
guest worker caused an auto accident and fled back to his or her  country?

*Would guest workers bring their families with them, and, if so, who would cover
the increased costs to local school districts?

*Would employers cut pay scales to discourage Americans from applying for job
openings?

I think that those employers who have need for such workers should cover these
costs and be held responsible for guest workers' actions while they are in this
country.

But I know, in the end, taxpayers would bear the cost.

Paul Bailey

Bourbonnais, Ill.

Money drives actions

Make no mistake, illegal immigration is all about money.

The illegal immigrants come here because they want to make more money than they
can in their homeland. Employers who hire them want to increase profits by
paying substandard wages not acceptable to American workers.

Politicians such as George W. Bush support allowing them to do so because they
get financial contributions from business owners.

Meanwhile, the rest of us have to pay the price with overcrowded schools and
hospitals, depressed wages, etc.

Capitalism at its finest. How sad.

Jeff Clauser

Chicago

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Jeff Topping, Reuters

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              April 7, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

There could be room for compromise on bills

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 489 words


The Senate was close to a deal Thursday that could change the nation's
immigration laws for the first time in more than a decade -- a top priority for
President Bush. Here are some details:

Q: What is the Senate trying to do?

A: Address economic and security concerns. The Senate would add money and
manpower for border security. Bush says securing the nation's borders also
requires reducing the demand for cheap foreign labor. So the bill would expand
opportunities for foreigners to work in the USA temporarily and allow most of
those who live here illegally a chance to become citizens.

Q: How is this different from the House bill that passed in December?

A: That bill does not include expanded opportunities for temporary foreign
workers or a citizenship plan for illegal immigrants.

Q: What are the prospects for this to become law?

A: Much depends on whether Bush is willing to divide his party in an election
year. House Republican leaders refused to allow a vote on a similar bill last
year. But Speaker Dennis Hastert, R-Ill., said recently there could be room for
compromise.

Q: What happens next?

A: Once the Senate acts, House and Senate negotiators will work out differences
between the bills. Their finished product would have to be approved by the House
of Representatives and Senate before Bush could sign it into law.

Q: How would illegal immigrants become citizens?

A: Immigrants who could prove they had been working in the USA since Jan. 7,
2004 -- the date Bush first outlined his plans for an immigration overhaul --
would be allowed to stay. Anyone here illegally for:

*Five years or more could stay. They would have to show a steady employment
history, pay all taxes and a fine, pass criminal background checks, learn
English and register for the draft. They would have to stay employed for six
years, then apply to become permanent residents. That would enable them to
become citizens after an additional five years.

*Two to five years would have to go to a port of entry along the U.S. border
with Canada or Mexico and re-enter the USA legally. They would have the right to
work here for six years, or as long as it took them to become permanent
residents.

*Less than two years would have to return to their home country. They could
apply for a temporary work visa with no guarantee of approval.

Q: Would people currently waiting to become citizens have to wait longer?

A: No. Illegal immigrants would have to wait behind those currently in line.

Q: Why has the debate been divisive?

A: In the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks, security is an issue.

Democrats such as Byron Dorgan of North Dakota see temporary foreign workers as
a threat to American jobs and salaries, but Republican Mel Martinez of Florida
says the country benefits from foreigners who take jobs Americans don't want.
Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., and others don't want to reward people who break the
law. Lawmakers are also trying to appeal to Hispanic voters.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Jason Reed, Reuters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 8, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

New immigrant fees barrier to citizenship

BYLINE: Raul Reyes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 451 words


In 1964, when my grandfather finally legalized his status after nearly 50 years
in the USA as an undocumented worker, he met with an El Paso immigration
attorney. Based on my grandpa's work history and clean record, his lawyer helped
him obtain his papeles -- naturalization papers --  and grandpa became a citizen
the following year. The total bill from the lawyer, including government fees,
was $35.

I guess life really was easier in the good old days. For on top of the ongoing
clamor over the bipartisan immigration proposal, it just got a lot more
expensive to become an American.

Last week, the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) released their
new fees, which go into effect July 30. The cost for a legal immigrant to become
a citizen will rise from $400 to $675,  a 69%  increase, while the price of a
green card will jump from $395 to $1,010, a 156% increase.

The Congressional Hispanic Caucus, National Association of Latino Elected
Officials, National Council of La Raza and American Immigration Lawyers
Association all oppose the increases. USCIS, which proceeded anyway, plans to
use the fees to upgrade computer systems, hire and train staff, and renovate
facilities. Emilio Gonzales, USCIS director, said the increases are not related
to the Senate's immigration proposal, which could make 12 million undocumented
workers eligible for citizenship. "The reason we're raising the fees ... is that
we need the money," he said.

So as Congress considers get-tough measures on illegal immigration, the
government is making things harder for legal immigrants, who are becoming
citizens faster than ever. According to the Pew Center, the proportion of legal
residents born outside the country who become naturalized citizens rose to 52%
in 2005. From 1995 to 2005, Pew found, the number of naturalized citizens from
Mexico soared by 144%.  Many opponents of the immigration bill say they are not
against immigration, just illegal immigration. Yet these fees are certain to
become a barrier to citizenship for many legal immigrants.

A minimum-age worker would have to save nearly every cent earned for five weeks
to afford a green card, the Associated Press calculates.  USCIS, known for long
waits and lost files, sorely needs an overhaul. But a promised 20% improvement
in service by the end of 2009 hardly seems worth the large fee hikes. Instead,
the government should provide funds for additional improvements, just as it does
for nearly every other agency. The new fees send the wrong message to people who
want to play by the rules and are willing and able to work toward the American
dream.

---

Raul Reyes is an attorney in New York and a member of USA TODAY's board of
contributors.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 12, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Local laws target immigration ills;
Employers face loss of license, fines for illegals

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 518 words


Local and state governments have begun enforcing their own new immigration laws,
threatening businesses with the loss of operating licenses and fines if they
hire illegal immigrants.

Their efforts increased as Congress tried but failed to overhaul the immigration
system. A bill died in the Senate last month.

"There's a political vacuum, and state and local governments are moving into
it," says Georgia's labor commissioner, Michael Thurmond.

Eighteen states have passed 57 immigration laws this year, according to the
National Conference of State Legislatures. More than 25 cities and counties also
passed measures in the past year, according to the American Civil Liberties
Union, including Virginia's Prince William County on Tuesday.

Despite the outcry from business and civil rights groups, many target employers,
as in Green Bay, Wis.

"That was a premise of this ordinance, to discourage illegal aliens from coming
here by making it harder for them to get a job. We're putting businesses on
notice," says Chad Fradette, Green Bay City Council president.

*Under Green Bay's ordinance, which took effect June 23, a firm can lose its
business license if it hires illegal workers. Fradette says illegal workers have
"undercut" the city's union workforce.

A city committee wants to grill the owners of two restaurants on their hiring
practices Monday, Fradette says.

Green Bay Alderman Jerry Wiezbiskie objects. "Let the witch hunt begin," he
says. "It's a threatening ordinance to immigrants, legal and illegal."

*Beaufort County, S.C., plans to begin auditing employment records in August by
sampling 25% of its 5,000 businesses, says county administrator Gary Kubic. The
county passed an ordinance in December that says a business could have its
license suspended for hiring illegal workers.

Former county councilwoman Starletta Hairston introduced the measure because she
says companies that hire illegal immigrants have a competitive advantage. "You
cannot compete with a business that does not have to be concerned with paying
taxes," Hairston says. "They pay people cash under the table." Her husband had
to shift his stucco business elsewhere when he couldn't compete, she says.

*A Georgia law that took effect July 1 requires companies with at least 500
workers that do business with the government to verify the legal status of new
workers. Other states, including Colorado and Arizona, also have cracked down on
employers.

*On July 1, business owners renewing licenses in Payson, Ariz.,  began signing
affidavits that they employ only legal workers.  "We're trying to level the
playing field," Mayor Bob Edwards says.

A closely watched ordinance in Hazleton, Pa., would penalize employers who hire
illegal immigrants and landlords who rent to them, but it is on hold awaiting a
ruling on a suit by the ACLU.

The law is unconstitutional because states can't override federal law, employers
and workers don't have an adequate chance to appeal and it could cause
discrimination, says ACLU attorney Omar Jadwat.  "One concern is that employers
will discriminate against those who look or sound foreign," he says.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 26, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Many 'guest workers' vulnerable, migrant advocates say;
Abuse by employers, lax oversight cited

BYLINE: Danna Harman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 914 words


MEXICO CITY -- Eleven dollars and five cents an hour.

That was the wage that Francisco Fernandez Sanchez was promised to come work in
the USA. It was more than he had ever made as an electrician in Zacatecas,
Mexico -- and it would be completely legal.

A recruiter for Romero Harvesting was in town in late 2004, taking names of
those willing to travel north to pick oranges in Okeechobee, Fla. Fernandez
signed up, and two months later he got a phone call telling him what to do.

That was how he began his journey to the USA on a much-coveted "guest worker"
visa. It would end badly less than a year later with Fernandez $500 poorer,
humiliated, angry -- and eventually suing Romero in federal court.

As Congress debates sweeping changes to U.S. immigration policies, advocates for
immigrants' rights warn of serious problems with the current guest-worker
system. They say lax government oversight has led to widespread cheating and
exploitation of workers by abusive employers.

"It's crucial to establish guidelines for preventing abuses," says Robert
Willis, a lawyer for the Farm Labor Organizing Committee, a union representing
migrant farm workers.

"If we allow guest workers to come work, we also need to treat them right," he
says. "Just creating the program is not enough."

A proposal in the Senate would put most of the estimated 12 million illegal
immigrants in the USA on a path to citizenship. They would have to pay fines and
back taxes, prove they have a job, learn English and pass a background check.
Those who have been in the USA illegally less than two years would have to
return to their home countries.

The proposal also would expand a program that allows foreigners to work in the
USA temporarily on a guest-worker visa.

Bush calls program a 'must'

Tuesday, President Bush reiterated his call for immigration legislation "that
recognizes we must have a temporary worker program" and creates a path toward
citizenship for legal immigrants.

Many guest workers have positive experiences. They make money legally, receive
benefits, are treated well and get transportation home to their families when
their visas expire or they're finished working in the USA.

Fernandez's experience, however, was quite different. And it was far from
unique.

"Today, broken promises are the norm when it comes to guest-worker visas.
Despite pages of regulations, oversight is lacking, and workers are often
cheated out of money and mistreated," says Greg Schell, a lawyer at the Migrant
Farmworker Justice Project, a legal advocacy group based in Florida.

Schell represents Fernandez in a class-action lawsuit with 15 other guest
workers employed by Romero to pick oranges.

Fernandez says trouble started shortly after he was recruited to work for
Romero.

First came a flurry of unexpected costs: visa application ($15); other paperwork
($35); a passport ($35); consulate fees ($115); a Mexican government tax ($100);
bus fare ($10) to Monterrey, where a company bus was supposed to pick him and 54
others up; four days waiting for that company bus (lodging $20, food $70); and
border fees ($6).

In addition, Fernandez says, when he finally got on the company bus, it was
freezing cold, and the company charged $25 for a blanket.

Fernandez says his first paycheck, after three weeks of 10-hour workdays, came
to only $120, a fraction of what he was promised and far below the $5.15 hourly
minimum wage. Meanwhile, he says, his guest-worker visa and his passport were
confiscated and held by the company.

Workers 'scared to death'

Romero declined to comment on the Fernandez case. Israel Perez, a lawyer for the
company, did not return phone calls. The U.S. Labor Department says it is
looking into complaints against Romero.

Rachel Micah Jones, director of the Center for Migrants' Rights, a workers'
rights law firm based in Zacatecas, Mexico, says guest workers are "terrified"
of complaining about abuses and seldom take their grievances to the Labor
Department or other officials.

"They are scared of retaliation. They are scared to death their boss will report
them to the consulate and they will be blacklisted and never get a visa again,"
Jones says.

Schell and other advocates want the guest-worker program taken out of the hands
of individual employers.

A government-administered labor pool would allow a worker to switch employers
without being penalized if there were abuses, they say.

Under the current program, "individual employers have too much power and
leverage," Schell says.

Few workers remain

According to Fernandez and another guest worker, Aaron Cabral Barraza, only 19
of the crew of 55 workers who signed on at Romero remained with the company
after two months in Okeechobee. They say three got sick and were dropped off at
the bus station; two were killed in a car accident; seven were kicked out for
complaining; and the rest, fed up, simply left.

"I was threatened by my bosses," Fernandez says.

Fernandez left the job after four weeks, $500 poorer. His work permit and
passport remained with the company. He got a job near Houston, illegally,
installing sprinklers for a few weeks to recoup some of his money before
returning home.

Angry as he is, Fernandez says he would pursue work in the USA through the
guest-worker program again rather than join the illegal immigrants crossing from
Mexico in search of jobs. "It's safer," he says, of going the legal route. "And
it's still the correct thing to do."

Harman is Latin America bureau chief for USA TODAY and The Christian Science
Monitor

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Greg Ruffing for USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 2, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Visas for high-tech workers can have 'perverse effects'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 419 words


Yes, U.S. technology companies would get more foreign scientific and engineering
talent if Congress raised the cap on H-1B visas, as commentary writers Lezlee
Westine and Scott McNealy urge ("Stingy immigration policy stifles U.S.
innovation," The Forum, Wednesday). The two CEOs fail to mention, however, that
lifting the cap would have two perverse effects:

*It'd take pressure off our state education systems, which are in drastic need
of reform. For example, differential pay to attract scarce science or math
teaching talent is verboten because of teacher union resistance. But according
to a 2003 report, 60% of physical science teachers in grades 7-12 had neither a
major nor minor in the field.

*It would also send a grim message to youngsters considering a major in science
or engineering: Work hard, earn your degree in a very challenging field, and
your government will suppress your salary and/or give your job to a foreigner.

America must decide: Should we become addicted to foreign talent via an expanded
H1-B visa program? Or should we subject a dysfunctional education monopoly to
deep structural reform?

My preference: a brisk dose of market competition in the form of school
vouchers, selective science and math charter schools, and the like. Which course
is in our long-term interest?

Tom Shuford

Lenoir, N.C.

Legal immigrants wait

Unlike illegal immigrants, our family, including two teenage girls, followed the
legal way to come into the USA. My husband, an IT specialist, was asked to come
by a U.S. employer. We are from Holland, where some have had a weak spot for the
USA since World War II; we took the step of moving to America in 2001.

After a visa, heaps of paperwork and an extension of the visa after three years
-- the employer still needs my husband's skills. He also offers his skills to
U.S. workers via  training. No other experts are available. So, we decided we
wanted to stay. Despite legal hurdles, we like it here.

But, for the past year and a half or so, the Department of Labor has stacked
applicants in backlog centers to see whether it is true that no U.S. citizen is
available for the job. Officials promise a lot, but we are all waiting and
waiting.

If the immigration legislation adds some millions of guest workers to that
stack, what will happen to us legals?

That's why I was glad to see the commentary "Stingy immigration policy stifles
U.S. innovation." I hope it raises awareness. But couldn't we legal immigrants
get the front page for once?

Betty Innemee

Livingston, N.J.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            March 15, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Tighter border will boost 'guest worker' plan's chances, Bush says;
Reassures Mexico's leader as he ends Latin America trip

BYLINE: David Jackson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 557 words


MERIDA, Mexico -- President Bush ended his Latin American tour Wednesday vowing
to beat back "protectionist sentiments" in the USA and win over more of his own
party for an overhaul of immigration laws.

With Mexican President Felipe Calderon at his side, Bush said efforts to tighten
the U.S.-Mexican border over the past year should make opponents "more open
minded" about backing a program for more foreign "guest workers."

"My mood is optimistic because the mood in the Congress seems like it has
changed," Bush said.

Sen. Tom Coburn of Oklahoma and some other Republicans have objected to
provisions of a bill sought by Bush that would allow more guest workers and put
some illegal immigrants in the USA on a path to citizenship. Coburn and other
critics call the citizenship plan "amnesty," but Bush said he would insist that
those applying for citizenship earn the right.

Bush also said a key to getting an immigration bill from Congress could be Sen.
Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., whom he praised as a good negotiator. Kennedy is
leading a renewed effort to get a comprehensive immigration bill, opposed last
year by members of Bush's own Republican Party.

Immigration was a key topic during two days of meetings with Calderon and at
other stops on Bush's five-nation trip. Calderon and other Latin leaders have
criticized Bush's border-security efforts, included legislation signed last year
authorizing 700 miles of fencing on the U.S.-Mexican border.

"The border should bring us together and not separate us," Calderon said through
an interpreter.

Calderon endorsed Bush's comprehensive approach to overhauling immigration laws,
saying it would help Mexico's efforts to develop its own economy.

The Mexican leader said he has relatives working in the USA but did not say
whether they were in the country legally.

"These are people who work and respect that country," he said. "They pay their
taxes."

Bush and Calderon also discussed trade rules for Mexican corn and beans, more
intelligence sharing on international drug gangs, and new border crossing points
to help speed up the transit of legal immigrants and products.

Bush said recent efforts to step up border enforcement address concerns in the
USA that existing laws be enforced. He added that immigration is "sensitive"
because it is "an issue that people can use to inflame passions."

The immigration issue followed Bush on his goodwill trip, which included stops
in Brazil, Uruguay, Colombia and Guatemala. Bush said one of the reasons for his
trip was "to remind people in this important part of the world that the United
States cares deeply about the human condition."

Protesters greeted Bush at each of his stops, many in opposition to the Iraq
war.

Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez, a frequent Bush critic, shadowed his U.S.
counterpart and held his own Latin American tour. Chavez argued that U.S. trade
policies benefit the wealthy at the expense of the poor.

Armand Peschard-Sverdrup, director of the Mexico Project at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies in Washington, said Bush did "very well" in
his efforts at public diplomacy, whether it was praising the beef in Uruguay,
loading boxed lettuce in Guatemala or touring Mayan ruins in Mexico.

"He's trying to project a more likable image of himself," said
Peschard-Sverdrup, and "counter the U.S. image as an aggressor."

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Pablo Martinez Monsivais, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 1, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Foreigners seeking high-skilled worker visas hope to beat the odds;
About half will get them; politics may be reason

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 450 words


WASHINGTON -- From high-heeled fashion models to high-skilled techies, foreign
workers are waiting this month to hear whether they've won an unprecedented
lottery for temporary U.S. work visas.

The lottery is in response to an overwhelming demand for 65,000 high-skilled
worker visas. More than 123,000 applications arrived at U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services in the first 48 hours after the April 1 filing date.
Immigration officials cut off processing any others at that point.

For minor league baseball and hockey players, however, the wait is over:
Congress last year exempted them from a cap on work visas.

Congress over the years has quietly created new categories and crafted
exemptions to get around limits on some of the work visas most in demand. The
lawmakers have raised the limit on students with graduate degrees from U.S.
universities and eliminated the cap on foreigners at non-profit research
institutions and professionals from U.S. free trade partners.

The result is what Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., calls a "Rube Goldberg, ad hoc
system" that can be daunting for both immigrants and would-be employers.

The demand for work visas underscores one of the issues confronting Congress as
it prepares to resume a contentious debate over proposed immigration legislation
this month: Should the USA permit more foreigners to work here?

"I'd like to see America bring in the smartest people from everywhere and let
them stay as long as they want," says Rep. Chris Cannon, R-Utah, a leading
advocate of immigration reform.

Others express caution. "The more people there are for those jobs, the worse off
American workers will be," says Harvard University economist George Borjas.

It's not easy for foreigners to come to the USA to work. More than 1 million
people become permanent legal residents each year, most sponsored by family
members. The number that can be sponsored by employers is limited to 140,000 a
year.

That has created a demand for more temporary worker visas. Last year,
immigration officials were able to accept H-1B applications until May 26 and
award the popular visas for high-skilled workers on a first-come, first-serve
basis. This year, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services stopped taking
applications after 48 hours and let a computer pick the winners.

Spokesman Chris Bentley said notifications should be made within the next few
weeks.

Katie Ford, head of Ford Models, the prestigious New York agency, said she has
lost business because H-1B visas weren't available for models. The industry is
lobbying to get out from under the cap.

"This is a huge issue for us," Ford said. "It's easier for a client to find a
model internationally and shoot somewhere else."

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Adrienne Lewis, USA TODAY, Source: U.S. State Dept.
(Bar graph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 30, 2008 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

McCain to visit Colombia, Mexico;
Trip focus likely on trade, drug war, immigration

BYLINE: David Jackson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 445 words


WASHINGTON -- For the second time in two weeks, John McCain is taking his
presidential campaign across the border.

The presumptive Republican nominee travels to Colombia on Tuesday and Mexico on
Wednesday to discuss free trade, the war on drugs, organized crime and national
security, McCain foreign policy adviser Randy Scheunemann said. "We have shared
interests and shared values with our Latin American partners," he said.

Although McCain's support of free trade dominated the Arizona senator's June 20
visit to Canada, this trip also is expected to include discussion of a
politically sensitive topic: immigration.

McCain's support of "comprehensive immigration reform" -- tighter border
security combined with more temporary foreign workers -- has drawn scorn from
some Republicans conservatives who want illegal immigrants already in the USA to
be deported. Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., said "comprehensive" is "code for
amnesty."

Last week, McCain and Democrat Barack Obama mixed it up over immigration before
a group of high-profile Hispanics, a key voting bloc.

Appearing Saturday before the National Association of Latino Elected and
Appointed Officials (NALEO), McCain said failed efforts to overhaul immigration
laws proved to him that most Americans want the border secured first. He said
the U.S. should then develop a "guest worker" program that is "verifiable and
truly temporary."

In his remarks, Obama praised McCain's past work on comprehensive immigration
legislation. But Obama added that "when he (McCain) was running for his party's
nomination, he walked away from that commitment" to placate critics.

Democrats have accused McCain of talking tough on border issues to
conservatives, while stressing the need for worker programs to Hispanic groups.
"Maybe McCain's trip will give him some time to figure out which way he intends
to go," said Democratic Party spokesman Damien LaVera.

McCain's schedule includes meetings with Colombian President Alvaro Uribe and
Mexican President Felipe Caldero´n.

On trade, McCain has criticized Obama for suggesting he might want to rework the
North American Free Trade Agreement with Mexico and Canada because it has cost
U.S. manufacturing jobs. McCain has also hit Obama for opposing a Colombian
free-trade deal. Obama said he believes in "fair trade" in which other countries
improve their labor standards, a factor he cited in opposing the proposed deal
with Colombia.

Obama, meanwhile, announced Saturday that he'll go to Britain, France, Germany,
Israel and Jordan to meet with allies concerning such issues as terrorism,
nuclear proliferation and climate change. The schedule for the July trip has not
been announced.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           August 13, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Criticism of ICE insults officers who are upholding law

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 392 words


Raul Reyes, a New York attorney, wrote  a Forum piece saying Immigration and
Customs Enforcement's   raid at a worksite in Postville, Iowa, caused an
increase in homelessness, crime and public drunkenness. With a broad pen stroke,
he wrote that  ICE's  raids "are, in essence, government-sanctioned racial
profiling," and he suggests that  its agents would conduct operations
differently in white neighborhoods or against Anglo suspects ("What are ICE
raids accomplishing?," The Forum, Friday).

These claims are offensive to the men and women charged with enforcing our
nation's immigration laws.

Reyes also stated that the identity thefts committed by illegal  immigrant
workers are "a far cry from robbing someone of their money or property by
stealing their identity." Tell that to those who've been denied health care
benefits, home mortgages and social assistance based upon income reported by
illegal immigrant workers who used stolen identity information to obtain their
jobs.

It's very clear Reyes doesn't have firsthand knowledge of ICE's enforcement
activities.  We take care to address humanitarian concerns in our work.
Certainly, we understand  the desire to promote comprehensive immigration
reform, but in endeavoring to make  a case,  Reyes should get the facts first
and refrain from insulting  the officers who are simply carrying out their sworn
duty to uphold the law.

Kelly Nantel, press secretary

Immigration and Customs Enforcement

Washington

Raids benefit U.S. citizens

Commentary writer Raul Reyes asked:  "What are ICE raids accomplishing?"

Why Reyes would condemn the Immigration and Customs Enforcement for rounding up
lawbreakers at the Agriprocessors plant in Iowa is beyond me. Now that  the
illegal immigrants are gone, Agriprocessors brought in U.S. citizens from Texas
to work. If only ICE could have  rounded up some of the management of the meat
plant  for hiring the illegal immigrants, there would be less likelihood that
other employers would do the same thing.

As for racial profiling, I'm sure that Reyes will report to us the  details of
the arrests. I would be willing to bet that  all  arrested were here illegally,
taking the jobs of U.S. citizens.

ICE employees are doing the job that our  Congress won't do. They're putting
Americans back to work.

If Reyes doesn't want to thank them, I will.

Ken Siverts

Glendale, Ariz.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 27, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Colo. justices: Ruling on immigration stands

BYLINE: John Bacon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 726 words


The Colorado Supreme Court rejected a ballot initiative Monday that would deny
most state services to illegal immigrants. Backers of the Defend Colorado Now
initiative had asked the court to reconsider its June 12 ruling that the
proposal violated the state constitution's requirement that initiatives deal
with one subject. The court had ruled that the initiative covered at least two
subjects: decreasing public spending for the welfare of illegal immigrants and
restricting access to administrative services such as recording real estate
transactions. The court's revised ruling Monday said the initiative's language
was vague and confusing.

Gov. Bill Owens had threatened to call a special session of the Legislature to
vote to put a similar measure on the ballot or pass legislation that would
accomplish the same thing. "The governor is disappointed, but it also was not
unexpected," Owens spokesman Dan Hopkins said. He said Owens hadn't yet decided
whether to call the special session.

Navy jets collide over California

Two fighter jets collided over a California military base. The crash killed one
pilot and seriously injured the other, the Navy said. The F-18C  jets from
Lemoore Naval Air Station were practicing dogfighting maneuvers when they
crashed at Fort Hunter Liggett, an Army Reserve post 150 miles south of San
Francisco, Navy spokesman Dennis McGrath said. The victims were members of
Strike Fighter Squadron 125, also known as the Rough Riders. The F-18C  Hornet,
a McDonnell-Douglas single-seat jet, can fly at 1,190 mph.

Developer sues insurers of twin towers

World Trade Center developer Larry Silverstein and the Port Authority of New
York and New Jersey sued insurers to demand that they pay up on buildings
destroyed in the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.

The lawsuit says some insurance companies have used changes in the Ground Zero
redevelopment plan as an excuse to drag their heels on paying the more than $3.5
billion owed and are impeding the rebuilding process. New architectural plans
for the 16-acre site are to be unveiled Wednesday. Alayna Tagariello, a
spokeswoman for Swiss Re -- one of the seven defendant companies -- said the
insurer will review the final rebuilding agreement and expects to pay.

Threat forces closure of California port

A Southern California port was closed while authorities investigated a possible
terrorist threat on a cargo ship, a port official said. A dock worker at the
Port of Hueneme discovered a threat written in the cargo hold of a ship carrying
bananas from Guatemala, port marketing director Will Berg said. He said the
message, scrawled in marker on a metal pillar in the ship, read: "This nitro is
for you Mr. George W. Bush and your Jewish cronies." Federal authorities,
including the FBI, and local officials were investigating, Berg said. Bomb
squads found no signs of explosives aboard the ship, but the port remained
closed to land and sea traffic while nearby ships and buildings were
investigated, Coast Guard spokesman Patrick Sullivan said.

Judge backs sex offenders' rights in Ga.

A federal judge in Atlanta blocked Georgia from targeting eight individuals with
its law that would bar sex offenders from living within 1,000 feet of school bus
stops. The temporary restraining order by Judge Clarence Cooper applies only to
the eight plaintiffs in a suit filed by the Southern Center for Human Rights.
The law, to go into effect Saturday, would make it almost impossible for
Georgia's 10,000-plus registered sex offenders to live in urban and suburban
areas, said Sarah Geraghty, a lawyer for the Southern Center for Human Rights.
Lawyers for the state said the law is necessary for public safety. A hearing is
July 11.

Limbaugh detained at Florida airport

Radio commentator Rush Limbaugh was detained for more than three hours Monday at
Palm Beach (Fla.) International Airport after authorities said they found a
bottle of Viagra in his possession without a prescription. Palm Beach County
sheriff's spokesman Paul Miller said the prescription bottle found in Limbaugh's
luggage didn't have his name on it, but rather those of two doctors. Roy Black,
Limbaugh's attorney, said a doctor had prescribed the drug, but it was "labeled
as being issued to the physician rather than Mr. Limbaugh for privacy purposes."
The pills were confiscated; Limbaugh was released without being charged.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Chris Graythen, Getty Images
PHOTO, B/W, Jason DeCrow, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NATIONLINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            July 12, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Colo. passes bill to bar illegal immigrants from state benefits;
Unemployment insurance, Medicaid, food stamps affected

BYLINE: Charisse Jones

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 553 words


Colorado lawmakers have passed a sweeping measure that could deny tens of
thousands of illegal immigrants access to public housing, unemployment insurance
and other state benefits.

The bill, which Gov. Bill Owens said he will sign soon, is the latest action by
states as Congress struggles to agree on a federal strategy to deal with the
nation's estimated 12million illegal immigrants.

Colorado's legislation, one of several immigration bills passed during a
five-day special session that ended late Monday, would bar adult undocumented
immigrants from receiving most state benefits.

Up to 50,000 illegal immigrants could be stripped of benefits they receive,
according to Nate Strauch, a spokesman for Owens.

More than 1 million people in Colorado receive services such as Medicaid and
food stamps. Under the bill, new applicants or those reapplying for such
services would have to verify their legal status by showing a government-issued
photo ID and signing an affidavit. The bill would go into effect Aug. 1. Those
under age 18 would not be affected, and undocumented immigrants still would
receive services such as public education, emergency medical care and prenatal
care. Federal law requires states to provide those benefits.

Owens, a Republican, called the special session to address the issue of about
250,000 undocumented immigrants living and working in Colorado. "I think the
vast majority of illegal immigrants in Colorado are good people," Owens said
Tuesday. "However, at some point, a state has to look out for the interest of
its own citizens."

The Legislature is controlled by Democrats. Lawmakers and advocates of changes
in immigration policy applauded the bipartisanship that led to the bill's
passage.

"We got more done on this issue in five days than Congress has managed in two
decades," said Andrew Romanoff, a Democrat who is speaker of the House. "I hope
the package we put together will serve as a national model, not just in terms of
the substance but also the spirit. We proved that Democrats and Republicans can
work together to solve problems."

Congress is sharply divided on immigration. The Senate wants to provide a path
to citizenship for most illegal immigrants. The House wants to make being an
illegal immigrant a crime.

Like many other states this year, Colorado lawmakers also approved fines for
employers who knowingly hire undocumented workers.

Supporters and opponents of a onetime ballot initiative to deny most public
services to illegal immigrants praised what came out of the special legislative
session.

"It's a very good start and a very good compromise," says Fred Elbel, director
of Defend Colorado Now, which had backed the initiative. In June, the Colorado
Supreme Court banished the initiative from the November ballot on technical
grounds. Elbel said mass immigration dramatically increases the nation's
population and strains its resources. "We're on a path that is not sustainable,"
he said.

"Compared to what we were facing a few months ago, this is a better option and a
better outcome for immigrants," said Federico Peoa, a former Denver mayor and a
Clinton administration Transportation secretary who is chairman of Keep Colorado
Safe, which fought the ballot initiative. "We have protected a significant
number of benefits and privileges for undocumented individuals."

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, David M. Barreda, Rocky Mountain News, via AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 4, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Illegal immigrants issued ID cards;
Some cities and states go against national trend

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 408 words


Illegal immigrants are getting driver's licenses and identification cards in
cities and states that are bucking the national trend to take official documents
and public benefits away from them.

New Haven, Conn., began issuing municipal ID cards in July to all residents,
including illegal immigrants. New York will join eight other states in giving
driver's licenses to illegal immigrants, starting in December.

Gov. Eliot Spitzer "believes it's important to bring a significant population in
New York state out of the shadows ... (and) allow them to participate in the
economy," Motor Vehicles Commissioner David Swarts says.

"It is totally contrary to the trend in most other states," says Oklahoma state
Rep. Randy Terrill, author of a new law that denies illegal immigrants any
government ID. It takes effect next month.

"There are huge security concerns when it comes to somebody who is a foreign
national in this country possessing official, government-issued" ID, he says.

Swarts counters that safety will improve because illegal immigrants will
purchase car insurance and hit-and-run accidents will decrease.

New Haven has issued 3,700 municipal IDs. The card can be used to open a bank
account, as a library card and as a debit card at some stores. As many as 15,000
illegal immigrants live in the city.

Laura Perez, 28, opened a checking account with her card. An illegal immigrant
from Guatemala, Perez used to keep her money under her pillow. "I feel safe
now," she says. "If we are working so hard, if we are paying our taxes, the
cards are a fair thing."

Tom Fitton, president of the conservative  Judicial Watch, says the cards "raise
the specter of local governments conspiring with illegals to help them stay
here."

"In the least, they undermine federal law," he says, "and at worst, they violate
the law."

Action pending elsewhere . . .

Lawmakers are considering municipal ID cards:

*San Francisco Supervisor Tom Ammiano introduced legislation last month to
create a city ID card. "We can't say, 'You can come to my house and clean my
toilet, but then you have no right to civic participation,'" he says.

*New York City Councilman Hiram Monserrate introduced a measure in July to
create city ID cards, aide Wayne Mahlke says.

*Bruno Barreiro, chairman of the Miami-Dade County Board of County
Commissioners, says he is drafting an ordinance for county IDs.

*Ashok Kumar, a supervisor in Dane County, Wis., plans to introduce a measure
this month.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 6, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Licenses, in-state tuition for illegal immigrants?

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 629 words


It was Sen. Hillary Clinton's turn to squirm when she was asked at last week's
Democratic presidential debate whether she supports her home-state governor's
plan to issue drivers' licenses to undocumented residents.

Clinton's equivocal answer -- that Gov. Eliot Spitzer's proposal "makes a lot of
sense," but "I did not say it should be done" -- was not one of her finer
moments.

But it was emblematic of the schizophrenic approach to immigration that's
emerged in the four months since Congress' pitiful failure to pass a new
immigration law.

Some states and localities have enacted rigid anti-immigrant legislation in
hopes of driving away the more than 12 million illegal immigrants in the USA. A
smaller number are going to the other extreme, trying to create safe havens.

But in between, an interesting mix of pragmatic approaches is developing on
matters ranging from transportation to education. They try to cope with the
reality that the immigrants are here and likely to stay. Two are particularly
notable:

*Drivers' licenses. Illegal immigrants trying to support themselves and their
families are going to drive, with or without licenses and insurance -- a problem
every time there is an accident. So the question for Spitzer and other governors
becomes: What is the best way to ensure that they understand U.S. driving
regulations, operate registered vehicles and carry insurance?

Spitzer first proposed issuing them licenses like everyone else, but that drew a
loud rebuke from Homeland Security Department Secretary Michael Chertoff, who
said it would undermine his attempts to make drivers' licenses a secure form of
identification.

They compromised on a reasonable tiered licensing system that includes one
marked "not for federal purposes." That permit would be available to
undocumented workers for driving, but would not let them board planes or enter
federal buildings.

*College access. Another inflammatory issue is whether undocumented students
ought to get the lower, in-state tuition at public universities. For obvious
reasons, the idea tends to prompt outrage. But look deeper, and it makes sense.
Typically, the students who benefit were brought across the border as small
children by parents looking for work and entered large, public schools in big
cities.

Fewer than one in 10 of these children actually make it to college. The children
who do make it are those with the most grit and drive -- exactly the kind of
immigrants the nation prizes.

That is why California and nine other states passed laws granting them in-state
tuition rates. Generally, these states require that the students graduate from
state high schools and sign affidavits swearing they will pursue citizenship if
given the chance.

The latest federal failure to grapple with immigration played out last month
when the Senate failed to advance the Development, Relief and Education for
Alien Minors Act of 2007 known as DREAM, which targeted youths brought to this
country before they turned 16. Those headed to college or military service would
have been granted a path to citizenship.

Until the federal gridlock eases, state and local officials will continue to
struggle with immigration problems.

Anti-immigrant rhetoric notwithstanding, millions of these people are not going
to leave voluntarily or be deported. So who benefits if they remain unlicensed,
uninsured and uneducated?

Coping with reality

Eight states allow undocumented immigrants to receive their drivers' licenses or
permits:

Hawaii

Maine

Maryland

Michigan

New Mexico

uOregon

Utah

Washington

Ten states have passed legislation that allows illegal residents to receive
in-state tuition rates at public universities:

California

Illinois

Kansas

Nebraska

New Mexico

New York

Oklahoma

Texas

Utah

Washington

Source: National Immigration Law Center

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 13, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Spitzer takes flak over licenses for illegal immigrants;
Says he didn't expect the 'level of venom' N.Y. plan has received

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 742 words


For an indication of how volatile the immigration debate has become, consider
the firestorm in New York.

Since Democratic Gov. Eliot Spitzer proposed giving driver's licenses to illegal
immigrants in September, outrage has grown, leaping state boundaries into
national politics. Last month, Spitzer offered a compromise to address some of
his critics' concerns, but it failed to subdue the protests.

Opponents have filed lawsuits. Local motor vehicle officials have threatened to
defy the governor.

Spitzer can change the rules for driver's licenses without state legislators'
approval.

Democratic presidential candidates pounced on Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton at a
debate when she hedged on whether she supported the plan.

This week, Rep. Pete King, R-N.Y., plans to introduce legislation that would bar
states from issuing driver's licenses to illegal immigrants. Hawaii, Maine,
Maryland, Michigan, New Mexico, Oregon, Utah and Washington offer driving
privileges to illegal immigrants, according to the National Immigration Law
Center.

"It gives identification to people here illegally and people who could be
terrorists," King says. "It encourages or rewards illegal immigrants."

Spitzer said in an interview that his plan would make New York safer by bringing
illegal immigrants into the system. "It's better to know who they are than
pretend they don't exist," he says. He estimates that 1 million illegal
immigrants are in his state.

His original plan would have taken effect in December and given one type of
driver's license to all New Yorkers without regard to their legal status. Last
month, after Spitzer's plan took hits from politicians and other New Yorkers, he
revised it based on talks with the Department of Homeland Security. "We
definitely sensed they had concerns," Spitzer spokeswoman Christine Anderson
says.

The new plan says the state would offer three types of licenses starting late
next year. An illegal immigrant would get one that says "not for U.S. government
purposes," which means it could not be used to board airplanes or enter federal
facilities.

Spitzer says he underestimated the reaction to his plan but is "committed to
trying to persuade people this is right."

"I knew there would be opposition," he says. "I don't think anyone predicted
quite this level of venom."

The opposition is vast. The New York State Association of County Clerks opposes
the plan, says Kathleen Marchione, association president and Saratoga County
Clerk.

Twenty of the 51 clerks who run state DMV offices say that if the change goes
into effect, they will refuse to issue driver's licenses to illegal immigrants.
Three say they will issue the licenses, then turn over names of suspected
illegal immigrants to immigration officials, Marchione says.

At least two clerks have filed lawsuits to block the plan, as has James Tedisco,
state Assembly Republican leader. They argue that state law requires a driver's
license applicant to have a Social Security number, and that giving licenses to
illegal immigrants compromises security because, unlike legal immigrants, they
did not undergo background checks to enter the USA.

"It only takes one individual in a propane truck to drive into a building with
2,000 people in it and destroy their lives," Tedisco says.

Dutchess County Clerk Bradford Kendall calls the plan "just plain wrong." He
says he has to follow the policy if it takes effect, but he is considering
reporting applicants who are illegal immigrants to authorities.

"It is illegal to aid or abet illegal aliens," Kendall says.

Some immigrants who applauded the governor's original proposal don't like the
new plan.

Creating separate licenses will bring fewer illegal immigrants out of the
shadows and undermine security, says Chung-Wha Hong, executive director of the
New York Immigration Coalition.

"Once you start to distinguish and give people what's widely perceived as an
inferior license ... then it discourages a lot of people from applying," she
says. "It will make them vulnerable to racial profiling and discrimination."

Utah offers illegal immigrants driver "privilege cards," allowing them to drive
legally in the state.

Utah state Sen. John W. (Bill) Hickman, a Republican who has been watching the
New York debate, says he plans to introduce legislation in January that would
bar illegal immigrants from driving legally.

Hickman says Utah's driver privilege card "is one of the features that tends to
make us a haven" for illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 16, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Not legal? No Mexican driver's license for you;
Country requires foreigners to present valid visa

BYLINE: Chris Hawley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 609 words


MEXICO CITY -- The question of whether to give driver's licenses to illegal
immigrants has ignited a national debate in the USA.

Yet in Mexico, the biggest source of immigrants to the USA, there's no debate:
If you're not in the country legally, you can't get a driver's license.

All of Mexico's 31 states, along with the federal district of Mexico City,
require foreigners to present a valid visa if they want a driver's license,
according to a survey of states by USA TODAY.

"When it comes to foreigners, we're a little more strict here," said Alejandro
Ruiz, director of education at the Mexican Automobile Association.

The issue took the national spotlight after presidential hopeful Hillary Rodham
Clinton said a move by the New York governor to give licenses to illegal
immigrants "makes a lot of sense" during a debate.

Proponents said the plan would have made the roads safer by ensuring that
drivers are trained and insured, but the ensuing public outcry forced Gov. Eliot
Spitzer to abandon the effort this week. U.S. Rep. Pete King, R-N.Y., filed a
bill Wednesday that would bar states from any future attempts to give licenses
to illegal immigrants.

Hawaii, Maine, Maryland, Michigan, New Mexico, Oregon, Utah and Washington allow
drivers to get licenses without proving they are legal residents, according to
the National Immigration Law Center. Most other states require applicants to
prove they are citizens or legal residents.

In Mexico, by contrast, the policy is similar across the country and often
strictly enforced.

"The fact that all 31 states in Mexico would have such a common-sense position
... shows to me a certain hypocrisy on the part of the Mexican government,
because they are constantly criticizing those of us in Congress who want
immigration laws to be tougher up here,"  King said.

Licensing offices in all of Mexico's 31 states, along with the Federal District,
where Mexico City lies, said they require applicants to prove their citizenship,
preferably by showing a voter registration card issued by the Federal Elections
Institute.

(Foreign tourists who are in Mexico temporarily can  drive using their foreign
licenses, the states said. Most U.S. states have a similar exemption for
visitors.)

Mexican officials said rules are strictly enforced, especially in southern
states that have a problem with illegal immigrants from Central America.

"Last week a man came here (with a tourist visa) and said he was working as a
deliveryman," said Denia Gurgua, manager of the driver's license office in
Tuxtla Gutierrez, the capital of  Chiapas state. She said she denied him a
license because he did not have a visa to work in Mexico.

"Our constitution has certain restrictions for foreigners," she said.

U.S. proponents of tougher restrictions worry that having a driver's license
helps legitimize illegal immigrants, making it harder to detect and remove them.

But immigrant advocates say the two countries don't compare. U.S. states are
trying to protect other motorists from millions of illegal immigrants who are
already driving, said Tyler Moran, an expert on driver's licenses at the
National Immigration Law Center.

There are an estimated 11.5 million undocumented people living in the USA.
Mexico's pool of foreign residents is much smaller -- about 500,000 people in a
country of 105 million,  census figures show.

"It may be a bit like comparing apples and oranges," Moran said. U.S. states
"are dealing in reality, and it's better public policy to have people actually
have licenses, have identification, have insurance."

Hawley is Latin America correspondent for USA TODAY and The Arizona Republic.
Contributing: Sergio Solache

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Sergio Solache, The Arizona Republic
PHOTO, B/W, Chris Hawley, The Arizona Republic

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 19, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Licenses could improve road safety

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 180 words


I don't approve of rewarding illegal immigrants for ignoring U.S. laws, but I
also recognize that allowing them to get driver's licenses may improve road
safety ("Licenses, in-state tuition for illegal immigrants?," Our view,
Immigration debate, Nov. 6).

No license behind the wheel of a car means no auto insurance, and Americans have
to pay when there's a wreck involving uninsured motorists.

Unless my fellow citizens enjoy paying high car insurance premiums just to spite
illegal immigrants, issuing them driver's licenses makes some sense.

Adrian Whitman

Minneapolis

No regard for law

USA TODAY's editorial on driver's licenses for illegal immigrants stated that
those who are "trying to support themselves and their families, are going to
drive, with or without licenses and insurance." Beyond the fact that these
people have no regard for our laws to enter this country, it is criminal that
they would drive when they aren't licensed and insured.

USA TODAY wrote that this driving licenses issue is "a problem every time there
is an accident." You think?

Jim Donovan

Longwood, Fla.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 30, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Fewer licenses for illegal migrants;
More states require legal status to drive

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 540 words


States that have been issuing driver's licenses to illegal immigrants are making
U-turns.

Beginning Monday, illegal immigrants in Oregon no longer will be able to get
driver's licenses. Last week, Michigan stopped issuing new licenses to all but
citizens and legal permanent residents. Maryland announced this month that
starting in 2010, it will require applicants to prove they're in the USA
legally.

In four of the five remaining states that allow illegal immigrants to drive --
Hawaii, Maine, New Mexico, Utah and Washington -- there have been attempts to
reverse course, according to the National Immigration Law Center (NILC). The
exception: Hawaii.

"Oregon is one of the few states in the country that didn't have these ID
requirements for driver's licenses," says Patty Wentz, spokeswoman for Gov. Ted
Kulongoski. "That made us one of the weak links."

Kulongoski, a Democrat, directed the state's motor vehicle agency to require a
valid Social Security number and other proof of identity. A legal resident who
doesn't have a Social Security number can present other ID, such as a current
visa.

Some officials who are changing policies cite a federal law that sets standards
for licenses to deter fraud and terrorism, but political pressure also motivated
the changes.

Last year, New York Gov. Eliot Spitzer, a Democrat, ignited a firestorm when he
proposed letting illegal immigrants have licenses. He dropped the plan after
protests from county officials, state and federal lawmakers and opponents of
illegal immigration such as NumbersUSA.

"The whole New York debacle really scared a lot of policymakers," says the
NILC's Tyler Moran. "People are folding before they're even forced to."

In Michigan, Secretary of State Terri Lynn Land now issues new licenses only to
citizens and legal permanent residents. The state Legislature is considering her
proposal to issue licenses to legal but temporary residents.

Martha Gonzalez-Cortes of Michigan's Office of Migrant Affairs says she's
concerned that illegal immigrants will drive without licenses and insurance. "As
the number of accidents involving uninsured drivers goes up, that will get
passed along to the average consumer," she says.

In Maryland this month, Gov. Martin O'Malley, a Democrat, directed the
transportation department to create a single driver's license that complies with
the new federal law and rules out illegal immigrants. He dropped a plan for a
two-tier system that would have allowed an illegal immigrant a license OK for
driving but not for boarding planes or entering federal facilities.

"The governor felt we could not allow our state to become the only state on the
East Coast to allow undocumented immigrants to get driver's licenses," spokesman
Rick Abbruzzese says. "The governor did not want Maryland to become a magnet
state for people trying to get driver's licenses."

Utah state Rep. Glenn Donnelson, a Republican, has tried for four years to stop
illegal immigrants from getting driver "privilege cards," which allow them to
drive legally.

Donnelson says his bill may have a better shot this year because of momentum in
other states. "I think the citizens are a little upset because the federal
government's not doing anything about this problem," he says.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 26, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

City puts itself on immigration watch;
Calif. mayor says step is necessary to combat crime because feds have 'dropped
the ball'

BYLINE: William M. Welch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 1002 words


COSTA MESA, Calif. -- Mayor Allan Mansoor says his city has a problem with
violent criminals who are in this country illegally, and he wants them sent
home.

His solution is to make Costa Mesa the first city in the country to authorize
its police officers to begin enforcing federal immigration laws by checking the
immigration status of people suspected of serious crimes and gang activity.

It may sound like a simple move -- a background check that many assume is
already being done. But with federal immigration officers overwhelmed by the
flow of undocumented immigrants, it often isn't, Mansoor and law enforcement
officials say.

As a result, many illegal immigrants who are convicted of crimes are set free
rather than booted from the country when they have served their sentences. In
the Los Angeles area alone, thousands of illegal immigrants are estimated to be
behind bars.

"It's false for people to think or assume everyone that is here illegally and
commits crimes and goes to prison is subsequently deported," Mansoor says.

However, what Mansoor sees as a way to stop violent crime, others see as
dangerous for the Hispanic community. Critics warn that people may hesitate to
call police for help if it could get someone booted from the country. They worry
that even if the police set out intending to target only serious criminals who
are illegal immigrants, it could lead to wholesale local enforcement of
immigration laws.

"The policies are already having the effect of loss of confidence in the
police," says Nativo Lopez, a Latino activist from Santa Ana.

Mansoor's proposal, which was approved last month by the City Council 3-2, is
part of an emotional debate that stretches far beyond city limits. At issue is
whether local law enforcement should concern itself with a federal
responsibility and the consequences of doing so.

It's a debate going on elsewhere in Southern California and the USA.

"There has been a demand from the public for this type of enforcement," Mansoor
says. "The federal government has certainly dropped the ball, and we are seeing
the impact of it in our community."

Costa Mesa is following the lead of the sheriff of Orange County, which includes
the city, and state police forces in Florida and Alabama. The agencies seek
agreements with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), a branch of the
Homeland Security Department, to train and authorize officers to investigate
whether suspects are in the USA legally.

In addition, this month, two other California counties, Los Angeles and San
Bernardino, began having federally trained deputies screen jail inmates for
immigration violations. Arizona has an agreement with ICE to do the same in its
prison system, federal officials say.

Robert Hines, a special agent at ICE headquarters in Washington who heads the
local enforcement program, says he has at least 10 additional pending inquiries
from local governments in New England, the South and the Midwest.

"A lot of towns and cities throughout the country are experiencing crime being
committed by foreign nationals," Hines says.

Mansoor is modeling Costa Mesa's program after one proposed by Michael Carona,
the elected sheriff of Orange County. Outside his part-time job as mayor,
Mansoor works for Carona as a deputy sheriff.

Carona says officers won't conduct raids seeking illegal immigrants in
neighborhoods or at businesses. Instead, he wants his force to use immigration
laws to go after "career criminals" and "the worst of the worst."

"The individuals we are talking about are not day laborers," he says.

The Pew Hispanic Center estimates that as many as 11 million people are in this
country illegally. Many of them are in California.

Mansoor estimates that 10% to 15% of the 400 people taken into Costa Mesa's jail
on an average month are illegal immigrants. Most of those bound over for trial
are transferred to the Orange County jail, where Carona estimates 14% of the
5,500 inmates held at any one time are illegal immigrants.

In Los Angeles, where 19,000 people are in seven county jails, the number of
illegal immigrants could be 25%, says Marc Klugman, chief of the correctional
services division for the sheriff's department.

Some worry that plans such as Mansoor's and Carona's could end up hurting law
enforcement. Zeke Hernandez of Santa Ana says many people will be "very
hesitant" to report crimes. "There always could be a family member or someone
else who may not have proper documents."

The League of United Latin American Citizens has denounced the plans as "opening
the doors for deputies to proceed in a racial profiling mode for certain
population groups, denying them full constitutional protection.''

Others say they would welcome more vigorous enforcement of immigration laws.

"Our police departments have had their hands tied and could do nothing until an
illegal alien commits a horrible crime," says Eileen Garcia of  Laguna Beach.

Angelina Ibbotson of Huntington Beach, who came here from the Philippines more
than 40 years ago, complains that illegal immigrants are a drain on public
resources such as hospitals and schools.

"The borders are just wide open," Ibbotson says. "We're not anti-immigrant.
We're not anti-anyone. We're anti-illegal entry."

Costa Mesa Police Chief John Hensley has tried to assure immigrants that
officers will screen only suspects of serious crimes.

"We're not going to be doing sweeps," he says. "We're not going to be squeezing
employers.

"We do not want to be the enemy of the immigrant community."

Miguel Hernandez, a teacher in Santa Ana, says many Latinos would support such
enforcement if it is confined to serious criminals.

"We want serious offenders off the street, but at the same time we want to make
sure hardworking people in our community, no matter what their legal status, are
also protected by our law enforcement community," Hernandez says.

Mansoor says that's what he has in mind. "My focus is ... the major offenders.
This will not solve all our immigration problems, but it will make the community
safer."

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, USA TODAY (Map)
PHOTO, B/W, Bob Riha Jr., USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Fred Greaves, Reuters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 26, 2006 Thursday
                                 CHASE EDITION

City puts itself on immigration watch

BYLINE: William M. Welch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 1021 words


Calif. mayor says

step is necessary

to combat crime

because feds have

'dropped the ball'

COSTA MESA, Calif. -- Mayor Allan Mansoor says his city has a problem with
violent criminals who are in this country illegally, and he wants them sent
home.

His solution is to make Costa Mesa the first city in the country to authorize
its police officers to begin enforcing federal immigration laws by checking the
immigration status of people suspected of serious crimes and gang activity.

It may sound like a simple move -- a background check that many assume is
already being done. But with federal immigration officers overwhelmed by the
flow of undocumented immigrants, it often isn't, Mansoor and law enforcement
officials say.

As a result, many illegal immigrants who are convicted of crimes are set free
rather than booted from the country when they have served their sentences. In
the Los Angeles area alone, thousands of illegal immigrants are estimated to be
behind bars.

"It's false for people to think or assume everyone that is here illegally and
commits crimes and goes to prison is subsequently deported," Mansoor says.

However, what Mansoor sees as a way to stop violent crime, others see as
dangerous for the Hispanic community. Critics warn that people may hesitate to
call police for help if it could get someone booted from the country. They worry
that even if the police set out intending to target only serious criminals who
are illegal immigrants, it could lead to wholesale local enforcement of
immigration laws.

"The policies are already having the effect of loss of confidence in the
police," says Nativo Lopez, a Latino activist from Santa Ana.

Mansoor's proposal, which was approved last month by the City Council 3-2, is
part of an emotional debate that stretches far beyond city limits. At issue is
whether local law enforcement should concern itself with a federal
responsibility and the consequences of doing so.

It's a debate going on elsewhere in Southern California and the USA.

"There has been a demand from the public for this type of enforcement," Mansoor
says. "The federal government has certainly dropped the ball, and we are seeing
the impact of it in our community."

Costa Mesa is following the lead of the sheriff of Orange County, which includes
the city, and state police forces in Florida and Alabama. The agencies seek
agreements with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), a branch of the
Homeland Security Department, to train and authorize officers to investigate
whether suspects are in the USA legally.

In addition, this month, two other California counties, Los Angeles and San
Bernardino, began having federally trained deputies screen jail inmates for
immigration violations. Arizona has an agreement with ICE to do the same in its
prison system, federal officials say.

Robert Hines, a special agent at ICE headquarters in Washington who heads the
local enforcement program, says he has at least 10 additional pending inquiries
from local governments in New England, the South and the Midwest.

"A lot of towns and cities throughout the country are experiencing crime being
committed by foreign nationals," Hines says.

Mansoor is modeling Costa Mesa's program after one proposed by Michael Carona,
the elected sheriff of Orange County. Outside his part-time job as mayor,
Mansoor works for Carona as a deputy sheriff.

Carona says officers won't conduct raids seeking illegal immigrants in
neighborhoods or at businesses. Instead, he wants his force to use immigration
laws to go after "career criminals" and "the worst of the worst."

"The individuals we are talking about are not day laborers," he says.

The Pew Hispanic Center estimates that as many as 11 million people are in this
country illegally. Many of them are in California.

Mansoor estimates that 10% to 15% of the 400 people taken into Costa Mesa's jail
on an average month are illegal immigrants. Most of those bound over for trial
are transferred to the Orange County jail, where Carona estimates 14% of the
5,500 inmates held at any one time are illegal immigrants.

In Los Angeles, where 19,000 people are in seven county jails, the number of
illegal immigrants could be 25%, says Marc Klugman, chief of the correctional
services division for the sheriff's department.

Some worry that plans such as Mansoor's and Carona's could end up hurting law
enforcement. Zeke Hernandez of Santa Ana says many people will be "very
hesitant" to report crimes. "There always could be a family member or someone
else who may not have proper documents."

The League of United Latin American Citizens has denounced the plans as "opening
the doors for deputies to proceed in a racial profiling mode for certain
population groups, denying them full constitutional protection.''

Others say they would welcome more vigorous enforcement of immigration laws.

"Our police departments have had their hands tied and could do nothing until an
illegal alien commits a horrible crime," says Eileen Garcia of  Laguna Beach.

Angelina Ibbotson of Huntington Beach, who came here from the Philippines more
than 40 years ago, complains that illegal immigrants are a drain on public
resources such as hospitals and schools.

"The borders are just wide open," Ibbotson says. "We're not anti-immigrant.
We're not anti-anyone. We're anti-illegal entry."

Costa Mesa Police Chief John Hensley has tried to assure immigrants that
officers will screen only suspects of serious crimes.

"We're not going to be doing sweeps," he says. "We're not going to be squeezing
employers.

"We do not want to be the enemy of the immigrant community."

Miguel Hernandez, a teacher in Santa Ana, says many Latinos would support such
enforcement if it is confined to serious criminals.

"We want serious offenders off the street, but at the same time we want to make
sure hardworking people in our community, no matter what their legal status, are
also protected by our law enforcement community," Hernandez says.

Mansoor says that's what he has in mind. "My focus is ... the major offenders.
This will not solve all our immigration problems, but it will make the community
safer."

*States consider policies, 1A

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 5, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Congress' fiddling leaves cities fighting illegal immigration

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 564 words


While Congress dithers on immigration reform, America's towns and cities are
moving to fill the vacuum, passing draconian ordinances designed to drive
illegal immigrants beyond the city limits. The trend is a measure of how
powerful the backlash against illegal immigrants is becoming and how much damage
is being done by Congress' abject failure to act.

A recent example is Hazleton, Pa., a small, onetime coal-mining city some
90miles northwest of Philadelphia. Over the past few years, Hazleton became a
magnet for Hispanic immigrants fleeing bigger cities in New York and New Jersey.
The influx drove up property values and increased business, but a wave of
illegal immigrants that came along with legal residents overcrowded schools and
hospitals and -- says Mayor Lou Barletta -- increased crime and devastated
neighborhoods.

After two vicious shootings that involved illegal immigrants, Barletta set out
to make Hazleton one of the most unwelcoming cities in the country for illegals.
The City Council passed an ordinance that says landlords who rent to illegals
can be fined $1,000 a day, and that employers who hire them can lose their city
business licenses for five years. Hazleton's ordinance was modeled on one passed
in San Bernardino, Calif., and  Barletta says at least 30 other cities have
inquired about it. Advocates for the immigrants are suing, and Barletta says the
ordinance will be refined  before it goes into effect.

On one hand, it's hard to argue with Barletta's attempt to, in effect, enforce
immigration law, since the federal government refuses to do so. Border
enforcement is ineffective, and immigrants who enter legally routinely overstay
visas with little concern about being caught. Congress knew all of that when it
passed the last immigration "reform" in 1996. But it opted for a sham,
infuriating those who were promised tighter borders.

On the other hand, the U.S. economy has profited from the willingness of illegal
immigrants to work hard for low wages. Now there are an estimated 12million
illegals here, and trying to deport them is impractical, heartless and
counterproductive. Many have children who are citizens, and the work the
immigrants do is valued. Providing a path to citizenship is smarter if it is
coupled with credible enforcement.

But the House, fearing another sham, wants a throw-them-all-out plan. The Senate
sees the problem in that, but its enforcement plan is dubious. So cities are
left to cope, futilely.

Hazelton's law, for instance, might push the problem out of out of Hazelton but
would leave other cities and towns to deal with the fallout. Worse, it seems to
have intensified the polarization in Hazleton, creating collateral damage among
legal immigrants.

A PBS report, a suit filed against the law and reports in other media all say
legal residents have felt the sting of discrimination against all Hispanics
since the ordinance was passed. "Everybody would look at us as if we're
undocumented immigrants, because there's no way that they can tell if we're
documented or not," local business leader Agapito Lopez told PBS. He's right.

Congress returns from a month-long break this week and has barely a month before
leaving again to campaign for re-election. There are no signs leaders plan to
try to break their stalemate. Too bad. Congress is just passing the buck to
cities and towns that are ill-equipped to handle it.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, USA TODAY, Source: USA TODAY/Gallup Poll of 1,004 adults
April 7-9 (Pie chart)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          February 15, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Misguided border patrolling;
In cities such as Costa Mesa, Calif., local police are asked to enforce
immigration law, which could lead to racial profiling and an erosion of trust.
Why not target the businesses that rely on this cheap labor instead?

BYLINE: Ruben Navarrette

SECTION: BONUS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 893 words


Because I'm not just the grandson of a Mexican immigrant but also the son of a
retired cop, my views on illegal immigration are complicated. I'm convinced that
immigrants -- whatever their status -- are America's most valuable import. Yet I
wasn't raised to take lightly things such as border security or the breaking of
laws.

The trouble is that some proposed solutions -- from putting  troops on the
border to denying  citizenship to the children of illegal immigrants -- bring to
mind the old saying about the cure being worse than the disease. That includes
this one: Allowing local police to enforce federal immigration law.

This dangerous and self-defeating concept is popular with those who think that
law enforcement officers are interchangeable, and that one badge is as good as
another. As proponents of this approach see it, police chase down criminals
(including illegal immigrants) and it makes no difference whether their
jurisdiction is local, state or federal.

Some advocates even want to  require local police to enforce immigration law --
something opposed by many police associations, including the International
Association of Chiefs of Police. The Clear Law Enforcement for Criminal Alien
Removal (CLEAR) Act, introduced in 2003 by Rep. Charles Norwood, R-Ga., and
reintroduced in 2005, would enlist state and local law enforcement agencies in
the enforcement of federal immigration laws. It passed in the House of
Representatives as part of a larger immigration bill but has yet to be decided
in the Senate.

The wrong answer

A mandate from Washington would be the worst possible thing. This is a decision
best left to local and state authorities. We can only hope they make the right
one.

In Costa Mesa, Calif., city officials recently made the wrong decision.

At the urging of Mayor Allan Mansoor,  the City Council in December voted  to
authorize local  police officers to be trained to  enforce immigration law. That
makes Costa Mesa, which is an hour's drive south of Los Angeles, the first city
in the USA to take this road.

It probably won't be the last. State police agencies in Florida and Alabama and
the county sheriff's department in Orange County, where Costa Mesa is located,
have sought a "memorandum of understanding" from the U.S. Immigration Customs
Enforcement agency to train their officers to enforce immigration law. An
official at ICE told USA TODAY that there are at least 10 more pending inquiries
from local authorities in New England, the South and the Midwest -- all of them
aiming to take immigration law into their own hands.

In Costa Mesa, officials seem to want  a crackdown limited to what Mansoor calls
"criminal offenders," or suspects of wrongdoing beyond entering the country
illegally.

That includes gang activity. In fact, it's significant that of the first 40
officers for whom the city wants to seek training, most are detectives, gang
specialists and jail personnel. Mansoor says that there won't be any sweeps or
raids on employers, and that police will not be targeting  illegal immigrants.

Those are some silver linings. Another would be if Costa Mesa's experiment
excluded beat cops. Once street officers  become surrogate immigration agents,
all is lost. Whatever amount of trust the police department has built with
immigrant communities will deteriorate. The possibility of racial profiling will
increase.  An initiative intended to combat crime could easily backfire and fuel
it instead if immigrants are too scared to report crimes committed against them.

The root of the problem

Besides, let's not forget how Costa Mesa found itself in this predicament.
Mansoor says that it's because the federal government has failed to do its duty.

Nonsense. If illegal immigrants are congregating in Costa Mesa -- and thousands
of U.S. cities like it -- there's only one reason. It's because  people in those
places have decided they cannot live without the cheap and readily available
labor supplied by illegal immigrants. Those are the real culprits -- the
teachers and engineers and soccer moms who love that they can afford upper-class
perks (nannies, gardeners and housekeepers) on middle-class wages.

Those are the folks Mansoor and the city should crack down on if they want to
solve this problem. At least one other city in California has tried issuing
fines to employers who pluck day laborers off streets.

Personally, the cop's son in me would like to see a three-strikes law: The first
time you hire an illegal immigrant, you get a warning. The second time, you get
a $10,000 fine. The third, you get a week in jail. Currently, the law says
you're not in trouble unless you "knowingly" hire an illegal immigrant. But
after your third offense, shouldn't you be in the know?

Americans  want to get tough on illegal immigrants. Fine. But you can't do that
without first getting tough on those who hire them.

I'm probably naive. Politicians know what they can get away with and what they
can't. Immigrants who don't vote and can't speak English are not a threat. But
employers of cheap labor who are singled out for prosecution can retaliate by
spending money to defeat politicians and elect their opponents. That part isn't
complicated. Never has been.

Ruben Navarrette is a member of the editorial board of The San Diego
Union-Tribune and a nationally syndicated columnist with The Washington Post
Writers Group.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Marcy Mullins, USA TODAY (Illustration)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 28, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Senate committee supports overhaul of immigration law;
Illegals would need to get jobs,payfines before citizenship

BYLINE: David Jackson and Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 604 words


WASHINGTON -- The Senate Judiciary Committee gave a strong bipartisan
endorsement Monday to President Bush's plans for overhauling immigration laws,
opening the way for turbulent Senate floor debate.

The panel voted to expand opportunities for foreigners to work in the USA and to
allow 11 million people working here illegally a chance at citizenship.

Under the Senate measure, undocumented immigrants who could prove they were in
the USA by Jan. 7, 2004, would pay a $1,000 fine, undergo a background check and
prove they were employed. After six years, they could apply for a green card,
when they would pay another $1,000 fine and prove they had learned English.

Only then could they apply for citizenship. "They will go to the end of the
line," said Judiciary Committee Chairman Arlen Specter, R-Pa.

Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., emphasized the hurdles immigrants would have to
overcome. "To me, that's not amnesty," he said, referring to opponents' charges
that the approach would reward those who have entered the country illegally.
"That's working for the right to become an American citizen."

Opponents were unconvinced. "It's not fair to those who have been playing by the
rules," said Sen. Jon Kyl, R-Ariz. "It will not become law."

The committee's action opened the way for full Senate debate to begin on an
issue that has divided Republicans and put the president at odds with much of
his party.

The panel approved the bill 12-6. All six "no" votes came from Republicans. Four
Republicans and eight Democrats backed the Bush approach.

The Senate bill runs counter to a bill passed by the House of Representatives
with heavy support from Republicans who oppose Bush's immigration policy. The
House bill stresses enforcement and deportation rather than allowing immigrant
workers to stay. Such tensions are likely to dominate the Senate debate.

The Senate committee met as protesters massed outside the U.S. Capitol to oppose
the House immigration bill.

President Bush again endorsed some kind of temporary "guest worker" program to
allow workers to stay in the USA. He urged a "civil and dignified" debate.

"No one should play on people's fears, or try to pit neighbors against each
other," Bush said after a naturalization ceremony for 30 new U.S. citizens.

Judiciary Committee members were working against a tight deadline set by Senate
Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn., who had said he planned to open floor
debate today whether the committee produced a bill or not. Late Monday, Frist
postponed the debate but left open the possibility that it could begin later
today.

During its daylong session Monday, the committee approved a proposal that would
add up to 400,000 slots for low-skilled guest workers who could petition for
green cards after four years.

The committee also agreed to legalize 1.5 million agriculture workers. Sen.
Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., said the farming industry "is almost entirely
dependent on undocumented workers."

Other provisions of the legislation would:

*Increase visas for high-tech workers to at least 115,000 a year, up from
65,000.

*Expand detention facility space by 10,000 beds.

*Exempt from prosecution people who provide humanitarian assistance to illegal
immigrants.

Many organizations that help immigrants, including the U.S. Conference of
Catholic Bishops, say the House bill could criminalize some of their charitable
work.

The president, laying down his marker on immigration, said Monday that
immigration changes "will require all of us in Washington to make tough choices
and make compromises."

He also called for more security on the border and better enforcement of
immigration laws.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Joe Marquette, Bloomberg News
PHOTO, B/W, Chip Somodevilla, Getty Images
PHOTO, B/W, Charles Dharapak, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            March 30, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Myths vs. facts

BYLINE: Tom Tancredo

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 479 words


It has been said that if you tell a lie 1,000
times in politics, it becomes truth. Before we
reach that threshold, there are two myths
that must be dispelled about the Houses bipartisan
immigration reform bill:
uThe first myth is that the House bill
would make criminals out of priests who run
homeless shelters and soup kitchens.
The bill would not substantially change
decades of law with respect to religious organizations.
From 1986 until this year, no organization
was allowed to conceal, harbor or
shield an alien from law enforcement in
reckless disregard of the fact that the alien is
in this country illegally. During those two
decades, no church was shut down for providing
basic social services to illegal aliens.
Regardless, I think congressional leaders
would be open to language that reaffirms
current practice and clarifies the bills intent.
But beyond soup and shelter, why should
religious organizations be exempt from a law
against actively concealing illegal aliens from
law enforcement? Its no secret that there
are terrorist front organizations in the USA,
and that these front organizations most often
claim to be relief charities or religious
groups. Just one example is the Holy Land
Foundation, whose headquarters was only
miles from our nations capital and which
was shut down for supporting Hamas and
other terrorist-related organizations.
uA second myth is that House Republicans
want to make illegal presence in the
USA a felony.
The truth is Democrats voted for the felony
provision, and a majority of Republicans
(including me) voted against it.
Right now, illegal presence in the USA is
not a crime; it is a civil infraction. The House
Judiciary Committee voted to make it a felony
but then was counseled that millions of
new felons could clog our courts.
Chairman James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis.,
wrote an amendment to his own bill asking
that the penalty be reduced from a felony to
a misdemeanor; 191 Democrats and a few
Republicans voted to keep the felony penalty
in the hope that it would be a poison pill to
defeat the measure. After his amendment
lost, Sensenbrenner promised, When this
bill gets to (House-Senate) conference, those
penalties will be made workable. You can
count on that.
The truth? The House bill would construct
a security fence along our southern border,
require federal and local law enforcement to
cooperate on immigration matters, and mandate
that employers use an instant check system
to verify their employees legal status.
Unlike the Senate bill, our version would offer
no amnesty and would not add foreign
workers to our already overwhelmed background-
check system.
Polls released last week show that nearly
two-thirds of Americans oppose amnesty,
and that 90% say illegal immigration is a serious
problem. The Houses approach is supported
by most Americans. Now, we wait for
the Senate to follow.
Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., is chairman of
the congressional immigration reform caucus.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 31, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration reform: Benefits vs. liabilities

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 670 words


Parsons (Kan.) Sun, in a signed editorial by Ann Charles: "There is more than
enough discussion going on right now about illegal immigrants and congressional
proposals to stop them, punish them and export them. Unfortunately, much of that
discussion is based on gut feelings rather than rational thinking. ... While a
U.S. House-passed bill would make the presence of these laborers a felony and
require fencing 700 miles of the border along Mexico, the reality of that would
cause an earthquake in the U.S. economy. This isn't to say that illegal workers
should be ignored, but one only has to listen to the voices at booming
construction sites to know that housing complexes are being built by them. They
are also the ones who make hotel beds, change towels, provide landscaping and
yard services and vacuum Corporate America. ... Knock out 8 million of those
jobs with the passage of a poorly thought out piece of feel-good, American
chest-beating legislation, and the immediate consequences to the economy would
be devastating."

Middletown (Ohio) Journal, in an editorial: "The federal government's
unwillingness to secure our borders and to stop the steady rush of people
illegally coming into the United States threatens to overwhelm local
communities' resources, services and employment opportunities. The numbers of
illegal immigrants are so great that nearly every state in the Union has been
affected. ... It's time for Congress and the White House to do their jobs."

Desert Dispatch, Barstow, Calif., in an editorial: "A realistic approach to
immigration is necessary. On one hand, it's simply ludicrous to think there's
any way we would be able to round up millions of illegal immigrants and remove
them from the country in the first place, and parts of our economy would stop
functioning even if we could. On the other hand, it's absolutely irrational to
ignore the security problems the nation faces by having millions of people in
the country essentially outside 'the system,' undocumented and unknown
individuals. While some worry about crimes caused by illegal immigrants, it's
also worth noting that their undocumented status also makes it harder for them
to get help when they're the victims. A guest-worker program is probably the
smartest, most rational way of splitting the difference. Those immigrants
committed to contributing to our nation's economy will be rewarded. Those who
are a drain on our nation will not."

Jay Bookman, deputy editorial page editor of The Atlanta Journal-Constitution,
in a column: "The modern era of runaway, all-but-unregulated illegal immigration
has a birthday -- May 13, 1998. ... On that date, about 45 federal immigration
officials launched a raid on the Vidalia onion fields of southeast Georgia,
where thousands of workers -- 70% to 90% of them illegal -- had been brought to
pick the crop. But instead of being lauded for enforcing the law, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service came under blistering attack from
Georgia's congressional delegation. ... INS officials were forced to halt the
raid and take the extraordinary step of granting 'temporary amnesty' to the
illegal workers it had arrested so they could go back to picking onions. ...
From that point forward, the INS abandoned any serious effort to enforce federal
law. ... The issue of workplace enforcement is all but ignored. In truth, U.S.
officials have no real interest in trying to halt the influx of illegal
immigrants to this country."

The Lufkin (Texas) Daily News, in an editorial: "It would be difficult to find
even one American citizen who has not benefited in some way from the fruit of
undocumented workers' labor. And with the exception of full-blooded Native
Americans, every American is either descended from immigrants or is an immigrant
himself. ... We don't want to do without cheap labor and low prices. We aren't
willing to take low-paying, menial jobs. ... We've got to find a workable
solution to this problem. 'Send them back' isn't it. Let's all just admit that,
and move on."

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Christine Baker, (Fairfield, Calif.) Daily Republic, via AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 5, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Aim for comprehensive immigration plan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 982 words


I recently visited the Holocaust exhibit at the Simon Wiesenthal Center's Museum
of Tolerance. I've learned about the Holocaust all my life. Each time, something
new sinks in. This time what hit home was the fact that the scapegoating and
genocide of Jews -- and others -- would not have been possible without the help
of "ordinary people."

"Ordinary people." That's you, me, the baseball coach, your co-worker, your
cousin.

The Holocaust started with little things. Things similar to those in the
"enforcement only" immigration reform being pushed now in the U.S. House of
Representatives. This enforcement-only immigration law would make it a felony to
be an undocumented immigrant or to help an undocumented immigrant.

People who provide social services of any sort -- hospital workers, social
workers, volunteers -- would face time in jail for helping a client who is
undocumented. If this law passes, many citizens will find their parents are
suddenly felons. We'll all live in fear of helping the "wrong" person. What will
we do? Check IDs before helping people? Stop helping people who look "foreign"?

A better alternative is comprehensive reform:

*Increased border security.

*A "guest worker" program.

*A path to legal citizenship for the as many as 12 million undocumented
immigrants who are already here.

Most important, comprehensive reform would not criminalize people who help
undocumented immigrants, or the immigrants themselves.

Some of our senators recently decided to support comprehensive immigration
reform. As "ordinary people," we should all call our senators and ask them to
support it, too.

Karen Grove

Menlo Park, Calif.

Politics get in the way

I have been watching the ongoing debate concerning how to "deal" with the
estimated 12 million illegal immigrants. Now I'm hearing that the result of
getting tough on the immigrants might result in the "loss" of the Latino vote.

I pray that the decision in this matter is based on our nation's security and
not on the politics of a particular ethnic group. I'd like to see a politician
have the courage to stand up and explain to all ethnic groups that their
security -- everyone's security -- is at risk.

Too often in the past, our politicians have made decisions that try to please
everyone and in the end please no one. What usually emerges is a weak,
ineffective compromise that never solves the problem.

Our survival as a nation is at risk here.

Bruce Gary

Rhinelander, Wis.

Don't reward lawbreakers

I don't reward lawbreakers who have sidestepped immigration laws to come to the
USA, a country I love so dearly. Anyone who suggests gold-card treatment for
illegal immigrants is out of touch with mainstream America.

How much are illegal immigrants costing U.S. taxpayers?

This American, along with many others, is fed up with illegal immigrants and the
politicians and employers who snub their noses at the laws of our land -- laws
that protect us and help make this country so great.

We must support aggressive enforcement of immigration laws and those who work
hard to protect this nation's borders.

Althea Garrison

Former state representative

Boston

Enough good to share

Our nation is bitterly divided on our response to illegal aliens. We hear loud
protestations about their nuisance publicly. How ironic that many of these same
protestors are also benefiting from cheap house cleaning, child care and
gardening from these same hard-working immigrants.

When President Bush says these immigrants do work no Americans want to do, what
he means is that no Americans want to do it for the wages that these immigrants
are willing to accept.

We still need illegal immigrants. We need cheap child-care arrangements because
even in the 21st century, there is still not equal pay for equal work.

Imagine a world where women are fairly compensated in a consistent manner,
affording them access to quality, legal child care. Imagine a world where the
workplace and our government actually value families and provide flexible work
alternatives. Instead, we tell women that if they had "family values," they
wouldn't work and wouldn't need child care.

Just as one political party doesn't represent all of us, neither should one work
model. Imagine a world where parents could easily stagger their work so that
they could pick up their children from school and not need cheap, illegal child
care. How much thought is given to why these immigrants want so desperately to
risk their lives and leave their loved ones to come here to be third-class
citizens?

We love to buy cheap things at places such as Wal-Mart, which profits from cheap
foreign labor and horrid work conditions. The best way to improve conditions for
our third-world neighbors is to demand that American goods be produced in
factories that have safe and fair labor practices and pay a living wage.

All U.S. companies that have shifted jobs overseas need to be held to the same
standards abroad as they are for their employees in this country. Imagine a
world where fewer U.S. jobs are exported and conditions are improved abroad,
making illegal immigration here less enticing.

Instead of criminalizing the brave souls who risk everything to come to this
country for all that we imagine it could be, let's work together to make the
world better for all.

Abby Shenbaum Train

Las Cruces, N.M.

Crack down on employers

Many things seem to be missing -- accidentally or on purpose -- from the
nation's immigration discussions.

No one talks about the real problem: Laws are in place to require employers to
refuse to hire anyone illegally in this country. Politicians say that employers
try, but that there are too many fake papers available to illegal immigrants.
Let's stop blaming the people coming here illegally. Stop handing out jobs, and
illegal immigrants will stop coming. And don't tell me that Americans don't want
to do the jobs now being given to illegal immigrants.

Michael J. Ferrentino

Las Vegas

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 5, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A potential tidal wave come election time

BYLINE: Marisa Trevino

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 565 words


Two hundred; 500; 1,000; 2,000; 10,000; 300,000; 500,000. Far from counting
sheep, these numbers of protesters signify an awakening. Political pundits and
community activists say the prospect of congressional action on immigration
reform has stirred up the Latino community.

Protesters have taken to the streets in cities coast to coast, chanting their
opposition in two languages to the immigration reform plans being debated in
Congress. The threats of criminalizing undocumented immigrants and the Good
Samaritans who help them, separating families, imposing a man-made border,
toiling away at a government-sanctioned job while paying taxes but still having
no clear path to citizenship -- those are just a few issues propelling people to
forgo the safety of society's shadows to speak out in unison.

It's clear that depending on which side of the river you're looking across from,
immigration reform is either a political/economic issue or a human rights cause.

Members of Congress, who think their chances at future elections will be
enhanced with voters if they play hardball with the issue, sprinkle their speech
with words such as "terrorists" and "porous border" in the same breath with
"illegals" and "taking jobs from Americans."

Sympathetic supporters and the undocumented hear the ticking of the proverbial
clock -- not for when as many as 12 million people will be expected to turn
themselves in, but for when they will be forced to live even more secretive,
invisible lives.

Native-born attitudes

Though 12 million is a huge number of people, it pales in comparison with the 28
million Latinos in the USA who already have access to public services, health
care, car insurance, among other taken-for-granted rights that come with legal
status. These are the people who must be stirred to action.

It won't be an easy task. For one, Latinos are not a monolithic group. For
another, a 2005 Pew Hispanic Center study found that although most Latinos have
positive attitudes toward immigrants, native-born Latinos tend to be more
divided in how they view the effect of illegal immigrants on U.S. society.

When native-born Latinos were asked whether illegal migrants helped the economy
by providing low-cost labor rather than hurt the economy by driving wages down,
55% agreed vs. 34% who did not.

Where the political clout rests

The 12 million undocumented immigrants here have no influence over elected
leaders. They're not citizens. They can't vote. They can make a lot of noise;
they can't make a difference in a politician's future. But there are at least 15
million eligible Hispanic voters, and they can -- if only they'd wield the full
force of their votes. Numbers from the 2004 election, though, are not
encouraging. Just 47% of Hispanic U.S. citizens (of any race) questioned after
the election said they had voted. In contrast:

*67% of  non-Hispanic whites did.

*60% of African-Americans did.

*44% of Asian-Americans did.

The top  reason given for why many eligible Hispanics didn't vote was that they
were too busy or had a conflicting schedule. Another reason: They weren't
interested.

Time will tell what actions Congress will take against as many as 12 million
illegal immigrants. Only then will we see whether this sleeping giant holding
Latino votes has truly awakened, or is merely yawning before turning over to go
back to sleep.

Marisa Trevino is a freelance writer in Dallas.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 19, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Calls to get tough on illegals grow;
Residents far from border seek controls

BYLINE: Judy Keen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 763 words


CHICAGO -- Recent demonstrations demanding that immigration laws be eased are
fueling new interest in states far from the U.S.-Mexican border in groups that
support stricter immigration enforcement.

Membership in organizations in Tennessee, Illinois, Oregon and other states is
growing. The Minuteman Project that deploys volunteers along the border to help
prevent illegal immigration is forming official chapters across the nation.

Hundreds of people attended a rally this week in Kansas City, Mo., demanding
tighter immigration controls. About 400 signed up to join the Mid-America
Immigration Reform Coalition, which supports tougher immigration laws, says
organizer Joyce Mucci.

The rally was a response to marches that drew thousands of people calling for
illegal immigrants to be allowed to stay in the country, Mucci says: "That was a
shock, and it got some people fired up."

Other groups that oppose easing immigration laws also report increased
membership:

*The Minuteman Project is authorizing state chapters for the first time, says
executive director Stephen Eichler. The group, created in 2004, organizes armed
patrols on the southern U.S. border and calls in the Border Patrol when members
spot people trying to cross illegally. President Bush referred to them in March
2005 as "vigilantes."

Minuteman groups grow

Eichler won't release membership numbers but says about 200,000 people identify
themselves as Minutemen. By the end of the year, Eichler says, the group expects
to have 500 chapters in states across the country, including Minnesota and
elsewhere in the Midwest. Members could help with border surveillance or focus
on immigration enforcement in their own communities.

"Over 5,000 people have come forward and said, 'I'll do anything,'" he says.
"Right now, about 200 people that we have contacted look pretty serious."
Eichler says the group will do background checks to prevent white supremacists
from forming chapters.

*The Illinois Minuteman Project, which is patterned after the California-based
group, has about 600 members and is growing rapidly, says Rosanna Pulido, who
just returned from patrolling the Arizona-Mexico border.

"Our membership is going up every day," she says. "We're getting flooded.
Nothing has generated interest like the pro-immigration protests." The group
plans a May 4 debate with a proponent of citizenship for illegal immigrants in
Chicago and a town hall meeting May 6 in Rockford, Ill.

*The Tennessee Volunteer Minutemen, an independent group, plans a rally May 1 in
Chattanooga. Its members have videotaped immigrants participating in some
marches, says its director, Carl "Two Feathers" Whitaker, an independent
candidate for governor.

Whitaker says his group has 120 active members and is growing. "We don't want to
grab ammunition or anything," he says, "but the heat is really turning up on
this."

*Jim Ludwick of Oregonians for Immigration Reform, whose members lobby state and
federal legislators for stronger enforcement, says his group has grown from a
half-dozen people in 2000 to 700 now, with more joining daily. "The phone just
rings off the hook with people who are mad," he says.

Son Ah Yun of the Center for Community Change, a national coalition that helped
coordinate last week's marches supporting illegal immigrants, says debate is
important. "People are taking to the street and really engaging in this
process," she says. "What's good is that people want to be heard. There are
always two sides to the story."

But she objects to videotaping marchers who support easing immigration laws.
"That, I think, is really destructive to the civil process," she says.

States taking action

The debate also is heating up in state capitals:

*On Monday, Georgia Gov. Sonny Perdue signed legislation requiring verification
of the legal status of immigrants who apply for state benefits, penalizing
employers who knowingly hire illegal immigrants and requiring police to check
the status of people they arrest.

*Arizona Gov. Janet Napolitano on Monday vetoed a bill that would have permitted
local authorities to arrest illegal immigrants in the state.

Kris Kobach, a law professor at the University of Missouri-Kansas City who once
advised former U.S. attorney general John Ashcroft on immigration, says interest
among Americans who don't live near the border proves that the issue touches
every community.

Kobach, who spoke at the Kansas City rally, predicts immigration will be the top
issue in this fall's elections.

"It takes something pretty powerful," he says, "to get the average citizen off
the sofa and into the streets."

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 20, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration we can live with;
Plenty of good ideas are being batted around. Will Congress blow this
opportunity? If politics wins, yes. If the people win, no. Bob and Cal find a
way through the maze.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 1450 words


Cal Thomas is a conservative columnist. Bob Beckel is a liberal Democratic
strategist. But as longtime friends, they can often find common ground on issues
that lawmakers in Washington cannot.

Today: Immigration reform.

Bob: Next week, lawmakers will return to Washington from their Easter recess to
take up where they left off on the issue of illegal immigration. Why continue to
whack away at this pioata?  The answer is simple. It's an election year.
Politicians are under the illusion that most Americans wake up  and talk about
illegal immigrants over breakfast. That may be true in border states, but not in
the rest of the country.

Cal: But it crystallizes a serious legal and cultural problem: People are losing
respect for the law and we are losing our sense of who we are as a nation. The
United States is quickly being transformed from our national motto, "Out of
many, one" to "Out of one, many," and people are rightly concerned.

Bob: This is a nation of immigrants. The difference is that most of the current
illegal immigrants are from Mexico, and the majority  don't speak  English. In
1986, President Reagan signed a law granting amnesty to more than 2 million
illegal immigrants. It included tough penalties for future illegal immigrants
and the people who hired them. Those sanctions have been blatantly ignored by
administrations of both parties and particularly ignored by the business
community, which uses illegals as a source of cheap labor.

Cal: I spoke recently  with the co-author of that 1986 bill, former Republican
senator Alan Simpson of Wyoming. He told me that though the measure admitted
nearly 3 million aliens from 92 countries, Congress intended it to be the last
amnesty. Simpson said it would have worked, but Congress would not create a
secure identifier -- such as a biometric card or retina scan -- because  some
conservative Christians regarded government's use of technology to number us as
a precursor to the "mark of the beast" in Revelation. Simpson said  that's why
we have  12 million more now, and that unless a secure identifier is created,
along with better border policing, more aliens will follow.

Bob: I agree with Simpson. He always was a thoughtful Republican. The thrust of
the bill in the House of Representatives, though, is to make the mere presence
of illegals a felony. Then we're to find the12 million and send them home.  That
is not only ridiculous, it is undoable.

Cal: True,  but at least there's a law-and-order concern in that proposal.
Senate Democratic Minority Leader Harry Reid, on the other hand, today suggests
that illegal aliens don't pose much of a criminal threat at all and should be
simply ushered in.  This is the same man who in 1993  introduced a bill to
drastically scale down the number of immigrants allowed. He said at the time,
"Our borders have overflowed with illegal immigrants placing tremendous burdens
on our criminal justice system, schools and social programs ... . Our federal
wallet is stretched to the limit by illegal aliens  getting welfare, food
stamps, medical care and other benefits without paying any taxes." Reid takes a
more liberal stance today because he thinks it will pay off politically for
Democrats.

Bob: And you don't think House Republicans are playing politics with their
right-wing pandering bill? Let's get down to the basics. How do we find these
12million people and what do we do with them when we find them? The
non-partisan Pew Hispanic Center estimates more than 7 million of them are
working. We can assume most of the rest are spouses and children, many of whom
were born in the USA and are therefore citizens. Let's call the 7 million what
they are: A cheap labor pool for employers who don't want to pay benefits, and
in some cases the minimum wage.

Cal: We hear a lot about immigrants doing jobs Americans don't want to do. Maybe
more Americans would do them if employers weren't allowed to pay immigrants less
in pay and benefits than they are required to pay American citizens. I fear that
a new underclass might be created if a two-tier pay and benefit system is
permanently established. With no education and with little hope for advancement,
these immigrants -- even if their status was made legal -- face a future of
manual labor and potential poverty that will cost this country more than money.

Bob: Sure, cheap labor means larger profits. One of the proposals that's stalled
actually makes sense. It calls for all illegals who have been here for two years
or more to register for a tamper-proof ID card. Without the cards, they would
not be allowed, for example, to obtain driver's licenses. Employers who hire
illegals without the ID card would be subject to serious fines. With the cards,
illegals  would be guaranteed at least the minimum wage and standard employee
benefits. They also would pay taxes on what they earned illegally in addition to
a $2,000 fine, after which they could apply for permanent legal residency.

Cal: That's fine, Bob, but I don't want anything approaching amnesty or
forgiveness for violating our laws until we effectively shut the border. Senate
Majority Leader Bill Frist and House Speaker Dennis Hastert indicated over the
break that they do, in fact, want a comprehensive approach -- meaning we may
actually get legislation that can address border security and the illegals
already here. Otherwise, more will come before we can process those already
here, a proposition that polls show the public won't buy.

Bob: Nor should they buy it. We've had enough immigration Band-Aids over the
past few decades.

Cal:  That's a fact, Bob. And the dirty little secret in all of this is the
incestuous relationship between businesses that benefit from cheap labor and
politicians who benefit from campaign and PAC (political action committees)
contributions. Equal pay and benefits for equal work would reduce the incentive
to hire illegals, and then it would either reduce the motivation of the illegals
to come here or if they did come, they would be paid something that does not
approach slave labor.

Bob: Cal, you sound positively liberal! But, look, illegal immigration won't
cease with that alone. So I agree with the proposal for a 700-mile-long barrier
along the U.S.-Mexican border. It will discourage people from coming to work for
slave wages, as you suggest, and also save a lot of lives by preventing
crossings in the scorching Southwest deserts.

Cal: Bob, you sound positively conservative! But you're right. No nation can
survive if it doesn't control its borders. Besides, we know that in addition to
the people who slap up drywall,  an unknown number of criminals, including some
who might be terrorists, are itching to get in. These are the ones who we need
to stop to preserve our way of life and our culture.

Bob: My guess is criminals and terrorists won't be applying for ID cards, which
should make them easier to find. The bigger problem is the illegal population
that has been here fewer than two years. The Senate proposal calls for them to
be sent home, where they could then apply to enter the country legally. I don't
think that's realistic, but in an election year it's probably necessary to reach
a compromise. Even with that, I expect conservatives will say that by providing
ID cards to illegals, we are condoning lawbreaking.

Cal: Some will, but the two are not contradictory if done in the proper order.
Control the border first and then create a program that will allow those who got
here illegally to get in line and follow the law toward citizenship. If the ID
card guarantees them a minimum wage and benefits, and if they pay back taxes and
a fine,  that fine could then fund the border barrier.

Bob: Excellent idea. One other point: Many of my fellow liberals believe
strongly in bilingual education. That's a formula for segregation. There should
be as rapid a transition as possible from Spanish to English. Conservatives see
the requirement that immigrants learn our language as punitive. I see it in the
best long-term interests of the immigrants and their children.

Cal: Si, mi amigo. We seem to have found a good bit of common ground on this
issue. I think California Gov.  Arnold Schwarzenegger summed things up nicely in
a column last month in the Los Angeles Times:  "We can embrace the immigrant
without endorsing illegal immigration. Granting citizenship to people who are
here illegally is not just amnesty -- it's anarchy. We are a country of
immigrants, yes. But we are also a nation of laws. People who want to be
citizens will want to do it the right way." I would only add that if they don't
do it the "right way," as we determine it, we should put them on the highway
back to where they came from.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Web Bryant, USA TODAY (Illustration)
GRAPHIC, B/W, Adrienne Lewis, USA TODAY, Source: Nationwide poll of 1,004 adults
conducted April 7-9 (Bar graph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 26, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Companies face RICO lawsuits on illegals

BYLINE: Edward Iwata

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 488 words


In legal cases with potential repercussions for businesses and employees,
current and former workers are accusing U.S. companies of violating immigration
law and driving down wages.

The federal lawsuits -- against carpet maker Mohawk Industries, Tyson Foods,
retailer Wal-Mart, and others -- are winding their way through appeals courts.
The Mohawk case will be argued today  before the U.S. Supreme Court.

The class-action lawsuits were filed by plaintiffs under the RICO (Racketeer
Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act) statute, typically used against
organized crime.

Under RICO, if a business engages in an enterprise of racketeering activity, it
could be found liable for triple damages and attorneys' fees and face criminal
prosecution.

If the Supreme Court allows lawsuits similar to Mohawk to be filed against
companies, some industry groups, including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the
National Association of Manufacturers, fear that businesses will face billions
of dollars in potential liabilities.

"This would open the floodgates to RICO being used in all garden-variety
lawsuits against corporate defendants," says Robin Conrad, an attorney at the
National Chamber Litigation Center, the legal arm of the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce.

In the Mohawk case, the former workers allege that the carpet manufacturer
conspired with employment agencies to hire undocumented immigrants from Mexico.
Mohawk used forged Social Security cards and recruited workers from the border
at Brownsville, Texas, the suit alleges.

Johnson & Bell attorney Howard Foster, who represents workers in the Mohawk case
and similar lawsuits, says, "The key issue is, can a corporation be sued for
engaging in illegal conduct with its recruiters? If we win this case, there
probably will be quite a few more cases filed against corporations."

Juan Morillo, an attorney at Sidley Austin for Mohawk, denies the allegations.
He argues that businesses will be hurt badly if federal courts hold corporations
and their associated business parties fit the legal definition of an
"enterprise" under the RICO statute.

"This could turn every ordinary business dispute involving a third-party -- a
business partner, a vendor, a subcontractor -- into a potential RICO case,"
Morillo says.

Federal appeals courts have issued conflicting rulings on whether the RICO
statute applies to such immigration cases. Under immigration law, it's a crime
to hire and harbor illegal immigrants. None of the cases have gone to trial yet.

Zirkle Fruit, an apple-packing company in Selah, Wash., recently settled a RICO
lawsuit for $1.3 million in back wages to an undetermined number of workers it
employed between 1999 and 2004.

Stephen Yale-Loehr, a Cornell Law School professor, says immigration laws
already exist to crack down on "employers who knowingly hire undocumented
workers." A Supreme Court ruling allowing the RICO lawsuits would provide more
legal ammunition, he says.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 2, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

We're building better system;
US-VISIT, other tools keep out thousands of criminals, terrorists.

BYLINE: Jim Williams

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 351 words


On Sept. 11, 2001, our nation lacked the necessary tools to identify and stop
those who used fraudulent documents to illegally enter the country. We also know
that government agencies enforcing immigration laws did not always coordinate or
share information, which made it even easier for visitors to overstay their
visas.

Today, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) is implementing a comprehensive
border security strategy to shut down vulnerabilities in our immigration and
border management system and aggressively enforce our immigration laws.

We are building the capacity to confirm that individuals seeking to enter our
country are who they claim they are, do not pose a security risk and leave when
required. We are improving our ability to give federal partners the information
they need to make sound, timely decisions. And we've built a more effective and
reliable system for welcoming legitimate travelers to our country while
protecting privacy and meeting our critical security goals.

US-VISIT, for example, has installed biometric entry capabilities at our ports
of entry, making it nearly impossible for terrorists and criminals to enter the
country using fraudulent documents. With this new tool, we have denied entry to
thousands of criminals and immigration violators and tens of thousands more who
have applied for visas.

US-VISIT complements the department's strong enforcement measures at the border
and inside our country. By coupling these efforts with a proposed temporary
worker program, we would make it more difficult for illegal immigrants to evade
the law and would dramatically reduce incentives for visa overstays. We would
take pressure off the border by creating a legal channel for temporary workers
and free up law enforcement to focus on the greatest threats to our security --
terrorists, drug dealers and other dangerous criminals.

The challenges we face at our borders were years in the making, but the
transformation of our immigration and border management system is well underway.

Jim Williams is director of the Homeland Security Department's US-VISIT program
office.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 16, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

For legal immigrants, wait can be daunting;
The road to citizenship can take a generation

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1631 words


WASHINGTON -- Clutching a small American flag as she posed for a photo, Maria
Montenegro wore the fatigued but satisfied smile of someone who had just
completed a marathon. In a sense, she had.

Montenegro, 59, also was holding a piece of paper: a citizenship certificate
that she and 24 other newly minted Americans had just obtained in a
naturalization ceremony on the National Mall. Asked how long she had been
waiting for the moment, the Mexican-born housekeeper said, "Thirty years."

In Emma Lazarus' poem on the Statue of Liberty, the nation's famous gateway is
described as a "golden door." But it isn't open to everyone, and its hinges can
be slow and squeaky for many. Becoming an American is a process that means
waiting, sometimes for decades: first, for a visa to live in the USA and, then,
to become a citizen.

Congress is debating how to stop illegal immigration, and President Bush wants
the National Guard on the border. But some immigrant rights advocates say the
solution is to allow more people to immigrate and to speed up the process. They
say the lengthy wait faced by those who want to move here legally only
encourages others to jump the line -- as an estimated 12 million illegal
immigrants have done already.

"We really need to fine-tune this system and make it so everybody who is willing
to be legal can be legal," says Nancy Jane Shestack, director of Hogar Hispano,
an immigrant assistance center operated by the Catholic Diocese of Arlington,
Va., in suburban Washington. "Right now, nobody but a saint could follow these
rules."

Legal immigration is open only to those who qualify because of family
connections, job skills, fear of political persecution or the luck of the State
Department's annual visa lottery. And it can be pricey on a limited budget --
application fees for immigration and citizenship can run over $600.

Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn., says a Senate plan to eventually
grant citizenship to millions of illegal immigrants already in the USA doesn't
reward lawbreakers. He notes that they would have to be in the USA as long as 16
years to qualify. Many who come to the USA legally wait much longer.

"The best way to answer how long it takes is, 'It depends,'" says Emilio
Gonzalez, director of the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. It depends
on preference categories and country quotas that Congresses and presidents have
established over the years.

Spouses of U.S. citizens, as well as parents and children under 21, are granted
immediate entry. Everyone else goes to the end of lines that vary in length
according to country, the prospective immigrant's relationship to the U.S.
sponsor and profession. According to the State Department, experienced laborers
from India face a five-year wait for a visa, while Filipino siblings of
Americans wait more than 22 years.

Gonzalez, a Cuban refugee who became a citizen at age 9, calls the system
"needlessly complex" but adds, "That's the hand we drew."

Last year, America welcomed 946,142 legal immigrants. The record, set in 1991,
was 1.8 million. But the number of immigrants applying for citizenship is
rising.

Immigration officials expect to swear in 685,000 new citizens by Sept. 30, up
12% from last year. "I think the immigration debates right now are spurring a
lot of people into saying, 'I want a voice. And I want to be part of the
debate.' The best way to do that is to become a citizen," Gonzalez says.

Today's immigrants are more diverse than those who came to the USA before 1965,
when Congress scrapped a quota system that favored northern and western
Europeans at the expense of other parts of the world.

At Montenegro's citizenship ceremony earlier this month, 19 nations were
represented. Mary Gyimah, 47, wore the colors of her native Ghana in her
feathered hat. Sadiqua Virk wore the head scarf favored by women in her native
Pakistan. Yitong Ma, a computer scientist from China, wore a tie adorned with an
American eagle.

Foreigners who want to immigrate to the USA have a limited number of routes:
Most are sponsored by a relative (who must be either a U.S. citizen or legal
permanent resident) or an employer. The only immigrants allowed into the country
without a sponsor are refugees, asylum seekers or the 50,000 people annually who
win the State Department's visa lottery.

Marta Johnson, 63, a Tucson resident who became an American in 1987 after
marrying a U.S. citizen, applied for her 40-year-old son, Miguel, to emigrate
from her native Chile five years ago. She says immigration officials have warned
her the wait could be nine more years. "It looks like when you do things
illegally in this country, you are a lot better off than if you follow the law,"
Johnson says.

Montenegro says she came into the country in 1977 with her husband, Manuel, a
construction worker. She had to wait for him to become a citizen to sponsor her.

Long waits, clean records

Becoming a citizen begins when a foreigner wins permission to come to the USA as
a legal, permanent resident -- the holder of what's known as a "green card."

To obtain a green card, an immigrant must pay a $325 fee and $70 for
fingerprinting, and undergo a physical and a criminal background check. After
five years (three for the spouse of a U.S. citizen), permanent residents can
apply for citizenship. That requires a $330 fee, plus $70 for a second set of
fingerprints.

Applicants must know English and have a clean record. Drunken-driving
violations, missed child-support payments or joblessness can be disqualifiers.
They must pass an exam in U.S. history and civics that some native-born
Americans might find difficult to ace without studying handbooks and sample
questions provided by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services.

The exam questions range from naming your home-state senators to the month the
president is inaugurated (January). "Your average immigrant, when they undergo
the naturalization ceremony, probably has a better understanding of American
history and American government than the average American," says Bill
Strassberger of the immigration service.

Still, proving eligibility for citizenship can be difficult. Robert Plantadis,
53, a French-born chef who lives in Savannah, Ga., says he spent thousands of
dollars to translate documents from jobs he held in Europe and South America to
prove his work history. He became a citizen in March.

Ali Ali, 38, a Dearborn, Mich., truck driver, is still waiting 18 months after
applying for citizenship. Ali says his family fled Iraq after being persecuted
by Saddam Hussein's regime. Several relatives were killed, he says. His father,
now a U.S. citizen, immigrated to the USA in 1992 and applied for his son. Ali,
who arrived in 2000, says he was told it might take two years to finish his
background check.

Prospective citizens must also demonstrate that they are of "good moral
character." That means paying back taxes. For men 18 to 31, it also means
registering for a possible military draft. And it also means having no major
run-ins with the law. Some immigration attorneys say the  standard is sometimes
interpreted too strictly.

Mike Lim, a Seattle database manager who was 13 when his family emigrated from
Korea, had to go to federal court after his citizenship application was denied
over a traffic infraction. "It blew my mind," Lim says. He says his offense was
speeding and changing lanes without a signal. "I was kind of late for my group
study."

The American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee has gone to federal court in 13
states over what it says are undue delays in processing citizenship applications
from Arabs and Muslims. Denver lawyer Jihad Muhaisen says they "are slam-dunk
cases."

Hisham Alhourani, who emigrated from Jordan in 1991 and now manages two Texas
beauty salons, says he waited a year for a May 2 citizenship interview, only to
receive a cancellation letter with no explanation. "Why?" asks Alhourani, who is
waiting for further instructions. "We are good people. ... We're trying to avoid
doing anything wrong."

Gonzalez, the top U.S. immigration official, makes no apologies. "Obviously,
after 9/11, security is key," he says. "I remind our staff: If in doubt, don't
do it."

Bill would add 500,000 slots

A bipartisan bill approved in March by the Senate Judiciary Committee would
provide at least 500,000 new slots annually for legal immigrants, increasing the
number of visas for both those who are entering the country to join family
members and those who are coming to work. The current ceiling is 480,000, but
that doesn't include immediate family members of U.S. citizens and legal
residents, or some high-tech workers.

"Immigration is the key to our future progress, just as it was in the past,"
says Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass. The House passed a bill in December that
focuses on border security, with no provisions to boost legal immigration.

Some experts say the nation needs to make immigration easier for engineers and
computer experts because countries such as Australia and Canada are competing
for them.

"What we want to do is attract those immigrants who would have the largest
positive contribution to the American economy," Barry Chiswick, a University of
Illinois economist, told  a Senate panel in April. "And they will be ...
immigrants with high skills in literacy, numeracy, scientific knowledge and
technical training."

The newest Americans, like most of their fellow citizens, are divided about
Congress granting citizenship to illegal immigrants. "It's very disturbing to
see. I had to go through a very expensive thing and see people next to me who
cheated all the way," Plantadis says.

Li Li, a new American from China, is sympathetic. She says all immigrants --
whether they came here legally or illegally -- share the same motivation.
"They're seeking a better life."

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC,b/w,Adrienne Lewis,USA TODAY,Sources:Office of Immigration
Statistics, State Department and Diocese of Arlington, Va.(Bar graph)
PHOTO, Color, Andrew Councill for USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W
PHOTO, Color, USCIS
PHOTO, B/W
PHOTO, B/W,USCIS
PHOTO, B/W, Andrew Councill for USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 28, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration backlash goes local

BYLINE: Annette Fuentes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 437 words


Though immigration reform is stalled in Congress, the ripple effects are being
felt around the country -- more backlash and knee-jerk than thoughtful and
measured.  These anti-immigrant measures are cropping up in small cities such as
Hazleton, Pa., a community of 30,000 nestled in former coal-mining country.

Just this month, the city adopted Mayor Louis Barletta's Illegal Immigration
Relief Act, which Barletta has said "is intended to make Hazleton one of the
most difficult places in the U.S. for illegal immigrants." Barletta, whose
ancestors were Italian immigrants, is a hero to many, and his law is being
copied in Escondido, Calif., and Palm Bay, Fla. Hazleton's law:

*Requires tenants to obtain an occupancy permit.

*Fines landlords $1,000 for renting to illegal immigrants.

*Revokes business permits of employers who hire undocumented immigrants.

*Denies these same businesses city contracts or grants for up to 10 years.

The Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund will challenge the law. But
whether such ordinances are voided or not, they are troubling signs of a kind of
backlash politics that, sadly, is as American as immigration itself.

Nativism and its anti-immigrant philosophy spawned the  Know-Nothing movement in
the 1850s, when Irish immigrants were blamed for taking jobs from native-born
Americans and for a host of social  problems. The Know Nothings, whose strength
emerged at the local level, sought to end Irish immigration and stirred up
vigilantism against them.

Half a century later, Italian and Eastern European immigrants were targeted by a
similar anti-immigrant movement. It led to a national immigration reform law in
the 1920s, which would have kept Barletta's forebears in Italy had it been in
effect.

Gary Gerstle, a Vanderbilt University history professor, blames paralysis in
Washington for the wave of local nativist activity. In the GOP, pro-business
interests want cheap labor, but other members want to close the border, he says.
Most Democrats are split between those concerned with civil rights and those
allied with organized labor. "Immigration is an issue that splits the parties in
unconventional ways," Gerstle says, "and that has opened the doors to local
actions."

Mayor Barletta and his acolytes in other cities are following Washington's lead
and repeating unfortunate lessons of  U.S. history.

The anti-immigrant laws taking shape in Congress give oxygen to a latter-day
Know-Nothing movement by playing on people's fears.

Annette Fuentes is an adjunct professor at the Columbia University Graduate
School of Journalism and a member of USA TODAY'S board of contributors.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 25, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Chertoff: Reforms needed to fight illegal immigration

BYLINE: Mimi Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 274 words


HARLINGEN, Texas -- Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff warned Thursday
that the Border Patrol will not be able to sustain the progress it has made
apprehending illegal migrants unless Congress passes broad immigration reforms.

He said the agency needs to focus on "the drug dealers, the criminals, even the
terrorists" trying to sneak across the southern border.

It can only do that, he said, if the majority of migrants crossing to find work
are allowed to do so through a "guest worker" program.

The Border Patrol is adding 6,000 agents to its 10,500-agent force and is being
aided by the National Guard while it hires and trains the new recruits. The
long-overwhelmed patrol will never be able to secure the border if it has to try
to catch and return the hundreds of thousands of migrants who cross each year,
Chertoff said.

"To try to do it all through brute force would be a very expensive and difficult
proposition," he said.

Appearing with Chertoff by the banks of the Rio Grande, Sen. Kay Bailey
Hutchison, R-Texas, said that although the Border Patrol has made progress --
including a 20,000 decrease in illegal immigrants crossing the southwestern
border -- it can't continue to do so without a "comprehensive solution."

Congress isn't likely to act on immigration reforms this fall, despite a push
from the Bush administration. Last December, the House passed a bill that would
tighten security but not include the new opportunities for migrants. In May, the
Senate passed a bill that included a guest-worker program. But with fall
elections looming, Chertoff conceded that it's unlikely lawmakers will
compromise on the issue.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 5, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

We're just enforcing the law

BYLINE: Lou Barletta

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 378 words


America is a nation of immigrants, but it is also a nation of laws.

When it comes to illegal aliens, some cities have looked the other way. Others
have openly welcomed them, establishing "sanctuaries," restricting their police
departments and other agencies from even asking about a person's immigration
status.

This has led to a culture of entitlement among illegal aliens. Many believe they
deserve to remain here. And why shouldn't they, when they've received jobs,
health care, educational opportunities for their children and a mostly hands-off
approach for decades?

The cities that provide safe harbor to illegal aliens are applauded and termed
"progressive" for being open and welcoming, their flagrant flaunting of
America's immigration laws seemingly excused.

But cities that take steps to curb the drain of illegal immigration -- cities
such as Hazleton, Riverside, N.J., and Farmers Branch, Texas -- are vilified as
racist, backward and mean-spirited.

We are taking the steps we need to -- steps we are empowered to take under
federal and state law -- and we will further enhance our Illegal Immigration
Relief Act to make it tougher and more defensible.

Hazleton's ordinance would work in conjunction with established local law. It
would require all city residents who rent property to obtain an occupancy permit
from the city. Landlords would need to see only an official occupancy permit
before renting to tenants.

City employees -- not ordinary citizens -- would use resources available through
the U.S. Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to verify the legal
status of those seeking permits.

Businesses would be required to conduct similar checks. This is not a burdensome
requirement -- several local companies already use an ICE program to verify the
immigration status of their employees.

Four months ago, fear gripped Hazleton. Residents -- those who grew up here and
those who arrived in recent weeks -- were afraid to walk down certain streets
and patronize local businesses. Illegal aliens who committed murder, fired a gun
into a playground and dealt drugs were responsible for many of those fears.

As mayor, I have a duty to protect all legal citizens of my city.

That is exactly what I am doing.

Lou Barletta is the mayor of Hazleton, Pa.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 11, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration key in Wis. governor's race

BYLINE: John Bacon and Sarah Elkins

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 469 words


Rep. Mark Green, R-Wis., said Tuesday that if he is elected governor, he would
propose a $300 income tax credit to help finance English classes and expenses
legal immigrants must pay to become citizens. The credit would be capped at $3
million annually. Green also reiterated his opposition to granting in-state
tuition to illegal residents and support for requiring proof of citizenship from
anyone seeking public assistance.

Immigration has become an issue in the past week as each candidate has attacked
the other on TV ads. Green has accused Democratic Gov. Jim Doyle of wanting to
give welfare benefits to illegal immigrants. Doyle denies it and accuses Green
and Congress of not doing enough to secure the nation's borders.

D'Amato: GOP won't win in New York

Former Republican senator Alfonse D'Amato said he does not expect the New York
GOP to win any statewide offices Nov. 7. "You would have to be smoking that
funny stuff to think that was going to happen," said D'Amato, a lobbyist and
consultant. He said he is remaining neutral in the race for governor between
Democratic state Attorney General Eliot Spitzer and former state Assembly
minority leader John Faso, who D'Amato said has "very little chance" of winning.

"Everybody has an opinion," state GOP Chairman Stephen Minarik said. Polls have
shown Spitzer far ahead of Faso. Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton, attorney general
hopeful Andrew Cuomo and Comptroller Alan Hevesi, all Democrats, also hold
strong leads.

Laura Bush to campaign for Talent

First lady Laura Bush will help raise money for Republican Sen. Jim Talent,
R-Mo., in St. Louis on Thursday. Talent is in a tight race for re-election
against Democratic state Auditor Claire McCaskill. The first lady also plans to
take part in a tree-planting ceremony in Forest Park and help Talent light the
Gateway Arch in pink in recognition of Breast Cancer Awareness Month.

President Bush is also coming to St. Louis on Thursday to speak at a national
renewable energy conference but has no plans to stump for Talent.

Friday night lights don't dim Texas debate

Organizers of the Texas gubernatorial debate held Friday say they are pleased
with the viewership despite concerns that high school football and other
activities would cut into the TV audience. The debate was the No. 1 program in
the 7 p.m. time period in Houston, Austin and San Antonio, according to Nielsen
Media Research. It was No. 3 in Dallas, but "we're very happy with the numbers,"
said Mike Devlin, station manager of WFAA-TV in Dallas and debate coordinator.

Republican Gov. Rick Perry, Democrat Chris Bell and independents Kinky Friedman
and Carole Keeton Strayhorn took part in the debate. Perry drew criticism from
his challengers for agreeing to only one televised debate, held on the eve of
the annual Texas-Oklahoma football game.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Dan Henry, Chattanooga Times Free Press via AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           February 8, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Enforce current immigration laws

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 897 words


I have wondered about the people who say that we will have illegal immigration
in this country whether we like it or not and that we cannot deport all illegal
aliens. These same people argue that most illegal immigrants are hardworking
people who just want to better their lives ("Approach immigration issue with
creativity," Letters, Feb. 1).

I agree this is true for most people coming into this country. However, no
single country can support an infinite number of immigrants, especially
illegals. This is why most countries have immigration laws. Mexico, for example,
has harsh restrictions on immigration.

Amnesty won't fix the illegal immigration issue, which was proved by the
previous amnesty. Saying illegal immigrants will come regardless of laws is the
same as saying that criminals will still commit crimes -- so why bother making
and enforcing laws, and prosecuting such criminals? That is foolish. If we are
not willing to enforce our immigration laws, then let's abolish them. That way,
people who have been trying to enter legally but are stuck on waiting lists can
have a chance.

Some people want to reward all illegal aliens by making them legal citizens.
This means people who lie to government offices, falsify documents and disregard
our laws and borders. But why would anybody want people here who say, "We want
to be good citizens," but start by ignoring our laws? Aren't we teaching
children that good citizenship starts with obeying laws? Amnesty and rewarding
illegals would teach just the opposite.

I agree that there's no easy answer to the immigration issue, but we should
start by enforcing our laws and not just make immigration more difficult for
people trying to enter the USA legally.

Thomas Moeller

High Point, N.C.

'Unfair, hypocritical' process

I can truly sympathize with reader Jim Havell, who failed to receive a green
card to immigrate to the USA ("Turned away by system," Letters, Thursday).

I am a British citizen in my fifth year of the legal immigration process,
chasing the ever-elusive green card. It is incredibly insulting and demoralizing
for someone who has a good career, is law abiding and pays substantial taxes to
see the flood of illegal immigrants here.

Meanwhile, I continue to jump through the many hoops immigration officials throw
at me to stay "legal." I seem to be in a no-man's land. I pay taxes, but I can't
vote. I pay Social Security, yet if I lose my job I must leave the country.
Wasn't taxation without representation the original reason you kicked the
British out of the USA? It seems like an area of incredibly unfair and
hypocritical bureaucracy.

Maybe with global warming, England will improve its cold climate, which drove me
and people like Jim to America in the first place. Then this will become moot!

Stuart Silberg

San Francisco

Change needed

Imagine living in a country where the government can tell your spouse she must
leave and may not return for an indefinite amount of time, or possibly, ever. I
live in that country: It is the USA.

My wife is from Mexico. When she was young, she came to this country looking for
a better life. We have been married nearly a year, and now the government says
she must return to Mexico to get her visa -- which is not automatically awarded,
even if you're married to an American.

My wife is a smart, beautiful woman. The only thing she ever did wrong was to
come to this country illegally, seeking a betterlife. It doesn't seem fair.
Another beautiful lady, the Statue of Liberty, represents hope and freedom to
immigrants coming to America. Do we no longer recognize the perils of these
immigrants?

We are all created equal and should be treated as such. The immigration process
is broken and needs to be fixed. The process is too long and very expensive.

We will have spent more than $5,000 and several years trying to get my wife a
visa -- and I am an American citizen. Now imagine if you lived in another
country and wanted to come to America: What would the cost be to you? Would you
wait 10 years and live in poverty in a crime-ridden country?

If you haven't been through the immigration process, you don't fully understand
the scope of it.

My wife is going back to Mexico, but if her visa isn't approved I will become a
Mexican citizen. My wife is my best friend; she shouldn't have to leave the USA
because she sought a better life. Our ancestors would be ashamed of our country
right now.

Marc Carpenter

Salt Lake City

Troubling impact of influx

The biggest issue I have with immigration is that one ethnic group seems
entitled to more rights to U.S. citizenship and benefits than any other ethnic
group or people from the rest of the world. These illegal immigrants seem to
have earned a sort of entitlement by overwhelming us.

The second issue I have is reflected especially in the construction and housing
industry. Consider: Contractors or subcontractors can hire illegal immigrants
for $6 an hour. Then the contractor bills the client $16 or more an hour for
laborers.

So who wins in this situation?

Not the illegal immigrant, who works slave labor six or seven days per week. Not
the client, who is being overcharged. Not the U.S. worker who doesn't have a
$16-an-hour job. Only the contractor wins.

I was upset when I heard this scenario last summer. But I realized if this is
happening in my community, it is happening across the USA.

Kathy Hirschboeck

Steamboat Springs, Colo.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Reza A. Marvashti, The (Fredericksburg, Va.) Free
Lance-Star, via AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 9, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Assimilation key to immigration reform

BYLINE: Maria Trevino

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 438 words


As part of his proposed budget, President Bush designates $1 billion for border
"fencing and virtual barriers,"  more than $600 million for hiring 3,000 Border
Patrol agents and $26 million for local law enforcement to act as immigration
agents. Yet, by his own admission in last month's State of the Union, these acts
alone would not make up reform.

A measure built only on stricter border enforcement, immigrant profiling and
even amnesty is bound to fail. We only have to look at the Immigration Reform
and Control Act of 1986 to show us why. Amnesty was granted to only 2.7 million
undocumented immigrants who met the criteria for being in the country since
January 1982. Employer sanctions were never fiercely enforced, and an increase
in border agents did not deter the flood of illegal immigrants. In fact, the
numbers increased.

In Bush's address, he recognized that the melting pot concept of yesteryear
included an assimilation component, which is key to the success of any
immigration reform measure.

Without such efforts, the daily drumbeat of immigrant-bashing will continue
unchallenged. Politicians charge immigrants with not wanting to learn English or
being a financial burden on the social welfare system or adding to high crime
rates.

There's increasing recognition that it's no longer enough to supply immigrants
with a path to citizenship. They must have the necessary tools to assimilate
successfully into America's cultural fabric.

In Illinois, Gov. Rod Blagojevich created a task force to come up with the best
ways to help immigrants achieve integration. Last month, the task force released
its suggestions, including implementing a "We Want to Learn English"   campaign,
enacting policies that allow skilled workers to transfer their credentials and
training from their native countries to meet the state's professional standards,
and supplying low-skilled workers with English and vocational training. It is a
model worthy of national adoption.

The issue of integration is also being touted in our nation's capital. In
September, the Migration Policy Institute released a report titled "Immigration
and America's Future," which made it clear "immigrant integration is an
essential dimension of successful immigration, especially in a period of
large-scale immigration." It suggested that a National Office on Immigrant
Integration be created.

Bush has said he would like to sign an immigration reform bill this year. The
best chance for a compromise would come from a plan that would ease the way for
immigrants to become full, integrated members of our society.

---

Marisa Trevioo is a freelance writer in Dallas.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 23, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Illegal immigration consumes scarce resources

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 555 words


Both my parents were legal immigrants, one from Scotland and the other from
Japan, and I follow the immigration debate with interest. It is always
astonishing to me how many U.S. citizens are perfectly willing to trade their
quality of life for a cheaper head of lettuce ("Immigrants strengthen U.S.
economy," Letters, Feb. 16).

Having grown up in a neighborhood of hardworking, decent immigrants, I'm the
first to agree that there are many fine people in the current immigrant
avalanche. But the question is: How many is enough?

Do we wait until our hospitals and schools are closing because of overcrowding?
Do we wait until our roads are impassable and our cities are unlivable? Is a
cheap head of lettuce really worth that price?

My state of California just passed the 35 million population mark and by 2020 is
expected to hit 50 million. Read any California newspaper and you will find
stories relating to the disastrous but totally predictable consequences of this
human tidal wave.

Please, folks, open your eyes and minds, not just your hearts. Do you want your
children to pay the price for your refusal to look at the entire problem? The
resources of this country are finite. The time for population and immigration
control is now.

Bud Stuart

Santa Barbara, Calif.

Try to extend empathy

In the past five years, I've met a number of truly wonderful people from Mexico.
They're hardworking, good-hearted people. In many cases, they've become like
family to me. When I think about the immigration debate, I try to put myself in
their shoes.

Many of these folks come north for work, and to provide for their families. If
it's a choice between starvation and being dirt-poor or going to work in another
country to try to earn a living, legally or not, what would I do? I think I'd be
crossing the border, too.

The argument about an overloaded social system does nothing to influence me. I
think I'd rather pay to help out an illegal alien than a welfare mom sitting on
her backside while the state pays to raise her kids.

And what about Spanish becoming so prevalent in our society? I see this as a
good thing. The world is getting smaller every day with the advances in
technology we've seen in the past 20 years. I think many of us could benefit
from learning a second language. When you learn to speak another language, it
opens your eyes to the way other people think.

Put aside fear and walk in another person's shoes for a moment. You might just
learn something.

Greg Phillips

Anderson, Ind.

Curb legal hurdles

My problem with immigration is the cost, time and effort required to apply for a
green card to become a U.S. citizen.

I married a Brazilian. My wife's paperwork was lost, the fees were outrageous,
and if we had any questions we would have to be on the phone for an hour, only
to have more questions arise. At the time, we had to drive six hours to
Jacksonville, Fla., even though there were other closer offices. My wife's
parents were not allowed to attend our wedding because they were denied a
tourist visa.

Given these circumstances, why would people even apply legally? I know of many
illegal Brazilians who have business, families and homes -- and their parents
are allowed to visit.

Why not be illegal when you can have this and avoid the bureaucracy of the U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services?

John Piowaty Jr.

Atlanta

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Rudy Gutierrez, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            March 21, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Who should stay? Who should go?;
The best immigration reform would be one that divides and conquers the pool of
illegals. The line would be drawn at those who play by the rules, assimilate and
pay a fine and back taxes. To the others: Leave.

BYLINE: Michael Medved

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 1021 words


The divide-and-conquer strategy that works so well in warfare and politics also
represents the best approach for confronting the problem of millions of illegal
immigrants who live and work in the  USA.

No one knows the actual number of undocumented, unauthorized residents, but the
best estimates suggest that they comprise more than 11 million of our neighbors.
This massive segment of our population hardly represents a monolithic,
homogenous group -- for one thing, nearly half (44%) of illegals come from
nations other than Mexico. Moreover, as many as 50% of them never ran across the
border but entered the USA legally and then stayed longer than their formal
authorization permitted.

This hugely diverse collection of humanity defies attempts by impassioned
advocates on all sides to generalize about illegals. Anti-immigrant activists
distort reality when they suggest that the undocumented are predominantly gang
members, welfare chiselers and uneducated burdens on the taxpayer. Most illegals
actually work hard and pay billions in taxes, while many own their own homes, go
to church and give to charity.

At the same time, it's ridiculous to suggest that all illegals count as good
neighbors, loving parents and inspiring examples of the work ethic. About
400,000 have run afoul of the law, with warrants out for their arrest as they
defy governmental efforts at deportation.

A reflection of humanity

In short, like every other group, illegals include examples of both the worst
and the best of humanity: Some of them damage our society through criminality,
abuse of the social safety net and insistence on ethnic separatism, while many
others toil tirelessly at their jobs while raising decent children and longing
to take their place in the mainstream.

The only sensible approach is to recognize such divisions and to respond
accordingly: making it difficult for the destructive immigrants to remain in the
USA, while making it possible for the first time for the best, most useful of
the illegals to take the path to citizenship and assimilation.

Rather than expecting governmental bureaucracies to determine who deserves to
stay and who ought to leave, it makes far more sense to force illegals to choose
for themselves. That was the core idea behind the immigration reform bill passed
by the Senate last year, and with suitable modifications it's the same approach
that deserves revival by the new Congress and approval by the president.

The choice presented to undocumented immigrants must be clear-cut: If they've
avoided serious criminality, worked steadily at jobs and mastered English, they
should get the chance to pay stiff fines (at least several thousand dollars) for
initial unauthorized entry and to pay all back taxes in order to qualify for
legal residency and begin the path to citizenship. This approach would allow the
immigrant to acknowledge his wrongdoing in violating the border, and to commit
himself to making up for that wrongdoing by following rules that allow him to
enter the mainstream.

For those who don't choose to pay the fines and obey the new regulations, or
whose past criminality or failure to learn English makes them ineligible for
"earned legalization," there's only one other choice: Go home.

The vigorous enforcement of workplace sanctions against employers -- combined
with a vastly improved, high-tech system of ID, and aggressive efforts to serve
existing warrants and deport criminals -- should greatly reduce the number of
illegal immigrants who neither want nor deserve to remain in the USA.

Anti-immigration extremists will protest that no illegals deserve this choice:
They entered the nation without permission, and so the only response is to
demand their departure. Many activists in this camp (including Pat Buchanan)
acknowledge the impracticality of mass deportations but favor a policy of
"attrition": making it impossible for illegals to work by enforcing strictures
against employers, thereby forcing them to leave the country. The problem with
this scheme is that even its most enthusiastic advocates acknowledge it won't
work for most of the undocumented.

In his book State of Emergency: The Third World Invasion and Conquest of
America, Buchanan approvingly cites studies saying that with a policy of
"attrition through enforcement," some "half the illegal aliens here could be
persuaded to return home voluntarily within five years." But what of the other
half -- numbering more than 5 million? Pushed even further into the shadows,
thrown out of work and continuing to defy all laws against them, they would
become a far more dangerous, destructive population than they represent today.

In other words, even the most militant foes of illegal immigration recognize
that they will manage to expel only half of the undocumented -- and the ones
they'd force out largely comprise the wrong half. People who want to work hard,
get educations for their children and become Americans would, for the most part,
be forced to depart. Meanwhile, those who stay would disproportionately
represent lawbreakers and others who manage to operate "below the radar."

Provide motivation

Ultimately, even the most stringent effort to expel illegals will leave millions
remaining in the USA, and the most important goal for this mass of humanity is
assimilation -- following the path of previous immigrants into the national
mainstream.

At the moment, the biggest obstacle to such assimilation  involves the
impossibility of ever achieving legal residency. When the law makes it
impossible for an immigrant to correct his illegal status, he faces greatly
reduced motivation to embrace a new American identity.

That's why the only realistic policy comes down to divide and conquer: Divide
the immigrants who ought to leave from those who deserve to stay, and then
conquer the families who pursue legal status with the  overwhelming power of the
American dream that they've chosen to embrace.

Nationally syndicated radio talk host Michael Medved, whose mother was an
immigrant from Germany in the 1930s,  is the author of Right Turns. He is also a
member of USA TODAY's board of contributors.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Adrienne Lewis, USA TODAY (ILLUSTRATION)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 12, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Wanted now: Immigration reform

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 271 words


The shouting match between Bill O'Reilly and Geraldo Rivera over the Alfredo
Ramos case ended in a draw. Though both sides energized their respective bases,
the American people and the illegal immigrants are the big losers ("Fox's Bill
O'Reilly and Geraldo Rivera duke it out in on-air shouting match," On Deadline,
USATODAY.com, Friday).

Curiously absent from their rhetoric were details about comprehensive
immigration reform. There are an estimated 12 million illegal immigrants in the
USA. The number is so staggering that the U.S. immigration policy is being
dictated by illegal immigrants. The biggest concern is they consume more in
government services than they pay in taxes.

In the end, there is downward pressure on wages and increased pressure on local
governments to generate new sources of revenue to pay for additional services.
Any immigration reform legislation must be good for both U.S. citizens and
immigrants, or reform won't be real reform.

Michael J. Marsalek

Bel Air, Md.

We can do better

The parents of the two teenagers killed by Alfredo Ramos, a suspected illegal
immigrant, should sue the Virginia Beach police and anyone else whose inaction
prevented Ramos' deportation.

If authorities had suspected Ramos, Tessa Tranchant and Allison Kunhardt likely
would be alive today.

What goes through the minds of law officials, judges and lawyers when an illegal
immigrant is arrested numerous times, only to be released and to wreak havoc
again?

I think we should be able to trust that if an illegal immigrant is in the
physical custody of law officials, then the immigrant will be deported.

Debra Adkins

Roanoke, Va.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 16, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Bush, Kennedy join forces over immigration law

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 641 words


WASHINGTON -- As he presses for legacy-building immigration legislation,
President Bush finds himself aligned with the same unlikely ally who helped
enact his first major domestic initiative.

That would be Sen. Edward Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat who played a
crucial role in crafting and passing the No Child Left Behind Act, the
president's massive effort to overhaul education policy.

In a speech to the Associated General Contractors of America on May 2, Bush
acknowledged Kennedy as a key player in the talks that are culminating this
week, when the Senate opens an immigration debate. "I appreciate the leadership
he's taken," Bush said.

Kennedy returned the favor on Saturday, praising Bush's call for a new
immigration policy in the president's weekly radio address. "I thank President
Bush for addressing the nation on this critical issue and emphasizing the common
goals that we share," he said.

As in their earlier partnership, both men are trying to keep the outer
ideological edges of their parties on board. Kennedy is working to persuade
Democratic liberals to support an immigration package that's more punitive to
illegal immigrants than some would like, while Bush works to convince Republican
conservatives of the need to give some of those estimated 12million illegal
immigrants a chance at citizenship.

Though they may disagree over some details, Kennedy and Bush have indicated
support for the same basic elements of a bill: stronger border security and more
stringent enforcement of laws against hiring illegal workers; a larger "guest
worker" program; and a program to legalize workers now living here illegally.

Both men have personal stakes in success. Kennedy, the grandson of Irish
immigrants, has worked on every major immigration bill of the past four decades.
Bush is the former governor of Texas, a state that shares a 1,240-mile border
and deep ties with Mexico.

The two also have much in common personally. Both are sons of political families
in which, for a time, each seemed the least likely to succeed.

Both were mediocre students at Ivy League universities: Bush jokes frequently
about his academic performance at Yale; Kennedy was expelled from Harvard,
though later readmitted. Both struggled with personal demons: Bush gave up
alcohol at 40; Kennedy was involved in an automobile accident at 37 that
resulted in the drowning of a female passenger.

Both are lightning rods. Former senator Alan Simpson, a Wyoming Republican who
knows both, said they handle the withering and personal criticism in similar
fashion: "They're both sensitive people. They both bruise easily and heal
quick."

The nation's two famous political dynasties have been deeply entwined for
generations.

As a law student at the University of Virginia, Kennedy asked Sen. Prescott
Bush, the grandfather of the current president, to speak to a student group.
Decades later, at the January 2002 signing ceremony for the No Child Left Behind
bill, Bush acknowledged how Kennedy returned the favor by helping to pass the
landmark bill. "He is a fabulous United States senator," Bush said of Kennedy.
"When he's against you, it's tough. When he's with you, it's a great
experience."

A year later, the president's father, former president George H.W. Bush, hosted
Kennedy at his presidential library to receive a $20,000 public service award.

The elder Bush joked, "It's a well-known political fact of life, particularly
here in Texas, that when you want to fire up a Republican crowd -- and give them
a little 'red meat' -- nothing works quite like tearing away at Ted."

Simpson sees the two as practical politicians: "You've got two guys who want to
see something work. Ted doesn't keep score, and I don't think the president does
either. Some of the political hacks who work for them might, but that's not how
they live."

Contributing: David Jackson

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, 2002 photo by Ron Edmonds, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 17, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

What ever happened to immigration reform?;
A year ago, it was competing with Iraq for front-page headlines. Now, a
comprehensive fix is probably a world away. And that's precisely what's wrong
with Washington.

BYLINE: Cal Thomas and Bob Beckel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 1342 words


Cal Thomas is a conservative columnist. Bob Beckel is a liberal Democratic
strategist. But as longtime friends, they can often find common ground on issues
that lawmakers in Washington cannot.

Today: Revisiting immigration reform.

Bob: This time last year immigration reform was a hot topic in Washington. The
massive protests in major U.S. cities catapulted the issue into an election-year
lightning rod. The public still cares deeply about immigration reform, yet  the
candidates for president in both parties are running from it like scalded dogs.
Most of them would just as soon duck the issue until after the election, but
immigration reform cannot wait.

Cal: You're right. With 12 million illegal immigrants here now,  and more coming
every day, time isn't on our country's side.

Bob:  Patience in the Latino community is running out, too.  The clashes a
couple weeks ago during immigration protests in Los Angeles could be a sign that
the status quo won't work much longer.

Cal: Don't rely on the politicians to do anything out of conviction, Bob. Those
demonstrators included many illegal aliens and their supporters. They demanded
we lay aside our laws and grant them full legal status.  Don't you find it
bizarre that the illegals picked May 1, Law Day, to protest? Some of them are
filing lawsuits in our courts to give them a legal status they do not deserve.
It's  surreal!

Bob: Many court challenges are about splitting immigrant families whose children
were born in the USA and are, therefore, citizens. They were born to mothers who
came here illegally, but that doesn't change the right for these children and
their advocates to go to court. Law Day was the ideal time to make this case.
The lawsuits and demonstrations would go away if our elected officials actually
did something about our immigration problems.

Cal: Congress' failure to move forward on reform is precisely what is wrong in
Washington today, and it's this sort of intransigence that led us to begin this
column two years ago. The ingredients are all here: A major immigration problem,
an energized and interested public and a president who is advocating reform.
What's missing?

Bob: Compromise. I know that closed-door discussions between Senate Democrats
and the White House have been moving forward. Bravo to those willing to carry
the flag: Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., Sen. Ted Kennedy, D-Mass., and
Sens. Jon Kyl, R-Ariz., Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., and Arlen Specter, R-Pa. Despite
the beating he takes from conservatives, Kennedy knows when to reach across the
aisle. He did it with President Bush on education reform, and he's doing it on
immigration. These are big-ticket issues. I also applaud the president for
pushing legislation by the end of summer. If the two sides could put aside
partisanship on this one critical issue, who knows where it might lead?
Compromise on Iraq? On tax policy?

Cal: You had me until tax policy! But really, you're on to something. All we
need is an opening, and this  could be  it. If the politicians would only listen
to the public and not the rabble rousers who they think can bring them votes,
we'd get there.

Bob: That's exactly what has been happening, too. Congress is cowed by the vocal
minority, and therefore, the silent majority isn't represented.

Cal: According to a poll commissioned by the conservative Citizens United, 93%
of voters say illegal immigration is a problem facing the USA; 63% call it a
"major" problem. And 73% would change  the U.S. "birthright citizenship" so that
a child born in this country becomes  a citizen at birth only if at least one
parent is. I was encouraged that about half  of Latinos support such a change.

Bob:  This isn't the issue before us, Cal. We need to look at the big-picture
solutions that will correct our immigration failures for decades to come. This
needs to be the legislation that, 30 years from now, we'll be able to look back
on and say, "Finally, we got it right."

Cal: I'm all for something getting done, but I want it to be the right something
that looks out for the interests of the native-born, the legal immigrants and
those who are obeying our laws and waiting in line for citizenship. Lawbreakers
should not be allowed to jump to the head of the line.

Bob: No one is proposing a law to push illegals to the front of the line. Such
rhetoric from both left and right  is what stops reform in its tracks. Last
year, we were on the right track. The Senate passed a bill that gave illegals a
path to citizenship, and it included fines, back taxes, criminal background
checks and an English requirement.  It had a guest-worker provision and tougher
border security measures.  Though it died in the House, it was a good start.
What was wrong with that?

Cal: Nothing, though enforcement will be critical. For instance, the 2005 Real
ID Act -- which could be a key tool in battling illegal immigration -- requires
every state to issue driver's licenses or ID cards approved by the federal
government. The states have to link  their ID  databases so that someone seeking
a license in one state can be background-checked by another. Sounds good, right?
Well, seven states have enacted statutes or resolutions opposing Real ID, and
Oklahoma might become  the eighth. Cost and privacy concerns  are at the heart
of their opposition. I hope this isn't an indication of the kind of resistance
we'll get when, and if, we ever get comprehensive reform.

Bob: I'm no fan of Real ID,  but I'm also no fan of states taking over where the
federal government is failing.  You hear of states and even localities trying to
handle immigration issues that are best dealt with by the federal government.
That's all we need!  If we keep delaying federal legislation, more state laws
will follow.  So that we don't go that route, let's talk about what a new law
should include.

Cal: Be my guest worker.

Bob: First, any illegal immigrant must learn English if they are allowed to stay
here. I don't view it as a punitive move, either.  Immigrants, particularly
children, have a tough time as it is.

Cal: Absolutely. English is essential to functioning in this country, and
learning it well will serve the immigrants as well as the rest of us.

Bob: I also think we need to shift the conversation to talk about "amnesty"
without it being used as a club in the debate. Republicans who love to invoke
the name of  Ronald Reagan would do well to follow the Gipper's lead.  Reagan
signed the last immigration reform bill into law in 1986. Guess what? It
provided amnesty -- Reagan's word -- to 3 million illegal immigrants. That law
called for strict border control and sanctions on employers of illegals, but it
wasn't adequately enforced. This leads us to today. To his credit, Bush is one
Republican who has been a leader on this issue.

Cal: I don't share your praise of the president as a "leader" on immigration
reform. We're six years into his term and have no real reform. If anything, his
failure to control our southern border has encouraged illegal immigration.

Bob: You know we're approaching common ground when I'm defending President Bush.

Cal: True! But we can't repeat the mistakes of our past, Bob. We'll have 12
million more illegal immigrants soon if we don't do a better job than we did in
1986.  Among the illegals here already, an estimated 636,000 are "alien
absconders," people who have been ordered deported but refused to go and are in
hiding. It makes no sense to try to find and forcibly deport them if we are
simultaneously letting more in.

Bob: Trying to send illegal immigrants home will never work, but we have
agreement on paying fines and learning English. I favor a guest-worker program,
serious efforts to seal the border and going after  employers who knowingly hire
illegals. Sound good?

Cal: That would be an excellent start. Now if we can just get the politicians to
stop thinking about how they can win  the votes of the illegals and start
thinking about ways to make people obey the laws,  we'll be making real progress
on this contentious issue -- once and for all.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W
PHOTO, B/W
PHOTO, B/W

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 22, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Enforce borders, find clearer path to citizenship

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 358 words


There is no doubt that politicians are responsible for the current stasis on
realistic and humane immigration reform("What ever happened to immigration
reform?" The Forum, Thursday).

Both Cal Thomas and Bob Beckel agree that compromise is essential. Yet,
incendiary rhetoric fired off by both sides of the issue consumes rational
debate, heats emotions and guts sensible legislation. While Thomas and Beckel
might differ on logistics, both present compelling, similar arguments. They both
agree that border enforcement and a fair, orderly path to citizenship for
illegal immigrants -- including learning English -- are serious steps to
breaking barriers that lawmakers have been unable to penetrate.

Beckel summarizes the stalemate with the statement, "Congress is cowed by the
vocal minority, and therefore, the silent majority isn't represented." America's
democracy is built on pragmatic compromise, not the shrill demands of
demagogues. Illegal immigrants, the U.S. economy and taxpayers would benefit
from a process allowing earned citizenship.

Wayne Trujillo, editorial director

Latino SUAVE magazine

Denver

U.S. economy suffers

The immigration bill moving through Congress won't do anything to stem the flow
of illegal immigration, and I am certain that this is the intent of many
legislators who support the bill ("Senators reach deal on immigration," News,
Friday).

This is a simple supply-and-demand issue. Employers who are willing to hire
illegal immigrants are providing the demand. We need to focus more on those who
hire illegal immigrants and start throwing more of them in jail. By doing this,
we will reduce the demand -- which is the only real way to reduce the supply of
illegal workers.

Until we start showing a real deterrent, a wall on our border will be merely an
ineffective "Maginot line," benefiting no one but the lucky contractors who are
hired to build it.

Unfortunately, many on the right secretly cherish the cheap supply of labor.
Many on the left are trying desperately to pander to illegal immigrants who
break our laws. Those in the middle, who depend on low-wage jobs, will continue
to suffer.

Kevin McKague

Davison, Mich.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 24, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

No amnesty for illegals

BYLINE: Brian Bilbray

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 477 words


As the Senate considers illegal immigration reform legislation, my office has
been inundated with phone calls from constituents asking, "What part of
'illegal' don't senators understand?"

You would think that Congress would learn from the failures of the past. We've
all seen how the 1986 amnesty bill became a gateway for illegal immigration.
What was promised as a one-time fix that would be matched with real employer
enforcement and commitment to securing the border resulted in a public policy
nightmare we are almost doomed to repeat. Why anyone thinks that repeating the
failed policies of years gone by is the solution to this out-of-control problem
is beyond me.

While some may dispute using the term "amnesty" to describe this proposal,
that's exactly what it is -- a bill that would set aside an exclusive program
for 12 million to 20 million illegal immigrants that allows them to stay in the
country while going through the legalization process. All the while we have
millions of immigrants waiting to come to the USA legally. The Senate plan sends
the message that these immigrants would be better served by violating our laws,
rather than by following them.

Some will say this is different from the 1986 law because the secretary of the
Department of Homeland Security (DHS) would be required to certify that border
security and employer verification programs were in place before any temporary
guest-worker program would go into effect.

This is the same department that has lost track of 600,000 foreign fugitives,
failed to implement the Real ID bill and has turned the US-VISIT program into
the "stay here indefinitely" project. Given that track record, it is easy to see
why members of Congress are skeptical of DHS' desire to secure the border and
implement a working employer verification program in just 18 months.

Even more telling is the opposition of the National Border Patrol Council, the
organization that represents more than 10,000 border patrol agents and support
personnel. The NBPC vehemently opposes this bill, saying it would exacerbate the
problem -- not solve it.

T.J. Bonner, president of the NBPC, said, "Every person who has ever risked
their life securing our borders is extremely disheartened to see some of our
elected representatives once again waving the white flag on the issues of
illegal immigration and border security. Rewarding criminal behavior has never
induced anyone to abide by the law, and there is no reason to believe that the
outcome will be any different in this case."

We are a nation of immigrants, but we are also a nation of laws. This most basic
principle is why so many flock to our nation.

It is our right and our responsibility to maintain and defend the laws that
govern our land, and no one should be exempt from them.

---

Rep. Brian Bilbray, R-Calif., is chairman of the House Immigration Reform
Caucus.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 25, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration reform faces a wide divide

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 701 words


The Albuquerque Tribune, in an editorial: "After years of inaction, political
dodgeball and head-butting, it looks as if the Senate has drafted a potential
winner on comprehensive immigration reform. ...  It's about time that this
nation is on its way to dealing realistically with the complex problem of
illegal immigration in a manner that attends to its vexing economic, national
security, tax and social aspects. ... The Senate bill would: toughen border
security ... use new technology to implement an employment verification system;
and recognize the realities of millions of existing undocumented immigrants
well-entrenched in the country's economic system by providing a path to
citizenship. It may not be the perfect solution from every vantage point, but
the fact that 18 months before the national elections, leading Senate
Republicans and Democrats are on the same page of this politically loaded issue
is extremely encouraging."

The Washington Times, in an editorial: "The bipartisan immigration 'reform'
legislation ... is a disaster in the making. ... It's a disaster for national
security, for keeping Islamist jihadists out of the country, for exploding the
costs of Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, for preserving the rule of law,
and for that quaint principle called national sovereignty. ... The legislation,
which provides amnesty for nearly all of the 12 million (or maybe even 20
million) illegal aliens already here, would swell the size of the welfare state
in a way we haven't seen since Lyndon Johnson imposed his Great Society on us
four decades ago."

The Sacramento Bee, in an editorial: "It's not news to anyone that the U.S.
immigration system is broken. A year ago, in a major effort to fix it, the
Senate, with President Bush's support, passed a bipartisan bill. ... But House
Republicans killed the measure. ... Now a dozen senators have pushed forward
incoherent mishmash that will solve very little. A root cause of the current
mess is that legal channels of immigration are few and inadequate to U.S. needs.
One result is a huge backlog in family visas for those seeking to join family
members. The wait is routinely seven to 10 years and can be as long as 22 years.
Another is that employment-based visas don't begin to fill the demand for
workers.  ... This latest proposal is unworkable and a formula for more illegal
immigration. The best bet still is to revive last year's Senate bill."

St. Petersburg (Fla.) Times, in an editorial: "Critics from the left and right
have taken aim at the comprehensive immigration bill being considered in the
Senate. They appear to be trying to hack the proposal to death even before there
is a chance for serious debate and revision. The legislation has serious flaws,
including a provision that would require illegal immigrants to leave the country
and apply for re-entry in order to qualify for legal status. Even so, our nation
has an urgent need to address the ongoing problem of illegal immigration. ...
And before it's shredded by hysterical critics, it should be carefully
considered and revised. Whatever its flaws, this legislation may be as close as
Congress will come anytime soon to enacting serious immigration reform."

Kevin O'Brien, columnist, The Plain Dealer, Cleveland: "Critics on the left
don't like the bill because it would punish people who have broken the law, a
concept that's simply too radical for them to grasp. Critics on the right see it
... as an eraser aimed squarely at the United States' southern border. Heaven
knows, we've been down this well-worn desert trail before. At regular intervals,
Congress emerges from its hole and presents the nation with a bill designed to
'fix' immigration policy. Invariably, Congress sees its own shadow, and we end
up with 6 million more illegal aliens. Except when we get 12 million more. Or 20
million more. ... Illegal aliens should be sent home whenever they're caught,
and employers who hire them should be fined up to their eyeballs. It's that
simple: Dry up the jobs, and the people who come here just for money won't come
here anymore. Those who want to come here because they want to be Americans will
still be welcome to come, by legal methods."

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Tim Dillon, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 4, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Supporters of fragile bill fear amendments

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 500 words


WASHINGTON -- As backers of a plan to overhaul the nation's immigration laws
push for Senate passage by the end of the week, their challenge will be to fend
off a series of amendments that could torpedo the delicately balanced
compromise.

"It's easy for this coalition to become frayed," Sen. Dianne Feinstein,
D-Calif., said of the bipartisan group of senators who crafted the deal with
White House support.

The legislation, which the Senate will resume debating today, would beef up
security along U.S. borders and expand opportunities for foreigners to work in
the USA. It would also change the criteria for admitting immigrants -- now based
largely on family ties -- to give more weight to job skills, and grant an
estimated 12 million people living illegally in the country a chance to become
citizens.

Members of President Bush's Cabinet said that during last week's congressional
recess, they made headway in convincing businesses and other groups of the need
for the "grand bargain."

"There's great momentum among these groups," said Commerce Secretary Carlos
Gutierrez, who estimated that he spoke to nearly 300 representatives of business
and civic organizations across the ideological spectrum. "A week ago, they were
in a different place."

Opponents promise to push back. "We have seen a lot of activism and we
anticipate a lot next week," said Caroline Espinosa of NumbersUSA, a group that
wants to reduce immigration. Because the deal  is drawing criticism from the
Democratic left and Republican right, "we see a great possibility they will not
pass it," Espinosa said.

Among the amendments likely to be offered to change the bill:

*Sens. Robert Menendez, D-N.J., and Barack Obama, D-Ill., will seek to end the
merit-based point system for immigration after five years. The bill would create
a point system to determine an immigrant's ability to succeed in the job market,
increasing the percentage of future immigrants based on job skills rather than
family ties.

*Menendez and Sen. Chris Dodd, D-Conn., want to increase the number of
immigration slots for parents of U.S. citizens.

*Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., will propose a measure to deny tax credits for the
working poor to foreign "guest workers" and to illegal immigrants who are in the
process of earning legal status.

*Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison, R-Texas, will seek to prevent illegal immigrants who
earn legal status under the bill from claiming Social Security benefits for the
time they worked illegally.

Members of the bipartisan coalition supporting the bill insist they will
continue to oppose amendments that could unravel the deal, even if they favor
them personally. "We have voted against our personal preference because the
totality of the bill is so important," said Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa.

It has been more than 20 years since Congress tackled such a sweeping overhaul
of the rules and regulations that govern who may become an American. "This is an
enormously emotional and contentious issue," said Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 8, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

It's 1986 all over again

BYLINE: David Vitter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 349 words


In studying the immigration bill that was on the floor of the Senate, my
overriding question was: Does it repeat the fatal mistakes of the 1986
Immigration Reform and Control Act? That bill was supposed to solve our illegal
immigration problem once and for all. Instead, it quadrupled it -- from more
than 3 million illegal aliens in this country then to more than 12 million
today.

Why? Two reasons. The '86 bill provided amnesty for millions here illegally and
lacked strong enforcement. Those fatal flaws combined to create a magnet for
more illegal border crossings with inadequate enforcement to stop them.
Unfortunately, the latest bill repeats those fundamental mistakes.

Black's Law Dictionary defines amnesty as a "pardon extended by the government
to a group or class of persons, usually for a political offense," and even gives
the 1986 act as a textbook example. Again in this year's bill, the federal
government would forgive an entire class of lawbreakers with the Z visa
provision. As in 1986, they'd have to pay a few fines and take other modest
action. But they would never have to leave the country or spend one day in jail.

Supporters of the bill argue that those who came to this country illegally would
have to go to the back of the line before they could become citizens. But Z
visas make a mockery of that assertion. It's hardly the back of the line to wait
in this country and enjoy its benefits, while those at the front of the line
wait for years outside our borders.

The current immigration bill has enforcement triggers that must be met before
the Z visas are implemented. But this is highly misleading, too, because the
triggers include only a fraction of the measures necessary to truly enforce the
law. The trigger provisions are completely silent on critical elements, such as
ensuring that visa holders leave the country when their visas expire and that we
actually detain illegals we find.

In sum, this bill is amnesty with inadequate enforcement. How can we repeat the
mistakes of '86 and expect different results?

---

Sen. David Vitter is a Republican from Louisiana.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 22, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Ghost of '86 failure haunts bid for immigration reform

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 901 words


Hovering over the Senate immigration debate like a malignant ghost is the near
total failure of the last attempt to bring immigration under control -- a train
wreck of a plan passed in 1986. Then as now, the heart of the plan was  a
legalization-for-enforcement trade-off.  Roughly 3 million illegal immigrants
were offered legal status in exchange for supposedly tough new enforcement
procedures to stem the flow of undocumented immigrants.

It was a sham. The measure set up a system in which employers had to accept
virtually any  document a job applicant produced to prove his or her legality.
The inevitable byproduct was a booming industry in phony documents -- and 12
million more illegal immigrants.

Now, 21 years later, legislators are being asked to make roughly the same deal:
Give those 12 million undocumented immigrants probationary legal status and a
path to permanent residency and citizenship. In exchange, tough new enforcement
procedures will sharply cut the flow of future illegal immigrants. To skeptics,
it's Groundhog Day.

Except that it's not.

The new enforcement plan is not yet convincing and must be improved. But it is
built on a credible foundation.

On the border,  hundreds of miles of fence are already being built, cameras and
sensors installed, and the Border Patrol is adding thousands more agents. All
are steps long demanded by immigration opponents, and all will be extended.

But fences and border agents won't keep undocumented workers out if the magnet
of appealing jobs constantly lures them in. Reformers joke, grimly, that the
nation is sending immigrants opposing messages: There's a "Keep Out" sign at the
border, but 20 feet in there's a "Help Wanted" sign.

That makes the most important piece of any enforcement regime what it does in
the workplace, where more than 7 million employers have to decide every day
whether job applicants are legal or not. This is where the 1986 bill most
notoriously failed, and where the 2007 bill is more promising -- if the promise
can be realized. That's a big if.

The bill is very ambitious.

Any legal worker would be expected to have an ID that was difficult or
impossible to forge, preferably with a photo or biometric ID that would prove
indisputably that the person holding the card was the person on the card. That
is essential, but it is a huge hurdle. For reasons unrelated to immigration, any
national ID card is intensely controversial. At least six states have already
rejected a plan to make driver's licenses a de facto national ID. The debate
won't disappear quickly.

To further solidify the card's credibility, employers would have quick access to
one or more government databases to check, for example, that a job applicant's
Social Security number matched his or her name. The government's existing "Basic
Pilot" program does that now, but only for the tiny fraction of the nation's
employers that voluntarily participate. Penalties for repeat violations would be
massive -- as much as $75,000 for each illegal worker.

Again, a good idea. It might not reach every illegal immigrant working as a
nanny or gardener, but if fully operational and aggressively enforced, it could
close off millions of jobs at companies large and small. That would be a
resounding success.

But the bill's proponents appear wildly optimistic about their ability to field
such a complex system quickly. They give themselves just 18 months. By
comparison, we just wrote in this space Thursday  about the failure of a much
smaller plan, simply requiring passports for people returning from nearby
countries. That had to be delayed despite a three-year run up.

Given the difficulties and the '86 experience, the temptation is to say that the
new bill's most controversial provision -- offering legalized status to many of
the 12 million immigrants now here illegally -- should not kick in until the
program is fully functional. But that makes the enforcement job exponentially
harder. If the focus instead is on new arrivals, chances of success are much
greater.

That would have a domino effect. If new immigration were sharply curtailed, the
law would regain its lost credibility, deterring others and restoring faith in
the system. Those already here could then easily be assimilated -- provided they
followed the bill's tough strictures, which include fines, payment of back taxes
and no serious criminal record during a rigorous 13-year path to citizenship. In
any case, trying to toss out millions of hard-working people and breaking up
families whose children are U.S. citizens would be heartless, needless,
exceedingly expensive and ultimately futile.

But all of that depends on having an enforcement system that will work.

One huge obstacle is money, and senators have taken an important step by adding
$4.4billion in upfront funding to the bill.

The other obstacles are will and competence. Congress can ensure that this works
by writing tough accountability provisions into the bill, approving the ID
cards, and following through with sustained oversight.

Critics of the bill talk as if Congress is powerless. They're running from the
ghost their predecessors created in 1986. There's no reason they can't write a
bill that won't haunt their successors 20 years from now.

---

This is the fifth in an occasional series of editorials about this year's
immigration debate. View the previous editorials at
blogs.usatoday.com/oped/immigration_editorial.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Alejandro Gonzalez, USA TODAY, Source: U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement (LINE GRAPH)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 27, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Illegal immigrants who obey laws will be welcomed in USA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 724 words


Marisa Trevioo is wrong when she writes about the Senate immigration reform bill
defeated last month. The whole discussion on this bill was about illegal
immigrants who have broken laws and are asking for special favors from U.S.
citizens ("A personal approach to immigration," The Forum, July 20).

She states that rhetoric is used to further agendas. Her agenda, however, is
evident. Trevioo never uses the word "illegal" and uses the word "undocumented"
three times. This gives the impression that talk radio hosts and other opponents
of illegal immigration are against all immigration.

Trevioo is right that "the debate got personal." U.S. citizens can observe what
is going on, and some of us have worked all our lives. The failed Senate bill
asked us to support people who come here illegally and give them access to perks
they have never worked or paid for.

When illegal immigrants obey our laws and come to the USA as legal immigrants,
they will be received with open arms.

Jan Wells

Hot Springs, Ark.

Punish priests

USA TODAY's editorial on the Catholic Church's sex abuse scandal in Los Angeles
was very enlightening ("More than money," Editorial, July 17).

Cardinal Roger Mahony has pushed the envelope beyond all limits. He was arrogant
and insensitive in his handling of the most pathetic crisis in the Roman
Catholic Church. I am amazed that Cardinal Mahony's superiors have not taken any
action in disciplining him.

Isn't it time for the Vatican to relieve the cardinal of his duties? This, of
course, is an alternative to having him spend some time at California's Pelican
Bay State Prison.

John Cannon

Fairport, N.Y.

Too many diversions

USA TODAY reader James Cooke wrote about the rule changes he would like to see
in soccer, but he missed one observation about American spectators in general
("Soccer needs more excitement than an 'aging superstar'," Letters, July 23).

While Americans might like sporting events in which competitors have the ability
to reverse the outcome,  it appears that they also like sporting events to be
overly complex.

The simplicity of the rules of what is known abroad as football is why it is
such a unique and popular game. The rest of the world likes to play 90 minutes
and have a result. There aren't any complex rules requiring multiple referees,
and there aren't any timeouts, cheerleaders or sponsors on the field giving away
cars.

Perhaps I'm missing the point, but there must be a reason why football is the
biggest sport in the world and American football isn't.

Non-Americans can't all be wrong, can they?

Jon Rennie

Leicester, United Kingdom

Where is justice?

It makes no sense whatsoever that Atlanta Falcons quarterback Michael Vick is
indicted for animal cruelty while Dr. Anna Pou goes free on criminal charges
that alleged she intentionally killed patients in the chaotic aftermath of
Hurricane Katrina ("Charges against La. doctor dropped," News, Wednesday).

Surely, the life of a human being is worth more than that of a dog, isn't it?

Stephen V. Gilmore

Charlotte

Get an 'Ix' with a Rx

USA TODAY's article "Communication now part of the cure" about the importance of
discussions between doctors and patients makes several good points (Life,
Wednesday).

Since research shows that 40%-80% of everything a doctor tells a patient in the
office is forgotten, taking along a patient advocate is a great strategy.
Unfortunately, it is not always an option or sufficient.  In order to ensure
effective communication, every patient should leave the doctor's office with an
information prescription (Ix). This after-visit summary reinforces what
transpired in the clinic and outlines the person's next steps for
self-management and interaction with the delivery system.

Providers that have implemented after-visit summaries -- both in print form and
available through a secure Web portal -- have found that patients love them. The
summaries provide something tangible to take home, guidance that is practical,
and a bridge to the next visit or to a referral to another clinician.

Non-profit and government organizations such as the Center for Information
Therapy, American College of Physicians and National Library of Medicine have
been advocating information prescriptions for years.

Next time you go to the doctor, make sure to get an Ix with your Rx.

Joshua Seidman

President

Center for Information Therapy

Bethesda, Md.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 27, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Town's illegal-immigrant law tossed;
Pa. locality vows to appeal ruling

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 404 words


A federal judge threw out a Pennsylvania town's illegal-immigrant law Thursday
in a decision likely to reverberate across the country.

Hazleton's Illegal Immigration Relief Act sought to fine landlords who rent to
illegal immigrants and suspend business licenses of companies that hire them. A
companion measure would have required tenants to obtain rental permits.

U.S. District Judge James Munley ruled the measures unconstitutional. He said
immigration policies are a federal, not local, responsibility and that the
ordinances don't give employers, workers, landlords and tenants an adequate
chance to defend themselves.

"The city could not enact an ordinance that violates rights the Constitution
guarantees to every person in the United States, whether legal resident or not,"
Munley writes. "The genius of our Constitution is that it provides rights even
to those who evoke the least sympathy from the general public."

Hazleton Mayor Lou Barletta vowed to appeal. "Hazleton is not going to back
down," he said in a written statement. "Neither the city of Hazleton nor I will
stop fighting for all legal residents."

Since Hazleton, a city of 22,000, approved its law a year ago, about 100
localities have proposed similar ordinances, says the American Civil Liberties
Union, which sued Hazleton. Forty have been enacted.

The ruling doesn't address other communities' ordinances, but some immigration
experts believe it sets a precedent they can't ignore.

"A lot of them are going to get struck down," says Kevin Johnson, associate dean
at the University of California, Davis, School of Law, who specializes in
immigration and civil rights law. "These ordinances, especially those very
similar to the Hazleton ordinance, are at risk."

Margaret Thompson, a Clemson, S.C., councilwoman, says she won't let the ruling
derail her plan to bar the city from doing business with companies that
knowingly employ illegal immigrants.

"We need to fight this thing," she says. "We need to know who's in our country,
and if it steps on toes, that's what it needs to do."

Bob Dane, spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, agrees
that communities shouldn't be prevented from taking action. He says FAIR, which
promotes limits on immigration, will join Hazleton in its appeal.

"It is unreasonable for the courts to leave these local communities with no
legal recourse to deal with the problems of illegal immigration," he says.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 7, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigrants a scapegoat for blacks' unemployment

BYLINE: DeWayne Wickham

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 616 words


One of the most interesting, and possibly decisive, tugs of war in the
immigration policy debate is happening largely beneath the radar of this
nation's media organizations.

Back in May, Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, sent a letter to the heads of four civil
rights groups that he hoped would change the political landscape of this debate.
He urged them to join him in speaking out against the immigration reform bill
backed  by President Bush and Senate Democrats.

"The simple law of supply and demand dictates that flooding the job market with
cheap foreign labor will undermine any initiatives that help the
African-American population," wrote Smith, the ranking Republican on the House
Judiciary Committee.  Though the Senate proposal would have provided a pathway
to citizenship for many of this country's 12million illegal immigrants, Smith
said it would "devastate job opportunities for millions of African-Americans."

While this argument -- that blacks are disproportionately losing jobs to illegal
immigrants who take low-paying jobs -- has been around for some time, it hadn't
gotten any traction among mainstream civil rights groups. That seemed to change
on May 9, when the head of Miami's Urban League affiliate tied illegal
immigration to unemployment of black men.

"Immigration isn't the whole reason for the drop in employment of black men;
it's not even half the reason. But it is the largest single reason," T. Willard
Fair testified before a House panel  on immigration.

Out of step

That's powerful stuff, coming as it did from a capo of  a civil rights
organization that devotes most of its efforts to finding jobs and economic
opportunities for blacks. But as Smith quickly learned, Fair's view  was out of
step with that of the group's national leadership. He "does not speak for the
National Urban League ... or the Urban League movement," Marc Morial, the
organization's national president, wrote to Smith.

But that wasn't the end of it.

Fear over fact

During an appearance last week on CNN's Lou Dobbs Tonight, nationally syndicated
radio host Joe Madison -- a former NAACP board member who narrowly lost an
election to become the organization's board chairman in 1998 -- was asked by
Dobbs whether there is rising tension "over jobs, over wages as a result of
illegal immigration?"

Warning that there is a "smoldering situation in urban America," Madison said
the willingness of some employers to hire illegal immigrants for low wages is
the cause of the high unemployment among young blacks. His words gave credence
to the idea that there's a strong link between illegal immigration and black
unemployment -- which is the point Smith tried to make  to civil rights leaders.

If the anti-immigration forces can win over some  black leaders, Democrats might
have to back away from their support for the kind of comprehensive immigration
reform legislation that died in Congress.  And that might prove to be a victory
of fear over fact.

"We examined the overall question of black economic fate in the labor market,
and there is not a clear link between the presence of immigrants and those
adverse economic outcomes for African-Americans," says Steven Pitts, a labor
policy specialist at the University of California-Berkeley's Labor Center.

For example, despite  a steady increase in  foreign-born immigrants from 1980 to
2000, Pitts says, U.S. black unemployment dropped sharply during those years.

While this fact may not completely debunk Fair's contention that illegal
immigration is the single biggest cause of black unemployment or Smith's appeal
to civil rights leaders, it strongly suggests the case they make is weak, at
best.

---

DeWayne Wickham writes on Tuesdays for USA TODAY.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 27, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Illegal immigrants moving out

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 924 words


People leave states and cities that have taken up strict policies in going after

lawbreakers

Illegal immigrants living in states and cities that have adopted strict
immigration policies are packing up and moving back to their home countries or
to neighboring states.

The exodus has been fueled by a wave of laws targeting illegal immigrants in
Oklahoma, Arizona, Colorado, Georgia and elsewhere. Many were passed after
congressional efforts to overhaul the immigration system collapsed in June.

Immigrants say the laws have raised fears of workplace raids and deportation.

"People now are really frightened and scared because they don't know what's
going to happen," says Juliana Stout, an editor at the newspaper El Nacional de
Oklahoma. "They're selling houses. They're leaving the country."

Supporters of the laws cheer the departure of illegal immigrants and say the
laws are working as intended.

Oklahoma state Rep. Randy Terrill, Republican author of his state's law, says
the flight proves it is working. "That was the intended purpose," he says. "It
would be just fine with me if we exported all illegal aliens to the surrounding
states."

Most provisions of an Oklahoma law take effect in November. Among other things,
it cuts off benefits such as welfare and college financial aid.

There are no hard demographic data on the trend, partly because it's hard to
track people who are in the USA illegally -- but school officials, real estate
agents and church leaders say the movement is unmistakable.

In Tulsa, several schools have seen a drop in Hispanic enrollment. About 60% of
Kendall-Whittier Elementary School's 950 students are Hispanic, Principal Judy
Feary says. Since an enrollment report Sept. 10, she says, 14 have left. Four
more said last week that they would move.

Three weeks ago, one couple dropped their three children at school, then
returned after lunch with their belongings packed in an SUV and trailer. Feary
says they took the kids and said they were moving back to Mexico. "They were
afraid and cited the immigration law," she says.

Marshall Elementary, where enrollment is 60% Hispanic, has lost about 10
students this year to the immigration law, Principal Kayla Robinson says. Most
moved to Texas. "These are families that have been here for a long time," she
says.

Illegal immigrants also are leaving Georgia, where a law requires companies on
government contracts with at least 500 employees to check new hires against a
federal database to make sure they are legally authorized to work.

Mario Reyes, senior minister at the Tabernacle of Atlanta, says his church lost
about 10 families this summer. His daughter, a real estate agent, is helping
them sell their homes.

Churches across the city report similar losses, says Antonio Mansogo, a board
member of the National Coalition of Latino Clergy and Christian Leaders.

"There's tension because you don't know when immigration (agents) might show up,
and a lot of people don't want to take those chances," he says.

Real estate agent Guadalupe Sosa in Avondale, Ariz., outside Phoenix, says
migration from the state began about three months ago, shortly after Gov. Janet
Napolitano, a Democrat, signed a law that will take effect in January. Employers
who hire illegal immigrants can lose their business licenses. Of the 10 homes
Sosa has on the market, half belong to families that plan to leave because of
immigration tensions. "They know they might be losing everything today or
tomorrow," she says.

Maria Sanchez, 35, joined the migration with her sister and nephew, who are
citizens. Sanchez was in the USA illegally, but she has gotten a temporary work
permit.

The three lived in Aurora, Colo., when Sanchez was fired from her job as
district manager of a fast-food chain after she couldn't provide a valid Social
Security number.

Colorado has approved several immigration measures. One gives employers 20 days
to check and photocopy documents such as driver's licenses and Social Security
cards, which new workers present to prove their legal status.

Because of the laws, Sanchez, her sister and nephew left five months ago. "I
moved to Utah because they don't have the same laws here," she says.

State Sen. Dave Schultheis says he hasn't observed a major migration out of
Colorado but has heard anecdotal reports that illegal immigrants are leaving.
"It's absolutely a good thing," he says. "We want to make Colorado the least
friendly state to people who are here illegally."

In Hazleton, Pa., families started moving away after the city passed an
illegal-immigrant law last summer, saysRudy Espinal, head of the Hazleton
Hispanic Business Association. The law would fine landlords who rented to
illegal immigrants and suspend the business licenses of companies that hired
them. A companion measure would require tenants to register with the city and
pay $10 for a rental permit.

A federal judge ruled the measures unconstitutional in July, but that hasn't
stopped people moving away, he says.

"People are still leaving," Espinal says. "Some people have told me that they're
leaving because they don't want their kids to grow up in an environment like
this."

Hazleton Mayor Lou Barletta counters that some illegal immigrants who moved came
back after the judge's decision, which the city is appealing. "I see a
reversal," he says. "In a small city, it becomes obvious. ... Schools are
overcrowded, and there are five-hour waits in the emergency room."

He says, "We don't want to chase immigrants away, just the illegal aliens who
are causing many of the problem we are having."

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             October 5, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Time for U.S. government to enforce immigration laws

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 369 words


There's no doubt that the removal of illegal immigrants from the USA is lawful.
My question is, why is the government so reluctant to enforce the laws of this
country? Isn't this the government's job? Isn't this what we should expect from
our elected officials ("Illegal immigrants moving out," News, Sept. 27)?

Somehow, legislators have gotten things backward. Americans didn't put
legislators in office to do as they please. Their job is to do what their
constituents tell them to do while upholding the laws of our land.

When officials forget how they got their jobs, who they work for and that our
laws are to be enforced, it's time for them to step down. We need political
change.

Tenya Manny

Federal Way, Wash.

Mexico's share

Wouldn't it be great if Mexico were forced to do something to help its own?

The Mexican government continues to use its northern border as a release valve,
and its poor are illegally migrating to the USA at a cost to be absorbed by U.S.
citizens.

This is a disgrace and must stop. America will never be able to regain its once
strong place in the world if the government continues to ignore the will of the
people and also chooses to ignore the country's laws.

Health care and Social Security are important topics, but immigration is by far
the most important issue that needs to be addressed.

How can the USA expect respect when it doesn't respect its own laws?

Our government needs to re-evaluate its priorities and to remember that it is
"hired" to represent Americans, not big money.

Sherrie Gibson

Newport Beach, Calif.

A lawless land

If the United States turns a blind eye to the task of enforcing laws, then it
will commit financial and cultural suicide. America will cease to exist as a
nation.

We are not heartless when demanding that immigrants honor U.S. laws and learn
English. Americans have both a right and a responsibility to maintain the
standard of living that draws millions here looking for a better life.

If America becomes a lawless land, it will disappear into the same corruption
that illegal immigrants are running from. If they follow the law, then
immigrants are welcome. I will receive them with joy and a real desire to see
them succeed in the USA.

V. Walker

Salt Lake City

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Jeffrey D. Allred for USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 9, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Billon-dollar remittances go to Mexico

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 327 words


As I was reading USA TODAY's story about illegal immigrants, I was impressed to
read how well enforcement laws are working, but I also was saddened because I
have seen how difficult it is to alleviate immigration problems where I live in
Southern California ("Illegal immigrants moving out," News, Sept. 27).

I live about 6 miles north of the border with Tijuana, and Mexico can't even
control Tijuana.

It is impressive to read about the courage of the governments in Oklahoma,
Arizona, Colorado and Georgia -- all of which enforce immigration laws. This is
absolutely necessary.

Many Mexican immigrants do not come here to be Americans. They come here to send
money back to Mexico. This amounts to billions of dollars that are remitted to
Mexico ever year. Hopefully, more states will pick up the baton and begin to
enforce the existing laws.

Becky L. Tucker

Chula Vista, Calif.

Call to Congress

USA TODAY's story "Illegal immigrants moving out" describes how the system works
when immigration laws are enforced. The article reveals an impending clash
between the federal government and local and state governments in how each
entity enforces immigration laws.

The American people and state and local governments want immigration laws
enforced, but many in Congress seem to care less about immigration enforcement.
Instead, they continually push amnesty agendas for illegal immigrants.

The most recent fiasco was an attempt to sneak the Development, Relief and
Education for Alien Minors Act into the defense authorization bill.  The DREAM
Act would have rewarded at least a million illegal immigrants with a path to
U.S. citizenship.

Many politicians seem unconcerned that Americans are being forced to pay for the
cost of overcrowded schools, jails, roads and hospitals because of illegal
immigration. Eventually, the American people may revolt against the federal
government for its lack of concern for the well-being of American families.

Bob Allan

Rochester Hills, Mich.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Stewart F. House, Fort Worth Star-Telegram, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 25, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Lawmakers seek 'sanctuary cities' crackdown;
Bills target havens of illegal immigrants

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 489 words


State and federal lawmakers are calling for tough action against  "sanctuary
cities," reflecting a backlash against communities that they say break the law
and encourage illegal immigration.

At least three states are considering taking the path of Colorado, which adopted
an anti-sanctuary law last year. It denies some funding to communities that
prevent police and other municipal employees from cooperating with immigration
authorities. Similar measures are pending in Michigan, New Jersey and Wisconsin.

Nationally, members of Congress are proposing federal legislation and
presidential candidates are urging sanctions.

Local law enforcement officers come into contact with immigrants every day, says
Michigan state Rep. Kim Meltzer, a Republican. "Why should they be restricted,
have their hands tied?" she asks.

Her bill would forbid local governments from telling police and other government
employees not to cooperate with federal authorities and would require police to
report people they arrest who are suspected illegal immigrants.

In May, the Detroit City Council unanimously approved an ordinance that, among
other things, forbids city officials from asking the immigration status of
people not suspected of crimes.

Council President Ken Cockrel Jr. says the city has a growing Hispanic immigrant
population and is home to large Middle Eastern communities. Local police should
focus on protecting them, he says, not enforcing immigration law, which is a
federal responsibility.

"I want Detroit police officers out there catching people who are stealing cars
and mugging old ladies, not asking people for their passports," he says.

Detroit's ordinance is among at least 82 policies nationwide that limit the
enforcement of immigration laws by state and local authorities, according to the
National Immigration Law Center. The policies promote public safety by making
immigrants more willing to cooperate with police and other officials, says the
group's Joan Friedland.

"If people fear the police at every turn, that undermines community policing,
which undermines community safety," she says.

Mitt Romney and Fred Thompson are among Republican presidential candidates who
counter that sanctuary policies encourage law-breaking by shielding illegal
immigrants. They propose that some federal funding be denied to cities that have
them.

Florida Republican Rep. Ginny Brown-Waite has introduced one of the
anti-sanctuary measures in Congress. Her bill would revoke some Homeland
Security funds from sanctuary cities.

"The public is speaking loud and clear that they don't want ... their elected
officials allowing illegals to move into the area and use services from the
area," she says.

In Wisconsin, Republican state Sen. Glenn Grothman plans to introduce a measure
next week that forbids cities and counties from adopting sanctuary policies.

New Jersey state Sen. Nicholas Asselta, a Republican, says he'll introduce a
measure next month.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 6, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'We must end incentives'

BYLINE: Dan Stein

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 389 words


More than 13 million illegal aliens are living in the USA because we accommodate
illegal immigration. The federal government has consistently neglected its
enforcement responsibilities, while many state and local governments actually
reward people who violate immigration laws.

While the vast majority of Americans and New Yorkers have made it clear that
they believe that this nation must enforce its immigration laws, Gov. Eliot
Spitzer has attempted to give them driver's licenses and college tuition
benefits.

In addition to making life easier for illegal aliens by granting them driving
privileges, the license also serves as the de facto identity document and would
make them indistinguishable from everyone else.

New York is already saddled with more than $5 billion a year in costs for
providing K-12 education, health care and incarceration for illegal aliens.
Spitzer favors adding the cost of subsidizing a college education.

Many local policies in New York already accommodate illegal aliens by shielding
them from enforcement, and providing benefits and services without requiring
proof of legal residence.

Spitzer's instinct seems to be to continue down this slippery slope. He wants to
accommodate people who drive without licenses by giving them licenses. His
response to people who bring their kids here illegally is to give them tuition
benefits.

Rather than impose penalties to deter illegal aliens from driving without
licenses or insurance by impounding vehicles and reporting offenders to
immigration authorities, Spitzer used the pretext of road safety. Using the
pretext of compassion, he has chosen to reward illegal aliens for bringing kids
here.

New Yorkers paid the ultimate price for lax driver's license issuance policies
on 9/11, as the terrorists used these documents to escape detection as they
planned and executed their attacks. Many hardworking New Yorkers will be asked
to sacrifice their own children's educational opportunities to accommodate and
subsidize illegal aliens in state universities.

If this nation truly wants to control illegal immigration, then we must end
incentives to break the law. Driver's licenses and subsidized college education
are two huge incentives that will only encourage more people to break the law.

---

Dan Stein is president of the Federation for American Immigration Reform.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 16, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Strict immigration law unfairly targets Hispanics

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 333 words


The idea some hold that undocumented immigrants do not contribute to the
Oklahoma economy is simply untrue ("Strict immigration law rattles Okla.
businesses," Cover story, News, Thursday).

Immigrants cannot access many public services without proper documentation. A
majority of those here illegally do not even try for fear of disclosing their
undocumented status. Yet, they still pay state and local taxes, including sales
tax.

Despite this fact, the ill-conceived claim that undocumented immigration is
hurting Oklahoma is powerful because it scapegoats Hispanic residents by making
them the target for popular frustration and fear. In speaking out against the
law, many Hispanic and non-Hispanic residents have received death threats and
much hate mail.

Not only is what is known as House Bill 1804, the Oklahoma Taxpayer and Citizen
Protection Act of 2007, negatively impacting the Oklahoma economy, it has
effectively terrorized the Hispanic population.

Law enforcement officers -- both in police and sheriff departments -- need to be
held more accountable for how they interact with Hispanics.

It is truly tragic that a law such as this could be serving as a "model" for
other states. People should be aware that this law is not a viable remedy to the
current immigration question.

Further, it is not an exaggeration to say that with this legislation, Oklahoma
has returned to the bad old days of Jim Crow, when African-Americans were the
target of hate groups, mob violence and racist state laws.

The only difference today is that the new victims are Hispanic.

Andrew G. Wood

Associate professor

University of Tulsa

Tulsa

Compete, don't exploit

I am extremely pro-business, but businesses should not expect to succeed by
paying less than legal wages.

The arguments being made today for allowing illegal immigrants to work in the
USA are the same arguments that were made 150 years ago for the continuation of
slavery.

In Oklahoma, we believe in competition, not exploitation.

Creede B. Kurtz

Ardmore, Okla.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 28, 2008 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Deporting some inmates proves a break for states

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 562 words


Programs in New York and Arizona aimed at cutting the prison sentences of
certain immigrant inmates so they can be deported faster have federal officials
urging other states to adopt similar policies.

Officials in the two states say they have saved millions of dollars by turning
over for early deportation some non-violent immigrant criminals who have served
at least half of their sentences.

Eligible inmates include both legal immigrants who committed certain crimes and
illegal immigrants.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officials say the federal
government also saves money when immigrant inmates get sent home early, and they
hope to expand the programs in the next few months.

"This program does not apply to your rapists, your murderers, your serious
criminals," says Julie Myers, Homeland Security assistant secretary for ICE.

Myers says it costs an average of $95 a day for the federal government to detain
and house illegal immigrants before deportation. The accelerated deportation
policy "reduces the amount of time aliens are in our custody," she says. "It
reduces the amount of time our lawyers have to spend prosecuting cases in
immigration court."

ICE has been targeting illegal immigrants with criminal convictions, and the
related costs are growing. Last year, 164,000 immigrant criminals were placed
into deportation proceedings, up from 64,000 in 2006, Myers says.

Under the accelerated deportation programs, only those inmates who are eligible
for deportation and won't fight their removal from the USA can participate. If
the deportee returns to the USA and is caught, the immigrant will serve the
remainder of the original sentence plus prison time for any new criminal
offenses.

The illegal immigrant may also face a separate felony conviction for returning
after being deported and up to 20 years in prison.

It would be up to each state to iron out specific eligibility requirements, such
as how much of the sentences must be served before inmates are eligible, Myers
says.

In Florida, Republican state Sen. Mike Bennett says he plans to introduce
legislation next week to bring the program to his state. About 2,500 inmates
would qualify, he says.

"These people are going to be deported when they get done anyhow," he says. "Why
not speed the process and get them out of here?"

Since December 2005, 1,300 Arizona inmates have been turned over to ICE for
deportation under the policy, says Nolberto Machiche, spokesman for the state
Department of Corrections. The state has saved more than $17 million as a result
because it no longer has to house the criminals, he says.

New York's program began in 1995, says Erik Kriss, spokesman for New York State
Department of Correctional Services. Through December, nearly 2,000 inmates had
been deported under the program for a savings of $141 million.

The inmates were turned over to ICE for deportation an average of 27.4 months
before completing their minimum sentences, he says.

Manuel Vargas, with the Immigrant Defense Project of the New York State
Defenders Association, says he's concerned that some inmates volunteer for the
program without access to legal advice.

"Over the years, I've seen cases where people gave up their rights to fight
deportation, but had a legitimate argument" to stay in the country, he says.
"For some (inmates), it may be the right choice. For others, it may not be."

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 28, 2008 Friday
                                A_CHASE EDITION

Deporting some inmates proves a break for states

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 560 words


Programs in New York and Arizona aimed at cutting the prison sentences of
certain immigrant inmates so they can be deported faster have federal officials
urging other states to adopt similar policies.

Officials in the two states say they have saved millions by turning over for
early deportation some non-violent immigrant criminals who have served at least
half of their sentences.

Eligible inmates include both legal immigrants who committed certain crimes and
illegal immigrants.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officials say the federal
government also saves money when immigrant inmates get sent home early, and they
hope to expand the programs in the next few months.

"This program does not apply to your rapists, your murderers, your serious
criminals," says Julie Myers, Homeland Security assistant secretary for ICE.

Myers says it costs an average of $95 a day for the federal government to detain
and house illegal immigrants before deportation. The accelerated deportation
policy "reduces the amount of time aliens are in our custody," she says. "It
reduces the amount of time our lawyers have to spend prosecuting cases in
immigration court."

ICE has been targeting illegal immigrants with criminal convictions, and the
related costs are growing. Last year, 164,000 immigrant criminals were placed
into deportation proceedings, up from 64,000 in 2006, Myers says.

Under the accelerated deportation programs, only those inmates who are eligible
for deportation and won't fight their removal from the USA can participate. If
the deportee returns to the USA and is caught, the immigrant will serve the
remainder of the original sentence plus prison time for any new criminal
offenses.

The illegal immigrant may also face a separate felony conviction for returning
after being deported and up to 20 years in prison.

It would be up to each state to iron out specific eligibility requirements, such
as how much of the sentences must be served before inmates are eligible, Myers
says.

In Florida, Republican state Sen. Mike Bennett says he plans to introduce
legislation next week to bring the program to his state. About 2,500 inmates
would qualify, he says.

"These people are going to be deported when they get done anyhow," he says. "Why
not speed the process and get them out of here?"

Since December 2005, 1,300 Arizona inmates have been turned over to ICE for
deportation under the policy, says Nolberto Machiche, spokesman for the state
Department of Corrections. The state has saved more than $17 million as a result
because it no longer has to house the criminals, he says.

New York's program began in 1995, says Erik Kriss, spokesman for New York State
Department of Correctional Services. Through December, nearly 2,000 inmates had
been deported under the program for a savings of $141 million.

The inmates were turned over to ICE for deportation an average of 27.4 months
before completing their minimum sentences, he says.

Manuel Vargas, with the Immigrant Defense Project of the New York State
Defenders Association, says he's concerned that some inmates volunteer for the
program without access to legal advice.

"Over the years, I've seen cases where people gave up their rights to fight
deportation, but had a legitimate argument" to stay in the country, he says.
"For some (inmates), it may be the right choice. For others, it may not be."

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 16, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

New immigration laws expose downside of getting tough

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 582 words


When Congress gave up trying to pass a balanced immigration law last year, it
opened the door for states, counties and towns to write their own immigration
laws. The result has been a disquieting national experiment in handling illegal
immigration almost solely with arrest and deportation.

Several states have enacted laws that show no mercy, even for immigrants with
steady jobs, deep community roots, a history of paying taxes and children who
are citizens.  They have just one goal: Get illegals out.

As a matter of ice-cold reasoning, those states make a case that would pass any
logician's test: The law must have meaning, so if the federal government won't
act against wanton law-breaking, then the states must. Oklahoma, which has one
of the toughest new laws, now bars illegal immigrants from receiving state
services, requires employers to verify that new workers are legal, gives people
a way to sue companies that hire illegal immigrants, and makes it a felony to
transport, harbor or conceal an illegal immigrant. It was meant to be harsh, and
it is.

It's also undeniably effective. Oklahoma Hispanic groups estimate that as many
as 25,000 left the state after the law was approved last year. School attendance
dropped, workers disappeared, church attendance shrank and Latino businesses
lost customers.

What's missing is simple humanity -- a recognition that the vast majority of
those affected lack any malicious intent. They came not to rob banks but to
improve their lives though hard work.  Yet families are uprooted, and parents
are separated from their kids.

Legal residents and citizens are hurt, too. When spouses, parents or children
are illegal, a relative can be placed at risk for "harboring" them at home or
"transporting" them to church. There are persistent reports that police in some
places target Hispanic drivers for roadside stops and document checks. Some
citizens have taken to carrying passports or birth certificates to avoid being
jailed.

By intent, the laws have also hit businesses, which have scrambled to replace
lost workers. Employers say they're being asked to become immigration police
with imperfect tools. A study in Oklahoma predicted that the law could cost the
state's economy more than $1 billion a year, and a firm that specializes in
finding new locations for businesses said some companies have crossed Oklahoma
off their lists. The state Chamber of Commerce and other business groups filed
suit to block the law.

If there's virtue in all this, it is to highlight the hypocrisy that has long
been at the heart of ineffectual federal immigration law: The nation doesn't
want illegal immigrants, but it does want the cheap labor they provide. So it
passes laws then doesn't pay to enforce them.

Laws such as Oklahoma's may now expose the downside of being harsh, just as
federal law has exposed the downside of being lax.

There's a better remedy, of course,  but Congress gave up on it last year.
President Bush's immigration bill would have toughened workplace enforcement
with a strong verification system and effective ID requirements. It would also
have acknowledged reality by fostering a temporary worker program and providing
a rigorous path to citizenship for the most qualified of the estimated 12
million illegal immigrants already here. That's still a worthwhile proposal.

Laws such as Oklahoma's are satisfying for those who seethe over illegal
immigration. But they worsen a polarized, anti-immigrant atmosphere that
ill-serves the nation.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: Immigration and Customs
Enforcement (Line graph)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 16, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Oklahoma is doing its job

BYLINE: Randy Terrill

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 386 words


By now, no one credibly disputes that illegal immigration is a serious and
growing problem.

Given Washington's inability or unwillingness to address the issue, no one
should be surprised that states such as Oklahoma, Arizona and Georgia are taking
the lead. It's federalism in action. Just as states paved the way for welfare
reform in the 1990s, they are pointing the way on immigration reform.

The federal government's failure to police our nation's borders has functionally
turned every state into a border state and indirectly imposed a tax on each and
every citizen -- especially in the areas of health care, education, welfare and
corrections. From a state perspective, it is indisputable that illegal
immigration is a net financial drain.

In Oklahoma, our new law tackles this issue by cracking down on identity theft,
terminating taxpayer-funded benefits for illegal aliens, empowering state and
local law enforcement to detain illegal aliens for deportation, and requiring
businesses to verify employment eligibility of workers or face serious legal and
financial consequences.

The overwhelming majority of Oklahomans -- more than 80% -- support our law, and
I am confident national polls would generate similar results.

Even more important, Oklahoma's law appears to be achieving its intended
purpose. Numerous reports indicate that illegal aliens are leaving the state.

Some naysayers claim states that unilaterally enact real, meaningful immigration
reform place themselves at a "competitive disadvantage" economically -- the same
argument once used to defend the subjugation of an entire group of people
through the institution of slavery.

Those critics miss the point. The illegal immigration debate is about a whole
lot more than just economics. It's about fundamental principles and values:
respect for the rule of law, upholding our state and national sovereignty, basic
human dignity and the immorality of exploiting cheap illegal-alien slave labor,
and protecting taxpayers from waste, fraud and abuse.

This issue is also about elected officials going to the Capitol -- whether it's
in Oklahoma City or Washington, D.C. -- and doing what the people elected us
expect us to do.

Randy Terrill is an Oklahoma Republican state representative and author of the
Oklahoma Taxpayer and Citizen Protection Act of 2007.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            March 29, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration debate triggers more protests

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely and Tom Vanden Brook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 482 words


Thousands of students took to the streets in Los Angeles, Phoenix, Dallas and
other cities Tuesday to protest a proposed toughening of immigration policy.

The demonstrations took place as Republican senators in Washington emerged from
a meeting saying they will begin debating immigration legislation this week.

Tuesday's demonstrations, smaller than those that clogged streets over the
weekend, were mostly peaceful, police said.

*In Los Angeles, 8,800 students walked out of class, said Susan Cox, a school
district spokeswoman. They will have to make up the work they missed.

*In Dallas, as many as 3,000 students protested, many of them gathering at City
Hall, said Lt. Rick Watson, a spokesman for the police department. Some of the
students entered the building, but Watson said there were no incidents or
arrests.

*In Phoenix, about 1,200 students gathered at the state Capitol, said Alan
Ecker, a spokesman for the Arizona department of administration. The crowd
dispersed without incident, he said.

"I'm here for my parents," Juliana Rojo, 14, told the Associated Press. She said
her parents are illegal immigrants. "They work hard. I just want them to be
treated fairly."

The Senate bill would allow the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants now in
the USA to become citizens eventually. They would have to prove they have jobs,
pass a criminal background check, learn English, and pay fines and back taxes.

Sen. Jon Kyl, R-Ariz., said he cannot support the bill approved Monday by the
Senate Judiciary Committee because it offers a chance at citizenship to workers
who are needed only temporarily.

Sen. Mel Martinez, R-Fla., a refugee from Cuba, said he made an emotional appeal
for his colleagues to resist pressure to follow the lead of the House, which
passed a bill that increases penalties and enforcement against illegal
immigration and does not adjust the status of migrant workers, legal or illegal.

"I think we should have the courage to stand up for an issue, even if it isn't
what those who scream the loudest want us to do," Martinez said.

House Majority Leader John Boehner, R-Ohio, said the House bill emphasizes that
U.S. borders must be brought under control.

"The House has passed a responsible border-security bill. ... I think the
American people expect us to strengthen our borders," he said.

A Catholic leader who has been a harsh critic of the House border-security
measure praised the Senate Judiciary Committee's approach. Cardinal Roger
Mahony, spiritual leader of 5 million Catholics in Los Angeles, said he is "very
pleased" with the committee's bill.

"The church is going to continue our educational efforts," Mahony said.

Like a number of the Judiciary Committee bill's supporters, Mahony argued that
it offers a more workable approach to a difficult problem. "How are you going to
pick up and arrest 8 (million) to 11 million people?" he asked. "It's not
realistic."

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Fred Greaves, Reuters
PHOTO, B/W, Karen Warren, Houston Chronicle, via AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              April 3, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

4 Hispanic lawmakers, 4 differing views, 1 point;
Personal experience may shape emotional immigration debate more than
partisanship

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 1039 words


WASHINGTON -- The congressional debate over the first major overhaul of the
nation's immigration laws in a decade is "what everybody's talking about in the
Hispanic community," says Sen. Mel Martinez, R-Fla. But that doesn't mean the
nation's more than 40 million Hispanics agree about the eventual outcome.

The 26 Hispanic members of Congress -- three in the Senate and 23 in the House
of Representatives -- represent one of the fastest emerging political forces in
the USA, in their heritage and their diversity. That diversity is evident in
their attitudes toward immigration.

Conversations with four lawmakers who are playing key roles in the immigration
debate and who represent a wide spectrum of Hispanic constituencies reveal a
range of deeply held feelings.

For Martinez, a conservative Republican who came to the USA as a teenage refugee
from Cuba, and Rep. Luis Gutierrez, a liberal Illinois Democrat whose Puerto
Rican parents moved to Chicago to "live the dream," a top priority is preserving
America's image as a beacon of hope for the world's dispossessed. Both back a
bipartisan immigration bill now being debated in the Senate. The bill would beef
up border security but also provide opportunities for more foreign workers to
take jobs in the USA, and for those who are currently living here illegally to
become citizens.

For Rep. Henry Bonilla, the Republican grandson of a migrant Mexican farmworker
whose south Texas district has been invaded by cross-border drug gang violence,
the top priority is securing the border. He is unapologetic about his support
for the House version of the immigration and border security bill. It would make
illegal immigration a felony and erect 700 miles of fencing along the
U.S.-Mexican border.

Rep. John Salazar, a Democrat whose family emigrated from Spain via Mexico
before the United States was a nation and has been farming the same Colorado
ranchland since the 1590s, was the only other Hispanic to support the bill when
the House passed it in December. He says he still has misgivings about his vote.

Four different lawmakers, four differing views that make a single point about
immigration: In this emotional debate, views are shaped more by the realities of
geography and personal experience than by partisan loyalties and ideology.

Henry Bonilla

Bonilla calls border security the top priority in his south Texas district.
According to a Department of Homeland Security report issued in March,
drug-related violence has surged along the Texas-Mexico border because of a war
between rival gangs. "This is not an ethnic issue," says Bonilla, a former San
Antonio TV journalist. "This is a national security issue."

Bonilla, 52, whose parents and great-grandparents came from Mexico, says he
supports expanding opportunities for foreigners to enter the country legally as
temporary workers. He says illegal immigration penalizes people such as many of
his constituents who waited "for many years" to become citizens. "I've already
heard from some of them who are resentful of anybody being moved up in the
line."

Stricter border enforcement must come first before he will back other
immigration changes. "What we need is a real strong signal from the White House
that they hear us on the threat to national security."

Luis Gutierrez

Gutierrez, 52, was born in Chicago to parents from the U.S. commonwealth of
Puerto Rico. Though their citizenship was never in question, Gutierrez says his
mother remembers looking for an apartment to rent and seeing signs that read:
"No dogs or Puerto Ricans."

The family returned to Puerto Rico in the 1960s and the teenage Gutierrez, who
didn't speak Spanish well, experienced the discomfiture of a newcomer.

Now, as the elected representative of a district in which there are many Mexican
immigrants, "when I see kids struggling with the language, I know how they
feel."

Gutierrez returned to Chicago after college and worked as a social worker, a
teacher and a cab driver before entering politics. He says he's helped 42,000
constituents apply for citizenship. He says that getting a handle on illegal
immigration will require providing more legal opportunities for foreigners to
work here and protecting illegal immigrants who are currently here from
exploitation. He believes they should have a chance to become citizens.

Mel Martinez

At a speech to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Martinez described how his
experience of arriving in the USA as a 16-year-old beneficiary of "Operation
Pedro Pan," an effort to rescue children from communist Cuba, has shaped his
view of the debate over whom to let into the country.

"It's a tough issue because there are those who feel that, frankly, we're full,"
Martinez said. "If that had been the prevailing view in 1962, I might not have
had the chance to be your senator."

Martinez, 59,  has parted company with some Republicans to lead the push for
President Bush's proposal for an expanded guest-worker program and a chance at
citizenship for illegal immigrants now here. An attorney who was mayor of
Orlando and secretary of Housing and Urban Development before entering the
Senate, Martinez says it's the only common-sense solution for a problem that's
too big to deport.

He's skeptical of plans to fortify the border.  "It won't be a legal workforce
building that wall," he says.

John Salazar

Salazar, 52, says he favors an immigration bill along the lines of Bush's
proposal. That would combine border security with expanded temporary worker
programs and a plan to legalize the nation's undocumented workers. His younger
brother, Sen. Ken Salazar, D-Colo., is a major backer of the bill.

John Salazar says he voted for the House bill, although he opposes its plans to
make illegal immigration a felony and build the  border fence, because he
"wanted to move the debate along."

"I knew a comprehensive immigration bill wasn't going to pass in the House," he
says. He hopes the Senate will send back a measure he likes better.

Salazar says he vacillated about his vote until the last minute. "I still have
mixed feelings," he says. As a rancher who harvests 2,000 acres of potatoes a
year, Salazar says he appreciates the need for more temporary agricultural
workers. "I basically support what the president wants to do."

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, 2003 USA TODAY photo
PHOTO, B/W, AP
PHOTO, B/W, USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              April 7, 2006 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                                 FINAL EDITION

Marriage fraud: Is anyone watching?

BYLINE: Elena Maria Lopez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 432 words


Even as the Senate and President Bush on Thursday were compromising on a
proposal  to restrict the number of foreigners allowed to remain in the USA, one
point was overlooked: There are no limits on foreign spouses. If  you can marry
a U.S. citizen or legal permanent resident (a "green card" holder), you're
guaranteed permanent access to the USA.

More foreigners gain  U.S. residency through marriage than any other way,
Department of Homeland Security data show. Marriage-based immigration accounted
for 37% of all legal immigration in 2004, more than refugees and asylum seekers
and employment-based immigrants  combined.

Yet, Congress and the Bush administration have been so focused on border fences,
guest-worker or amnesty programs that marriage-based immigration fraud has
largely gone unnoticed. Immigration officials described fraud as rampant in a
2002 GAO report. Marriage fraud accounted for approximately half of all
immigration fraud cases, the agency reported.

Marriage-based immigration has clear advantages:

*A foreigner who marries a U.S. citizen  can gain citizenship after two years
rather than the usual five-year waiting period.

*Cases of marriage fraud are rarely exposed.  Homeland Security says it
completed investigations of only 1% of marriage-based green cards in 2004.

A foreign-born spouse can apply for a green card after two years. Once approved,
he or she can begin sponsoring other family members to come to the USA.

"Marrying a U.S. citizen is one of the easiest ways to stay in the United States
once within the country's borders," said Janice Kephart, former counsel to the
9/11 Commission, in a 2005 report.

Kephart raises another caution about marriage fraud. After inspecting
immigration files, she discovered numerous instances of  immigration and
marriage fraud by suspected foreign-born terrorists operating in the USA from
the early 1990s to 2005. Of the 36 suspected terrorists who obtained green cards
or U.S. citizenship in the report, half acquired this status by marrying an
American -- 10 of them entering sham marriages.  Kephart's report was for the
Center for Immigration Studies, a think tank based in Washington, D.C., that
promotes tighter immigration controls.

The DHS needs to investigate more immigrant marriages, and Congress should
consider lengthening the time required for foreign-born spouses to gain a green
card and citizenship. If the love is real, a marriage surely will last a little
longer.

Elena Maria Lopez is a freelance journalist in the Philadelphia area. She's
working on a book about her green-card marriage and its aftermath.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 11, 2006



CORRECTION: A Forum column Friday on marriage-based immigration misstated the
length of the waiting period for citizenship. A foreigner who marries a U.S.
citizen must wait three years before becoming eligible for citizenship.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              April 7, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Advocates for migrants say feelings mixed;
But groups that support crackdown call Senate legislation 'a sell-out'

BYLINE: Tom Kenworthy and Haya El Nasser

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 607 words


Lydia Hernandez, an organizer for the Arizona Coalition for Migrant Rights, was
working on her computer in her Phoenix home Thursday when her husband alerted
her to the news that the Senate had reached a compromise on immigration reform.

Her immediate reaction was that the Senate breakthrough would galvanize
participation in Monday's march in support of immigrant rights.

"It's going to add to the energy," said Hernandez, who is helping organize one
of about 100 marches planned across the nation. "It's going to add to the
momentum right now, and that's what we need."

Like many in the Hispanic community, Hernandez views the Senate deal as a
positive but imperfect step. She's wary of some of the proposed requirements
that immigrants in the USA illegally for two to five years would have to step
out of the country to apply for a work visa.

"It makes people have to jump through a lot of hoops to get on the pathway to
residency," said Brent Wilkes, executive director of the League of United Latin
American Citizens (LULAC), the nation's oldest Hispanic advocacy group. "It's
tough, as an advocate, to turn away something that may provide (residency)
opportunity for 6 (million) or 7 million people. We're not going to turn our
noses at this."

Some groups that support cracking down on illegal immigrants immediately opposed
the Senate bill. The Federation for American Immigration Reform said the
Senate's compromise would amount to amnesty for those in the country illegally.
Dan Stein, president of FAIR, called the proposal "both a sell-out of the
American middle class and an invitation to massive fraud."

Jim Gilchrist, founder of the Minuteman Project that has sent observers to
monitor the U.S.-Mexican border, predicted any action by Congress this year
would make little difference in slowing illegal immigration.  "There will be
almost no law enforcement of these laws if they are passed. ... This is just an
illusion of security," he said.

Son Ah Yun, director of immigration for the Center for Community Change, a
national coalition of immigrant rights advocates that's helping coordinate
protest marches, calls the measure "alarming."

"It divides the community three different ways," she says. "It doesn't make any
sense. ... We need a pathway to citizenship for immigrants that makes sense."

The Senate plan could create a messy process, Wilkes said. "How are they going
to know who's been in the country five years or not?"

Any Senate bill would have to merge with a House measure passed in December that
centers on securing the borders and enforcing immigration laws. The House bill
has angered Hispanics and has sparked protest rallies.

Cardinal Roger Mahony, the Roman Catholic archbishop of Los Angeles, said the
Senate had made "real progress." Mahony, who has advocated changes in
immigration law, urged Congress not to weaken the Senate's legalization
provisions.

"We're seeing a bipartisan group of senators working to bring about positive
reform. That's the good news," says Flavia Jimenez of the National Council of La
Raza. "But, and it's a big 'but,' we have major concerns. Many of the harsh
measures may still be on the table."

Rallies scheduled for Monday will go as planned, said Lester Garcia, organizer
with Inner City Struggle, an East Los Angeles community group. "These are
honest, hard-working people who want to contribute to America," he said.

The immigration issue has galvanized Latinos and unleashed an unprecedented wave
of activism.  "The question is, will they quiet down" after Congress passes a
bill, LULAC's Wilkes asked. "Or will there be a continuing wave of Latinos who
exercise their newfound voice?"

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Jason Reed, Reuters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 14, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Plight of 'legal' immigrants lost in debate

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20A

LENGTH: 1093 words


Recent Senate discussions and news reports regarding immigration are very
disheartening and perplexing to us "legals" ("Historic rallies voice a 'dream',"
News, Tuesday).

For the past two weeks, all we have heard about are the proposed "rights" of the
illegal immigrants who are marching through the streets. Well, excuse me, but
what about the rights of the legal immigrants?

They are the millions of people who entered the USA legally, have work permits,
are professionals or have been sponsored by family members. They are the people
whose applications languish because of red tape and extremely long processing
delays.

They are the people who require employer letters, work permits, TN visas, H1B
permits, labor certification, state wage board approval and so on through the
bureaucratic maze. They are the people who have to hire attorneys at thousands
of dollars to help them interpret and file required forms.

It is all of us legal immigrants who should be protesting. Our rights -- those
of the people who are caught up in the quagmire of immigration applications --
should also be considered.

A case in point is my grandfather's experience. He came to the USA in 1939 and
was entitled to U.S. citizenship but did not obtain it because of the
government's misfiling of his application for more than six years.

And what about my ability to claim my U.S. citizenship through him? Our rights
were not protected.

How many thousands of similar cases are out there for which no one speaks up?

But, oh yes, let's not forget about the rights of those who sneaked across the
border.

Kris Kaszuba

Point Roberts, Wash.

Illegals are lawbreakers

I am in favor of immigration, but immigration is a legal process associated with
entering a country. What we're being forced to consider is not immigration. It
is surreptitious entry.

In recent weeks, we have been fed a steady stream of misinformation that
characterizes proposed legislation as the "criminalization" of as many as 12
million people. That is patently false. People who are here illegally are
already criminals by virtue of their method of entry into this country; we
already have laws in place that make that distinction. The very fact that they
are called "illegals," even in the migrant community, is a recognition of this
fact. And yet, we hear many elected officials trying to rationalize acceptance
of a lower standard.

Our laws provide for legal migration into our country. Our laws provide
expedited entry for those fleeing political and religious persecution. That is
compassionate and charitable.

But, as the saying goes, charity begins at home. Forcing legal Americans to
continue to underwrite hundreds of millions of dollars' worth of medical,
educational and social assistance for illegals who, contrary to the current line
of misinformation, have not paid taxes on the funds they shipped back to their
home country is not compassionate. It is insanity.

The bottom line: Illegals are not pilgrims, as some have tried to characterize
them. They are just illegal.

Doug Kuiphoff

Grand Rapids, Mich.

Immigrants' contribution

It is morally wrong to call people who come here to work "burglars," as one
recent letter to the editor did, because the majority of these illegal
immigrants take work that nobody likes to do ("'We are a nation of laws',"
Monday).

Most opponents of illegal immigration are those who have always worked in the
comfort of a climate-controlled environment. They should stop to think a little
about how they get their produce at the supermarket: most likely, via illegal
immigrants laboring under the searing sun for more than 10 hours and making
minimum wage or less.

Let's put hypocrisy aside and admit that just a handful of Americans would work
in the fields even if the wages were tripled, not to mention we'd also have to
pay three times the current price for a pound of fruit or vegetables so farmers
could cover the increase in salaries.

Instead of being so critical, opponents should try to find a realistic solution.
Labeling people is easy, but it doesn't help.

Marco Antonio Cruz

Chicago

'Politics as usual'

There are powerful and convincing arguments on both sides of the illegal
immigration issue. Too bad we don't have the wisdom of Solomon. The only thing
most reasonable people, including members of Congress, agree on is the need to
secure U.S. borders to safeguard against terrorists and criminals. After that,
it's self-interest and ideology that polarize the debate.

Those who support the illegal immigrants argue that the USA needs these workers.
They also point to their children, who are now U.S. citizens. This draws upon
our sympathies and presents a real dilemma.

Those who are against the illegal immigrants base their position on the rule of
law. How often have we heard, "We can't reward people for breaking the law"?

Whether we like it or not, the reality is that illegal immigrants are here in
big numbers and are important to many segments of our economy. That trumps the
practicality of current law.

At the end of the day, the jockeying in Washington by both political parties to
change the law is simply to see which position will be viewed most favorably by
Spanish-speaking voters. I'm afraid it's politics as usual -- and illegal
immigrants will continue to pour across our southern border regardless of
barriers we might spend billions of dollars to erect.

Bob Routsong

St. George, Utah

Legal entry is OK

While the USA is a nation of immigrants, it is a country of legal immigrants.

I do not subscribe to the theme that illegal immigrants want to take only the
low-paying jobs. The last time I checked, a number of our good-paying jobs went
south of the border.

Illegal immigration is wrong. I do not want to pick up the tab for food,
medicine and shelter for a group that enters the country illegally.

I embrace those who come to our country legally. That is how my forefathers
came: legally.

Don Gillies

Evansville, Ind.

Come, but learn English

I don't have any problem with our "guests" from other countries. I think the
mixture of cultures is beneficial for this country. I do have a problem,
however, with the people in this area who have been here for many years who
refuse to learn English.

If people want to be in this country so badly, they need to assimilate and
become "American." This means following laws, being good citizens and speaking
English.

If I went to Mexico City and decided to stay there, city residents would not
switch to speaking English for me. I would be expected to learn Spanish.

Yes, come to America -- but learn the language.

D. Ezell

Huntsville, Ala.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Steven Senne, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 26, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Stingy immigration policy stifles U.S. innovation

BYLINE: Scott McNealy and Lezlee Westine

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 631 words


What do the founders of Intel, Sun Microsystems and Google -- Andy Grove, Andy
Bechtolsheim, Vinod Khosla and Sergey Brin -- have in common with Albert
Einstein and Wernher von Braun? All are part of America's tradition of welcoming
talented immigrants who have made  significant contributions to our industry.

Einstein changed the way we look at science and energy; von Braun was the father
of the U.S. space program; and Grove, Bechtolsheim, Khosla and Brin are among
the many giants who have changed the high-tech industry.

The innovative companies they built  created thousands of jobs and have a
combined market cap of $250 billion. But our longstanding tradition of being an
open door for innovation is at risk.

Today's broken immigration system closes the door on foreign-born innovators.
With arbitrary visa limits and clogged processing, opportunity is knocking at
our door and we're fumbling with the keys.

It wasn't always this way.  Several of our nation's Nobel laureates are
foreign-born. The past half-century of scientific research success that has made
our universities the beacon of innovation would not have occurred but for the
contributions of foreign-born students. And the efforts of Grove, Bechtolsheim,
Khosla and Brin alone have generated thousands of U.S. jobs and hundreds of
millions in U.S. tax revenue.

So  why the conflict between our laws and our policy?

First, the world is catching on to the job-creating benefits of a strong math
and science education. China and India are graduating hundreds of thousands of
engineers each year. In addition, they and other nations have established
generous tax incentives to lure research and development into their countries.
These factors have made the competition for talent global.

Second, our past success breeds the potential for the next "big thing" in fields
such as  biotechnology, nanotechnology and biophysics. By 2012, it's projected
that the demand for technical jobs in science and engineering will increase by
more than 25%, and 39% in math and computer science. Factor in the tech rebound,
and the need will be even greater.

What happened the last time we saw demand for these professionals soar? Congress
created a visa program for immigrants who had unique technical knowledge, a
bachelor's degree and a job offer in the USA.

Under the current system, the federal government provides 65,000 H-1B visas each
year, beginning Oct. 1. Yet the visas made available last October were spoken
for almost two months before that, which means our open door for innovation is
temporarily closed for 14 months.

For foreign-born students graduating from a U.S. college  in June, the H-1B
limitations make it difficult for them to find jobs here.  We're even closing
the door on those with H-1Bs visas who seek permanent U.S. residency because of
extended delays in a system designed largely in 1990, when our workforce and
economic needs were different.

For the U.S. high-tech community, these laws present a difficult choice:
Innovate or perish. If we can't find professionals to do the job here in the
USA, many will simply move the job to the qualified workers overseas.

A new study by the National Foundation for American Policy, a non-profit
organization, has concluded that the laws are forcing good-paying, job-creating
positions offshore. We know that the long-term solution is investing in
educational programs  in math, science and engineering. But we won't see the
fruits of those investments for at least a decade.

In the short term, we should align our immigration laws with our economic needs.
What Congress does now will determine whether our nation stays competitive in
the global economy. Without innovation, we have nothing.

Lezlee Westine is CEO of TechNet, and Scott McNealy is chairman  of Sun
Microsystems.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Getty Images
PHOTO, B/W

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 2, 2006 Tuesday
                                 CHASE EDITION

From coast to coast, 'we need to be heard'

BYLINE: Judy Keen and Martin Kasindorf

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 991 words


From New York

and Los Angeles

to Storm Lake,

Iowa, immigrants

and supporters

raise their voices

More than a million supporters of immigrant rights boycotted businesses and
schools or attended rallies in at least 40 states Monday, closing businesses
from Providence to San Diego and taking to streets  from Anchorage to Atlanta.

The protests, called "A Day Without Immigrants" or el gran paro -- "the big
stop" -- were meant to disrupt commerce and highlight the U.S. economy's
reliance on immigrant workers.

Police estimated that more than 600,000 marched in Los Angeles and 400,000 in
Chicago. Supporters in New York City formed human chains on sidewalks to protest
a bill passed by the House of Representatives that would make illegal
immigration a felony. Thousands more filled Manhattan's Union Square.

Debate in Congress over changes in immigration law has "woken up a sleeping
giant," said Raul Garcia, 38, who joined the Chicago crowd. "We can make a
difference."

In Los Angeles, the wholesale produce market and garment factories closed, ports
were quiet, and traffic eased. More than 600,000 attended two marches, police
said. The Los Angeles Unified School District, which is 73% Hispanic, said 27%
of middle- and high-school students were absent.

Some companies closed in anticipation of worker absences. Perdue Farms closed
eight of its 14 chicken processing plants, Goya Foods halted deliveries, and
Tyson Foods shut 12 of 100 plants. But casinos in Las Vegas stayed open. Julie
Craven of Hormel Foods said the company's 22 plants were open and had fewer
absences than on a typical Monday.

Some supporters of immigrant rights, including Cardinal Roger Mahony of Los
Angeles, were cautious about endorsing boycotts. Organizers in Chicago promoted
the march instead. Sen. Mel Martinez, R-Fla., who came to the USA as a Cuban
refugee, called boycotts counterproductive. "This is an issue that isn't going
to get fixed on the streets," he said. Scott McClellan, President Bush's
spokesman, said Bush "is not a fan of boycotts."

Most gatherings were festive and peaceful. In Denver, where about 75,000
attended a rally, Mayor John Hickenlooper said the gathering "wasn't about anger
or about hate."

There were some counterdemonstrations. About 200 people -- some with signs that
read "What part of illegal don't you understand?" -- were in Centennial Park in
Fort Myers, Fla. In Denver, about 50 people gathered to object to illegal
immigration. Annette Palmer, 49, said she lost her telemarketing job last summer
because she couldn't speak Spanish and refused to take lessons. "I can't even
get a job now at McDonald's because they want bilingual," she said.

In Los Angeles, accountant Melrose Larry Green, 55, waved a handwritten sign
reading, "Get in line." He said immigrants cost the USA "millions of dollars."
Noel Breen, 49, general manager of a Radisson Hotel in Whittier, Calif.,
disagreed. "These people work their butts off," he said. "Without them, the
hospitality industry in this country would be out of business."

Harry Holzer, a professor of public policy at Georgetown University in
Washington, said many studies show immigrant labor has little impact on
U.S.-born workers with at least a high school education, but that immigrant
workers help keep down the cost of food, housing, child care and other services.

"The costs and the benefits to the overall U.S. economy are not large," but
legal immigrants and their children contribute more to the economy over the long
term than they take from it, he said.

The impact of the protests was felt in communities of every size:

*About 4,500 people participated in a rally in Atlanta. The crowd was much
smaller than the estimated 30,000-40,000 who attended a march April 10. Armado
Topete, 45, lost about $2,000 by closing his bridal shop in Norcross, Ga., for
the day. Topete, a U.S. citizen, said it was important to speak out for other
immigrants. "We pay taxes," he said. "We do everything for this country. We want
respect."

*About half the 1,600 hourly workers at Tanimura & Antle, a large vegetable
grower in Salinas, Calif., took the day off. "We sat down with everybody and
talked to them and supported them in what they wanted to do," said Ken Silveira,
company president.

Manuel Cunha, president of the Nisei Farm League, which represents 1,000 growers
in California's Central Valley, said some could be hurt. "One day will not
destroy a business," he said. "But one day could hurt a business because of
trying to pick up lost time."

*Hundreds of students at White Plains (N.Y.) High School walked out after their
first class and marched to the courthouse. "It's the right thing to do," said
Nayal Howard, 18.

*At Elementary School 96 in Indianapolis, where more than half the students are
Hispanic, about a quarter of students were absent. Students at George Washington
Community School there  wore white T-shirts, the unofficial uniform of the
protesters.

*David Watkins of Merrifield Garden Center in Merrifield, Va., had five
landscaping crews at work instead of the usual 60. "The ultimate impact of not
having that labor force was tremendous," he said. "If it lasted any length of
time, we'd be in trouble."

*In Bonita Springs, Fla., some immigrant laborers gathered as usual, hoping for
work. "If we don't work, we don't eat," said Rodriguez Lopez, 44.

*In Storm Lake, Iowa, 400 to 500 immigration supporters marched. Some Tyson
Foods workers complained about the plant's closure. "Mexicans were in the hall
shouting, 'Yeah, we did it!' But I'll be out $130 because of it. Why am I losing
money?" Robin Book said.

*In Phoenix, protesters gathered at Home Depot and Wal-Mart stores to form human
chains. Trinidad Monge, 52, said she closed her beauty shop to "help people get
their papers to work legally."

Gilberto Villasenor of V & V Supremo Foods in Chicago gave his 200 workers the
day off with pay. "We need to be heard," he said.

Keen reported from Chicago, Kasindorf from Los Angeles

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 1, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration bills curb court reviews

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 320 words


WASHINGTON -- Immigration legislation now before Congress is threatening a
long-standing safeguard to keep politics out of final decisions about who
becomes an American, legal experts and immigrant rights advocates say.

The House and Senate have passed immigration bills that would reduce or
eliminate federal courts' ability to intervene when immigration officials decide
that applicants for citizenship lack "good moral character," a legal
requirement.

Critics of the proposed change contend the final say of a subjective standard
should not be left to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, whose director
is a presidential appointee.

"Should you have a political branch of the government deciding who gets to
vote?" Seattle immigration lawyer Robert Gibbs said.

Current law allows immigrants denied citizenship to request a court review of
their cases.

The House bill would eliminate that possibility. Under the Senate bill,
authority of the courts would be "severely limited," says David Leopold of the
American Immigration Lawyers Association. American Bar Association President
Michael Greco says it "would take away meaningful judicial review."

Emilio Gonzalez, director of the immigration service, said his agency is already
straining to eliminate backlogs and keep up with 7 million applications a year
for visas, work permits and other benefits. "You should have some limit on the
review process."

Last year, the immigration service approved 594,260 citizenship applications and
denied 108,058. Of the denials, 10,151 requested new hearings before a different
immigration adjudicator; 6,367 obtained citizenship.

Immigration attorneys insist court review is needed. Gibbs won a class-action
case last year over the denial of citizenship to Washington state immigrants.
"Our poster-child plaintiff had a misdemeanor ticket for being eight over the
limit of oysters permitted to be picked up from the beach," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 8, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Task forces aim to fight immigration fraud

BYLINE: Donna Leiwnand

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 536 words


WASHINGTON -- U.S. officials are beefing up efforts to stop immigration fraud
partly out of concern that proposals before Congress could create a boon for
document forgers.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement has created 10 anti-fraud task forces across
the nation in addition to the existing unit in Washington, D.C. The task forces
have opened 250 probes since they began work in April, says Special Agent Scott
Weber, chief of identity and benefit fraud for ICE.

The rising concern over immigration fraud comes as Congress considers a plan to
give many of the estimated 12 million undocumented immigrants a chance to stay
legally as guest workers or residents, depending on how long they have lived and
worked here. A new law could increase demand for documentation among immigrants
seeking to prove their length of residency.

Immigration fraud is "a problem of epidemic proportions," says ICE Assistant
Secretary Julie Myers. "There's no question it will be a tremendous increase in
workload."

On Wednesday, ICE agents arrested 27 people and shut down a Queens, N.Y.-based
immigration agency called Help Preparers Professional Services. An indictment
unsealed Wednesday alleges that the agency arranged more than 200 fake marriages
and sold more than $1 million in bogus "green cards," marriage and birth
certificates, bank letters and employment records.

Customers allegedly paid Beverly Mozer-Browne, 49, of Brooklyn, up to $16,000 to
create fake documents and to move them through the immigration process, the
indictment says. Agents also arrested Mozer-Browne's brother, Phillip Browne,
40, of Kissimmee, Fla., who as an adjudication officer for U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services allegedly approved the applications. Attempts to reach them
for comment were unsuccessful.

The amount and sophistication of immigration fraud is increasing, ICE officials
say. ICE conducted 2,334 fraud probes in 2004 and 3,591 in 2005. Some of the
most sophisticated operations are run by smuggling rings, Weber says.

"There's clearly an organized criminal element," says Assistant U.S. Attorney
Joseph Mackey in Denver. He prosecuted the leader of a Mexico-based document
mill that had outlets across the USA and that he says had become increasingly
adept.

"They produced very impressive Social Security cards, driver's licenses from all
50 states," he says.

Groups that oppose the plan before Congress say it would not do enough to
prevent fraud.

"Any guest-worker or amnesty program would lead to fraud on a scale unheard of
in American history," says Mark Krikorian of the Center for Immigration Studies,
a think tank in Washington that supports tighter immigration controls. "The
likelihood is that demonstrating you've been here will be done by pay stub or
utility bill or phone bill. ... If you think a driver's license is easy to
forge, think how easy it would be to forge a telephone bill."

Cecilia Muooz of the National Council of La Raza, a Washington-based civil
rights organization, counters that a new law would remove the incentive for
illegals to commit fraud. If the path to legal status is accessible and the
penalties for fraud are stiff, undocumented workers will be motivated to go
through the system, she says.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 13, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration takes center stage in Colorado;
Elections will reflect debate's effects on state

BYLINE: Tom Kenworthy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 802 words


DENVER -- When 75,000 people marched on the Colorado Capitol six weeks ago  for
immigrant rights, it showed how big the issue of immigration is in this
non-border state.

Some of the state's politicians are leading the drive for immigration changes
nationwide. And the state had been planning a showdown over a ballot initiative
to prohibit illegal immigrants from receiving some government services.

But the Colorado Supreme Court on Monday rejected the controversial measure,
ruling 5-2 that it violates a constitutional requirement that initiatives deal
with just one subject.

Even without the measure on the November ballot, Colorado voters are likely to
remain at the center of the USA's boisterous immigration debate. The contentious
issue could be a factor in competitive elections here for governor, Congress and
control of the Legislature.

"It's an issue that kind of exploded here," says Katy Atkinson, a Republican
consultant in Denver. "This will still be an issue, especially in federal races
and the governor's race."

Dick Lamm, a former three-term governor who was helping lead the group pushing
the initiative, Defend Colorado Now, called the ruling "outrageous judicial
activism." He conceded that the chances of resurrecting the measure this year
"are dim."

Federico Peoa, a former Denver mayor who chairs the group opposing the measure,
Keep Colorado Safe, hailed the ruling as "a victory for all of Colorado." Peoa,
who was a Cabinet secretary in the Clinton administration, said Hispanics in
Colorado "feel under attack."

Hispanic influence in Colorado is longstanding, dating to land grants issued by
Spain, when it controlled southern Colorado as part of its New Mexico Territory.
The land-grant system was continued by Mexico after it won independence from
Spain in 1821. Land grants fostered early immigration from Mexico, particularly
in southern Colorado's San Luis Valley.

Today, immigration is a major issue here for several reasons:

*The state's Hispanic population is growing -- up to 19% in 2004 from 5.8% in
1980, according to the Census. Colorado has been a magnet because of economic
opportunity and "a very strong multi-generational Hispanic base," Peoa said.

*Two national leaders in the drive to crack down on illegal immigration hail
from Colorado: U.S. Rep. Tom Tancredo, a Republican and a high-profile spokesman
for tougher measures, and Lamm, co-director of a public policy institute at the
University of Denver who has long argued that illegal immigration depresses U.S.
wages.

*A history of tension includes a 2002 ballot effort to end bilingual education
and the 2005 murder of a Denver police officer, allegedly by an illegal
immigrant from Mexico who will stand trial in September.

The ballot measure would have limited the "provision of non-emergency services"
by state and local governments to U.S. citizens and immigrants lawfully residing
here. It would not apply to federally mandated services such as public education
and emergency medical care, or major state services such as welfare and food
stamps that illegal immigrants already cannot receive.

Democratic political consultant Rick Ridder says that even without the ballot
measure, "immigration will still be an issue. Whether or not it is front and
center is yet to be seen."

In November, Colorado voters decide who will replace Republican Gov. Bill Owens,
who can't run again because of term limits. Also at stake is whether Democrats
keep control of the Legislature, which they captured in 2004 for the first time
in 40 years. There's an open U.S. House seat now held by Rep. Bob Beauprez, a
Republican who is running for governor.

Democratic candidate for governor Bill Ritter, a former Denver district
attorney, opposed the ballot initiative, calling it a "symbolic" response to a
problem that can only be solved in Washington. Beauprez, his most likely
opponent in the November election, favored it. Beauprez also voted for the tough
House bill passed in December that would make illegal immigration a felony and
emphasizes border security.

Eric Sondermann, a Denver political analyst who is non-partisan, says
immigration "poses tricky dynamics to both candidates, but is a slightly greater
challenge to Ritter." Blue-collar Democrats could defect to the GOP if they
perceive Beauprez as tougher on immigration, he said.

Ritter predicts many voters will see immigration as a federal issue with no
connection to state races.

Nonetheless, he says, "it will be part of the conversation" and could pose
problems for all Republican candidates.

The death of the ballot initiative should lead to a more decorous debate on
immigration, says political consultant Manolo Gonzalez-Estay, lead plaintiff in
the suit decided by Monday. "Now we can have an educated, rational discussion
about how we find real solutions," he says.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Marcy E. Mullins, USA TODAY, Source: Census Bureau (Bar
graph)
PHOTO, B/W, Jack Dempsey, AP
PHOTO, B/W, Chris Schneider, Rocky Mountain News via AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            June 14, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration law fight may spur Colo. session

BYLINE: John Bacon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 751 words


Colorado Gov. Bill Owens said Tuesday he will call a special legislative session
unless the Colorado Supreme Court reverses its "arrogant" decision to throw out
a November ballot measure that would ask voters to deny most state services to
illegal immigrants.

Owens, a Republican, said the court imposed its own views in Monday's decision.
The proposed constitutional amendment would not stop the state from paying for
federally mandated services such as public education or emergency medical care.
But supporters said it would prevent illegal immigrants from receiving welfare
and in-state college tuition rates. The court said the measure cannot appear on
the Nov. 7 ballot because it violates a requirement that initiatives deal with
only one subject. If a special session is called, the measure requires a
two-thirds vote in both houses, controlled by Democrats, to make the ballot.

Harvard plans to aid women, minorities

Harvard University outlined plans to expand child care and other faculty
support, detailing how it would begin spending $50 million that President
Lawrence Summers committed last year to help female and minority employees. The
cost of the initial effort totals $7.5million. It includes a 53% increase in
child care scholarships, plus other steps such as funding for child care grants
when faculty and staff travel to professional conferences. The programs are
outlined in the first report of Harvard's new office of faculty development and
diversity, which was created by Summers last year in the wake of the uproar over
his comments that genetics might help explain why fewer women than men reach top
scientific posts. Summers' clashes with faculty -- including over women in
science -- led to his resignation. He leaves office June 30.

Former Atlanta mayor sentenced to prison

Former Atlanta mayor Bill Campbell was sentenced to 2 1/2 years in prison and
fined $6,300 for tax evasion. Campbell, 52, was cleared in March of charges he
lined his pockets with payoffs while mayor from 1994 to 2002, but he was
convicted of failing to pay taxes on what prosecutors said were ill-gotten
gains. While praising some of Campbell's accomplishments, federal Judge Richard
Story said he was overcome with a "pall of disappointment over the breadth of
misconduct in Bill Campbell's administration." Campbell said he was confident he
would prevail on appeal.

Panel: Controversial prof should be fired

A University of Colorado committee recommended Tuesday firing a professor who
called some of the World Trade Center victims "little Eichmanns." The
recommendation from the school's Standing Committee on Research Misconduct,
which cited repeated research misconduct, goes to university officials for a
final decision. The panel did not address Ward Churchill's essay that included
the "little Eichmanns," a reference to Adolf Eichmann, who carried out Adolf
Hitler's plan to exterminate European Jews. Churchill, a tenured professor of
ethnic studies, denied the claims and has vowed to fight his dismissal with a
lawsuit. "Baloney. That's my one-word response," he said.

Jail addition could curb 'catch and release'

The company that runs a border correctional facility in Texas announced it is
adding hundreds of beds to accommodate a crackdown on non-Mexican illegal
immigrants. GEO Group said it is adding 576 beds to its 875-bed Val Verde
Correctional Facility, which primarily holds federal detainees. The $30 million
expansion has been approved by the Val Verde County Commissioner's Court, and
company officials said the expansion was expected to be completed by 2008. While
Mexican illegal immigrants are quickly sent back, immigrants from other
countries have routinely been processed by Customs and Border Protection
officials and released with a notice to appear before an immigration judge
later. The "catch and release" system has been blamed on a lack of detention
space.

Explosion of 767 engine draws probe

Federal crash investigators are examining why an engine on an American Airlines
Boeing 767 exploded at Los Angeles International Airport on June 2, igniting a
fire and throwing shrapnel thousands of feet. No one was injured in the
accident, which occurred during a maintenance test. Pieces of a fan blade
punched holes in the plane and damaged the plane's other jet engine. The
National Transportation Safety Board said it has found signs that engine parts
had cracked before the failure. Federal rules require that engines be designed
to contain shrapnel if they fail.--Alan Levin

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Bob Riha Jr., Children's Hospital Los Angeles, via AP
PHOTO, B/W, Kathy Willens, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NATIONLINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 11, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Start-ups strong in USA, softer abroad

BYLINE: Jim Hopkins

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 357 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- U.S. entrepreneurship is growing while Western Europe's
start-up activity is threatened by aging populations there, says a study with
implications for the debate on immigration reform.

The U.S. population also is aging with the graying of more than 75 million baby
boomers. But the USA's more liberal policy on immigration is providing a steady
source of young people more likely to start companies.

The study, by researchers at Babson College near Boston and Canada's University
of Waterloo, comes as Congress debates restrictions on immigration that could
dampen entrepreneurship, says Babson economics professor Maria Minniti.

"I think that would be a disaster," Minniti said of a bill passed by the House
of Representatives late last year that could significantly restrict the number
of immigrants coming to and staying in the USA.

A bill passed by the Senate in May would be less restrictive.

Historically, entrepreneurship in the USA has been highest among immigrants
launching grocery stores, construction companies and other businesses serving
their communities.

For example, the number of Hispanic-owned firms -- many started by Mexican
immigrants whether here legally or illegally -- soared to 1.6 million from 1997
to 2002, the Census Bureau said this spring. That 31% jump was three times the
growth of all firms.

"This is a country of immigrants," Minniti says. "They replenish the core of the
population that is more likely to generate businesses." Immigrants tend to be
younger and have more children, creating generations of future entrepreneurs.

Birthrates in Germany, Italy and many Scandinavian countries have declined
significantly. But those nations have not benefited from an influx immigrants,
like those coming to the USA, Minniti says

While self-employment rises among older Americans, the highest start-up activity
is among those 25 to 34 years old in the USA and in 39 other nations that
Minniti studied.

Many of those start-ups will fail, she says. But in attempting to launch them,
young entrepreneurs perfect innovations and create more seasoned managers that
over time make the U.S. economy more efficient.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 4, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Justices open term, hear case about drugs, deportation

BYLINE: Joan Biskupic

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 610 words


WASHINGTON -- The Supreme Court heard its first arguments of the 2006-07 term on
Tuesday in a spirited session that focused on whether foreigners who are in this
country legally should be deported automatically if they are convicted of drug
possession.

All of the justices except the typically silent Clarence Thomas jumped into the
discussion, which revealed some of the ideological divisions on the nine-member
court.

The case tests provisions of anti-drug and immigration laws and could have
significant consequences for legal permanent residents, or "green card" holders,
who are found guilty of relatively low-level crimes. If the justices rule that
drug possession could amount to an "aggravated felony," it would cause many
convicted immigrants to be routinely deported, and prevent them from appealing
to an immigration judge.

Tuesday's dispute involves legal immigrants, but it arises against a backdrop of
concern over policies related to border security and illegal immigration.

The question for the justices is whether a drug-possession offense that is a
felony under state law but would be a misdemeanor under federal law rises to the
level of illicit trafficking, making it an "aggravated felony" and requiring
mandatory banishment for a legal immigrant who is not a U.S. citizen.

Jose Antonio Lopez, a Mexican national, was convicted in South Dakota of aiding
and abetting possession of cocaine. Reymundo Toledo-Flores, also from Mexico,
was convicted in Texas of possessing cocaine. Federal appeals courts ruled that
their offenses could be considered aggravated felonies for deportation purposes,
based on the respective states' laws. Other appeals courts, however, have ruled
the opposite, saying that an offense qualifies as an "aggravated felony" only if
it would be punishable as a felony under the federal Controlled Substances Act.
Drug possession is a misdemeanor under the act.

Attorneys for Lopez and Toledo-Flores argued that Congress did not want
possession of a drug to be regarded as an aggravated felony for deportation
purposes. They stressed the importance of uniform standards tied to federal law,
rather than to state codes that would cause some legal immigrants who had
committed the same offenses to be automatically deported in some states, but not
in others.

Deputy U.S. Solicitor General Edwin Kneedler argued that Congress intended "any
felony" to trigger the automatic deportation provision, whether under state or
federal law. He said Congress sought to cover large categories of state criminal
conduct.

The court's more liberal justices appeared most skeptical of that argument.

"It seems to me unseemly in the immigration context," Justice Ruth Bader
Ginsburg said, "to say that two people who have committed the identical act" can
be treated differently "because of the happenstance of the states in which they
were convicted."

Justice David Souter questioned whether Congress would have written laws that
classified drug possession as a misdemeanor, but then allowed it to be termed an
"aggravated felony" for deportations. "The problem here is that state and
federal laws are at odds on determining the gravity of the offense," he said.

The court's newest conservative justices, Chief Justice John Roberts and Samuel
Alito, joined Justice Antonin Scalia in appearing most sympathetic to the
government's position.

Roberts suggested by his questions that the automatic deportation provision
could be triggered by state or federal felonies. Alito, beginning his first full
term on the bench, said Congress could have wanted the term "illicit
trafficking" broadly interpreted "so that it can include mere possession
offenses."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W, Tim Dillon, USA TODAY (2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 6, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Lawmaker's wife: Scam led to deportation mix-up

BYLINE: Larry Copeland

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 448 words


ATLANTA -- The national immigration debate often focuses on efforts to stop
thousands of people from illegally crossing the border each year. But some
people who have spent years in the USA still have to fear a knock on the door.

The wife of a Georgia state senator went into hiding last week when she learned
that federal immigration officers were trying to serve a deportation order on
her.

The drama came to a temporary end Tuesday when Sascha Herrera, the Colombia-born
wife of state Sen. Curt Thompson, turned herself in. Herrera, 27, was freed
after an interview with a federal immigration judge and attorneys for
Immigration and Customs Enforcement. Herrera is technically still in deportation
proceedings until a hearing can be held on her husband's petition to establish
permanent residency for her, said her attorney, Charles Kuck.

Thompson, a Democrat whose metro Atlanta district includes large immigrant
communities, has been a passionate voice for immigration rights in a state that
this year passed one of the nation's most stringent laws against illegal
immigrants.

"Like the president, I believe we need a comprehensive solution on immigration,"
Thompson said after his wife's release. "Building a fence (at the border) would
not have helped this situation with my wife."

Thompson said he and his wife didn't know there was a problem with her
immigration status until federal officers knocked on their door Nov. 28. She was
not home at the time.

The deportation order was prompted by Herrera's repeated failure to appear
before a judge on an application for asylum, which Kuck said she didn't know had
been filed.

Herrera came to the USA on a visitor's visa in 2003, Kuck said. She was duped by
a "notario," a man who pretended that he was qualified to handle her application
for a visa extension, he said. She then signed an application for asylum at the
notario's suggestion but decided not to proceed, Kuck said.

In 2004, she was accepted as a student at Kennesaw State University, which
obtained a student visa for her. She and Thompson, 37, were married in April. He
applied for her to become a permanent resident, he said.

"Immigration was renewing my wife's student visa at the same time they had a
deportation order for her," Thompson said.

The immigration agency has declined to comment on the case.

Problems with "notarios" are common, said Michael Fix, vice president of the
Migration Policy Institute, a non-partisan think tank. "That has given rise to
some of the legislation emerging at the state and local level now," he says.
There (are) a lot of consumer protection bills ... that regulate the giving of
poor advice on immigration issues."

*Court rules on deportation, 4A

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Ric Feld, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 6, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Justices rule on deporting

BYLINE: Joan Biskupic

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 396 words


WASHINGTON -- The Supreme Court ruled Tuesday that a foreign national living
here legally should not be automatically deported if he is convicted of a
low-level drug offense that would be a misdemeanor under federal law.

The 8-1 decision could affect thousands of permanent legal immigrants, often
known as green-card holders, who, because of certain state convictions, face
deportation without a chance to plead their case before a judge.

The ruling ensures that legal immigrants can fight deportation after they have
been convicted of simple drug possession or other offenses that are misdemeanors
under the federal Controlled Substances Act even though they are classified as
felonies in a state law.

The decision, drawing the dissent of only Justice Clarence Thomas, rejected a
position taken by the Bush administration and resolved a split in views among
lower courts.

Federal law requires green-card holders who have been convicted of an
"aggravated felony" to be deported without an opportunity for appeal. The case
tested whether simple drug possession could rise to the level of "illicit
trafficking" and an "aggravated felony" because the offense was a state felony.

Jose Antonio Lopez, a Mexican national who became a legal permanent U.S.
resident in 1990, was convicted in South Dakota of aiding and abetting
possession of cocaine. He was sentenced to five years in prison and released
after 15 months for good conduct.

Federal officials began the deportation process, contending that the felony
status of drug possession in South Dakota qualified it as an "aggravated felony"
requiring Lopez's mandatory banishment.

Justice David Souter wrote for the majority that a state offense should lead to
automatic deportation only if it was a felony under the federal Controlled
Substances Act.

Souter said that helping someone else possess cocaine does not constitute
"illicit trafficking" under  federal law: "The government's reading would render
the law of alien removal ... dependent on varying state criminal
classifications," rather than code written by Congress.

Lopez has been in Mexico since his January deportation. Robert Long, his lawyer,
said Lopez would now have a chance to argue that he should be allowed to return.

Justice Department spokesman Kathleen Blomquist said officials had not
determined how the ruling would affect recent deportations and pending cases.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            March 14, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Supporters still committed; immigration bill still stalled;
Lawmakers must overcome divisions on right and left

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 771 words


WASHINGTON -- President Bush says he wants an immigration bill this year. So do
the top Democratic leaders in the House and Senate. Other supporters range from
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce to the Service Employees International Union.

Seldom has legislation received such high-profile backers from across such a
broad ideological spectrum. And seldom has legislation with such powerful
backing faced such an uphill battle.

Behind the scenes, both on and off Capitol Hill, efforts have been underway for
weeks to build momentum for a sweeping new immigration law designed to eliminate
the nation's underground economy by intensifying security along the nation's
borders, broadening opportunities for foreigners to work in the USA and
legalizing many of the 12 million people who live in the country illegally.

Those efforts hit a bump in the road this week when a bipartisan group working
to draft a bill -- Sens. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass. and John McCain, R-Ariz., and
Reps. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., and Jeff Flake, R-Ariz. -- postponed efforts to
reach a deal.

Kennedy told USA TODAY on Tuesday he plans to use immigration legislation the
Senate Judiciary Committee approved last year as the starting point. He said
"rather than having a new departure," advocates for the immigration overhaul
"would save ourselves a lot of time" by beginning work on last year's bill.

The decision marks a change in strategy for the foursome, who have been working
on the immigration legislation with the hope of winning Senate passage before
the end of May. Last week, Gutierrez told reporters they would unveil
legislation shortly. "We are going to keep it bipartisan and bicameral," he
said.

Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., who chairs the Judiciary Committee, the first stop in
the legislative process for any new immigration legislation, wouldn't say
whether he would go along with Kennedy's plan. He sounded exasperated when
reporters asked about it. "Last week, he was doing a bill with Sen. McCain; this
week, it's something different," Leahy said.

McCain's spokeswoman, Eileen McMenamin, said her boss remains committed to
passage of an immigration bill that gives many illegal immigrants a chance at
citizenship. That position is anathema to some conservative Republicans, a
constituency McCain needs to win presidential primaries next year.

"It's rewarding people for breaking the law," says Rep. Brian Bilbray, R-Calif.,
chairman of the Immigration Reform Caucus, a group of House members who oppose
the effort to legalize people who are here unlawfully.

The inability of Kennedy, McCain, Gutierrez and Flake to introduce a joint
immigration bill underscores the difficulty in working on an issue that is so
divisive for both political parties.

*Divisions on the left: The NAACP, the Mexican-American Legal Defense and
Education Fund and the National Council of La Raza are among the civil rights
groups lobbying in favor of immigration legislation that includes an expanded
"guest worker" program for foreigners and a path to citizenship for millions of
illegal immigrants. So are the labor unions UNITE HERE and the SEIU. The AFL-CIO
has withheld support because of concerns over the impact of foreign guest
workers on U.S. wages and working conditions. This week, the Southern Poverty
Law Center announced plans to oppose expansion of a guest-worker program that
law center lawyer Mary Bauer described as "shamefully abusive."

*Divisions on the right: Led by the Chamber of Commerce, business interests
ranging from Microsoft to the American Nursery and Landscape Association press
for legislation that would allow more foreigners to work here and those who are
working here illegally to stay. There is a fierce push back from the GOP's
populist wing. "You have big businesses just watering at the mouth looking at
this pool of cheap labor," Bilbray said in an interview this month.  "Wealthy
white people get cheap gardeners, but the blue-collar lose jobs."

Bush, who last year endorsed a Senate bill that included the possibility of
citizenship for illegal immigrants, may be backing off this year. Last month,
two members of his Cabinet, Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez and Homeland
Security Secretary Michael Chertoff, told the Senate Judiciary Committee that
they favored giving illegal workers legal status but stopped short of endorsing
citizenship.

At an appearance before the U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, Barry Jackson, a
deputy assistant to the president, cautioned that the bill must be passed this
year before the next presidential campaign complicates the political picture.
"Time is not an ally in this debate," Jackson said.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Chip Somodevilla, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            March 22, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration laws cause heartache

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 1015 words


As a U.S. citizen married to a Mexican immigrant, I have experienced extreme
hardships in helping my wife obtain a visa to enter the USA.

Because of the difficulties, we live in Mexico. Our story is very similar to
many other American couples who fall in love and start a family. The only
difference is that we are being punished because we have different
nationalities.

We met in California, where I worked for a tech company and my wife was a
janitor in the building. She came to the USA by jumping a fence and walking
through the desert. We never really talked about her immigration status, as it
just didn't seem of any importance.

In 2003, my wife's father became ill, so we made a tough decision: She went back
to Mexico without me. I remained in the USA.

We later decided to marry in Mexico. We thought once we were married it would be
easy to come back to the USA. We were wrong.

After we married, I found a new job within my company that allowed me to move to
Mexico. There, I planned to work remotely until my wife could get a visa.

We submitted her immigration paperwork and paid $1,000 before my wife went to a
visa interview. But after the interview, she was denied a visa.

Current immigration laws bar her from returning to America for 10 years because
she had been in the USA for more than a year without a visa. We were aware of
this law before the interview, but were hopeful that she would be approved
anyway.

We can request the 10-year waiting period be waived, but we must submit a
letter, along with supporting evidence of "extreme hardship" on the U.S. citizen
-- me. No one can tell me exactly what the definition of extreme hardship is,
and it is difficult to prove.

Currently, we are waiting for a decision by the Department of Homeland Security
to determine that I do indeed face extreme hardship. The only other possibility
for my wife to enter the USA legally is if the law changes.

Because of these conditions and my own personal experience, I co-founded a
non-profit group called American Families United. The sole goal is to change the
law that prevents my wife and other spouses from entering the USA.

There are some members of our group whose spouses have been barred for life for
allegedly making claims of U.S. citizenship. Often times, they are accused of
declaring to a border guard that they are American citizens. It can be very
difficult to prove that your spouse didn't make such a claim because so many
years have passed since he or she entered the USA.

To make matters worse, the sad truth is that because I am living here in Mexico,
I could actually hurt our chances for a waiver.

Additionally, it is very sad that at times my wife has been unable to travel to
the USA even for a few days to see my family.

David Guard

Veracruz, Mexico

System is unfair to families

I am married to an illegal alien, but we are living in different places. Our
story is long and painful, but hopefully our situation will come to an end soon.

My husband and I married on April 28, 2001, and we now have two beautiful
children, Anna, 3, and Oziel, 5.

But in June 2004, my husband left the USA voluntarily and went back to Mexico.
My family didn't want to separate, and so we packed our belongings in two trucks
and followed him.

But when we arrived in my husband's hometown, the problems began.

My children got really sick. My son got rashes all over his body because the
water -- unbeknownst to me -- was unsanitary. My daughter couldn't drink the
milk because it would make her sick.

I lost a lot of weight because the heat was so unbearable that it caused me and
the children to lose our appetites.

After several months of suffering like this, I decided to return to the USA with
my family. I didn't have a job at the time, so I had to apply for food stamps.

I now have a good job as a contractor for a great company. I don't have
benefits, but at least I do have a job that pays well.

It was really hard to leave my husband behind, and it is still unbearable at
times.

I pray to God, and I ask for guidance. Each time God has put food in our mouths.

The whole time, my husband has been in despair because he is unable to help. He
earns only $100 a week.

What can he pay for here in the USA with $100?

The immigration process is unfair for the U.S. citizen petitioning for the alien
and also for the children of U.S. citizens.

Every day that my son doesn't see his father he asks me, "Where is my papi?" My
heart breaks in two.

As I write these words, there are tears in my eyes. What kind of answer can I
give my son?

I try to do my best, but sometimes your best isn't good enough. When is the
suffering going to stop? Sometimes I come so close to losing my faith. But I
know I can't give up because it is one of the only things that keeps me alive.
Maybe one day things will change for the best.

Maria Zuniga

Houston

Treat Mexicans with respect

Sometimes Americans forget that our humanity should really supersede our
nationality.

That being said, let's get real. We can't allow the world to move here. Laws are
in place for that reason. We haven't enforced our rules, and now we're dealing
with the consequences, even though these consequences aren't anywhere near as
terrible as they're made out to be.

We need to consider starting a policy of respecting Mexicans. Respect for people
who are now our neighbors, friends, employees and employers. Respect for people
who are really as American as we, with the exception of language.

Right now, there doesn't seem to be a lot of respect for Mexicans.

Arizona has passed legislation that makes English the official language.

When we begin to respect others, we will realize the dignity, honor and humanity
of the real-life people we are "dealing" with in this immigration debate.

So let's get real and finally welcome our fellow Americans -- every single one
of them.

We can do this, secure our border and cooperate with and influence the Mexican
government to better the welfare of its people.

Mexicans are people who are so closely related to us that we should take an
interest in their welfare and treat them as if they were our own.

James White

Chandler, Ariz.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            March 28, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

What about law-abiding immigrants?

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 589 words


In response to the letters USA TODAY ran on how "unfair" our immigration
policies are, I'd like to give you my perspective from the times I've worked
overseas in the Middle East ("Immigration laws cause heartache," "System is
unfair to families," "Treat Mexicans with respect," Letters, Thursday).

I once taught a bright, hardworking, English-speaking college student in Turkey
-- a country that is poorer than Mexico when measured by gross domestic product.
Tunc is a scholarship recipient from a family of modest means who had an
opportunity to study at Purdue University for a semester. He came here hoping to
land a job with an employer who would sponsor him so he could immigrate to the
USA. He didn't find one and returned to Turkey rather than become an illegal
immigrant.

Then, there is a colleague of mine, Secil, who has a Ph.D. and applied for
citizenship through the Diversity Visa Lottery Program  for years without
success.

I've known a number of Tuncs and Secils who would make great additions to this
country, but they haven't been able to immigrate. Should I  tell them to break
the law, overstay a student visa or go to Mexico and then enter the USA
illegally?

The letter writers who wrote about their spouses' immigration problems have
options, even though there are long waits and expenses involved. But having
broken the law, why should they gain an advantage over other legal immigrants?
These waits are nothing compared with the waits would-be legal immigrants have
-- if they ever get here.

As for  USA TODAY reader James White, who asked that Mexicans be treated with
respect, I'd answer, "All people who respect our laws should be treated with
respect, but Mexicans are no more deserving than immigrants from any other
country."

Mara Alexander

Alexandria, Va.

Costs steep for green cards

As one of the hardworking, tax-paying, legal immigrants trying to get on the
path to a green card, I will keep trying to be heard in this debate on
comprehensive immigration reform.

My family has lived in New Jersey since July 2002 on an extended temporary visa.
Several years ago, my husband's employer filed a labor certification request --
to prove there aren't any citizens available for the job -- from the Department
of Labor. The process takes one slow step after another.

Now, our oldest daughter is attending an in-state college, but we have to pay
out-of-state tuition -- about $30,000 a year. Additionally, we pay about $22,000
in federal, state and local homeowner taxes. Filing for tax refunds does not
mean a bigger refund for us. My children and I are my husband's dependents.
Therefore, we are not allowed to get a job here in the USA, and we are not
eligible for scholarships until we get a green card.

When I hear the word "reform," meaning "setting all illegal immigrants on a
legal path to citizenship," I am stunned. Even a path to a green card is proven
to be a bureaucratic and costly nightmare for employers as well as legal
immigrants.

I urge members of Congress to please look at how the process is going before
talking about measures that are based on an illusion.

Elisabeth Maaskamp Innemee

Livingston, N.J.

Law errs for gay immigrants

I have read USA TODAY's letters about married couples with immigration problems,
and while I sympathize with their situations, I also think they should feel
hopeful. At least they have a chance to help their spouses obtain a visa.

When you are a gay foreigner who lives with an American, you do not have the
same opportunity.

Talk about injustice.

William Oak

Pinellas Park, Fla.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              April 2, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigrants' advocates look to churches;
Religiousleaders tapped to help lobby for a path to citizenship

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 1010 words


WASHINGTON -- Over the past few weeks, Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., a staunch
defender of abortion rights, has been receiving bouquets from some unexpected
quarters as he works to overhaul the nation's immigration laws.

"All of us owe Sen. Kennedy a great debt of gratitude for his vision," Cardinal
Roger Mahony of Los Angeles said after the two held a meeting on immigration
legislation last month. Last week, at a news conference on the same subject,
Kennedy and Richard Land of the Southern Baptist Convention, traded biblical
quotations.

The two tableaus illustrate what advocates hope will be their secret weapon in a
drive to win a path to citizenship for the nation's estimated 12 million illegal
immigrants

As they return to their home states and districts this week, lawmakers may be
receiving pastoral visits from local clerics -- and not just to discuss the
Passover and Easter holy days.

Religious leaders from a range of denominations are launching efforts to win
passage of a bill that creates a path toward citizenship for the nation's
illegal immigrants. That has put some of them at odds with traditional allies on
other social issues, such as abortion and gay marriage.

Samuel Rodriguez, president of the National Hispanic Christian Leadership
Conference, said the nation's largest Hispanic evangelical organization will be
trying to change the minds of 40 House Republicans "who traditionally depend on
the evangelical vote."

Upcoming debate

Last year, it was Republican conservatives who blocked a House bill granting
illegal immigrants a chance to stay in the USA after the Senate passed it. Now
Democrats are in charge of both the House and Senate and preparing to take up
the issue again.

Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., has reserved the last two weeks in
May for an immigration debate. House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, D-Md., plans
to take up in July immigration legislation introduced last month by Reps. Luis
Gutierrez, D-Ill., and Jeff Flake, R-Ariz.

The legislation being pushed by Kennedy's bipartisan coalition in the Senate and
Gutierrez and Flake in the House is designed to bring illegal immigrants now in
the USA out of the shadows; beef up enforcement along the borders; make it
harder for employers to hire illegal immigrants and increase opportunities for
foreigners to work here legally.

It has drawn passionate opposition, running the gamut from labor unions that say
the influx of foreign workers will undercut American standards of living to
conservative Republicans who say illegal immigrants would be rewarded for
breaking the law. The basic concepts in the legislation also have powerful
advocates, including President Bush and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.

When Gutierrez was asked to name who he's counting on most to help push his bill
into law, he focused on another powerful grass-roots organization.

"The church," he said. "Last time I checked, most people do listen at their
church or their synagogue or their mosque at least on a weekly basis. They're a
powerful tool of persuasion."

Kennedy has organized several news conferences to showcase the ecumenical
support for what he described as an issue of social justice. "This is a moral
question, deeply moral," said Kennedy, a Roman Catholic. He quoted the New
Testament book of Matthew, in which Jesus Christ suggests that his followers
will be judged by "what did you do for the least of these?"

Land, the president of the Southern Baptist Convention's Ethics and Religious
Liberty Commission, echoed Kennedy's views. He said the nation has "a biblical
mandate to act compassionately" toward "hard-working and otherwise law-abiding
immigrants." While they may have come here illegally, they have plenty of
home-grown co-conspirators in the form of "employers who knowingly hire and
exploit them," Land said.

Other religious conservatives are more nuanced in their statements on the
immigration debate.

Sinful immigration

Christian Coalition Chairwoman Roberta Combs says on the group's website that it
is a sin "to ignore or disrespect national boundaries." Jim Backlin, a lobbyist
for the coalition, said most of the group's 2.5 million members support
requiring illegal immigrants to leave the USA before applying for citizenship --
a controversial proposal that would  "likely bring hardship to many immigrant
families and could potentially strand heads of households in distant countries,"
according to the Fair Immigration Reform Movement, an immigrant rights group.

Land acknowledged he may be "a little bit ahead" of the 16-million-member
Southern Baptist Convention's rank and file.

For Catholic prelates, on the other hand, immigrant rights are a vital concern
to a growing segment of the church. The 2001 American Religious Identification
Survey suggested that the nation's fastest-growing minority (the 2000 Census
said the USA was 12% Hispanic, up from 9% in 1990) was the main reason the
numbers of Catholics held relatively steady while most major Protestant
denominations lost membership.

Approximately 35% of the nation's 65 million Roman Catholics are Latino,
according to the Center for Applied Research in the Apostolate, a Georgetown
University group that studies the Roman Catholic Church.

Mahony sees the Catholic Church's lobbying effort as part of a long tradition.
"Since 1770, the Catholic Church has helped every wave of immigrants" into the
USA, he said.

Some Catholics disagree.

"I don't see the Holy See giving me directions on this issue," said Rep. Brian
Bilbray. The California Republican, who is a Roman Catholic, heads the
Immigration Reform Caucus, which opposes legalization for illegal immigrants.

In an allusion to the scandal over pedophile priests, Bilbray argued that
"there's a lot of problems we have in the Catholic Church" because of a
misguided emphasis on redemption.

"Nothing's more Christlike than forgiving transgressors and always giving them a
second chance," said Bilbray. "But when it comes to our national sovereignty,
rewarding people for breaking the law is a sin in my opinion."

Contributing: Cathy Grossman

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, John Sladewski, The (New Bedford) Standard Times via AP
PHOTO, B/W, Mark Humphrey, AP
PHOTO, B/W, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 10, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

System snags much-needed workers

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 267 words


My wife and I are Canadians who have applied for permanent residency in the USA.
We came here four years ago when my company recruited me for a job. My wife
later got a job as a part-time nurse. But it has not been easy to become
permanent residents.

Right now we both have work visas. But the law is outdated and complicated.
Currently, there aren't any immigrant visa numbers available in my job category,
and the system is backlogged with applications extending all the way back to
August 2002.

When I will get a number is unknown; my status might even regress.

It seems U.S. immigration officials and immigration lawyers who are experts in
this field have no idea when the law will change. After I get a visa number, I
will have to fill out a form to get my green card. By the time this happens, my
wife and I will likely have lived in the USA for 10 years.

Answers don't come easily. Everything is a mystery when it comes to the
immigration system.

Don't my wife and I deserve answers?

I was recruited to the USA for my job. As a nurse, my wife is working in an
industry with a huge worker shortage in America. We are contributing our skills
to this country.

Most people want to live in this country because it is the best country in the
world to live in.

But the U.S. immigration bureaucracy is truly an embarrassment.

I hope we do not have any problems crossing the borders when we go back to visit
our relatives in Canada.

We have one child who was born in Canada, and we have twins who were born in the
USA. I don't think our 9-month-old twin girls will be able to raise themselves.

Mike Nolen

Richmond, Va.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 19, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Lost paperwork makes citizenship arduous

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 404 words


I came to the USA at age 20 and became a citizen. My wife, however, is still
waiting for her green card. Neither of us had any idea about the obstacles we
would face while trying to obtain her permanent residency.

The whole ordeal has been going on for more than two years. Every time there is
progress in the case, new problems come up. It seems that the system is so
complicated that even U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services workers are
confused. On top of that, the process is ridiculously expensive.

My wife came to the USA legally as a student and decided to stay. The first time
she submitted a resident application, it mysteriously disappeared.

We married, moved from California to New York and tried again. We submitted
another application and were invited for an interview. But before we could go,
the interview was cancelled.

We received a letter stating that my wife could be deported because she did not
show up at immigration court in California to discuss her first application.
Getting any information on what to do next was impossible.

We received completely different answers from different immigration  workers.
Our only option was to get a lawyer.

Finally, 18 months later and after countless letters, two court appearances and
spending thousands of dollars, an immigration judge approved our case.

During this ordeal, the deportation officers were the greatest help. They
completely understood our situation and helped my wife obtain a work permit
instead of taking her into custody.

But the help of a few good workers cannot make up for the majority of poor ones
we have encountered.

Only two weeks ago, my wife called to check on the status of her paperwork; no
one could find it. We rushed to the local Immigration Services office with
copies of our documents to prove that an immigration judge had cleared us for a
green card.

It is very upsetting that some Immigration Service workers handle the paperwork
so carelessly. They probably do not realize they have our future and the future
of our family in their hands.

The only future my wife and I have is here in the USA. I have served in the
military and am a disabled veteran. I have earned the right for my family to
call America our home.

I understand that the immigration process is complex, but something must be
done.

All we can do is wait and pray that the next person handling our paperwork is
going to do the right thing.

Ilya V. Latyshenko

Buffalo

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 1, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Legislators open loopholes in immigration law;
Exceptions made for foreign doctors, athletic prospects

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 829 words


WASHINGTON -- Late last year, with little fanfare and no roll call votes,
Congress and President Bush reached agreement on an immigration bill.

Not the long-awaited legislation that would determine the fate of as many as 12
million illegal immigrants in the USA, create a border security and employment
verification system, and alleviate backlogs that have kept some relatives of
U.S. citizens waiting decades. Lawmakers will reopen the debate on that measure
this month after failing to reach an agreement last year.

The last Congress was able to act with dispatch, however, to alleviate one
pressing immigration problem -- one vexing baseball and hockey teams.

Thanks to the COMPETE Act, signed into law by President Bush on Dec. 22, Major
League Baseball and the National Hockey League will be able to fill their farm
teams with as many promising prospects as they can find in Latin America, the
Caribbean, Canada and elsewhere across the globe.

Up until last year, teams that wanted to try out foreign players in their minor
league system had to apply for immigration visas under the increasingly
oversubscribed H-2B category, used for seasonal workers in occupations ranging
from landscaping to fisheries to hotel housekeeping. Those visas are capped at
66,000 a year.

The visa crunch that brought professional sports leagues to Washington for help
and the way Congress handled the problem demonstrates the complexity of the
nation's immigration system and the political difficulties of fixing it.

Rather than tackling the big question of whether the U.S. economy needs foreign
workers and how many should be permitted into the country each year, the
nation's lawmakers have created loopholes and exemptions that circumvent caps on
some work visas. Buried in larger, unrelated pieces of legislation, most have
sailed through Congress with little or no debate. Recent examples:

*A measure that annually adds 20,000 H-1B visas to the 65,000-a-year limit for
foreigners who have earned graduate degrees from U.S. universities was tucked
into the 2004 omnibus appropriations bill that provided funding for more than 10
federal agencies. The H-1B category was designed for college-educated foreign
workers. The same bill contained a provision allowing each state to request up
to 30 foreign doctors a year if they are willing to work in an underserved area.

*A 2005 bill providing emergency funding for the Gulf Coast, Iraq and
Afghanistan contained a provision for a one-year exemption from the H-2B visa
cap for seasonal workers, such as nursery and hotel employees, who held a job in
the USA sometime during the previous three years. The same measure provided
50,000 green cards for foreign nurses.

*The one-year exemption for returning seasonal workers was made permanent in the
2006 defense appropriations bill.

Congress also has shifted groups of workers from one visa category to another,
in particular to ease pressure on the two work visas that are capped: H-1B and
H-2B.

In 2006, the State Department issued more than 32,000 visas in a category
created especially for Australians who have job offers in the USA. Congress
created a work visa for citizens of Chile and Singapore under international
trade agreements.

There are so many types of visas that the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Service is running out of letters of the alphabet to name them. A proposed
immigration bill the Bush administration is discussing with Congress would
create Y and Z visas to admit more temporary workers and grant legal status to
those in the country illegally.

The system is "enormously complex," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-Calif., who chairs
the House immigration subcommittee. "It's very easy for people to fall afoul of
the laws inadvertently."

The complexity also creates opportunities. Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine., took
advantage of one when she introduced the COMPETE Act last year to help two teams
in her home state: the Lewiston MAINEiacs, a junior hockey league team that had
to delay its home opener because of problems gaining H-2B visas for players, and
the Portland Sea Dogs, a member of the Boston Red Sox baseball farm system.

Since the enactment of Collins' bill, minor league hockey and baseball players
have been able to take advantage of the unlimited number of P-1 visas, which
were formerly reserved for major leaguers.

"We saw a big difference this year," Peter Greenberg, a New York agent who
represents some of baseball's biggest Latin stars, told USA TODAY. "Now, I think
you'll see the number of foreign players go up dramatically."

Immigration lawyers say their clients want the same chance to hire the world's
best.

William Stock, a Philadelphia immigration lawyer, said a pharmaceutical company
he represents will outsource an entire department to Great Britain if one
prospective employee misses out in this year's H-1B visa lottery.

"There's a global war for talent," Stock said. "We're fighting with one hand
tied behind our back."

Contributing: Bob Nightengale

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Caleb Jones, AP
PHOTO, B/W, Ken Cedeno, Bloomberg News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 21, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Senate takes up proposal for immigration overhaul;
Starts debate today on points system for U.S. admission

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 893 words


WASHINGTON -- Forget your poor, tired, huddled masses. Now some policymakers are
saying the nation might be better off fixing its sights on engineers and Ph.D.s.

The immigration legislation the Senate begins debating today takes a step in
that direction, a step that other countries have taken with mixed success.

In what Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez called "a very significant and, we
believe, very important shift," the bill proposes to change the policy that has
made family the chief factor in determining who becomes a citizen.

If the bipartisan bill is enacted, relatives of U.S. citizens and legal
permanent residents will still make up most of the nation's immigrants. But
their numbers will shrink as the proportion who gain entry because of their
skills grows. "We have to be more focused on what the country needs," Gutierrez
told USA TODAY.

"This legislation will transform our immigration system so that future
immigration decisions are focused on admitting immigrants who have the skills,
education and English proficiency that will help America compete," President
Bush said in his weekend radio address.

The bill's prospects for becoming law remain unclear. On ABC's This Week,
Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said Sunday that the measure could tie
up the Senate. "It's got to go on for at least a couple of weeks to give
everybody the opportunity in the Senate to feel like they've had their chance to
offer amendments that they think would improve the bill," he said.

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., is not happy with how the compromise would
treat families. "We should try to fashion something that recognizes the reality
of life," she said on the same show.

Few admitted for job skills

Of the more than 1.2 million people who immigrated last year, fewer than 13%
were admitted based on job skills. The Senate bill would change the equation to
set aside about one-third of the immigration slots each year for people who earn
admission based on a points system designed to measure their ability to succeed
in the economy.

The system would give an advantage to those people who are highly educated, have
skills that are in demand in the USA, have worked here, have relatives here and
are fluent in English.

To make room for the economic immigrants, special preference categories for the
adult children and siblings of U.S. citizens and legal permanent residents will
be eliminated. Those family members still will have a chance to immigrate, but
they will have to compete in the merit-based point system for slots.

Some, including the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, are denouncing the move
as a betrayal of a historic legacy that has made America a nation of
up-by-their-own-bootstraps success stories.

In a hearing on the immigration legislation this year, Democratic Senate
Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy noted that his Irish-American father
employed many Vermonters in his Montpelier print shop, as did his
Italian-American grandfather at a local stone quarry, even though neither earned
a high school diploma.

Advocates of a more selective immigration process argue that times have changed.
They insist that a more populous USA can afford to be choosier and should be to
remain competitive in a global marketplace. "We have to ask ourselves," said
Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., "who are the most likely to be successful here and
also benefit the United States?"

Employers want more skills-based immigrants, but some are expressing concern
that the points system won't deliver. Compete America, a coalition of major
companies lobbying for an overhaul of the immigration system, said last week
that the points system would be "bureaucratic" and "take key personnel
decision-making out of the hands of U.S. employers," who, under the current
system, sponsor the immigrants they want.

The system proposed in the bill would admit immigrants who qualify on points,
whether or not they have a job offer.

Canada, Australia guide the way

Other countries already have established point systems.

In both Canada and Australia, a majority of those who immigrate each year enter
through a points system. Great Britain will start phasing in a points-based
system next year.

There are "pluses and minuses" to Canada's system, says Toronto-based
immigration lawyer Sergio Karas. The biggest problem, he said, is that "somebody
from India with a master's from MIT gets the same number of points as someone
with a Ph.D. in philosophy from a less prestigious university," Karas said.

As a result, "we are continually confronted with stories of professionals such
as doctors ... driving taxis," Howard Greenberg, the former head of the Canadian
Bar Association's immigration section, told the House Judiciary Committee this
month.

The Senate bill attempts to address the potential imbalance by giving extra
points to would-be immigrants in fields where the federal government projects
labor shortages. That list includes such relatively low-skilled jobs as
home-health aides, landscapers, janitors, housekeepers and farmworkers.

Bill Sheppit, retired head of immigration at the Canadian Embassy in Washington,
said his country's experience demonstrates that it takes more than just diplomas
to make an effective immigration policy. "We've figured out there really is a
greater demand for construction workers than unemployed Ph.D.s," he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Adrienne Lewis, USA TODAY, Sources: Homeland Security
Department's Office of Immigration Statistics
Citizenship and Immigration Canada (Bar graph)
PHOTO, B/W, Dennis Brack, Bloomberg News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 24, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration bill is credible start to a formidable task

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 1024 words


If the test of a good legislative compromise is whether it makes both sides
angry, the new immigration reform bill in the Senate certainly passes. In the
week since the deal was announced, critics on the left have denounced it as
inhumane and overly strict; critics on the right say it's much too tolerant of
rampant illegality.

The opponents have their points, but they miss a larger one. The idea on the
table (or something very much like it) is vastly better than the alternative:
Keeping the hopeless mess we have now. Neither extreme has any chance of getting
its way.

With support from President Bush and senators spanning the ideological divide
from Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., to Jon Kyl, R-Ariz., the bill is precisely the
sort of creative, bipartisan approach to a major problem that's been lacking in
Washington.

That's not to say the proposal doesn't have flaws. To be credible in a way that
current law is not, its enforcement mechanisms must be effective, and it's
doubtful that can be achieved in the planned 18 months. But the approach is
innovative and can be improved in time for the measure to go forward.

The critics should recognize that failure to act would make it likely that
nothing could happen until after the 2008 election, if then. The nation can't
wait that long. Already, anger at the government's inability to secure the
borders and carve out a sensible immigration policy is boiling over in scores of
communities. In places from Hazelton, Pa., to Farmers Branch, Texas, local
governments have acted on their own to bar illegal immigrants from such basics
as renting a place to live.  The USA is on track not for a single immigration
policy, but 10, or 100 or 1,000, as states, cities and towns seek to make
illegals unwelcome in jobs, housing, schools and hospitals -- or alternatively,
try to grant their own amnesty.

Meanwhile, the nation's estimated 12 million illegal immigrants -- many of whom
are vital to the nation's economy and came here with the tacit approval of a
broken system -- lead anxious lives, a traffic stop or an immigration raid away
from being deported. Businesses desperate for labor either can't get it or risk
suddenly losing it. Communities are disrupted and left with enormous costs.

The Senate proposal meets three tests we have long thought should be the mark of
any serious reform:

*Respect for the law. The bill includes an aggressive effort to tighten the
borders and police the workplace for illegal workers.

*Economic benefit. An immigrant workforce helps the nation's economy function
and grow. The bill provides a temporary-worker program and a new system that
places a premium on high-demand skills.

*Realism. It's unrealistic to think that 12 million people, the population of
Ohio, could be rounded up, charged and deported. In a nation of immigrants,
breaking up families and forcible evictions are contrary to basic values.

Notwithstanding reflexive charges that the bill would provide "amnesty" to
immigrants who broke the law to get here, poll after poll shows that the
overwhelming majority of Americans approve of providing a path to citizenship to
illegal immigrants who work, stay out of trouble, and pay fines and taxes.

That's what the Senate plan would do. Among other things, applicants must work,
keep clean criminal records, wait at least 13 years, learn English, pass a
civics test, pay fines of $5,000 and thousands more in processing fees. Moreover
-- in a sop to hard-liners that the bill would be better off without -- heads of
families would have to return to their home countries to apply for permanent
U.S. residency.

Is this path to citizenship entirely fair to those who've waited for years, even
decades, to immigrate legally? Probably not. But, as Homeland Security Secretary
Michael Chertoff, who helped broker the deal, told us Wednesday, "This whole
thing crashes if we insist on total fairness."

The lack of effective enforcement made the last major immigration reform bill,
in 1986, a sham that helped create the current mess. The plan in the new bill is
a sounder one, but it's very hard to see how even well-intentioned officials
could do it all -- hire and train thousands of new border agents and civilian
workers, build hundreds of miles of border fence, and, most important, create an
effective system for checking to see that workers are legal. All this is
supposed to happen by the end of next year, at a time when the current system
can't even effectively process the giant, decades-old backlog of legal
applicants.

But even as the bill stands now, it is so much better than the status quo that
members of Congress will have a lot of explaining to do if they let this
opportunity pass. Over the Memorial Day recess, when the congressional critics
denounce the deal, voters should ask them two questions: If not now, when? And
if not this, what?

---

Tough path or amnesty?

To become U.S. citizens under the immigration bill in the Senate, illegal
immigrants would have to follow these steps:

*Register to obtain a probationary visa. Applicants must have a job, a clean
criminal record and be able to show they were in the USA before Jan. 1, 2007.
Those who fail a background check could be deported.

*Once border and workplace enforcement measures are in place, applicants could
apply for "Z" visas. Applicants must pay a $1,000 fine (plus $500 for each
dependent and substantial processing fees), undergo further background checks,
show continued employment and agree to meet English language and civics
knowledge requirements. The Z visa is good for four years and could be renewed
for a further fee.

*After eight years (assuming the backlog of legal applicants is cleared),
holders of Z visas could apply for green cards (legal permanent residency). They
must continue to be employed, undergo more background checks, speak English,
demonstrate civics knowledge and pay an additional $4,000 fine and more
processing fees.

*To complete the process, applicants must return to their home country and apply
from there for a green card.

*After obtaining a green card, it takes at least five more years to become a
U.S. citizen.

Source: Homeland Security Department

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 25, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Employer-verification proposal draws fire;
Provision part of immigration bills' debate

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 993 words


WASHINGTON -- Traci Hong considers herself an all-American girl. She craves the
Christmas tamales she came to love as a child in Houston and has worked in the
USA since she was 16.

When she got a new job this year, Hong found herself making multiple visits to
her employer's personnel office and to Social Security trying to prove that she
was legal to work in the USA. Hong, whose family emigrated from South Korea when
she was 10 years old, has been a U.S. citizen for the past 15 years.

It took her a week to get the glitch in her paperwork resolved. "It was really
scary," said Hong, 37.

Even scarier to Hong: what will happen when all Americans are required to go
through the system that caused her so much worry. Hong had trouble navigating
the system -- and she's a top-gun immigration lawyer who works for Rep. Zoe
Lofgren, D-Calif., who chairs the House subcommittee on immigration and
citizenship.

"Others might have given up," Lofgren said.

The immigration bill that the Senate is now debating, as well as a bipartisan
measure that has been introduced in the House, both contain provisions that
would require every person in the country who applies for a job -- no matter
where they were born and whether or not they are citizens -- to demonstrate they
are eligible to work in the USA.

Requiring employers to verify the legal status of every job applicant -- and
coming up with secure forms of identification to make that process quick and
reliable -- is a key to preventing people from coming to the country illegally,
backers of the proposed immigration bills say.

"I don't see how you can have the border security the American people expect
unless you have a temporary-worker program, with a verifiable work card,"
President Bush said Thursday.

When the Senate returns after its week-long Memorial Day recess, Sen. Barack
Obama, D-Ill., among others, will try to change the employer-verification
requirements. Obama is worried about possible intrusions on Americans' privacy.
Other critics warn that the system could result in nightmarish bureaucratic
glitches for U.S. citizens.

Tim Sparapani of the American Civil Liberties Union compared the proposal to the
no-fly lists kept by airlines to keep terrorists off airplanes. Those lists have
delayed such notables as Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., from boarding.

"We're creating a no-work list which will be like a no-fly list and work just as
effectively," Sparapani said.

Kennedy, sponsor of the immigration bill, said Thursday that the
employer-verification program is essential to the immigration bill's success,
though he acknowledged that mistakes in implementing it could be disastrous.
"This is one of the real challenges in this legislation," he said. "It is
enormously important that we get it right."

The Senate bill would give the Department of Homeland Security 18 months to go
nationwide with a pilot electronic-verification system that some employers,
including Congress, could use to check the Social Security numbers of
prospective hires.

Stewart Baker of the Department of Homeland Security said 16,000 employers
currently use the system for about 2million transactions a year. In testimony
this year, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce's Randy Johnson said there are
140million Americans in the workforce. "Even with a 1% error rate," he warned,
"you're talking about disqualifying a million Americans from their livelihood."

Fueling skepticism about the program is a December 2006 report by the Social
Security Administration's inspector general. It estimated a 4% error rate in the
files that would be used to determine a person's eligibility to work.

There's also the experience of US VISIT. The program is supposed to prevent
foreigners from overstaying their visas by creating a system to determine when
they leave. Of 19 hijackers involved in the 9/11 terrorist attacks, four entered
the USA legally, then overstayed their visas. Yet nearly six years after the
nation's worst terrorist attacks, the Department of Homeland Security hasn't put
into place a mechanism to monitor when visa holders leave.

At a meeting Wednesday with USA TODAY's editorial board, Homeland Security
Secretary Michael Chertoff said the employer-verification program will be
different. He expressed confidence his department can meet the Senate's
"challenging" 18-month deadline because it's already beginning to keep passport
photos on file and build links to states' Department of Motor Vehicles
databases.

There are signs, though, that it could be difficult to create the kind of secure
identity system that advocates of the immigration overhaul say they want: 11
states already have passed laws refusing to comply with Real ID, the federally
mandated program to create a secure driver's license. Those states say it will
be too costly. Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., an opponent of the
employer-verification program, said it could cost $23 billion. The Social
Security Administration has estimated it would cost $9 billion to create a
secure Social Security card.

Whatever the cost and hassle-factor, Chertoff said Americans must eventually pay
the price for a more secure identity system. "In five or 10 years, are we still
going to be walking around with ID that any 16-year-old can make on the
Internet?" he asked.

He warned that any effort to remove the employer-verification requirement from
the immigration bill will kill the delicately balanced compromise that has been
reached by the bill's sponsors.

Lofgren, who will be a key player when the immigration debate moves to the House
floor later this summer, agrees "there does have to be a biometric identifier"
to help employers determine whether potential new hires are eligible to work in
the USA or not. Still, she said the government needs to take its time about
implementing one. "I think we have to build the database reliably," she said.

Lofgren's subcommittee counsel said her experience shows why: "This is something
that affects all Americans," Hong said.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Rudy Gutierrez for USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Heather Wines, GNS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 29, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Debate still surrounds 'imperfect bill';
While most agree reform is vital, consensus is tough

BYLINE: Sue Kirchhoff

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 377 words


WASHINGTON -- Immigration overhaul is a top priority of the U.S. business
community, which faces a growing array of conflicting state and local laws that
require businesses to police workers' immigration status and that impose fines
on firms that hire illegal workers.

But that doesn't mean businesses -- from construction companies to landscapers,
high-tech firms to farmers -- are pleased with the compromise immigration bill
now under debate in Congress. The bill is the result of a deal struck between
the Senate and the White House.

While business groups such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce want a national law
to pre-empt growing state and local efforts, many in the business community are
concerned the bill could increase costs and potential liability. The National
Association of Home Builders, which opposes the bill in its present form, also
worries it would not ensure enough workers for high-skilled and entry-level jobs
that they say native-born workers either cannot or will not do.

But some business officials are determined to work through the process to see if
amendments in the Senate and later during House action will produce a bill they
can support. The Senate will resume debate next week after it returns from
recess.

"Everybody recognizes that this is an imperfect bill. But for those of us in the
business community who ask Congress to take on tough issues, if everybody is
going to walk away ... how are we going to get Congress to take on tough issues
in the future?" says Steve Sandherr, CEO of the Associated General Contractors
of America.

Labor unions are in a similarly conflicted position, praising some provisions
and warning that others, such as a guest-worker program sought by many
businesses, would allow firms to exploit cheap labor.

"In general, we're encouraged that the Senate is discussing comprehensive
immigration reform," says Terence O'Sullivan, general president of the Laborers'
International Union of North America, who calls the guest-worker program "an
invitation for workers to come to this country and end up staying in this
country illegally. It's just not realistic."

The bill would provide a path to eventual citizenship for an estimated 12
million illegal immigrants in the country, if they meet certain criteria.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 6, 2007 Wednesday
                                 CHASE EDITION

Republicans spar over immigration overhaul;
White House hopefuls firm on support for war

BYLINE: Richard Wolf and Jill Lawrence

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 705 words


GOFFSTOWN, N.H. -- Republican presidential candidates criticized their party,
each other and the Democratic field Tuesday night in a two-hour debate that
veered from tough talk on terrorism to gays in the military.

Former New York City mayor Rudy Giuliani, former Massachusetts governor Mitt
Romney and others heaped criticism on an immigration bill co-written by Arizona
Sen. John McCain that would step up border security and allow many of the
estimated 12 million illegal immigrants in the USA to become citizens.

In the debate here at Saint Anselm College, the 10 candidates also touched on
issues such as gays in the military and abortion. All candidates except Giuliani
oppose abortion rights.

The war on terrorism was the dominant theme. Giuliani, who was in office on
Sept. 11, 2001, repeatedly belittled the eight Democrats running for president.
He said Democrats were "in denial" and acting like they were "back in the 1990s"
by not taking the threat more seriously.

The Republican candidates also had harsh words for their own party, if not
President Bush by name. They criticized the management of the war in Iraq, the
inability to hold down federal spending and the corruption that helped Democrats
take over Congress in 2006.

"We lost credibility because we didn't do what we were hired to do," said former
Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee.

Giuliani, McCain and Romney -- the top candidates in national polls -- stuck by
their previous support for Bush's overall policy in Iraq. Giuliani said the
U.S.-led invasion of Iraq in 2003 was "absolutely the right thing to do." McCain
said the war "is long and hard and tough, but I think we can succeed."

Texas Rep. Ron Paul is the only Republican candidate who supports an immediate
withdrawal of U.S. troops.

McCain and Sen. Sam Brownback of Kansas admitted that they had not read the full
report on the best U.S. intelligence that was gathered at the time before voting
to authorize the invasion of Iraq. That was something former Virginia governor
Jim Gilmore said they should have done.

The missing man at the debate, actor and former Tennessee senator Fred Thompson,
appeared on Fox News Channel right afterward and left no doubt about his
intention to join the race. He said he has just put up a new website --
imwithfred.com -- and said July 4 is a "plausible" announcement date but that he
hadn't set one yet.

Thompson said he spent years not wanting to run for president, but "I think the
times are different. I think the challenges are different."

The candidates onstage here sounded toughest when addressing the possibility of
Iran building a nuclear arsenal. Giuliani, Romney and California Rep. Duncan
Hunter said all options should be on the table, including using a tactical
nuclear device to disable Iran's nuclear bomb program.

The most pointed intraparty squabble came when Giuliani and Romney attacked the
bipartisan immigration bill. Giuliani called it "a typical Washington mess" that
would not keep track of who was in the country or leaving it. Romney said the
bill was unfair to millions of others "who would love to come here" but declined
to revive a spat with McCain on the issue. He called McCain "my friend."

And Rep. Tom Tancredo of Colorado, who has based his campaign around his
anti-immigration stance, said even legal immigration should be stopped
temporarily. "Are we finally ready to say enough is enough?" he said.

On gays in the military, the Republican candidates stood by current military
policy that allows gays and lesbians to serve but not be open about their sexual
orientation. The eight Democratic contenders said Sunday that the policy should
be ended.

Giuliani, Romney, McCain and others also said that former White House aide Lewis
"Scooter" Libby got a raw deal Tuesday when he was sentenced to 30 months in
prison for lying to the FBI and a federal grand jury. They said they would
consider pardoning him.

The debate, the third held by Republicans this year, was sponsored by CNN,
WMUR-TV and the New Hampshire Union Leader. It was the first since Fred Thompson
signaled his intention to run. Former Wisconsin governor Tommy Thompson got a
laugh when he introduced himself as "the candidate, not the actor."

Lawrence reported from Washington

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO,color,Elise Amendola,AP
PHOTO,b/w,Elise Amendola

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 6, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Republicans spar over immigration overhaul;
White House hopefuls firm on support for war

BYLINE: Richard Wolf and Jill Lawrence

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 705 words


GOFFSTOWN, N.H. -- Republicans running for president vowed to get tougher on
terrorists and illegal immigrants Tuesday night in a wide-ranging debate
sprinkled with attacks on their Democratic counterparts.

The leading candidates stuck by their previous support for President Bush's
policy in Iraq, with former New York City mayor Rudy Giuliani saying the
U.S.-led invasion of Iraq in 2003 was "absolutely the right thing to do." Former
Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney said he would not go that far based on what
he knows now.

Arizona Sen. John McCain, who has tied himself most closely to Bush's war
policy, said "we must succeed." Even if Bush's current policy of increasing U.S.
troops in Baghdad isn't working several months from now, McCain said,
withdrawing from Iraq should not be the only alternative.

Nine of the 10 GOP candidates support staying in Iraq. Rep. Ron Paul of Texas
wants to withdraw U.S. troops immediately.

Giuliani is leading most national polls for the GOP nomination, followed by
McCain and Romney.

The candidates also said a tactical nuclear attack against Iran should not be
ruled out if the Iranian government refuses to give up its nuclear ambitions.
"This war is a real war," Giuliani said, belittling Democrats for saying that
Iran did not constitute an immediate threat.

Giuliani and Romney both attacked the immigration bill pending in Congress that
McCain helped write. Giuliani called it "a typical Washington mess" that would
not keep track of who has left the country. He said it's "quite possible" the
bill would make things worse instead of better.

Romney was asked to revive a spat he's had with McCain, who said Monday in Miami
that "pandering for votes on this issue while offering no solutions amounts to
doing nothing, and doing nothing is silent amnesty."

Romney called McCain "my friend" and said their disagreements are not personal.
Romney said the real problem with the bill is that it allows illegal immigrants
in the USA to pay fines and take other steps to become citizens. "That's not
fair to the millions and millions of people around the world who would love to
come here," he said.

Going into Tuesday's debate, both the war and the immigration bill were
unpopular with registered voters. In a USA TODAY/Gallup Poll released Monday,
those who have a view on the immigration bill lined up nearly 3-1 against a
compromise supported by Bush and Senate Democratic leaders. Rep. Tom Tancredo of
Colorado has based his entire presidential campaign around his anti-immigration
stance.

The bill would increase security along U.S. borders and give about 12 million
immigrants living illegally in the USA a chance to become citizens. It also
would expand the "guest worker" program and give more weight to job skills and
less to family ties when granting visas to new immigrants.

While the Iraq war and the global fight against terrorism dominated the
Democrats' debate, Republicans also were asked about social issues such as
abortion and gays in the military. The GOP candidates stood by current policy,
in which gays and lesbians can serve but not be open about their sexual
orientation. The eight Democratic contenders want to end the policy.

The Republicans also said that former White House aide Lewis "Scooter" Libby got
a raw deal Tuesday when he was sentenced to 30 months in prison for lying to the
FBI and a federal grand jury. Half of the candidates said they would consider
granting Libby a pardon because of what Giuliani and Romney said was
"prosecutorial abuse."

The debate at Saint Anselm College, which followed a Democratic showdown here
Sunday, was the third held by Republicans this year. It was sponsored by CNN,
WMUR-TV and the New Hampshire Union Leader. CNN's Wolf Blitzer served as
moderator.

Sen. Sam Brownback of Kansas; former governors Mike Huckabee of Arkansas, Tommy
Thompson of Wisconsin and Jim Gilmore of Virginia; and Rep. Duncan Hunter of
California also participated in the debate.

This was the first debate since former Tennessee senator and Law & Order co-star
Fred Thompson said he expects to join the Republican field next month. Thompson
was set to get about 30 minutes by himself on Fox News Channel after the debate.

Lawrence reported from Washington

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO,color,Elise Amendola,AP
PHOTO,b/w,Elise Amendola

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 12, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Green card backlog hurts legal immigrants who have earned a better way of life

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 912 words


I am the son and direct beneficiary of a highly skilled, legal immigrant whose
employer filed his immigration petition for him years ago. But the current
backlog of employment-based, legal immigrants is about a million, and clearing
them could take more than 10 years.

Immediately after graduating from engineering school in India, my dad wanted to
come to America, a land of opportunity. It took more than 15 years for him to
arrive here legally. It was the most exciting time of my life. I earned straight
A's during high school, earned a 96 percentile national score in the math
portion of the SAT and was accepted by the top three universities in Maryland.
But I was very disappointed when I learned that because I didn't yet have a
green card, I would only be accepted as an out-of-state student. I also lost a
$40,000 scholarship, even though I was pre-approved academically.

This is all because of the green card backlog. I don't know how many more years
it will take to approve my case.

I am running against time. I'm about to turn 21, and when I do, my pending
application for a green card will be abandoned. I will have to leave the USA or
become an illegal immigrant.

The Senate's Dream Act, or the Development, Relief and Education for Alien
Minors Act of 2007, which was attached to the latest immigration bill, would
have allowed children of illegal immigrants to receive needed benefits, such as
the opportunity to pay in-state tuition fees, and help them get a green card.
That bill was the way to go.

Can the USA afford to lose future inventors and innovators such as Albert
Einstein, Nobel Prize-winning physicist Enrico Fermi, Google co-founder Sergey
Brin and Intel co-founder Andy Grove?

Brijesh Patel

Baltimore

Respect U.S. laws, customs

I am a second-generation American, and I remember clearly how proud my
grandparents were to be Americans.

They learned to speak English immediately, and there wasn't any question in
either of their homes about what language would be spoken in public. At home
they did speak their native tongue, but usually so the children couldn't
understand what they were talking about. I wish they had taught us their
language, but they wanted to be American.

They came here legally, by way of Ellis Island, and they had respect for being
American and taking part in the history, celebrations and customs of the USA.

Today, illegal immigration is shameful. I have a friend who is here with her
husband on his green card. They and their two children have been waiting four
years for a legal card. They live here legally, pay taxes, own a home and speak
proudly of their new country.

People cannot randomly decide to break the law without consequences. If people
want to immigrate to the USA, then they need to do it legally.

Fran Patraker-Altman

Lawrenceville, Ga.

Unfair system

I was amazed to read USA TODAY's editorial favoring the point-based system for
green cards ("Entry to U.S. is all relative -- and that's the problem," Our
view, Who gets in? debate, June 4).

The point-based system was the worst part of the "grand compromise" immigration
plan. The main justification for this plan was to shift the focus of the U.S.
immigration system from family connections to educational level and job skills.
This was a good idea, in theory, but the proposed point system was the wrong and
even a disastrous way to implement it.

The problem was that the point system, as described in the proposed bill,
largely would have decoupled the immigration process from the needs of U.S.
employers. The current employment-based portion of the immigration system --
already "merit based" and with a sensible structure -- was to be completely
scrapped. Instead, all the non-family-based applicants would have been thrown
into one giant unstructured pool.

Furthermore, the proposed point system had no provisions for separate and
expedited treatment of outstanding professors and researchers. Thus, a Nobel
Prize winner or a superb basketball player such as Yao Ming might have had to
wait years in a common immigration queue with all the other applicants. But the
main victims of the point-based system would have been employers who depend on
the most highly skilled labor.

I believe that the legalization of undocumented immigrants is a worthy and
important goal. But the price of achieving this objective cannot be instituting
a disastrous and inflexible green card system that would hurt the U.S. economy
and damage its competitiveness in the world.

Ilya Kapovich

Associate professor

Department of Mathematics

University of Illinois

Urbana, Ill.

USA already overburdened

USA TODAY publishes articles about how green card costs will be a hardship on
many immigrant families and the woes of companies that have to send their
employees back home. Why isn't USA TODAY also talking about how the United
States can afford to eventually put all the immigrants into our already
overburdened social programs? County hospitals and school systems are stressed
to the limit by serving illegal immigrants.

Making illegal immigrants legal and bringing them into our country as guest
workers will only exacerbate the problem.

We need recognized studies to determine the unbiased projected costs of the new
immigration bill before rushing into it. Some feel that the problem we face can
be solved by enforcing the laws we have.

This is something we did not do after the 1986 immigration legislation, and many
feel that we would not do any better with a new bill.

Robert Kleinman

Dallas

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Kevork Djansezian, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 15, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Why families matter on immigration

BYLINE: Aimee Phan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 455 words


Immigration laws have often been wielded as weapons in this country's past. Just
125 years ago,  the Chinese Exclusion Act targeted Chinese immigrants while
inflicting damage that would last generations. Today, one element of the
Senate's flagging immigration reform bill would target a broader group of
immigrants: families.

The Senate measure would make it more difficult for citizens to sponsor adult
relatives (excluding spouses) to the USA.  Instead, the plan would give visa
priority through a points system to applicants with desirable work skills,
education and English fluency.  By prioritizing work skills over kinship, the
United States sends a disturbing message: You can work here if we need you, but
if you want to be with your family, never mind. Money first, extended family
last.

If approved by Congress, this change would immediately punish the many citizens
who have been trying for years to sponsor family members. Unless the bill is
amended, applicants who filed after April 2005 would lose their place in line
and would have to start over.

Communities of color would be profoundly affected by such a change.  According
to the Office of Immigration Statistics at the Department of Homeland Security,
Latino-American and Asian-American communities make up the two largest groups of
immigrants using family sponsorship to enter the country. These communities are
founded upon stable family networks that share resources to build businesses,
buy homes and send their children to college.

One only has to look at the legacies created by the government's past
anti-immigration laws to predict the damaging repercussions. The 1882 Exclusion
Act created a generation of Chinese bachelors who were stranded without their
families. Their wives and children, after all, weren't welcome.

Instead of learning from these mistakes, we are in danger of repeating them.
Southeast Asians who fled to the USA to avoid political persecution came here
with the reasonable expectation that they could reunite with their families on
American soil. Isn't that policy more consistent with American ideals?

While politicians often champion family values, they must also recognize that
for many cultures, the nuclear family is not just  Mom, Dad and the kids. It
includes grandparents, aunts, uncles and cousins. My paternal grandparents were
the last of my family to arrive in the USA -- a traumatic but necessary move for
my 80-year-old grandfather. There was no family left to take care of him in
Vietnam. At least here, he spent his last years surrounded by his family. It is
terrible to think that thousands of people like my grandfather could be denied
this fundamental human right.

---

Aimee Phan is the author of We Should Never Meet.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 18, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Limit relatives' rights

BYLINE: Mark Krikorian

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 396 words


Who and how many do we want to let in? This is the question forced on us by the
current debate over how to fix our convoluted family immigration system.

Unfortunately, the answer the Senate has come up with is the wrong one. The law
today gives special immigration rights not only to nuclear family members of
citizens and immigrants here as legal residents, but also to a wider array of
relatives -- from adult sons and daughters of citizens and legal residents, to
adult brothers and sisters of citizens. A complicated system of numerical caps
results in huge waiting lists, with as many as 8million people in line for legal
immigration and very long waits ahead of them.

But managing the enormous demand for immigration through waiting lists is no way
to run a railroad. The insight more than a decade ago from the Commission on
Immigration Reform, chaired by former congresswoman Barbara Jordan, still holds
true: "Credible immigration policy should not give false hopes to applicants."
In other words, decide what categories of people to admit, then each year let in
everyone who qualifies.

This has to mean either enormous increases in family immigration or a more
narrow definition of which relatives get to come. The Senate measure pretends to
do the second, but it really does the first. As part of the trade-off for
amnesty for the illegal population, it promises to eliminate the extended family
categories, but only after admitting most of the millions already on the waiting
lists. This process would take eight or 10 years -- plenty of time for lawmakers
to add those categories back in. As Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., recently said
of the measure, "The day it passes, we're going to put in legislation to try to
fix it."

Rather than accelerating family immigration under the pretext of limiting it,
Congress should simply eliminate all the extended-family categories. (One
exception: Those who expect to get their visas within one year.) Special
immigration rights for relatives should be limited to the spouses and minor
children of U.S. citizens; they are -- and should always be -- admitted without
any numerical caps. Other relatives should be allowed to move here only if they
prove their value to the American people as a whole.

---

Mark Krikorian is executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a
Washington think tank that favors lower immigration.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 22, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Allow largest quotas for most skilled immigrants

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 487 words


The horror stories caused by bureaucratic bungling demonstrate a definite need
to revamp our immigration laws ("Long waits, onerous rules invite immigrants to
break law," Our view, Immigration debate, Monday).

The new immigration law should grant visas first to nuclear families trying to
reunite, and then to potential immigrants who could be most rapidly assimilated
because of their education levels and proficiency in English.

The rights of immigrants must be balanced against the rights of American
taxpayers.

For example, in fairness to taxpayers, the quotas should be larger for new
immigrants from countries such as India. Many of these immigrants likely will
have college degrees and will be proficient in English. They could assimilate
into our culture quickly and could make instant contributions to our economy in
high-paying jobs that offer medical and other benefits.

By contrast, immigrants who do not have degrees or know English likely will take
low-paying jobs that do not offer medical or other benefits.

They would join the more than 40 million U.S. citizens without medical
insurance. Total assimilation would be very slow.

Also, it seems that first our lawmakers should find a way to provide medical
insurance for the uninsured Americans.

It has been almost 15 years since first lady Hillary Clinton unveiled her health
care plan.

If the pace of progress seems slow now, it will become glacial after millions
who will exacerbate the problem are added.

Richard E. Dudenski

Schererville, Ind.

Retire degrading terms

The term "illegal alien" has got to go. Using "illegal" to describe a human
being is dehumanizing and defamatory.

The overt oppression of poor, illegal immigrants who are struggling to feed
themselves and their families mirrors the oppression encountered by civil rights
demonstrators who were told to go home and mind their own business because they
were "breaking the law." Americans of conscience should hold accountable anyone
who degrades a class of people.

We are moving toward our own American apartheid, building walls and creating a
so-called guest-worker program that will indenture human beings into economic
slavery for generations to come.

Modern racists and exploiters of the poor cloak bigotry in the guise of
"upholding the law," but this is the same excuse that slave holders and Jim Crow
sympathizers used for generations in defense of enslaving, raping, torturing and
murdering people who happened to be born with darker skin than themselves.

Richard Aberdeen

Nashville

Recall Mexicans' roots?

USA TODAY brings a sense of reason to the immigration debate. Although all
immigrants merit humane treatment, I personally think that Mexican immigrants
should be considered a special case. Not too long ago, much of their territory
was taken by the United States through force. Most of the borders that Mexicans
cross to come here are on land that was once theirs.

J.H. Kilwein

Bethel Park, Pa.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Christine Keith For USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 28, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A divide on immigration;
And we're not just talking about the split in Congress. We're talking about Bob
and Cal. Bob calls the revived Senate reform bill a reasonable, if imperfect,
attempt at common ground. Cal sees it as a compromise that lacks common sense.
Bob: Pass it. Cal:

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 1431 words


Cal Thomas is a conservative columnist. Bob Beckel is a liberal Democratic
strategist. But as longtime friends, they can often find common ground on issues
that lawmakers in Washington cannot.

Today: Immigration reform (Part II).

Cal: If ever there was a topic crying out for common ground, it is the
resuscitated Senate immigration bill. President Bush was joined by Arizona Sen.
John McCain and other top Republicans, as well as leading Democrats such as Sen.
Ted Kennedy of Massachusetts, in forging a compromise that on the surface seemed
to be an excellent demonstration of common ground.

Bob: No doubt. As we pointed out on this page just over a month ago, the
American people believe -- correctly -- that Congress needs to act now. Well,
the next make-or-break vote could come as early as today.

Cal: Yet if this were a Broadway show, I'd say the players were right, but the
script was wrong. Like Hillary Clinton's health care reform debacle in the early
'90s,  the immigration bill was crafted in secret, which made me and a lot of
other conservatives suspicious. A bill that is 380 pages long and as complicated
as the tax code causes me to wonder what they are hiding.

Bob: A congressman needs 50 words just to say "Howdy." A few hundred pages is
nothing! But I don't think they were trying to hide anything. It's there now.
Anyone can read it. Why not negotiate it in public? Because special interests
and the media would have turned it into a feeding frenzy. Nothing good could
have come from it. Of course you weren't happy with the script, and neither was
I, but that is part and parcel of a serious common ground proposal. If you had
been satisfied completely, I probably would have opposed it. Common ground is
not a set of ideas. It is a process.

Cal: The problem with this bill is that both sides appear more interested in
pandering to Hispanic voters -- current and future -- than in securing the
border and upholding the law. If you or I break the law, we can expect to suffer
the consequences. Why should those who have broken the law to get here and
continue to break it by staying get a better deal than even Paris Hilton thought
she might get?

Bob: So a better alternative is doing nothing? So we should ship 12 million
people out of the country? Let's get real. Yes, there is some pandering to
Hispanics, but we are talking about the largest minority group in America, which
will only gain political strength in the years ahead. Any immigration bill that
has even a small chance to become law will have to have some appeal to
Hispanics. That's reality.

Cal: Reality is that in 1986, we had an unsecured border until a "reform" bill
passed. Today, in an age of terrorism, we still have a porous border.

Bob: You're missing the larger point about the process of finding common ground.
In our last column on this issue, we rightly criticized lawmakers for not
addressing the failed policy that has plagued us for 20 years. We said the only
thing that was missing  was compromise. Now we have a compromise. Aren't you
being inconsistent by attacking a decent compromise?

Cal:  I'm not. Suppose the compromise agreement ordered all illegal immigrants
to report to immigration stations on Jan. 1, 2008, for deportation. You'd oppose
that "compromise." I don't think this is the right compromise. I think Congress
should keep trying. You can reach a consensus without either side having to
sacrifice core beliefs. And the one main principle I can't compromise is border
control. The current bill doesn't adequately enforce our border. A few hundred
miles of fence, along with some questionable technology, will not secure a
border that is thousands of miles long. You do the math.

Bob: This bill addresses border security first and foremost. In fact, the bill
was revived by strengthening the security provisions and ensuring that $4.4
billion went to just that. Not enough for you?

Cal: The president and congressional Republicans want us to trust them to
control the border, and I just can't. We heard this song and dance 20 years ago.

Bob: So that being the case, there's nothing that this president or this
Congress -- or any president and Congress for that matter -- can do to win you
over, right?

Cal: They could win me over by building a fence the length of the border, for
starters. Security first, then we can discuss who can stay. Bob, people just
don't trust the politicians to do what they say. Look at the polls. Public
approval of Congress is below that of the president.  The public seems to have
grown sour on the Democrats' promise to be more ethical and straightforward than
the Republican majority they replaced.

Bob: The heart of the public's distrust is the belief that nothing is being
accomplished on big issues like Iraq and immigration. It's just more hot air and
polarizing rhetoric. The voters want results, and with divided government, that
will require compromise. Without compromise, the paralysis will continue.

Cal: I don't think we have paralysis. The first version of this bill was
abysmal. The second attempt is perhaps a hair better. Congress and the president
should keep wrestling with this until they get it right. I'm not saying they
should abandon compromise and the idea of common ground. I just want the right
compromise.

Bob: Finding common ground by definition means no one side will get all that
they want. Isn't that the essence of what it means to compromise?

Cal: It's fine to compromise, but let's compromise on things that don't
compromise the law, our security and very fabric of this country. We are being
asked to embrace the heritage and agendas of those who come from other nations.
We are morphing from "out of many, one" to "out of one, many."

Bob: How about "out of many positions, one compromise"? For common ground to
work, the negotiators should be the ones to sell the outcome to those who share
their philosophies. And if your position happens to be far right, Cal, you may
be left disappointed at the end of this process.

Cal: If not wanting to be fooled twice and wanting to control our borders makes
me "far right," then I'll take that as a compliment! Conservatives are not
prepared to accept "the best that could be reached" any more than if they were
drowning they would settle for a life raft with a hole in it as "the best
available." They want something that works. This bill doesn't,  which is why the
public isn't buying it.

Bob: It's the conservative radio hosts who are stirring passions against this
bill, not because it's bad policy, but because it's an issue that excites their
base and stimulates ad revenue. The worst thing that could happen to these
jingoistic radio hosts is a resolution to the immigration bill. Mississippi Sen.
Trent Lott was right in calling them out as he did.

Cal: When Lott and the president and other Republican "compromisers" attack
conservative critics for merely speaking out, they've lost their way. But they
must understand that when one has lost trust in the word of politicians, it's
difficult to find common sense in their actions. Without common sense, it is
impossible to find common ground. If they build the fence first, conservative
opposition will subside. How about a slogan: "If we build it, they won't come?"

Bob: Finding common ground in the era of polarization is a tough process that
requires five things:

1. An agreement that a problem exists.

2. An agreed-upon set of goals.

3. Difficult concessions.

4. All sides represented in the negotiation.

5. An avoidance of partisan rhetoric.

Four out of five is normally good enough. But with partisan rhetoric as the sole
holdout, this bill could be doomed nonetheless.

Cal: Agreed, but the order of things is important. The bank won't lend you money
if you have bad credit. The public won't "lend" Congress its confidence after
years of defaults. Many of us want to see the "down payment" before we again
lend our trust.

Bob: Polarization thrives on issues like immigration. It will take courage to
confront these forces. Many think that these polarizers are intimidating and
unstoppable forces. Intimidating they may be; unstoppable they are not. Like
most bullies, if you get in their face, they'll run. It's time to get in the
faces of extremists who oppose any immigration solution.

Cal: I'm trembling already!

The following fields overflowed:

SUBHEAD = And we're not just talking about the split in Congress. We're talking
about Bob and Cal. Bob calls the revived Senate reform bill a reasonable, if
imperfect, attempt at common ground. Cal sees it as a compromise that lacks
common sense. Bob: Pass it. Cal: Keep trying.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC,b/w,Sam Ward,USA TODAY(Illustration)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 29, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration overhaul crumbles in Senate vote

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 682 words


WASHINGTON -- An outpouring of opposition and a campaign cycle on fast-forward
overcame a powerful alliance of key Democratic and Republican leaders, as a
sweeping immigration bill collapsed Thursday in the Senate.

A move to limit the immigration debate and bring the bill to a final vote failed
46-53. The vote halts one of President Bush's top domestic priorities and leaves
unresolved the fate of an estimated 12 million illegal immigrants now living in
what Sen. Ken Salazar, D-Colo., called "a system of victimization."

It also raises questions about the prospects for legislative accomplishment in a
Congress faced with a contentious agenda on Iraq, climate change, taxes and
budget issues.

"A lot of us worked hard to see if we couldn't find common ground,"  Bush said.
"It didn't work."

Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., called the vote "really
disheartening."

The bill's defeat came despite an enormous investment of time and political
capital by senior Democrats and Republicans.

Opponents claimed a populist victory over what  Roy Beck of NumbersUSA called
"the cheap-labor lobby." Beck said his organization, which focuses on
immigration-related issues, generated more than 2million faxes against the
immigration bill  since May. Hours before the Senate vote, the Capitol
switchboard was swamped with phone calls.

"The intensity level and the passions on this bill, we've never seen anything
like it. Not even close," said Sen. John Ensign, R-Nev., who voted against the
bill despite a call from Bush.

Ensign also chairs the National Republican Senatorial Committee. Eleven senators
-- four Democrats and seven Republicans -- who voted in favor of last year's
Senate immigration bill, which died in the House, voted against this year's
version. All of them are up for re-election in 2008.

Among them was Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky. In a Senate speech
earlier this month, McConnell said, "I am in favor of trying to pass an
immigration bill." On Thursday, after voting against it, he said he was
responding to an outcry from Republicans, including those in his home state.

Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., said politics played a role in the bill's defeat:
"Some of it was pressure."

Opposition was bipartisan, running the gamut from the AFL-CIO to the Minuteman
Civil Defense Corps, a citizen border patrol group.

The chances of Congress reconsidering immigration legislation before Bush leaves
office appear minimal. Lawmakers have begun to talk about introducing pieces of
the legislation as separate measures. Asked whether he was giving up on a
comprehensive immigration bill, a weary Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., said:
"I'll think about that tomorrow."

Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-Calif., who chairs the House subcommittee on immigration,
was more definitive: "This effectively kills immigration reform in the 110th
Congress."

The bill would have beefed up border security, expanded opportunities for
foreigners to take temporary jobs in the USA and made job qualifications a
factor in selecting immigrants. It also would have put about 12 million illegal
immigrants on a path to citizenship.

At a news conference following the bill's defeat, Homeland Security Secretary
Michael Chertoff said his department will continue raids on employers suspected
of hiring illegal immigrants. "You will continue to see heart-wrenching examples
of families being pulled apart," he said. "In order to regain credibility with
the American people, we're going to have to be tough."

Graham predicted that Congress' failure to address immigration will lead to a
patchwork of state and municipal ordinances as local governments attempt to fill
the void. According to the National Conference of State Legislatures, at least
1,169 immigration measures were introduced in 50 state legislatures as of April.

Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez said attitudes appear to have changed since
he "felt so welcome" arriving in the USA as a Cuban refugee. "I hope that the
day will return," he said, "when we will once again think about immigration not
as something to tolerate but as something to be proud of."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 2, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Businesses seek to revive parts of immigration bill;
Tech, farm workers among top priorities

BYLINE: Sue Kirchhoff

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 442 words


WASHINGTON -- The business community is already pushing to resurrect portions of
a wide-ranging immigration bill that died in the Senate last week.

Among the priorities for business are provisions to allow more highly skilled
workers into the country each year and expand programs for farm workers

"We're going to have to go back and see how many things from the bill we can
pull out and get fixes," says Angelo Amador, director of immigration policy for
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, who also said his group would push to give
undocumented students who have been raised in the USA a chance to earn legal
status and finish their education.

"At the very least a fix for a year or two while we work on comprehensive reform
is needed," Amador said.

Amador added that businesses face increasing immigration raids and new
legislation at the state and local levels.

It's not clear how eager lawmakers will be to dive back into the controversial
issue, though Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., has indicated a
willingness to consider parts of the bill separately. Rep. Zoe Lofgren,
D-Calif., chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, said the
House should "take stock of the situation to determine whether anything can be
done to improve the current unsatisfactory system."

The Senate failed to muster the 60 votes needed to end debate on the immigration
measure. It would have given a path to citizenship for an estimated 12 million
undocumented immigrants now in the USA, tightened workplace enforcement and
border security, and allowed more temporary workers.

With the bill apparently dead, the technology industry will back a more targeted
measure increasing the number of annual H-1B visas for highly skilled workers.
The visas are issued for up to three years but can be extended. The bill would
have raised the current cap of 65,000 to as many as 130,000. The industry  now
will push for an annual level as high as 195,000 annual visas -- a number
allowed several years ago.

"We've got a lot of companies who want to create a lot of new jobs and keep a
lot of good people in the country," says Ralph Hellmann, a senior vice president
of the Information Technology Industry Council.

The American Farm Bureau Federation will continue pushing for a farm worker
program, probably more expansive than the one in the failed bill. That program
provided a path to legalization for about 1 million current agricultural workers
and made it easier to use a guest worker program.

"It's an issue we've been working on for a long time ... we're not going to
stop," says Paul Schlegel, director of public policy for the American Farm
Bureau Federation.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 20, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A personal approach to immigration

BYLINE: Marisa Trevino

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 459 words


The Senate immigration reform bill wasn't defeated  last month simply because
the two sides couldn't agree.  This debate got personal.  The political rhetoric
took direct aim at undocumented immigrants: They don't want to learn English.
They abuse social services. They drive up crime rates. They won't assimilate.

These "talking points" were parroted on talk radio.  In fact, conservative
bloggers credit them  with sinking the bill.

Yet even a casual political observer  knows that rhetoric is used to further
agendas -- not necessarily to advance the truth. A couple of facts useful to an
honest debate:

*A 2005 Harvard study   found that increased immigration was a major factor
associated with lower crime rates.

*English as a Second Language classes are the fastest growing state-administered
adult education programs in the nation, says the National Institute for
Literacy.

The immigration debate will return, most likely after the 2008 election. When it
does, we must combat this  misinformation campaign by documenting immigrants'
efforts at assimilating while providing them with the tools necessary to
integrate into society.

Some cities and states have already  established, or are considering opening,
offices of immigrant affairs. In cities such as New York,  Houston  and Boston,
and states such as Illinois  and California,  government offices  help
immigrants assimilate.  How? They provide them with information about
citizenship courses and English classes, housing, school enrollment and even how
to navigate state or federal laws.

New Haven, Conn., is taking it a step further. On Tuesday,  the city will begin
issuing to every resident, regardless of citizenship, a municipal identification
card.  The ID, which will be recognized only within city limits, was originally
created to allow undocumented immigrants to open bank accounts. But now it  will
also be used as a debit and library card. It will even be used to feed parking
meters. On the same day, the city will open the Office of New Haven Residents,
where locals can purchase the ID card and receive guidance on the city's basic
services.  Jessica Mayorga, New Haven's director of communications, says a
decision was made to not use the word "immigrants" in the title of the office.
"We wanted to be more inclusive."

Undoubtedly, critics will condemn New Haven's acceptance of undocumented
immigrants.  But for city  officials, their decision to grant legal recognition
was their way of offering an honest, personal welcome.

When the immigration debate reaches Washington again, let's hope that if it does
get personal, it's in a positive way -- recognizing immigrants as humans rather
than dehumanizing them with propaganda.

---

Marisa Trevioo is the author of the blog Latina Lista.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            July 25, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Report for local police explains immigration issues;
Chief says publication aims to augment 'very little' help from feds

BYLINE: Kevin Johnson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 570 words


WASHINGTON -- The nation's largest association of police chiefs is distributing
an unusual primer on immigration enforcement to thousands of law enforcement
agencies, saying the absence of a national immigration policy has left local
communities with an "overwhelming" burden.

The publication by the International Association of Chiefs of Police (IACP)
discusses immigration laws and issues, including day-laborer hiring sites and
local collaboration with federal immigration officials. It stops short of urging
local authorities to enforce federal immigration laws but says agencies can no
longer ignore the local troubles posed by the explosive growth of undocumented
immigrants.

"Because there has been very little federal assistance on this issue, it's been
pushed down to us," IACP President Joseph Carter said. "Our frustration is that
this has now become an issue for our membership."

Immigration enforcement, primarily the domain of the federal government, has
been a particularly sensitive issue for local communities.

"Local police leaders face a growing set of immigration-related duties in the
face of scarce and narrowing resources," the 45-page document states. "It is
critically important for local agencies to avoid being caught in the middle of
endless battles over immigration policy."

The report states that local police are confronted with:

*Human smuggling operations.

*Crime victims who are reluctant to cooperate with police out of fear they will
be deported.

*The rejuvenation of hate groups targeting new immigrant communities.

*Community disputes involving the location of day-laborer hiring sites or
complaints related to overcrowded housing.

Carter said the document, circulated Tuesday, was the association's response to
"numerous" requests for guidance from its membership, which numbers about 20,000
police officials. "What we have provided is a framework to help guide chiefs.
How they deal with it is an issue for their political leadership. We can't
dictate how a community should respond."

So far, the collective response of local communities has produced a quilt of
local immigration policies.

Some cities, including Minneapolis, have designated their communities as
"sanctuary cities" where police are directed to leave immigration enforcement to
federal authorities.

Jeremy Hanson, spokesman for Minneapolis Mayor R.T. Rybak, said the municipal
directive extends to all municipal employees, including those who manage such
things as business license applications.

"It's a clear separation, based on the value that it is essential that our
police department have the trust of the community," Hanson said.

In Phoenix, the Maricopa County Sheriff's Department has sought the guidance of
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement for apprehending immigration law
offenders.

More than a dozen other police agencies have sought similar assistance, despite
opposition expressed last year by a coalition of more than 50 urban police
chiefs who argued that immigration enforcement would drain limited resources
needed for local public-safety efforts.

"Immigration presents a confusing picture for the police, with various elements
of the community taking adversarial positions," the IACP report said.

Carter hopes the IACP's primer will "move law enforcement to a more consistent
approach. Lacking guidance from a court decision or the federal government,
we're just trying to find the best way to move ahead."

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Eileen Blass, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           August 15, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Washington's failure triggers anti-immigrant backlash

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 528 words


As Congress has failed to revamp the nation's infuriating, unjust and unworkable
immigration policies, states and communities across the USA have taken matters
into their own hands.

The result?

Dozens of infuriating, unjust, unworkable -- and often heartless -- immigration
policies.

Consider what happened in Hazleton, Pa., one of the first communities to adopt a
measure designed to drive away illegal immigrants. The law was passed in 2006
and has been embroiled in litigation ever since. Last month, a federal judge
overturned it. Yet, in its brief life, the measure has done serious harm.

A Mexican businessman, a legal resident who has made Hazleton home for 16 years,
told the court that his restaurant folded after customers felt intimidated by a
police car that often parked across the street. The leader of a local Hispanic
group -- a U.S. citizen -- got hate mail. And the publisher of a
Spanish-language newspaper, also a U.S. citizen, had to be escorted by police
from a rally of the measure's supporters after the crowd turned on him, shouting
"get out of the country."

That's just some of the collateral damage in one small city. Around the nation,
about 40 communities and at least a half dozen states -- from Arizona to
Oklahoma to Georgia -- have passed immigration laws, some imposing draconian
fines or other harsh sanctions on those who hire illegal immigrants or rent to
them.

On one level, those responses can be seen as reasonable. They are actions
directed at curbing illegal behavior that the community sees as harmful and that
the federal government has failed for decades to address. Illegal immigrants
stream across borders. Others who enter legally overstay their visas. Businesses
ignore laws against hiring them, and today, the nation is home to about 12
million illegal immigrants, many of whom place a burden on local schools and
hospitals.

Even so, trying to fix this huge mess piecemeal makes no more sense than each
state and city adopting its own foreign policy. Immigration is a huge national
problem that requires a comprehensive national solution. Local laws will just
move people from one community or state to the next where the environment is
less hostile, or they'll burrow even deeper into the underground economy. Few
are likely to leave the country.

In any case, the strategy isn't holding up in court.  In six cases, challengers
have managed to knock down or postpone the effect of local ordinances.

Amid the stalemate in Congress, the Bush administration last week announced
another push to make employers obey laws against hiring illegal immigrants. At
least that's the right level of government to be enforcing federal law. But
until the nation has a credible guest worker program -- and a path to
citizenship for the millions already here -- harsh enforcement will achieve
little.

When senators killed a promising immigration compromise in June,  they
irresponsibly tossed the problem to places like Hazleton, where the problem is
only being amplified.

---

This is the seventh in an occasional series of editorials about this year's
immigration debate. View the previous editorials at
blogs.usatoday.com/oped/immigration_editorial.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, AFP/Getty Images

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 20, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Gain citizenship legally

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 591 words


The advocacy group Mexicans Without Borders should not be dictating immigration
policy to the United States. Ask any Central American what happens if he or she
is caught illegally in Mexico ("Immigrant activism taking a bold turn," News,
Sept. 13).

My parents came here legally from Mexico after they left Cuba years ago. While
working as an engineer in Mexico, my father's employer had to pay the Mexican
government for an extension on his visa. There always was a possibility that my
father's visa would be denied and that the family would be deported to Cuba. But
he went through the legal process.

Those who leave their homeland to escape abuses of human rights should instead
fight for their human rights there. Their nations should begin creating programs
to provide education and skills to provide for future employment, instead of
creating future revolutionaries and misfits.  Their governments shouldn't seek a
quick solution by exporting their problems across the border.

Coming into the USA illegally is similar to cutting in front of a long
supermarket line. There are immigrants who wish to obey the law. They applied
for visas long before the throngs who are now demanding rights. It's time for
those lawbreakers to start at the back of the line, too.

Frank Alfonso

Frederick, Md.

No rules, no rights

Illegal immigrant Christian Ocampo was quoted in USA TODAY's recent article on
immigrant activism saying: "If we don't do something now to be heard, the
consequences will be that many people will lose their jobs and many families
will go hungry."

But Ocampo fails to understand that if he weren't here illegally, he wouldn't
have a job to lose. What if drug dealers and shoplifters held a protest to,
quote, "make their voices heard"? If you asked them why they are breaking the
law, they might say they just want a better life for themselves and their
families.

Illegal immigrants deny the government taxes, put a strain on the local economy
and drain resources from otherwise law-abiding people. If we could pick and
choose the laws we wanted to obey, there would be chaos. I am sure there are
hard-working, decent Mexican people who want a better life. But, first they must
play by the rules. Many legal immigrants go through an arduous process to be
come legal citizens. Illegal immigrants who circumvent the laws wreak havoc on
the immigration process.

Steven Majors

Chicago

Focus within borders

As an immigrant, I want to respond to USA TODAY's "Immigrant activism taking a
bold turn." Instead of pressuring the United States to provide what amounts to
amnesty, ethnic activists should work on pressuring the governments of their
native countries to improve life for their own citizens. Latin America has 36
billionaires,  including Mexican citizen Carlos Slim Helu,   who has overtaken
Microsoft founder Bill Gates as the world's wealthiest man with riches of $59
billion.

Yeh Ling-Ling, executive director

Diversity Alliance

for a Sustainable America

Oakland

Don't blame immigrants

I would like to voice my full support for undocumented immigrants in their
protest against being blamed for the United States' immigration problems.

Today's anti-immigrant hysterics in the USA are the latest incarnation of a
nativist monster that rears its ugly head every few years.

This has increased because of 9/11, but fear-mongers in the media and Republican
politicians are eager to divert the nation's attention from the disaster in
Iraq.

While the tactics of immigrant rights activists might appear risky, they have
reason on their side.

Mark C. Eades

Oakland

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Jay Westcott for USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 28, 2007 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

A humane way to open country's door

BYLINE: Generic

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 448 words


Juan Gomez could have been on a poster as the all-American boy, until he got
tangled in our country's broken immigration system. The 18-year-old Florida
honor student was looking forward to college when immigration agents arrested
him. It seems his parents illegally entered the USA with him when he was two.

Gomez has been fortunate. His classmates rallied support for him, and Sen. Chris
Dodd, D-Conn., introduced a special bill, which will let him remain here until
at least 2009. Most kids in his situation would not be so lucky. The Pew Center
estimates that  1.7 million children younger than  18 are living in the USA
illegally.  Once they graduate from high school, they cannot legally work or
serve in the military, and they live under the constant threat of deportation.

At a time when major immigration reform has failed, a modest, humane approach is
being promoted. The DREAM Act (Development, Relief and Education for Alien
Minors) would let undocumented high school graduates  become permanent legal
residents if they entered the USA before the age of 16, have been here
continuously for at least five years, and either attend college or serve in the
military for two years.

Though the legislation  has bipartisan support, opposition is already
mobilizing. Rep. Brian Bilbray, R-Calif., calls it "the nightmare act."
Anti-immigration groups such as Numbers USA and the Federation of Americans for
Immigration Reform  refer to it as amnesty.

But the DREAM Act is not amnesty, because it does not reward anyone who has
committed a crime. The young people who would be affected by the act have done
nothing wrong; they inherited their undocumented status. They should not be
punished for the acts of their parents. In fact, the DREAM Act applies only to
those students who abide by our laws and are willing to earn their place here.
It would give a deserved chance to the youngest and most promising immigrants
among us.

The Migration Policy Institute, a nonpartisan research group, estimates that
nearly a million young people could gain legal status. The bill could also help
ease the military's shortage of qualified recruits.

Some of these young people may join the military, while others may choose
college. But all would have the option and the opportunity to better themselves
and, ultimately, this country.

The DREAM Act is compassionate as well as pragmatic. It rewards hard work. It
embodies the American value that our future is not determined by who our parents
are. And it would allow young people who want to be here to stay here so they
can fully and fairly contribute to the USA.

Raul Reyes is an attorney in New York and a member of USA TODAY's board of
contributors.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 17, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigrant's family detained after daughter speaks out

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 612 words


WASHINGTON -- Three days after a 24-year-old college graduate spoke out on her
immigration plight in USA TODAY, U.S. agents arrested her family -- including
her father, a Vietnamese man who once was confined to a "re-education" camp in
his home country for anti-communist activities.

Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-Calif., who chairs the House immigration subcommittee, on
Tuesday accused federal officials of "witness intimidation" for staging a
pre-dawn raid on the home of Tuan Ngoc Tran.

The agents arrested Tran, his wife and son, charging them with being fugitives
from justice even though the family's attorneys said the Trans have been
reporting to immigration officials annually to obtain work permits.

Lofgren said she believes the family was targeted because Tran's eldest child,
Tam Tran, testified before Lofgren's panel earlier this spring in support of
legislation that would help the children of illegal immigrants. On Oct. 8, Tam
Tran was quoted in USA TODAY. Her parents and brother were taken into custody
Thursday. The family was released to house arrest after Lofgren intervened.

"Would she and her family have been arrested if she hadn't spoken out?" Lofgren
said of Tran, who was not at home for the raid but has been asked to report to
Immigration and Customs officials next week. "I don't think so."

Kelly Nantel, a spokeswoman for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said
the Tran family's arrest "absolutely, unequivocally had nothing to do" with Tam
Tran's advocacy. She said ICE agents began working on the case Sept. 28 and will
now try to send the family to Germany, where the Trans lived for several years
before coming to the United States. In the past, the German government refused
the family's permission to return; Nantel said the U.S. government will now make
an official request.

The raid marked the latest chapter in the Tran family's complex immigration
odyssey. The family arrived in the USA 18 years ago from Germany, where the
elder Trans ended up after the German navy rescued them at sea when they were
escaping Vietnam.

Both Tam Tran and her brother, Thien, 21, were born in Germany, but they have
lived in the USA since they were young. Tam Tran received a bachelor's degree
with honors in American literature and culture in December from UCLA.

She has lobbied  for the DREAM Act,  which would give children of illegal
immigrants a chance to obtain citizenship if they earn a high school degree and
complete two years of postsecondary education or two years of military service.

In 2001, the Board of Immigration Appeals said the Tran family could not be
deported to Vietnam because Tam's father had been persecuted there for his
political beliefs. The board left open the possibility that the family could be
sent to Germany, but German authorities wouldn't give them a visa.

Nantel said there are more than 324,000 people living in the USA who have been
ordered deported but who can't be sent away because no country will accept them.
It's ICE's job to find ways "to effect the judge's order," she said.

Bo Cooper, a Washington-based immigration attorney who this week agreed to take
the Tran family's case free of charge, said he's puzzled that "the U.S.
government would go and try to deport someone who doesn't have a criminal record
and who has been given formal protection" because of his treatment at the hands
of the Vietnamese government.

Nantel acknowledged the Tran family had been reporting to immigration officials
regularly. Asked why they were arrested and charged with being fugitives, she
said agents "did not understand the complexity of the case." She said ICE agents
removed the family's electronic ankle bracelets Tuesday.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Office of Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard, D-Calif.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 25, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Lawmakers seek policy clarification

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 412 words


WASHINGTON -- The plight of a California family threatened last week with
deportation to Vietnam prompted three members of Congress to demand the White
House reiterate the U.S. government's policy against returning refugees to the
socialist country.

Rep. Zoe Lofgren, a California Democrat who chairs the House subcommittee on
immigration, said Wednesday that the Bush administration "has an obligation to
clarify" the nation's policy toward Vietnam. Lofgren wrote to Bush seeking
clarification Tuesday after an immigration official told the Los Angeles Times
that the family of Tam Tran, a UCLA graduate who has testified before Lofgren's
committee in support of the DREAM Act, might be returned to the country where
her father was imprisoned in a "re-education" camp.

Tran's family was taken into custody this month, three days after she gave an
interview to USA TODAY about her immigration problem and support for the DREAM
Act, which would have given legal status to certain children brought to the USA
by illegal immigrant parents.

The family members, all of whom have legal work permits and have been checking
in regularly with immigration officials, were released when Lofgren's office
intervened.

The Los Angeles Times quoted Virginia Kice, an Immigrations and Customs
Enforcement (ICE) official, after the arrest as saying her agency might try to
determine whether the political climate in Vietnam had changed sufficiently to
allow officials to return the Tran family.

That would constitute "a fundamental alternation of U.S. policy," Lofgren wrote
to Bush. In the letter, also signed by Reps. Loretta Sanchez, D-Calif., and
Chris Smith, R-N.J., the lawmakers noted that the State Department has rated
Vietnam's human rights situation as "unsatisfactory."

Kelly Nantel, a spokeswoman for ICE, told USA TODAY that the arrest of the Trans
and the suggestion they might be deported to Vietnam was a mistake.  "It is not
an option," she said.

Lofgren insists on a clarification in writing.

"Until it's officially corrected, Vietnamese refugees are going to be
understandably concerned," she said.

Tam Tran was born in Germany and came to the USA 18 years ago at age 6. The
family was here legally while their asylum application was pending. In 2001,
asylum was denied, but Germany would not give the Trans permission to return.
Their deportation order was suspended.

Nantel said ICE  has reopened the case with the Germans in an attempt to win
permission to send the family there.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Bob Riha Jr., USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 2, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

20-year-long legal 'nightmare' ends for 2 immigrants;
Men cleared of aiding terrorist group

BYLINE: Laura Parker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 479 words


Khader Hamide, a Palestinian immigrant and coffee wholesaler in Southern
California, says he never could have won his 20-year fight against deportation
if he had remained incarcerated.

"They wanted to keep us in jail until the case was over," says Hamide, who was
cleared this week of supporting terrorists. "If I was going to be in jail for
all those years, I would have chosen deportation."

Now 53, Hamide, who has lived in the USA since he was 17, will be eligible to
apply for U.S. citizenship in three years.

"It has been nothing less than a nightmare," he says. "I feel like a mountain
came off my shoulders."

His long legal battle, which carried on through four presidential
administrations, finally ended Monday when the Board of Immigration Appeals
dropped the case against him and another immigrant, Michel Shehadeh.

The Department of Homeland Security concluded that there was no information that
the men "currently pose a threat."

The case, which civil libertarians considered  an important test of immigrants'
rights, had bounced back and forth between the immigration appeals board, a
federal appeals court and the Supreme Court.

"What this case has been about from the beginning is the right of immigrants to
speak out about social and political change in their home country," says Marc
Van Der Hout of the National Lawyers Guild, who  worked on the case from the
beginning. "The government wanted to stop people from supporting movements
abroad that it didn't like. They didn't succeed. That's a very important message
for immigrants and for this country."

"We have fought this for 20 years, through every level of the courts, and we are
overjoyed," says David Cole, another of Hamide's attorneys, based at the Center
for Constitutional Rights in New York.

Others cautioned against characterizing the case as a sweeping victory in the
post-9/11 world.

"It is an important step forward, but my fear is that it's only a small step up
a much larger hill," says Stephen Vladeck, a law professor at American
University in Washington, D.C. "There's a whole flip side of this in criminal
law where the government has been prosecuting people who have been giving money
to charities that have been designated as terrorist groups."

Hamide was arrested in 1987 with a group of Palestinian men and the Kenyan wife
of one of them, on suspicion of aiding the Popular Front for the Liberation of
Palestine. The  U.S. government considers it a terrorist organization.

Hamide and the others, who became known as the "L.A. Eight," all denied being
members of the Popular Front. Eventually, Hamide and Shehadeh were accused of
providing material support to the organization by selling magazines and setting
up fundraising dinners.

Hamide spent three weeks in jail after the group was arrested but was later
released. No judge ever found that any of the group had ever done anything
illegal.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Gina Ferazzi, Los Angeles Times
PHOTO, B/W, Los Angeles Times

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           February 12, 2008 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Specialized visa rule punishes honest employers, workers

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 657 words


USA TODAY's article "Visa rule spells out 'help wanted' for some businesses" is
illustrative of the massive misunderstanding of immigration issues in the USA
today. The failure of Congress to extend the Save Our Small and Seasonal
Businesses Act of 2007, exempting returning H-2B workers from annual numerical
cap limits, only punished U.S. employers who play by the rules (News, Feb. 5).

Non-immigrant workers who have historically respected our borders and our
immigration laws also are being punished.

As an immigration lawyer, I know that punishing the immigration compliant is not
the answer to our immigration problems. If we want meaningful immigration
reform, we are in need of rational lawmaking and the collective exercise of
informed common sense.

Arthur G. Carr III

St. Louis

Laws applied differently

The article "Canada stiffens border checks, lawyers say" suggests that it has
become tougher for Americans with criminal records to get into Canada, and that
this is resulting in Americans taking fewer trips to Canada. As a practitioner
of both Canadian and U.S. immigration law, I believe any such suggestion is
misplaced (News, Jan. 22).

Canadian and U.S. immigration officers simply have access to more arrest records
today because of joint initiatives implemented by immigration authorities on
both sides of the border. While access to records might be resulting in more
findings of inadmissibility, this doesn't mean that the information is being
used more aggressively.

The article says a Minnesota firefighter was banned from entering Canada because
he had two DUI convictions from the 1980s. But this man wasn't banned because
Canada has more strict laws than the USA does:

*Differing criminal legislation and constitutions granting jurisdiction to
federal or state governments lead to different outcomes. For example, for minor
first-time offenses, Canadian courts sometimes impose a sentence that results in
no criminal record. U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) still treats these
as convictions.

*CBP does not recognize Canadian pardons, but Canada does generally recognize
U.S. pardons.

*Certain regulations also allow for immediate relief in other circumstances,
such as those of the firefighter. Evidence of his rehabilitation can be
recognized by granting a temporary resident permit,  which can be issued while
he waits at a port of entry.

USA TODAY also suggests that fewer Americans are visiting Canada than in
previous years. I'd like USA TODAY to investigate whether this has more to do
with the rate of exchange between our two currencies. Or what about how the
Department of Homeland Security's ongoing Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative
requires Americans traveling to Canada to show passports when re-entering the
USA?

Kevin W. Beigel, attorney at law

Guberman, Garson, Bush

Immigration Lawyers

Toronto

Health care for children

USA TODAY's story on immigrants' medical needs tackles the dilemma of how to
best serve undocumented immigrants ("Rising health care costs put focus on
illegal immigrants," Cover story, News, Jan. 22).

Studies at the Urban Institute show that providing health insurance to
undocumented children quickly leads to better preventive and primary care.

We also found that better health care means better health and fewer days missed
from school. Some undocumented children come to the USA with untreated illnesses
-- such as tuberculosis -- and are often behind on their vaccinations. Insuring
them helps prevent communicable disease among all school children and families.

Our work also shows that the cost of covering these uninsured children is
relatively low, and that families can and will pick up part of the tab. But the
real benefits come through preventing more serious illnesses throughout the
child's life.

This is critical because many of these children will remain in the USA and
eventually join the U.S. workforce.

Embry M. Howell

Principal research associate

Urban Institute

Washington

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Todd Plitt, USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 2, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Legal road to immigration has its limits

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 621 words


Life in the USA is difficult for legal immigrants, too.

My wife and I live in Virginia. We are experts in educational assessment. I work
legally with approval from the Department of State, the Department of Homeland
Security and the Social Security Administration. But we are Canadians, and this
is our problem:

U.S. schools need testing experts. But federal law does not permit people with
marketable skills to immigrate and work in the USA easily.

As a mathematical scientist, I can work for a time with a visa, but that visa
ends. Unlike illegal immigrants, I can be deported more easily when my visa
expires. That's because Homeland Security knows where I live and has my phone
number.

My visa permits my wife to live with me in the USA, but she cannot work. She did
have her own visa, but it expired, so she gave up her job teaching disadvantaged
children. I am writing this letter from my home, which I own. My neighbors are
astonished when I tell them that my wife and I may not be permitted to continue
living in our Virginia subdivision.

My wife's achievements have been recognized by The Kennedy Center. We have
abided by the law.

Sharon and I thought that the United States would welcome talented, experienced
immigrants with doctorates. Turns out, we are the kinds of people who Congress
apparently doesn't want in the USA. Yes, it's crazy. But it's true -- at least
that's how we feel, given the limitations we face as we try to make a life here.

Brian Reid

Annandale, Va.

Citizenship is a 'privilege'

After I immigrated to the USA, I took a number and waited for my citizenship. My
mom did, too.

I would like to remind those who are in the process of immigrating here that it
is a privilege to live in the USA, not a right. Just because immigrants want the
American dream doesn't mean they should sue the U.S. government to try to speed
up their citizenship.

Good things come to those who wait.

Karla Estrada, junior

Durant High School

Plant City, Fla.

Increase worker visas

I can't see how any reasonable, informed American would be against Congress
passing legislation to increase the number of visas available for highly skilled
workers and for temporary agricultural workers.

The need for these visas is confirmed by many U.S. business leaders ("Giving
visas to skilled workers bolsters economy," Our view, Immigration debate, March
25).

For members of Congress to say they can't fix these two important areas of
immigration shouldn't be acceptable any longer.

They argue that visa ceilings can't be raised because many Americans would lose
jobs to foreign workers or U.S. wages would be lowered. But these are lame
excuses.

The legislation can be drafted to protect against these problems.

Americans don't need political talk. They need responsible members of Congress
to put together a good immigration bill now and to rally support for it. This is
the way to help our hurting economy.

Jim Prendergast Jr.

Villanova, Pa.

Be fair, don't scapegoat

I wonder whether USA TODAY readers know that it wasn't until 1924 that Congress
officially established the U.S. Border Patrol.

When a society feels the pressure of a bulging population, the high cost of
housing and transportation, high unemployment and a lack of skills to make a
buck, then it begins to look for a scapegoat. Unfortunately, that scapegoat is
the illegal immigrant.

In my community, many homes were built by workers who probably earned $8 an hour
and who likely were illegal immigrants. I spoke to many of them as they built
those beautiful homes. But they are not the ones who will profit. The big home
builders will. Illegal immigrants should become legal citizens, but it's not
fair to take advantage of them because they work for low wages.

Paul de Landa

Patterson, Calif.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Ann Johansson, Getty Images

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 3, 2008 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigrants face hurricane dilemma;
Use of Border Patrol agents in evacuations complicates issue

BYLINE: Rick Jervis

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 948 words


CAMERON PARK, Texas -- Jose Pacheco feels he may face a tough choice if a
hurricane heads toward this community in South Texas: stay and face the storm's
fury or evacuate and risk losing his wife.

The possibility that U.S. Border Patrol agents may check the immigration status
of hurricane evacuees recently sent shockwaves through this colonia, or
unincorporated neighborhood, outside Brownsville, Texas, just across the Rio
Grande from Mexico.

Residents here and along the Texas coast have become accustomed to hurricane
evacuations. As more places increase enforcement of immigration laws, residents
such as Pacheco say they would rather risk harm from a storm than risk
deportation from the USA.

"I don't want my wife taken away from me," said Pacheco, 37, a legal U.S.
resident from Mexico who works for a cable company. His wife, who he asked not
be named, is not a legal resident. "What choice do I have?" he said. "I'll
stay."

Border Patrol agents are becoming increasingly involved in emergency
evacuations. They will be present during evacuations as backup law enforcement
officers to assist local and state officials. Agents interviewed evacuees from
Hurricane Katrina in 2005 and also during last year's California wildfires,
leading to some deportation hearings, a practice not seen in decades, said
Cecilia Muooz of the National Council of La Raza, a Washington-based Hispanic
advocacy group.

Checking the legal status of evacuees dissuades residents from leaving dangerous
areas, Muooz said.

Border Patrol officials said this year they would detain and deport hurricane
evacuees who have entered this country illegally but later recanted and said
they would be flexible during emergencies.

Safety is paramount in emergency situations, said Lloyd Easterling, an assistant
chief with the U.S. Border Patrol. "We are not going to stand in the way of
people getting to safety," he said. "We'll worry about the legal aspects later."

Mock evacuation scares some

Concerns about border checks rose recently after Border Patrol agents were seen
checking identification of evacuees before they got on school buses during a
mock evacuation exercise in nearby McAllen.

"By doing this, they are undercutting the people's confidence in getting them to
safety," Muooz said.

John Cavazos, Cameron County's emergency management coordinator, said he is
responsible for the safety of 127,500 "special needs" evacuees -- those too poor
or too sick to drive out themselves -- in three counties. Following the mock
evacuation in McAllen, thousands of them may refuse to go, he said. He is
building a plan for those who may stay behind.

A major storm has not hit this area in more than a decade, Cavazos said, but its
proximity to the coast makes it vulnerable to hurricanes. The four-county Rio
Grande Valley has one of the highest mix of hurricane-vulnerable cities and
immigrant communities in the USA, he said.

If residents don't leave, it will create an emergency-management nightmare, he
said.

"This could potentially turn into a mass search-and-rescue from the local
government," Cavazos said. "I don't have a lot of time to make those kinds of
plans."

Over the past year, Cavazos said he has noticed U.S. border officials becoming
more involved with evacuation planning, often sitting in on local Homeland
Security council meetings. He said border officials have assured him they won't
be checking papers during evacuations, but he has requested that in writing.

Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff, in a statement, said agents
wouldn't slow evacuations but did not say whether documents would be checked.

"Instructions to the Border Patrol and Customs and Border Protection are clear.
They are to do nothing to impede a safe and speedy evacuation of a danger zone,"
he said last month. "Now, obviously the laws don't get suspended, but ... our
priorities are to make sure we can move traffic along quickly."

Losing 'the public's trust'

Border agents have noticeably brought down crime in the region but risk losing
the residents' confidence if they get too involved in evacuations, Cavazos said.
"We've already lost a lot of the public's trust," he said.

Border agents need to be vigilant during emergencies to prevent drug smugglers
and other criminals from slipping through, Easterling said, adding that agents
will be more flexible in their enforcement. For example, permanent checkpoints
on the two main highways leading from the Rio Grande Valley's Mexican border
into Texas will not be manned during an evacuation, he said.

"We're not going to completely disregard what our mission is," he said. "But we
will tweak what we're doing during an evacuation."

The assurances offer little encouragement to the residents of Cameron Park, a
shanty neighborhood of about 7,000 predominately poor and Hispanic residents.

The majority of residents here have legal status, said Michael Seifert, a
community activist. Many families also house recently arrived relatives from
Mexico, who may be waiting on their papers, he said. Despite his urging, many
residents have voiced concerns about evacuating, Seifert said.

"There are going to be families who won't go. They're not going to risk getting
deported," he said.

Lupita Sanchez, 38, a legal resident and health care worker in Cameron Park,
said her family faced a similar dilemma when considering evacuating last year
for Hurricane Dean. Sanchez said her sister, Nina Martinez, had applied for
residency. Sanchez wanted to go to San Antonio. Martinez did not. At the last
minute, Dean took a sharp westerly turn toward Mexico.

"Our culture insists that we don't leave family behind," Sanchez said. "A lot of
people here will stay to keep their family together."

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Karl Gelles, USA TODAY, Source: ESRI (Map)
PHOTO, B/W, Brad Doherty for USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 28, 2008 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

McCain, que paso?;
The GOP nominee is paying for his party's sins -- specifically the mishandling
of immigration reform. Democrats, though also guilty, have escaped blame.

BYLINE: Ruben Navarrette

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 889 words


SAN DIEGO -- Just a week  before Election Day, John McCain's advisers are
probably looking at the trend line of the Latino vote and wondering: Que paso?

McCain is poised to have his worst showing ever with Latino voters, a
constituency with which he has done extremely well in the past thanks to his
personal relationships, war hero status, moderate positions and independent
streak. In his 1998 Senate re-election in Arizona, McCain got 65% of the
Hispanic vote. In 2004, it was 70%. But this year, on a national level, it's
another story.

In a July survey by the Pew Hispanic Center, 23% of Latinos support McCain,
while 66% back Barack Obama. A third of respondents said the immigration issue
would influence their vote. Fifty percent said Obama was the better candidate
for immigrants; 12% said that about McCain. According to another survey, many
Latinos in the USA say they're being picked on, discriminated against and turned
into scapegoats. And they blame the Republican Party.

Be sure to catch the irony: McCain is being punished for the very sins he tried
to prevent other Republicans from committing, while Obama is being absolved of
sins that he and other Senate Democrats actually did commit.

An unheeded warning

Former Senate Republicans such as Rick Santorum and Bill Frist have acknowledged
that, during the 2007 immigration reform debate, McCain warned them explicitly
that they were badly mishandling the issue and  making the GOP brand poisonous
to Latinos.

McCain was dead-on. Republicans flunked immigration reform by clinging to an
enforcement-only approach, making culture the issue by declaring English the
national language, ignoring the anti-Latino racism in the debate and gutting
sanctions for those who hire illegal immigrants. Republicans also tinkered with
legal immigration by trying to ditch  family reunification as the guiding
principle.

Yet, Republican demagoguery is only part of the story. Senate Democrats also had
a hand in killing immigration reform in 2007 by trying to torpedo GOP support
for a bipartisan compromise. House Democrats, under orders from Rep. Rahm
Emanuel, D-Ill., kept the controversial issue off the legislative agenda in
2008. Why? Organized labor. Democrats' slavish adherence to unions required that
they derail any proposal that includes guest workers, as any bill with a chance
to win Republican support  would have to do.

In spring 2007, in a maneuver that enraged Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass.,
Majority Leader Harry Reid used political sleight of hand and spin to make it
seem as if a powerless GOP minority had somehow mustered up the power to kill
immigration reform.

The power lay with Senate Democrats, including Obama, who supported a series of
"poison pill" amendments intended to weaken guest-worker provisions and drive
away Republicans. Obama even proposed one such amendment himself.

Millions of undocumented immigrants in the USA blame Republicans for denying
them green cards, but Democrats deserve most of the blame. The truth might have
come out if not for loudmouths on right-wing talk radio who claimed credit for
derailing comprehensive reform, which included a path to legalization for the
undocumented (what critics called "amnesty"). The chest thumping was good news
for Reid, who let the right-wing radio talkers confuse the issue.

And when a hard-hitting Spanish-language ad from the McCain-Palin campaign tried
to set the record straight, the Obama-Biden campaign tried to confuse matters
even further by calling upon Hispanic lawmakers, including Sen. Robert Menendez,
D-N.J., and the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, to once again blame Republicans
for killing reform. Many Latino members of Congress rent their services like
mariachis and always sing the same tune:  The Democratic Party is the only one
for Latinos.

The Obama-Biden campaign responded with its own Spanish-language ads, which
tried to link McCain to radio talk show host Rush Limbaugh and then tried to
paint Limbaugh as anti-Latino. The tactic fell apart  when some in the news
media pointed out that Limbaugh and McCain had butted heads over immigration
reform.

Both camps are using Spanish-language ads as part of their underground campaigns
to reach out to Latino voters. They get to make their pitch without incurring
the wrath of English-speaking voters who don't like it when candidates engage in
His-pandering.

Still in play

Because neither Obama nor McCain has had much to say to English-speaking Latinos
since they spoke to a series of Latino advocacy groups last summer, it's no
surprise that a significant percentage of Latino voters in key battleground
states -- 10% to 12% -- are still undecided. That's the finding of a new survey
by the Educational Fund of the National Association of Latino Elected and
Appointed Officials.  The survey of registered Latino voters in Colorado,
Florida, Nevada and New Mexico found that they plan to turn out in high numbers
and that like most Americans, the economy is their top concern. But beyond that,
they remain a mystery.

McCain might have one last chance at a reprieve. And if he racks up wins in key
states, he'll have some old amigos to thank.

Ruben Navarrette  is an editorial board member of the San Diego Union-Tribune, a
nationally syndicated columnist with the Washington Post Writers Group and a
weekly contributor to CNN.com.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Sam Ward, USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: THE FORUM

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 5, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Looking ahead;
Last call for Congress before midterms

BYLINE: John Bacon; Mark Memmott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 824 words


Congress returns to Washington from a month-long recess today. Priorities
include spending bills for the departments of Defense and Homeland Security.
Other issues include efforts to increase the minimum wage, revamp immigration
laws and reduce inheritance taxes.

Congress is scheduled to recess Oct. 6 to prepare for midterm elections Nov. 7.
"I'm afraid politics will take over and we won't get much done," said Rep. Tom
Davis, R-Va. Some Democrats say they won't allow that. "For members of Congress
to hit the campaign trail while urgent national needs remain unmet would be a
serious abdication of our responsibilities," House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi
and other Democrats said in a letter to Speaker Dennis Hastert, R-Ill.
Immigration, 6A.

Also today:

*Former NBC Today star Katie Couric takes over as anchor of the CBS Evening
News. Her lineup includes excerpts of a taped interview with President Bush. The
News broadcast will be streamed live on the Internet, unlike the NBC and ABC
evening news shows. More coverage, 1D, 2D.

Across the nation

NASA hopeful for Wednesday launch

After more than a week of storm delays, NASA said Monday that it may get its
best shot for launching the shuttle Atlantis this week. There was a 20% chance
that weather would prohibit the shuttle from lifting off at 12:28 p.m. Wednesday
as planned, said Kathy Winters of the shuttle weather office.

If Atlantis doesn't fly Wednesday, NASA said it will try Thursday and again
Friday if necessary. Atlantis had been set to lift off Aug. 27 to resume
construction of the International Space Station. The launch was delayed after
lightning struck the launch pad, requiring engineers to check for damage.
Crewmembers, who have been training for four years, will deliver a 35,000-pound,
$372 million addition to the half-built station.

Montana wildfire burns 26 homes

Fire crews battled to contain a wind-whipped wildfire in south-central Montana
that has spread across 180,000 acres and burned 26 homes. The fire has prompted
evacuation orders for about 265 homes south of Big Timber, Sweetgrass County
Disaster and Emergency Services Coordinator Kerry O'Connell said.

Crews also were cutting fire lines to help protect buildings, O'Connell said.
Fire officials are worried that winds and warmer temperatures in the coming days
will create "extreme" fire conditions, fire information officer Char Fuller
said. Lightning ignited the fire Aug22.

Police praise dad who rescued daughter

Arraignment is today  in Burlington, Vt., for a man accused of abducting a
9-year-old from her backyard, only to have the child's father rescue her minutes
later, police said. James Stephens, 44, was being held on suspicion of
kidnapping and attempted aggravated sexual assault. The girl was playing with
friends Saturday when Stephens pulled her from a backyard to an area behind a
shopping plaza, police said. One of the other girls told the girl's father, who
called 911 and ran to look for her. He found her soon after and held Stephens
until police arrived, Lt. Tim Charland said. The girl was not hurt. Charland
praised the father for helping with the arrest and for his "restraint" with the
suspect.

Also Monday ...

COLUMBIA, S.C. -- Fast-food worker John Portee, 27, was charged with murder and
armed robbery, a day after two co-workers were found shot to death at a Wendy's
restaurant. Richland County sheriff's spokesman Lt. Chris Cowan said ballistics
experts were able to match shell casings and bullets at the scene to a gun found
when Portee was arrested.

CHICAGO -- Candles used for light in an apartment without electricity probably
caused a fire that killed six children Sunday, Fire Cmdr. Will Knight said.

On Deadline: What others are reporting

Hanford cleanup could approach $100B

The federal government's plan for cleaning up "the most polluted site in North
America" is deeply troubled, could end up costing nearly $100 billion and still
might not work, the  Los Angeles Times reported (www.latimes.com). The newspaper
examined the much-delayed Department of Energy project at the Hanford site near
Richland, Wash.

The 53 million gallons of radioactive sludge left from Cold War-era plutonium
production sits in aging tanks. Geotechnical engineer John Brodeur told the
Times that groundwater is already contaminated from leaking tanks. There is
concern about contamination reaching nearby Columbia River.

The cleanup project's goal: to transform the sludge into glass, which would
still be radioactive but could be stored more safely. Construction has been
halted until at least October 2007 on two key parts of the project, the Times
reported, because the Energy Department realized "it had miscalculated the
earthquake risks." The Times said, "At best, the plant would be finished in
2019," 20 years behind schedule. James Rispoli, an Energy assistant secretary,
told the Times the project is making "forward momentum" despite setbacks and
will not be derailed. --Mark Memmott

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, AP
PHOTO, B/W, Carlos Osorio, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 3, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Looking ahead;
Justices hear arguments on deportations

BYLINE: Paul Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 780 words


The Supreme Court holds its first oral arguments of the 2006-07 term today,
beginning with an important test of how easily the federal government can deport
legal immigrants who are convicted of state drug crimes. The court opened the
term Monday by rejecting hundreds of cases.

Also today:

*The Federal Communications Commission holds the first in a series of hearings
across the country on broadcast ownership. Today's is in Los Angeles.

Across the nation

Alabama corruption convictions upheld

The federal judge who presided over the trial of former Alabama governor Don
Siegelman and former HealthSouth CEO Richard Scrushy upheld their convictions on
corruption charges. U.S. District Judge Mark Fuller ruled there was "substantial
evidence" to support the convictions.

Prosecutor Louis Franklin said Scrushy arranged $500,000 in contributions to
Siegelman's campaign for a statewide lottery in exchange for being appointed by
Siegelman to a seat on an influential hospital regulatory board.

Classes canceled after Ohio bus vandalism

The school district of Newark, Ohio, took the unusual step of canceling Monday's
classes for all 6,700 students because vandals trashed the city's school bus
fleet twice during the weekend. The shutdown was intended to give police time to
investigate, district spokeswoman Karen Truett said. Two fifth-grade boys were
questioned Monday and were to appear in Licking County Juvenile Court today,
Sgt. Paul Davis said.

About 20 of the central Ohio district's buses were hit in two rounds of
vandalism.

Ex-Idaho congresswoman dies in car crash

Former three-term U.S. representative Helen Chenoweth-Hage, R-Idaho, who held
"endangered salmon bakes" and once accused federal agents of using black
helicopter gunships, died Monday in a car crash, her daughter said. She was 68.

Chenoweth-Hage, who defeated Democratic incumbent Larry LaRocco in 1994, was a
passenger in a one-car crash near Tonopah, Nev., 172 miles northwest of Las
Vegas, said her daughter Meg Chenoweth Keenan. Other family members were in the
car but weren't seriously hurt, Keenan said.

Little Rock rolls with 'The Rock'

Arkansas' capital city unveiled its new nickname. Little Rock will now be "The
Rock" instead of "City of Roses," Mayor Jim Dailey said. "The Rock kind of
portrays something pretty solid," Dailey said. "A rock; there is something
substantive about it."

Little Rock is named for a feature found by French explorer Bernard de La Harpe
when he mapped the Arkansas River in 1722. Early records refer to "the little
rock," and to a bigger rock up river.

Record fine imposed for reservoir collapse

Ameren Corp. agreed to pay federal regulators a $15million fine for the Taum
Sauk reservoir collapse Dec. 14, the largest fine of its kind ever levied by the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. "This incident could have been avoided" if
Ameren had not violated federal regulations at the Taum Sauk hydroelectric
plant, FERC Chairman Joseph Kelliher said.

At the time, Ameren official Gary Rainwater said faulty instruments appeared to
have allowed too much water to be pumped into the reservoir in southeastern
Missouri 100 miles from St. Louis. Water spilled over the top and gashed a
600-foot breach in its wall.

Also ...

*OJAI, Calif. -- Firefighters battling a giant wildfire that has scorched more
than 250 square miles of brush and timber fully contained the blaze Monday
evening, nearly a month after it began, said Peter Frenzen, a spokesman for Los
Padres National Forest.

*WASHINGTON -- The FBI and Secret Service may keep using lie-detector tests to
screen potential employees, U.S. District Judge Emmet Sullivan ruled. The ruling
ends a six-year lawsuit brought by six applicants who failed polygraph tests and
were denied jobs.

On Deadline: What others are saying

Mass. health law leaves some kids out

The landmark Massachusetts health insurance law that kicked in Monday has a
loophole, the Boston Globe reports (boston.com). The newspaper said the mandate
that residents have coverage by summer does not include children. It reports
that lower-income families can purchase inexpensive coverage for their children
through Medicaid. But middle-class parents, faced with financial penalties if
they go uninsured, could forgo coverage for their children that can cost
hundreds of dollars extra a month. The newspaper quotes officials of Gov. Mitt
Romney's administration as saying the omission was an oversight. "Our goal is
for everyone in the Commonwealth to have insurance, adults and kids," said
Timothy Murphy, health and human services secretary.

On Monday, Madeline Rhenisch, 56, of Boston, became the first to sign up for
Commonwealth Care, the new state-administered plan.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, AP
PHOTO, B/W, Jason Reed, Reuters

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NATIONLINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 26, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Senate to vote today on putting bill back in play

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 203 words


WASHINGTON -- A crucial vote today will determine whether the Senate

resumes debate on immigration legislation causing dissension in both parties.

Senate rules require 60 votes to revive the bill, which was blocked this month
by rank-and-file Democrats and Republicans.

A group of Republican conservatives, at odds with President Bush and Senate GOP
leaders over the bill, conceded Monday that it will be an uphill battle to block
it. "There's been a lot of arm-twisting," said Sen. Jim DeMint, R-S.C.

Joel Kaplan, White House deputy chief of staff for policy, predicted the bill,
blocked earlier this month, will be revived. "Our intelligence is the votes are
there," he said. Bush plans another public appeal for the bill before the Senate
vote.

Senate Democratic leader Harry Reid said in a letter that he is working to pass
"one of President Bush's top priorities."

The Western Governors' Association sent a letter to congressional leaders

urging passage of the bill to guarantee "a steady supply of seasonal and
year-round workers" to farmers and businesses. The letter was signed by
Republican Govs. Jon Huntsman of Utah and Arnold Schwarzenegger of California
and Democratic Gov. Janet Napolitano of Arizona.

By Kathy Kiely

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 3, 2008 Tuesday
                                 CHASE EDITION

Immigrantsfacehurricanedilemma;
Use of Border Patrol agents in evacuations complicates issue

BYLINE: Rick Jervis

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 949 words


CAMERON PARK, Texas -- Jose Pacheco feels he may face a tough choice if a
hurricane heads toward this community in southeast Texas: stay and face the
storm's fury or evacuate and risk losing his wife.

The possibility that U.S. Border Patrol agents may check the immigration status
of hurricane evacuees recently sent shockwaves through this colonia, or
unincorporated neighborhood, outside Brownsville, Texas, just across the Rio
Grande from Mexico.

Residents here and along the Texas coast have become accustomed to hurricane
evacuations. As more places increase enforcement of immigration laws, residents
such as Pacheco say they would rather risk harm from a storm, than risk
deportation from the USA.

"I don't want my wife taken away from me," said Pacheco, 37, a legal U.S.
resident from Mexico, who works for a cable company. His wife, who he asked not
be named, is not a legal resident. "What choice do I have?" he said. "I'll
stay."

Border Patrol agents are becoming increasingly involved in emergency
evacuations. They will be present during evacuations as backup law enforcement
officers to assist local and state officials. Agents interviewed evacuees from
Hurricane Katrina in 2005 and also during last year's California wildfires,
leading to some deportation hearings, a practice not seen in decades, said
Cecilia Muooz of the National Council of La Raza, a Washington-based Hispanic
advocacy group.

Checking the legal status of evacuees dissuades residents from leaving dangerous
areas, Muooz said.

Border Patrol officials said this year they would detain and deport hurricane
evacuees who have entered this country illegally but later recanted and said
they would be flexible during emergencies.

Safety is paramount in emergency situations, said Lloyd Easterling, an assistant
chief with the U.S. Border Patrol. "We are not going to stand in the way of
people getting to safety," he said. "We'll worry about the legal aspects later."

Mock evacuation scares some

Concerns about border checks rose recently after Border Patrol agents were seen
checking identification of evacuees before they got on school buses during a
mock evacuation exercise in nearby McAllen.

"By doing this, they are undercutting the people's confidence in getting them to
safety," Muooz said.

John Cavazos, Cameron County's emergency management coordinator, said he is
responsible for the safety of 127,500 "special needs" evacuees -- those too poor
or too sick to drive out themselves -- in three counties. Following the mock
evacuation in McAllen, thousands of them may refuse to go, he said. He is
building a plan for those who may stay behind.

A major storm has not hit this area in more than a decade, Cavazos said, but its
proximity to the coast makes it vulnerable to hurricanes. The four-county Rio
Grande Valley has one of the highest mix of hurricane-vulnerable cities and
immigrant communities in the USA, he said.

If residents don't leave, it will create an emergency-management nightmare, he
said.

"This could potentially turn into a mass search-and-rescue from the local
government," Cavazos said. "I don't have a lot of time to make those kinds of
plans."

Over the past year, Cavazos said he has noticed U.S. border officials becoming
more involved with evacuation planning, often sitting in on local Homeland
Security council meetings. He said border officials have assured him they won't
be checking papers during evacuations, but he has requested that in writing.

Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff, in a statement, said agents
wouldn't slow evacuations but did not say whether documents would be checked.

"Instructions to the Border Patrol and Customs and Border Protection are clear.
They are to do nothing to impede a safe and speedy evacuation of a danger zone,"
he said last month. "Now, obviously the laws don't get suspended, but ... our
priorities are to make sure we can move traffic along quickly."

Losing 'the public's trust'

Border agents have noticeably brought down crime in the region but risk losing
the residents' confidence if they get too involved in evacuations, Cavazos said.
"We've already lost a lot of the public's trust," he said.

Border agents need to be vigilant during emergencies to prevent drug smugglers
and other criminals from slipping through, Easterling said, adding that agents
will be more flexible in their enforcement. For example, permanent checkpoints
on the two main highways leading from the Rio Grande Valley's Mexican border
into Texas will not be manned during an evacuation, he said.

"We're not going to completely disregard what our mission is," he said. "But we
will tweak what we're doing during an evacuation."

The assurances offer little encouragement to the residents of Cameron Park, a
shanty neighborhood of about 7,000 predominately poor and Hispanic residents.

The majority of residents here have legal status, said Michael Seifert, a
community activist. Many families also house recently arrived relatives from
Mexico, who may be waiting on their papers, he said. Despite his urging, many
residents have voiced concerns about evacuating, Seifert said.

"There are going to be families who won't go. They're not going to risk getting
deported," he said.

Lupita Sanchez, 38, a legal resident and health care worker in Cameron Park,
said her family faced a similar dilemma when considering evacuating last year
for Hurricane Dean. Sanchez said her sister, Nina Martinez, had applied for
residency. Sanchez wanted to go to San Antonio. Martinez did not. At the last
minute, Dean took a sharp westerly turn toward Mexico.

"Our culture insists that we don't leave family behind," Sanchez said. "A lot of
people here will stay to keep their family together."

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                               May 1, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Perspectives shaped by daily experience;
A border sheriff, an urban priest, a factory owner and others close to issue
weigh in on immigration

BYLINE: Dennis Wagner

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 528 words


PHOENIX -- Cochise County Sheriff Larry Dever says he pressed politicians in
Washington for nearly a decade to do something about invaders swarming into
southern Arizona from Mexico.

He testified before Congress five times. He ranted about crime, the costs to the
justice system and the strain on property owners. He says all he got was lip
service.

"How much more do you really expect people to take?" demands the 54-year-old
lawman. "You've seen the Minuteman Project gain momentum. What I've learned in
30 years of enforcement is: If you don't do your job, someone will do it for
you."

Dever views the Minutemen civilian border watch group -- as well as
demonstrations for immigrant rights -- as fruits of failed U.S. policy. Blocked
by "paralysis and polarization," he says, politicians did nothing until the
border mess became a nationwide calamity.

Today, real coyotes seem outnumbered in Cochise County by the human version.
"Coyotes" is the term for smugglers who lead illegal immigrants across a border
defended mostly by barbed-wire fence.

Cochise County's 83 deputies patrol an area of rangeland, high desert and
mountains larger than Connecticut. It's a place where Wyatt Earp once ruled as
law.

Dever talks about one of his men working alone at night in a 1,200-square-mile
sector and coming across a van stuffed with 31 illegal immigrants. The deputy
called the U.S. Border Patrol but was told it would be a three-hour wait.

"What's he supposed to do?" Dever asks, noting that the deputy cannot serve
Cochise residents if he's babysitting a load of immigrants. Dever called the
Border Patrol and demanded the deputy get help in 20 minutes, which he did.

The real trouble, Dever says, began in the late 1990s after the Border Patrol
launched enforcement campaigns in San Diego and El Paso. He says that strategy
funneled illegal immigrants into the deadly Arizona desert.

Cochise County, in Arizona's southeast corner, became a throughway from Mexico.
Corpses littered the desert. Ranchers screamed about trash and theft.

University of Arizona researchers calculated that immigrants accounted for 37%
of the justice system costs in Cochise County. Today, about $5 million of the
county's $49 million budget goes to arresting, prosecuting and jailing illegal
immigrants, Cochise Board of Supervisors Chairman Pat Call says.

"Four or five years ago, you couldn't get anybody to talk about this," Dever
says. "Now everybody wants to talk about it."

Out of that talk emerged proposals such as a wall from Brownsville, Texas, to
San Diego, which Dever views as "a waste of resources and money."  He favors a
2,000-mile underground sensor system, backed by unmanned aircraft to spot
illegals.

Dever opposes granting citizenship to many of the estimated 12 million illegal
immigrants in the USA. He says they should be deported gradually, then replaced
as needed by legal guest workers.

As for recent immigrant rallies in the USA, the sheriff grinds his teeth. "That
just makes my blood boil. Can you imagine 100,000 or even 10,000 of us ...
marching down there?"

By Dennis Wagner, who reports daily for The Arizona Republic in Phoenix.
Contributing: Donna Leinwand of USA TODAY.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Mark Levy for USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Mark Levy for USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 25, 2008 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Auto shop accused in human smuggling ring

BYLINE: William M. Welch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 357 words


LOS ANGELES -- At Chucky's Auto Repair, authorities say, business involved more
than fixing customers' broken cars.

The father and son owners of the business were to be arraigned today in federal
court on charges that they built secret compartments within pickup trucks and
SUVs that were used to smuggle people across the border from Mexico.

Eduardo Aceves-Murillo, 45, and Edgar "Chucky" Aceves, 26, are named in a
six-count indictment alleging they conspired to transport illegal immigrants
into the country.

Federal agents charge that the Oxnard, Calif., auto repair and body shop
business, and their auto upholstery shop, modified vehicles so people could hide
in small spaces inside upholstered center seat consoles and behind extended-cab
truck seats.

Some of those smuggled into the country were convicted felons. Also brought in
were unaccompanied minors.

In at least one case, court records say, an illegal immigrant suffered
second-degree burns from the heat of the truck floor where he was hiding.

Edgar Aceves faces a maximum sentence of 35 years in prison if found guilty; his
father could be sentenced to as many as 25 years if found guilty.

Also named in the indictment were four others, including Aceves-Murillo's
daughter. Migrants allegedly paid $1,500 to $3,000 to be secreted into the USA.

David Wales, agent in charge of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement bureau
in Ventura County, said the charges demonstrate the success of border
crackdowns.

Smugglers who once brought in people by the truckload are now taking extreme
measures to get them across the U.S.-Mexican border, often just one or two at a
time, he said.

"It exemplifies the nature of these organizations and the lengths they'll go to
bring these people across -- and also the utter disregard for their well-being,"
Wales said.

The indictment charges that the defendants smuggled people at various California
entry points at least 25 times in 2005 and 2006.

Christopher Johnson, lawyer for Aceves-Murillo, said his client will plead
innocent. "He's simply a working individual plying his trade of being in the
upholstery business. Anything he did he did unwittingly."

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 15, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Calif. city votes on immigration issue today

BYLINE: Martin Kasindorf

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 534 words


LOS ANGELES -- Landlords who rent to illegal immigrants could face $1,000 fines,
and homeowners who hire undocumented workers could have their cars impounded
under a measure being voted on today by the San Bernardino City Council.

A group opposed to illegal immigration in the city of 200,000, located 70 miles
east of Los Angeles, collected more than 2,200 signatures to force the council
to consider the tough proposal. If the council doesn't approve the measure
today, the issue will go to voters on a citywide ballot.

Four of the seven council members said in interviews that they expected the
measure to fail today because of concerns over enforcement costs and court
challenges. "Cops don't need to be checking under mattresses to see if some
landlord is renting to some illegal immigrant," Councilman Dennis Baxter said.
"We have bigger fish to fry: crime, gang activity. Whoever is cutting the
next-door neighbors' lawn is a lower priority."

Joseph Turner, 29, who led the petition drive, said the city charter would
mandate a special election by September. The financially strained city will try
to shift the ballot measure to November's general election to save the $300,000
cost of a special election, Councilman Neil Derry said.

Turner said he wants the proposal approved before November "so I can have a
potential impact on the November election throughout this country. It might
embolden candidates to be more aggressive on the immigration issue, and we can
get more representation."

The measure would be the most far-reaching crackdown on illegal immigration by
any U.S. city, Turner said. As Congress considers legislation on the issue, some
cities are getting tough on illegal immigrants while others are offering refuge.

Costa Mesa, Calif., recently ordered police to check suspected felons'
immigration status. Cambridge, Mass., and California's Maywood and Coachella
have declared themselves "sanctuaries" where police don't check papers.

States are wading into the controversy, too. Colorado Gov. Bill Owens, a
Republican, signed into law May 1 a bill prohibiting sanctuary cities. Georgia
Gov. Sonny Perdue, a Republican, last month signed a measure requiring officials
to verify the legal status of people seeking many state benefits.

Nearly half of San Bernardino's population is Hispanic, Census figures show.
Turner, an aide to a Republican member of the California Legislature, said a
victory for his group would "put to bed the myth that a Latino backlash will
hurt the Republican Party if it fights illegal immigration."

Armando Navarro, coordinator of the National Alliance for Human Rights, a
coalition of Hispanic activist groups, said, "We are going to mobilize large
numbers of people" to defeat the measure. He called it "heinous and racist."

An election would be "very close," Derry said. Councilman Chas Kelley said
voters wouldn't be thinking about the high cost of enforcing the measure. "They
just want something done about this issue."

Kelley said the measure "makes sense," and he'll vote for it today to avoid an
election. Baxter said the city is trying to find money for 40 more police
officers and can't afford the measure: "Does Joseph Turner think this is Beverly
Hills?"

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC,b/w,USA TODAY,Source:ESRI(Map)
PHOTO, B/W, Raul Roa, San Gabriel Valley Tribune

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2005 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Immigration bill, Bush guest-worker plan reveal unusual split among Republicans

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 616 words


WASHINGTON -- A heated debate over how to control illegal immigration opened a
rift among Republicans on Thursday as the House began considering legislation to
impose tough new penalties on those who enter the USA illegally and those who
hire them.

After a closed-door meeting to assuage concerns of lawmakers who were
threatening to block the bill, the House began work on what Rep. David Dreier,
R-Calif., called "one of the most contentious, challenging and volatile issues
that we will face as a nation."

The bill would make it a crime to live and work in the USA illegally. It also
would allow military resources to be used to beef up border security and would
require employers to check the validity of Social Security numbers presented by
new hires. Rep. Duncan Hunter, R-Calif., is hoping to add a provision to build
686 miles of fence along five sections of the U.S.-Mexican border where there
are large numbers of illegal crossings.

Immigration is a top priority for President Bush. But because of the deep
divisions in his party over immigration, the legislation's fate is uncertain.

Supporters of the bill said it would enhance national security by discouraging
foreigners from entering illegally. "Our nation has lost control of its
borders," said House Judiciary Committee Chairman James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis.

Opponents called it heavy-handed and impossible to enforce because it does
nothing about the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants already living and
working in the country. "We are ignoring the elephant in the middle of the
room," said Rep. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz.

The rift is unusual because it pits the majority of House Republicans against
Bush. The president has said that any immigration bill should include a
guest-worker program that would allow foreigners to enter the USA temporarily to
work and would provide some way for illegal residents now working here to emerge
from the shadows.

Sensenbrenner and other Republican skeptics see the president's plan as amnesty
for people who entered the country illegally. They say that such a program would
amount to rewarding lawbreakers.

House Speaker Dennis Hastert, R-Ill., and other GOP leaders blocked a vote on a
bipartisan amendment by Flake and Reps. Jim Kolbe, R-Ariz., and Luis Gutierrez,
D-Ill., to add the guest-worker program to the immigration bill.  "It would pass
overwhelmingly," said Rep. Chris Cannon, R-Utah.

Kolbe said Republican leaders feared "the potential of tearing apart the
Republican conference."

Democrats mocked the GOP's civil war. "The autocracy by Republican leadership
has reached an all-time high when a Republican president can't get a vote on his
own proposal," said Rep. Alcee Hastings, D-Fla.

Opponents of the House bill argued that it is hypocritical to make criminals of
illegal immigrants whom the nation will never deport. "We do not have the
political will, nor will we commit the required resources," Gutierrez said.

Some Republicans who favor the president's guest-worker plan said they are
supporting the House bill so the issue can move to the Senate, where they expect
the guest-worker program to pass. "This is just a first step," Dreier said.

At a news conference Thursday, Sen. Barack Obama, an Illinois Democrat and son
of a Kenyan immigrant, and Sen. Mel Martinez, a Florida Republican who arrived
in the USA as a Cuban refugee, announced that they are working to promote a
compromise. "We're trying to move the immigration debate towards the sensible
center," Obama said.

Both senators said any bill must include a guest-worker program and measures to
allow those now living here and working illegally to become legal. "It would be
a mistake not to be comprehensive," Martinez said.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Dennis Cook, AP
PHOTO, B/W, Joe Raedle, Getty Images

DOCUMENT-TYPE: WASHINGTON

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 28, 2006 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 FINAL EDITION

'Guest workers' at core of immigration dispute;
For the first time in a decade, lawmakers debate the role of illegal workers in
an effort to overhaul USA's laws

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1910 words


AVON, Ohio -- Tom Demaline is an all-American success story. But he's the first
to say it wouldn't be possible without the Mexicans who work for him.

From a small landscaping company that his father founded in 1954 "with a pickup
truck and a wheelbarrow," Demaline and his sister, Cathy Kowalczyk, built one of
the largest nursery operations in the Midwest. Their Willoway Nurseries has 800
acres in production, grows 1,500 varieties of plants, and sells to landscapers
and garden centers from Iowa to Maine.

Of the 350 employees hired to work the March through December busy season, 271
are Mexican nationals with visas from a "guest worker" program designed to fill
jobs for which, employers say, no American workers can be found.

The presence of Mexican laborers in this Cleveland suburb, readying roses and
hydrangeas for Mother's Day, illustrates how much foreign migrant labor means to
the economy. They also underscore why a Senate debate, which could begin today,
is so explosive.

Lawmakers are wrestling with the first overhaul of the nation's immigration laws
in more than a decade, against a backdrop of conflicting emotions. The USA is a
"welcoming society" and a nation of immigrants, as President Bush told new U.S.
citizens after they were sworn in on Monday. It is also a nation where
self-styled "Minutemen" volunteers patrol the U.S.-Mexican border, because of
their frustration with a stream of illegal newcomers.

Bush believes the best way to end the black market in labor, which has drawn an
estimated 11 million illegal immigrants to the USA, is to legally expand
opportunities for foreigners to take jobs that Americans don't want. "By
creating a separate legal channel for those entering America to do an honest
day's labor," he said Monday, "we would dramatically reduce the number of people
trying to sneak back and forth across the border."

The Senate Judiciary Committee on Monday endorsed Bush's approach, approving a
bill that would expand guest-worker programs and give workers who are now here
illegally a chance to become citizens.

Employers from Demaline to Microsoft mogul Bill Gates have been pushing for more
guest workers. High-tech companies say they need more talent, and the federal
government agrees. In 2004, the U.S. Department of Labor certified a need for
more than 600,000 guest-worker visas for high-tech workers, but under current
law only about one-tenth could enter.

At the other end of the skill spectrum, Demaline says he had so much trouble
recruiting Americans to do the "hard, dirty" seasonal jobs he was offering at
$9.21 an hour that he thought he might have to sell his nursery. He credits the
Mexican workers with saving his family business.

Even so, others believe America's open door is draining the economy. "Millions
of American workers, in all sectors of the labor market, have seen their jobs
and wages undercut by the phenomenon of mass illegal immigration," says Dan
Stein, president of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which favors
tighter immigration laws. He says expanding the guest-worker program "will only
exacerbate the plight of middle-class workers in America."

The debate has opened a fault line in the Republican Party.  Leaders of the
Republican-controlled House have refused to take up Bush's guest-worker
proposal. They're focusing instead on enforcement.

The House bill by Judiciary Chairman James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., passed in
December, would make illegal immigration a felony and increase penalties on
employers. It would also expand 14 miles of fencing along the U.S.-Mexican
border by 700 miles, at an estimated cost of $2.2 billion.

The Senate bill takes a different approach, with no criminal penalties for
illegal immigrants. It incorporates a bipartisan plan, by Sens. John McCain,
R-Ariz., and Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., to allow temporary workers to become
citizens. The measure endorses Bush's view that those workers should not get a
jump on those who have been waiting for years to become citizens.

Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist signaled opposition to a guest-worker plan.
The Tennessee Republican, who is exploring a presidential bid, introduced his
own immigration bill earlier this month. It's unclear whether he will choose his
bill or the committee measure for the full Senate debate. Like the House bill,
Frist's measure focuses on enforcement.

Tom Donohue, president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, scoffs at efforts to
"build a Berlin Wall" along the border. Donohue, who supports the president's
guest-worker plan, says illegal and legal immigrants to the USA are responding
to market demand. "We absolutely need these workers," he says. "We need these
people for jobs that there are no Americans available to take."

Trades in need

In 2004, the Department of Labor approved 628,595 requests for high-tech worker
visas. However, Congress caps the number of high-tech worker visas, known as
H-1B visas, at 65,000 a year. That means some companies don't get the high-tech
workers they request, even though federal officials have found their need to be
legitimate.

For another, broader category of temporary work visas -- used to admit
restaurant and hotel workers as well as minor league ball players -- the Labor
Department certified 106,471 requests in 2004. These visas, known as H-2B, are
capped at 66,000 annually.

Employers say Congress' unwillingness to raise the caps has made it difficult to
find enough workers. "Like it or not, there are a lot of undocumented workers in
our industry," says Gary Roden of Dallas, former national president of the
Associated Builders and Contractors. He says the building trades are "in drastic
need"  of carpenters, plumbers and heating and air-conditioning technicians.

He blames a society that favors white-collar professions on the lack of American
workers in these trades. "School counselors and parents feel like their kids are
failures if they don't go to college," he says.

The guest-worker visa program used for seasonal farmworkers such as those at
Demaline's nursery admitted 22,000 workers in 2004, according to U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services. There are no caps on these visas. These
workers are among more than 800,000 crop workers, only 47% of whom are legally
authorized to work in the USA, according to the Labor Department.

Growers who use the legal guest-worker program say it isn't used much because it
is cumbersome to obtain worker visas, which must be certified by the Labor
Department, immigration services and the State Department before foreign workers
can be admitted to the USA.

"You have so many different departments involved, all these little hoops you
have to go through. If you have any little glitch, you lose your workers," says
Luawanna Hallstrom, chief operating officer of Harry Singh & Sons, a California
tomato grower. "We have told growers, 'Don't get into the program until you
absolutely have to.'"

Demaline says he enrolled in the guest-worker program in 1998,after immigration
agents raidedhis nursery and sent many of his Mexican workers back across the
border.

"We were surprised," says Demaline, adding his employees' work papers appeared
to be legitimate and many of the workers "spoke good English."

Demaline didn't know until after the raid that many workers were crowded into
single-family rental homes while they worked for him.

Problems in process

Demaline used to rely on Cleveland-area high school and college students to fill
seasonal slots at his nursery, but he says they aren't showing up at his hiring
office anymore. He thinks they found easier work at area restaurants and shops.

State unemployment figures indicate that low-skill workers in Demaline's area
can afford to be more choosy: In Lorain County, where Willoway Nursery is, the
unemployment rate stood at 5.8% at the end of last year.

For Demaline, enrolling in the guest-worker agricultural program has meant
hiring a Washington law firm to help with the paperwork, building dormitories
that meet federal and state health department standards, chartering buses to
transport Mexican workers, and starting Spanish classes for his American
employees.

This year, the Labor Department made him advertise for farmworkers in newspapers
and radio stations in the Rio Grande Valley of Texas, as well as interview
applicants from Ohio unemployment offices. Demaline says he got three workers
from Texas and about 100 from Ohio -- though many of those, he says, don't stay.
He needs guest workers to fill the rest of the jobs. "It's not a cheap source of
labor," he says.

For Demaline's Mexican employees, the guest-worker program means paying a
recruiter in Mexico to put them on the visa list. Francisco Ricardo, in his
eighth season at Willoway, says he paid $400. Then the workers wait, sometimes
for days, to win approval from the U.S. Consulate in Monterrey.

This year, a paperwork problem had to be untangled by Sen. Mike DeWine, R-Ohio.
Until it was solved, the workers returned to Mexico and waited two weeks before
they got permission to cross the border.

The workers spend nine months a year away from their families, but they say they
are able to give them a better life. Ricardo says he sends $500 every two weeks
to Mexico, where the oldest of his five children studies marketing in college.
Back home, he says, he'd earn $4 a day.

Advocates who represent migrant workers say others aren't so lucky.

Gregory Scott Schell, a migrant workers' attorney in Florida, recently won a
class-action suit on behalf of farmworkers who said they were cheated on their
wages.

Many advocates are skeptical of plans to expand guest-worker programs. They say
the programs create indentured servants.

"Workers are afraid they will not be asked back if they complain," says Mark
Heller, a migrant workers' attorney in Toledo, Ohio.

There are other problems that worker rights advocates and growers say need to be
resolved.

Worker abuses

Baldemar Velasquez, president of the Farm Labor Organizing Committee, says some
of the worst abuses occur on the other side of the border, where workers are
forced to pay off recruiters hired by U.S. companies. Mary Bauer, an attorney
for the Southern Poverty Law Center's Immigrant Justice Project, says the
Guatemalan tree-cutters she is representing in a class-action suit had to give
recruiters deeds to their homes.

Growers say they need a simpler application system and more federal workers to
process applications. "Instead of putting money into building a fence across the
border, they should be putting money into these programs and the agencies that
run them," says Bernie Kohl, a Maryland nursery owner who hires about 130 guest
workers a year.

Representatives at all three agencies involved -- the State Department, Labor
Department and immigration -- say they have not yet calculated how many more
employees they would need to handle the workload of an expanded guest-worker
program.

At Willoway, Demaline says he'd recommend using guest workers, despite its
difficulties. He also favors allowing foreign workers who are now here illegally
to enroll in it, if only because he believes the alternative is unworkable.

"We couldn't get 1 million people out of New Orleans," he says, referring to
Hurricane Katrina evacuation efforts. "How are we going to send 12 million
Mexicans back?"

Contributing: David Jackson

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 29, 2006



CORRECTION: A cover story Tuesday should have said there are about 70 miles of
fencing or other barriers currently along the U.S.-Mexican border.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Greg Ruffing for USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Greg Ruffing for USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 31, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Bush says 'guest worker' proposal up to Congress;
Rift over plan grows in Washington as president attends summit in Cancun

BYLINE: David Jackson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 736 words


CANCUN, Mexico -- President Bush told Mexican counterpart Vicente Fox on
Thursday he supports a temporary "guest worker" program, but said the final
decision belongs to Congress -- where many of Bush's fellow Republicans oppose
the idea.

"I told (Fox) there is a legislative process that's going forward," Bush said.

Conservatives in Washington criticized a guest-worker program as tantamount to
amnesty for illegal immigrants.

"I don't think he's concerned about alienating voters -- he's not running for
re-election," Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., said of Bush. Tancredo said
Republicans could lose Congress over the immigration issue. "I wish he'd think
about the party, and of course, I also wish he'd think about the country."

Bush said he is seeking a "comprehensive" immigration package that includes
border security. Fox, echoing Bush, said border security is a "shared"
responsibility. He said Mexico would address issues such as its own economic
development and the smuggling of immigrants into the USA.

The two presidents and Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper were at this
resort on the Gulf of Mexico for a two-day summit.

Their meetings took place as a rift widened between Bush and many of his fellow
conservative Republicans over the immigration issue. Referring to a Senate bill
that tracks Bush's position on guest workers, Rep. Dana Rohrabacher, R-Calif.,
said Americans should be able to "smell the foul odor that's coming out of the
U.S. Senate." Asked whether the same odor was emanating from the president, he
said, "I have no comment."

It's not the first time Bush has been at odds with much of his own party over
immigration.

Going back to his days as Texas governor, Bush has resisted calls to seal the
border. Bush argued that people will cross the Rio Grande from Mexico to provide
for their families, and he has often praised immigrants' contributions.

"We are a nation of law, but that doesn't preclude us from being a welcoming
nation," Bush said before his visit to Cancun.

The lines are hardening in Congress. A bill from the GOP-run House stresses
tough enforcement of laws against illegal immigration, with no expansion of
provisions allowing Mexicans and others to enter the USA as temporary guest
workers, which Bush favors.

The Senate Judiciary Committee included guest-worker provisions and the
possibility of citizenship for illegal immigrants in a bill it passed this week
by a 12-6 vote -- thanks to Democrats. The six opponents were all Republicans.

Those who have followed Bush's career attribute his immigration views to two
factors: his Texas roots and the growth of the Hispanic voter population.

"He hasn't been at odds with a lot of Texans on immigration," says Rich Galen, a
Republican political strategist who has worked in Texas.

Bruce Buchanan, a presidential expert at the University of Texas, says
immigrants there "have a reputation as hard workers who are good for the
economy." He says Bush and his close political adviser Karl Rove have cited the
growing Hispanic vote as essential to the future of the Republican Party.

"It's hard to weigh the two" factors, Buchanan says, "but they've both played
into the calculation."

Bush first ran for governor in 1994, the same year California conservatives
helped pass Proposition 187 to deny social services to illegal immigrants. The
courts blocked the proposition, but Hispanic voters shifted decidedly to
Democrats. That did not go unnoticed in Texas.

Bush "saw what happened," Galen says.

Dan Stein, president of the Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR),
accuses business leaders -- and Bush -- of favoring illegal immigration because
it keeps wages low. He says the president is "oblivious" to the concerns of
ordinary Americans. "He has by every standard encouraged massive illegal
immigration," Stein says.

Republican pollster Ed Goeas, however, says his research shows that while
Americans of all ideologies want to better protect the border, they are more
sympathetic to immigrants willing to work for their families. Critics such as
Stein "are very vocal," Goeas says, "but they are not very representative of the
conservatives across the board."

Bush said in Washington this week that "a mother or a father who's worried about
putting food on the table" is willing to take risks for their family. "I used to
tell this to people down there in Texas," Bush said. "Family values don't stop
at the Rio Grande River."

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Charles Dharapak, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 5, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Here we go again;
We've tried this experiment. Some businesses exploit workers, many 'guests'
don't go home and illegal aliens keep coming. This time, let's look for real
solutions.

BYLINE: Ruben Navarrette

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 913 words


They never learn. Politicians keep pushing "guest worker" programs, even though
the concept is built to fail and always does.

I don't mean what President Bush wants -- where as many as 12 million illegal
immigrants could stay in the USA for three years, and then apply to stay for
another three years, before being expected to "self-deport." That's not
realistic. Nor is it a genuine guest-worker program. People who are already here
aren't really guests. What Bush proposes is temporary amnesty.

I'm talking about importing hundreds of thousands of new foreign workers from a
country such as Mexico to work in farming, construction, hotels or restaurants.

That's what Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., has proposed as part of a reform bill
that his Judiciary Committee put together and which serves as a starting point
for the Senate immigration debate. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn.,
has a competing bill that steers clear of guest workers, focusing instead on
enforcement and increasing the allotment of green cards.

Here we go again. The U.S. government has turned to foreign workers before. And
given that these programs are often criticized as indentured servitude, it's
ironic that the person who kicked off the phenomenon also freed the slaves.

Under pressure from industries suffering labor shortages during the Civil War,
President Abraham Lincoln settled on foreign workers as the solution. Congress
passed the Act to Encourage Immigration of 1864, which allowed employers to
recruit foreign workers and pay their way to America. Workers were supposed to
forfeit some of their pay to their sponsor, but many also had to work off living
expenses and wound up in debt. Labor groups, concerned that foreign workers were
taking jobs from Americans, pressured Congress to repeal the act, and by 1868 it
was no longer in effect.

In 1917,  under pressure mostly from farmers during World War I, Congress
launched a foreign-worker program to allow farmers to import workers from
Mexico. It didn't go as planned. Politicians thought the workers would return
home, but many did not. Eventually, the war ended, and so did the urgent need
for guest workers.

The idea made a comeback during World War II, which brought another labor
shortage and the arrival of the most infamous guest workers of all: the
braceros. The name comes from the Spanish word for arms, brazos, as in someone
who works with his arms and hands. From 1942 to '64, under an agreement between
the United States and Mexico, nearly 5 million Mexican workers went north to
work in the fields. The workers were promised housing, transportation, food,
fair wages and health care -- most of which never materialized. Perhaps farmers
thought the benefits too costly, which isn't good when you're talking about a
program that was supposed to reduce labor costs. Congress shut down the program
after television journalist Edward R. Murrow documented the abuse of workers. It
was bye, bye braceros.

Too many politicians and businesses view guest workers as the magic-wand
solution to our immigration woes. Employers get workers. Workers get jobs. And
then those workers head back across the border where they belong. They don't
hang out, buy homes, enroll their children in school, join the PTA, start
businesses, and change the culture and complexion of neighborhoods and towns.

Put aside the fact that guest workers are a form of corporate welfare or that,
ideally, government shouldn't be in the labor-contracting business.

There are practical reasons why guest-worker programs don't work:

*Workers don't leave. While the workers are supposed to be temporary, they stick
around. They get married, have kids and put down roots. As former U.S. senator
Alan Simpson of Wyoming used to say, there is nothing more permanent than a
temporary worker.

*Backlash never abates. Because these temporary workers never leave, a
guest-worker program doesn't really put an end to the thing that gets Americans
all worked up in the first place -- the changing culture and complexion of towns
and neighborhoods.

*Exploitation happens. Guest workers are ripe for abuse because  if employers
were to provide things such as housing, prevailing wages, health care and
worker's compensation insurance, that would undermine the whole idea behind the
program:  cheap labor. Once labor isn't so cheap anymore, expect employers to
lose interest.

*Illegal immigration continues. Most guest-worker plans deal in the hundreds of
thousands. As long as millions of immigrants want to come to the USA and can
fill millions of jobs, such a limited approach would never end illegal entry.

Congress should forget about importing new guest workers, or granting a
wholesale amnesty to all 12 million illegal workers already here, and focus on
reforms that stand a chance of working.

Here's a four-point plan to add to the mix:

1) Stiffen penalties against employers, including jail time, and enforce them
for a change.

2) Beef up the ranks of the border patrol by 25%.

3) Increase the allotment of green cards and work visas to allow people to come
in legally.

4) Grant legal status to some but not all illegal immigrants, the preference
going to those who have been here the longest and who have immediate family
members who are U.S. citizens.

And, lastly, let's accept the idea that, in this debate, there are no easy
solutions or free lunches.

Ruben Navarrette is a member of the editorial board of The San Diego
Union-Tribune and a nationally syndicated columnist.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Lucas Jackson, Reuters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 12, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Marriott CEO blasts Congress over immigrant bill;
Businesses that hire illegal workers would be 'felons'

BYLINE: Barbara De Lollis

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 454 words


WASHINGTON -- Marriott International CEO J.W. Marriott Jr. decried the U.S.
House on Tuesday for approving  legislation that would make criminals of illegal
immigrants and employers who hire them, even unknowingly.

"Do you look upon yourselves as felons?" Marriott asked the crowd of more than
600 hotel executives and other travel industry leaders meeting here at the
Global Travel & Tourism Summit. High-level government ministers, investors and
executives from 60 countries gathered at the annual summit to discuss the state
of the travel industry.

Marriott leads the USA's largest hotel chain by revenue, a publicly traded
company founded more than 75 years ago by his father. The U.S. hotel business
depends heavily on immigrant labor.

The start of the three-day conference on Monday happened to coincide with
pro-immigration demonstrations in Washington and across the USA by hundreds of
thousands protesting pending legislation to tighten restrictions on immigrants
in the USA.

A key target: the bill passed by the U.S. House that would make illegal
immigration a felony. It also calls for erecting a 700-mile fence along the
U.S.-Mexico border. Supporters of the legislation argue that strong penalties
against immigrant workers and those who would hire them are needed to secure the
nation's borders.

The Senate may debate a bipartisan compromise that calls for less-severe
measures.

Marriott said that hotels are one of the many industries in the USA that rely on
immigrants to fill entry-level jobs, and those who take them often work their
way up to better jobs.

"We just can't get the work done without people from other nations," he said.

He said he understands that countries want to regulate immigration to strengthen
security, but he said, "We must pursue policies that allow people to seek the
chance to build better lives for themselves and their families."

In an interview after his speech, the hotel executive said that roughly half the
people who work in the  2,400 Marriott hotels in the USA were born outside this
country.  Employees speak 47 different languages. It's impossible to determine
how many workers are here illegally because their documents could be forged, he
said.

A longtime prominent Republican, Marriott blames the anti-immigrant mood in
Congress on what he views as "hard-right Republicans."

"A lot of middle-of-the-road Republicans are in line with me," he said.

Marriott joked about being on the same side of the immigration issue as Cardinal
Theodore McCarrick, the Roman Catholic archbishop of Washington, D.C. In a
recent conversation with the clergyman, recalled Marriott, "I said, 'I guess
we'll be in the same jail cell.'"

The House bill includes penalties for assisting illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Vance Jacobs

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 26, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Expect more arrests

BYLINE: Julie Myers

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 373 words


While most U.S. employers seek to operate within the law, some unscrupulous
businesses persist in hiring illegal aliens. History shows that fines alone are
not a sufficient deterrent. Since our creation in March 2003, Immigration and
Customs Enforcement has always prioritized our resources to target illegal
workers who have access to critical infrastructure worksites. But more must be
done, and ICE is responding.

We are expanding our focus on traditional worksite enforcement, but in
non-traditional ways. Last Thursday, Homeland Security Secretary Michael
Chertoff announced ICE's first Interior Enforcement Strategy. One goal is to
build strong worksite enforcement and compliance programs to deter illegal
employment in the USA.

The most effective way to implement the secretary's strategy is to bolster our
criminal investigations against employers hiring illegal immigrants. For many
employers, fines had become just another "cost of doing business." More robust
criminal cases against unprincipled employers are a much more effective
deterrent than fines. The prospect of 10years in federal prison or a federal
forfeiture carries much sharper teeth. We believe this is the future of worksite
enforcement.

Last week, ICE and the Justice Department announced the largest worksite case
ever against a single employer. ICE arrested seven current and former managers
on charges of knowingly supporting the hiring of illegal immigrants. In another
case this month, we charged three restaurant operators with harboring illegal
aliens in substandard residences and businesses. Those employers already have
pleaded guilty and agreed to forfeit more than $1 million in illegally
derivedassets, including their homes and cars.

And to cynics: Expect more.

President Bush requested $41.7 million in new funds to strengthen worksite
enforcement efforts starting in October. Our new approach, renewed commitment
and additional assets provide an effective strategy to reduce abuses. More
important, effective worksite enforcement can serve as one part of a
comprehensive approach to addressing our nation's immigration challenges.

Julie Myers is assistant secretary of the Homeland Security Department,
Immigration and Customs Enforcement's parent agency.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                               May 5, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Crackdown on hiring of illegal workers shifts to employers;
Government practice of looking other way shows signs of change

BYLINE: Stephanie Armour

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1715 words


SILVER SPRING, Md. -- The sun is barely up over the horizon when Juan Reyes
arrives at Casa de Maryland,  which operates a job site for day laborers here.
Most days he comes to this parking lot to wait for painting, landscaping or
other jobs. Reyes mills about with the other men who sit in groups quietly
talking or sharing steaming tamales eaten off paper plates. He needs work, he
says, so he can send money to support his three children, ages 18, 12 and 10, in
Guatemala.

"Sometimes it's very hard, very hard (to find work)," says Reyes, 36, who is an
undocumented worker who lives in Takoma Park. Still, he says, employers rarely
ask to see paperwork and hire him even though he's in the country illegally.
"They never ask."

But pressure is on to change that. Last month, the Department of Homeland
Security vowed to expand its efforts to target employers who hire illegal
immigrants, with Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff pledging to
"counter the unscrupulous tactics of employers."

Signs of stiffer enforcement have already appeared. Last month, Immigration and
Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents arrested seven current and former supervisors
of IFCO Systems North America, a Houston-based pallet-supply company. They've
been charged with conspiring to transport, harbor and induce illegal immigrants
to reside in the USA for financial gain. The conspiracy charge carries a penalty
of up to 10 years in prison and a fine of up to $250,000 for each undocumented
worker.

Agents also apprehended more than 1,100 illegal workers at IFCO plants in 26
states. ICE says managers transported illegal immigrants to and from work, paid
their rent and then deducted money from the workers' monthly paychecks to cover
these expenses.

The pledge to crack down and the recent raid are spurring debate about federal
enforcement of immigration laws as they pertain to employers. Some immigrants
and others opposed to stiffer enforcement have held protests, such as the ones
Monday outside IFCO's offices. But critics say the government's current practice
is to look the other way at employers who hire undocumented workers, creating an
illegal immigrant crisis while unfairly giving employers who skirt the law a
free ride.

"The Bush administration is committed to a policy of non-enforcement, and that's
why the overall effort at enforcement is going to fail," says Steven Camarota ,
research director at the Center for Immigration Studies, a Washington, D.C.,
non-profit research group focused on immigration. "We don't do anything to
employers who hire illegals. There's a complete lack of commitment."

Employers rarely penalized

Employers who hire undocumented workers such as Reyes to do a host of jobs --
from construction and meat packing to agricultural work and painting -- rarely
face penalties, even though a federal law passed in 1986 criminalized the hiring
of illegal immigrants.

In fiscal year 1999, the government issued 417 notices of "intent to fine"
employers for knowingly making such illegal hires. But by 2004, that number had
dropped to three, according to a June 21, 2005, Government Accountability Office
report. Worksite enforcement amounted to less than 5% of all of the federal
government's ICE investigation activities. Since 9/11, the government has
"almost exclusively focused worksite enforcement resources" of illegal
immigration on sites such as airports and nuclear power plants, according to the
report.

But federal officials say they've been strategically shifting away from
administrative fines to criminal charges -- last fiscal year, that approach
resulted in 127 criminal convictions, up from 46 the previous year.

And already, word has spread that the government is cracking down on employers,
which in some cases has undocumented workers saying it's harder to find jobs
because employers are more fearful they could face possible repercussions for
hiring them.

"I'm looking for a job, nothing specific, but now it's been a little bit more
difficult," says Ndonue Herman, 19, of Takoma Park, who was a history student in
his native Cameroon and is now an undocumented worker who came to the USA two
years ago. "Most employers do not ask (for paperwork), no."

But he says he also fears any crackdown. "They would send you back." Herman
says.

There have been other government raids. On the early morning of a fall day in
2005, crews showed up to the construction site of a new Wal-Mart distribution
site in Butler Township, Pa. But authorities arrived and arrested more than 100
men from Mexico and Central America on immigration charges. Wal-Mart said those
arrested were employees of a subcontractor. Also last year, Wal-Mart agreed to
pay $11 million after the government's investigation into the use of illegal
immigrants for cleaning crews at its stores. They did not admit any guilt and
said cleaning contractors had hired the workers.

Will a crackdown work?

Labor groups such as the AFL-CIO say more enforcement isn't needed, because
going after employers has failed in the past at curbing illegal immigration and
protecting workers. There are an estimated 11.5million illegal immigrants in the
country. Beefing up enforcement of the law, or passing new legislation, will
only cause employers to shy way from hiring all foreign-born employees, not just
undocumented workers, they say.

"Those who didn't want to deal with the system just don't hire people who look
or seem foreign," says Ana Avendano, associate general counsel with the AFL-CIO
in Washington. "It's a failed experiment."

She also says the current law is largely unenforceable. In order to successfully
go after employers, the government has to show they knowingly hired illegal
immigrants or continued to employ them after becoming aware they were not legal
to work. But proving that, Avendano says, is almost impossible. Meanwhile, she
says, employers can continue to hire undocumented workers and deny them decent
wages, workers' compensation and other benefits.

"It's not that the government hasn't tried to enforce this, it's just that the
legal standard benefits corporations," Avendano says.

Demands for enforcement

Studies show Americans want the government to go after employers who hire
undocumented workers. Eighty-four percent of Americans say it would be an
effective step to institute tough penalties for businesses that employ illegal
immigrants, according to an April USA TODAY/Gallup Poll.

"This is the heart of the immigration enforcement debate," says Rosemary Jenks,
director of government relations at NumbersUSA in Arlington, Va., a non-profit
public-policy organization that wants stronger federal immigration enforcement.

"There clearly has been virtually no enforcement to this point. The vast
majority (of illegal immigrants) are coming for jobs," she says. "If we don't
have worksite enforcement, we don't have deterrence. We can build a wall around
the country, but you can't do anything as long as there are jobs."

Jenks says past efforts to crack down on employers who hire illegal immigrants
have run into snags as business groups such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and
immigrant-advocacy organizations complain about enforcement.

A 1998 raid of illegal immigrants who toiled in the Vidalia onion fields met
with opposition from some Republican lawmakers such as Saxby Chambliss, now a
senator from Georgia. Eventually, immigration agents retreated from their
stance.

Bruce Josten,  vice president for government affairs at the Chamber of Commerce,
says his organization isn't blocking enforcement. He says the chamber supports
employer-verification systems to document workers' status. But he says it's also
important not to set up systems that become so cumbersome they're not workable.
Penalties that hold mom-and-pop businesses up to criminal charges if they
inadvertently hire illegal workers would create a litigation nightmare, Josten
says.

Others, such as the National Employment Law Project (NELP), a New York-based
non-profit that advocates on behalf of lower-wage workers, say what is needed
most is enforcement of current labor and employment laws that protect workers'
rights and wages. It's a workforce that is growing: About 7.2 million
unauthorized migrants were employed in March 2005, accounting for about 4.9% of
the civilian labor force. They made up a large share of all workers in a few
occupational categories, including 24% of all workers in farming occupations,
17% in cleaning, 14% in construction and 12% in food preparation, according to
the Pew Hispanic Center, a non-partisan research organization.

"Employer sanctions and workforce raids that we saw (in April) do more harm than
good. It results in discrimination against workers, against people who look or
sound foreign," says Rebecca Smith, coordinator of the immigrant worker project
at NELP. "The raids seem much more directed toward deporting workers, who may be
innocent victims of trafficking rather than traffickers themselves. We end up
deporting people who might deserve to stay in the country."

Smith also says the law is used by unscrupulous employers to retaliate against
workers who complain. Employers may knowingly hire an illegal employee and fail
to pay wages or discriminate against them. If an employee complains, she says,
the employer can just fire the worker.

Life back at the job site

At the Casa de Maryland job site in Silver Spring, men wearing sweatshirts and
toting backpacks  wait for the next employer to pull up with an offer of a
daylong job. Day laborers are often paid in cash at the end of the day. The
median hourly wage for day laborers is $10, according to a study by the
University of California, Los Angeles, University of Illinois at Chicago, and
New School University.

Several of these undocumented workers say they're following the legislative
debate over how to stem the flow of illegal immigrants, and they say heightened
attention to the issue is making them nervous. Many have varied backgrounds: One
man is a chemistry teacher from Cameroon who now works doing painting; another
is working to send money home to his five children in Colombia.

"It's not easy," says Nery Amucia, 45, an undocumented immigrant who lives in
Maryland but came to the USA five years ago from El Salvador. "Sometimes you
find something, but often there is no good work."

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Adrienne Lewis, USA TODAY, Source: Pew Research Center
(BAR GRAPH)
PHOTO, Color, Carlos Chavez, The Arizona Republic

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 11, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigrants courted as good customers;
Businesses compete to win their loyalty

BYLINE: Edward Iwata

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 1023 words


While the debate rages over immigration reform, U.S.-based companies are
charging into the growing market to serve immigrant consumers -- including
undocumented workers.

Critics may see illegal immigrants as lawbreakers and threats to the U.S.
economy. But some banks, health insurers, retailers and other businesses see
millions of potential consumers, taxpayers and homeowners.

Figures on how much undocumented workers spend are hard, if not impossible, to
come by. But researchers from the Federal Reserve to PricewaterhouseCoopers
predict that the Hispanic and immigrant economy will grow rapidly as those
populations soar in the coming years.

The University of Georgia's Selig Center for Economic Growth projects that
Hispanics' spending power -- personal income after taxes -- will rise from $490
billion in 2000 to $1 trillion in 2010.

"Every Census decade has shown phenomenal growth in the Hispanic consumer
market," says Ernest Bromley of Bromley Communications, an advertising firm in
San Antonio. "For (corporate) clients, it's no longer a question of whether
there's a market or not. The question now is: How much should we spend to make
as much as we can possibly make?"

Why is the market getting more attention now?

Undocumented immigrants -- 10 million to 20 million in the USA, depending on
estimates -- blended long ago into the mainstream Hispanic market, which
corporations are courting furiously.

Besides, Bromley and others point out, businesses aren't law enforcement
agencies, and it's not illegal to sell products to undocumented immigrants.

Moreover, at least 200 U.S. financial firms and other businesses accept an
identification card called matricula consular, which is issued to Mexican
nationals by Mexican consulates. More than 4 million immigrants carry the cards,
according to the Mexican government and the Congressional Research Service.

Lastly, the Internal Revenue Service, frowning at lost tax revenue to the
underground cash economy, is encouraging undocumented workers to enter the U.S.
financial system. The IRS issues individual taxpayer identification numbers
(ITINs) to undocumented workers and others without Social Security numbers.

Companies charging into the immigrant market include:

*The Hispanic retailer. La Curacao, a fast-growing department store chain,
boasts six "big box" stores in Southern California that sell furniture,
household appliances, toys, computers and other goods. The company's
money-transfer and telephone services, plus an Internet-access service called
Pasito.com, also are growing in popularity.

The stores are jammed with shoppers on weekends, just like Costco outlets.
Stores feature Mayan architectural facades, bright festival colors and musical
and kids' entertainment.

La Curacao's main target audience: first- and second-generation Hispanics "who
feel very comfortable in our environment," says Mauricio Fux, senior vice
president for corporate development. Many are undocumented workers with
matricula consular cards who don't show up in mainstream credit or banking
records, he says.

Fux says La Curacao's 1 million credit card holders are loyal customers who "buy
products of good quality that are going to last." Shoppers now, for instance,
are snapping up big-screen television sets to watch the World Cup soccer
championship next month.

La Curacao executives, who project annual double-digit sales growth in the
coming years, hope to open 20 more outlets through 2010 in the Southwest.

"We've become a destination for our customers," Fux says.

*The banking giant. Bank of America is focusing heavily on the immigrant market,
with 48% of U.S Hispanic households using at least one Bank of America financial
product, from checking accounts to mortgages, says company spokeswoman Diane
Wagner.

Nearly half of Bank of America's new hires last year were bilingual Spanish
speakers. Bank literature and signs in many branches are printed in Spanish. And
the company makes strong showings at Hispanic community events such as Fiesta
Broadway, a Cinco de Mayo celebration in Los Angeles that draws a half-million
Latinos.

Since 2002, the bank has accepted the matricula consular cards -- plus other
forms of identification such as driver's licenses -- as valid identification to
open bank accounts.

Bank of America also puts on "financial literacy" seminars at Mexican consulate
offices to educate immigrants about banking services, including SafeSend, a
remittance service that's free if customers also open a checking account.

"We want to establish a good and solid financial relationship with the Hispanic
population," Wagner says. "We know they want to save and put their money in a
safe place."

*The health insurer. Blue Cross, owned by WellPoint, estimates that 6.4 million
people in California are uninsured, nearly 60% of them Hispanic.

Health care benefits are complex even for U.S. citizens, so Blue Cross puts on
more than 300 educational programs for California's Spanish-speaking community,
says Leonor McCall-Rodriguez, vice president for emerging markets.

When Blue Cross heard from the Guatemalan consulate's office that a large number
of  Guatemalan immigrants in California speak an obscure Mayan dialect,  the
company produced a video for those potential customers.

Blue Cross will enroll undocumented workers if they have a matricula consular
card and proof of the same residency for at least three months. Customers are
coded confidentially by numbers.

"Bringing them into the pool of insured certainly benefits the whole community
and brings down the cost of health care," McCall-Rodriguez says.

Rob Paral, a demographics researcher in Chicago, says that, contrary to
stereotypes, undocumented immigrants make up "an untapped market of economic
actors" who are stable, family-oriented consumers.

In a study for the National Association of Hispanic Real Estate Professionals,
Paral estimates that 231,000 undocumented immigrant households can afford to buy
homes -- a $44 billion economic boon if they had mortgages.

Advertising executive Bromley, speaking of the dollar impact of immigrants on
all sectors, says: "It's a very dynamic market that's not going away."

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Frank Pompa, USA TODAY, Source: The Multicultural Economy
2004,, Selig Center for Economic Growth, Q3 2004 (BAR GRAPH, PIE CHART)
PHOTO, B/W, Dan MacMedan, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 17, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Senate preserves immigration bill;
Votes save 'guestworker' legislation

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 582 words


WASHINGTON -- A day after President Bush appealed for a "comprehensive"
immigration bill, the Senate gave him two bipartisan votes of support Tuesday,
beating back efforts to kill a "guest worker" program and delay legal status for
illegal immigrants in the USA.

The Senate shrunk the proposed guest-worker program, voting to reduce the number
of work visas for unskilled foreigners from 325,000 to 200,000 a year. The
Senate passed the measure on a voice vote.

"A lot of people were more comfortable with the lower number," said Sen. Mel
Martinez, R-Fla.

Last month, efforts to pass an immigration bill that would beef up border
security, expand work opportunities for foreigners and grant many of the
estimated 12 million illegal immigrants a chance at citizenship collapsed amid
partisan acrimony. After Bush's television  address on immigration Monday night,
a bipartisan coalition is sticking together to keep the agreement intact.

Bush called for deploying up to 6,000 National Guard troops on the border for
one year, in addition to repeating his support for a guest-worker program and
legal status for some illegal immigrants.

He won praise Tuesday from Democratic and Republican supporters of the
legislation. "The president is involved," said Senate Majority Leader Bill
Frist, R-Tenn. "He is committed. He speaks about (immigration) with passion. He
speaks about it from the heart."

Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., said Bush was "absolutely right" to call for an
immigration bill that goes beyond border security.

Martinez and Sen. Ken Salazar, D-Colo., said the day's votes showed broad Senate
support for a comprehensive measure.

"I think we're doing very well," Martinez said. Frist said he expects Senate
approval by Memorial Day.

Lawmakers would have to work out differences between the Senate measure and the
House bill, which focuses on border security and provides no expanded
opportunities for temporary workers or a path to citizenship for those who
entered the USA unlawfully.

Debate over the Senate bill demonstrated how passions about immigration cut
across party lines.

Sen. Byron Dorgan, D-N.D., pushed to eliminate the guest-worker program, arguing
that more visas for foreign workers would take jobs from Americans. "It is not
selfish for our country to be protective of our standard of living," he said.

Dorgan's amendment was defeated, 69-28, as 22 Democrats joined 46 Republicans
and one independent to kill it.

Sen. Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., tried to delay the guest-worker and legalization
plans until the Department of Homeland Security certified border security. "You
don't want to create an attraction for more (illegal immigrants) to come until
the border is secure," he said. Isakson's amendment was defeated, 55-40.
Eighteen Republicans joined 36 Democrats and one independent to oppose it.

Some Republicans who are usually supportive of Bush have problems with the
Senate bill. Sen. Jeff Sessions of Alabama called it "terribly flawed."

Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., is opposed to a key provision. "I do not believe we
should provide illegal immigrants with a path to citizenship," he said.

Salazar said, "We have to deal with the reality of the big elephant in the room.
We need to deal with these ... people who are living in the shadows."

Asked whether he believes a majority of Republicans will vote for the bill,
Frist said he's working on that. "As we debate the issues, a majority of our
caucus will support the bill."

*Group ties debate over immigration to hate crimes, 3A

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W,Dave Gatley,Reuters
PHOTO, B/W,Jim Watson,AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 11, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Proposals to expel illegal immigrants clash with reality

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 403 words


To grasp the dimensions of the nation's immigration dilemma, picture the Rose
Bowl filled to capacity on New Year's Day with more than 93,000 fans.

Illegal immigrants already living in the USA would fill 130 Rose Bowls. If and
when Congress finally addresses the immigration issue, it will need to deal with
those 12 million people in some practical way.

Yet the solutions on the table are built on myths about their behavior and the
government's capacity to deal with them.

In a prime-time speech on May 15, President Bush declared the plan "neither wise
nor realistic." To say the least.

A Senate measure, approved in May, and a new compromise authored by Rep. Mike
Pence, R-Ind., depend on a different illusion: that millions of illegal workers
with jobs, homes and children here would voluntarily return to their home
countries.

These approaches belong in fantasyland:

*Many who entered the country illegally paid smugglers and risked their lives to
get to the USA. Now they're going to pick up and leave based on vague assurances
of re-entry?

Parents aren't likely to abandon them (who would want them to?), or subject them
to life in the nations they left.

*Pence's measure is built on the premise that employers -- faced with tough new
sanctions for using illegal workers -- would facilitate the paperwork and trips
back home for current, good employees. Some might. But illegal workers are
heavily concentrated in low-wage service jobs and agriculture. Would employers
hold open jobs, foot the bill and handle paperwork just to retain minimum-wage
workers?

*

Pence says his measure allows workers to apply for citizenship or permanent
residency. But under current quotas, only about 5,000 unskilled workers a year
are granted "green cards" for permanent residency. Typically, they wait years.
Expanding the quotas would help, but that's not part of the plan.

The reason it failed, however, was not the amnesty. It was Congress'
unwillingness to create and fund a viable enforcement system.

Correcting that failure should be the starting point for reform, but it cannot
be the end. Those already here -- overwhelmingly people who came to work hard
and build a future, like millions before -- will need a path toward legal
status. Pretending they'll just go away only invites another failure.

This is one of an occasional series of editorials on immigration issues. View
the previous editorials at editorialpage.usatoday.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Marcy E. Mullins, USA TODAY, Source: Pew Hispanic Center
(Bar graph)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 11, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Amnesty isn't the answer

BYLINE: Mike Pence

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 431 words


My four-part plan is tough on border security and tough on employers who hire
illegal aliens, but it recognizes the need for a guest-worker program that
operates without amnesty and without growing into a huge new government
bureaucracy.

*Border security. Before any new guest-worker program can begin, the Pence plan
requires the secretary of Homeland Security to certify that all border security
measures are substantially completed. The Pence plan embraces the House-passed
bill, which adds port-of-entry inspectors, ends catch and release, uses American
technology such as unmanned aerial vehicles and requires the building of a
security fence across approximately 700 miles of our southern border.

*Reject amnesty. The Senate passed a bill that would provide amnesty to millions
of illegal aliens. Allowing people to get right with the law without leaving the
United States, when their first act here was a violation of the law, is amnesty.
The Pence plan offers a no-amnesty solution to the problem of 12 million illegal
aliens living in our country by insisting that they leave the country and come
back legally if they have a job opportunity in the United States.

*Enact a no-amnesty guest-worker program using American private sector firms.
The Pence plan would set up a system of private worker placement agencies,
licensed by the federal government, to match willing guest workers with jobs in
America that employers cannot fill with American workers. The private agencies
also would perform a health screening, fingerprint the guest workers and provide
that information for a federal background check. The process would take a week
or less. After six years, the guest must decide whether to return home or enter
the separate process of seeking citizenship.

*Strict employer enforcement. All the employer enforcement contained in the
House-passed bill is contained in the Pence plan. It sets forth a nationwide
electronic employment verification system through which employers confirm the
legality of each employee. Employers who operate outside of the system would
face tough fines.

Some argue that putting border security first and asking millions of illegal
immigrants to leave the country is unrealistic. I submit that it is unrealistic
to assume that another round of amnesty will not result in another wave of
illegal immigration in the years ahead. We must address illegal immigration, but
we must do so in a way that reasserts the principle that the only way to enter
the United States is under the law.

Rep. Mike Pence, R-Ind., is chairman of the Republican Study Committee.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 13, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Raid targets illegal migrants;
1,000 agents bust workers at meat plants in six states

BYLINE: Donna Leinwand

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 490 words


One of the world's largest meat processors shut down nearly all of its U.S.
operations Tuesday as federal agents raided plants in six states in a crackdown
on illegal immigrants who allegedly used stolen identification to get their
jobs.

It was unclear how many people were arrested in the raids at Swift & Co.'s
headquarters in Greeley, Colo., and its plants in Grand Island, Neb.; Cactus,
Texas; Hyrum, Utah; Marshalltown, Iowa; and Worthington, Minn.

The plants have thousands of workers, and Tuesday's massive roundup -- which
involved 1,000 federal agents -- was one of the U.S. government's largest moves
ever against illegal workers.

The raids come eight months after Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE)
arrested 1,187 illegal workers at plants operated by IFCO Systems, a company
that makes pallets.

The Swift probe, which began in February, uncovered a "massive identity fraud
scheme" in which illegal workers had "stolen the identity of hundreds of
people," ICE Assistant Secretary Julie Myers said. She said agents were
interviewing those arrested at the plants to determine whether they should face
criminal or immigration charges.

Swift, which has not been charged, denied knowledge of the alleged scheme.

"Swift has never condoned the employment of unauthorized workers, nor have we
ever knowingly hired such individuals," Swift President and CEO Sam Rovit said
in a statement.

The evening before the raids, Weld County, Colo., District Attorney Ken Buck's
office filed 25 arrest warrants at the request of U.S. agents.

The arrest affidavits say about 30 Swift employees used false information to get
jobs at the Greeley facility, which has about 2,700 workers.

One of those using a false ID was identified in court papers as Otilio Torres
Rivera. The Social Security number and North Carolina ID he offered as proof of
legal residence belonged to a man who had died in February 2005, court papers
allege. The dead man's sister had filed a complaint with the Federal Trade
Commission after a Social Security Administration report wrongly said her late
brother was employed at Swift. Court papers did not specify how the dead man's
ID was stolen.

In Greeley, about 75 workers' family members and protesters gathered outside the
plant, complaining that ICE agents were cruel to arrest workers just before
Christmas, Police Chief Jerry Garner said.

Swift said it would reopen its plants after ICE ends its operation, but that
production would depend on the number of workers arrested or detained.

The plants raided handle all of Swift's domestic beef processing and 77% of its
pork processing.

:

Recent raids by U.S. agents

*Aug. 30: Agents arrest 55 workers who cleaned state buildings in Tallahassee,
Fla.

*Aug. 10: 41 arrested at cleaning firm in Hamburg, N.Y.

*Aug. 2: 51 arrested at saddle factory in Sulphur, Okla.

*April 19: Agents arrest 1,187 workers and seven current and ex-managers at 40
IFCO Systems sites.

Source: USA TODAY research

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Richard M. Hackett, (Longmont, Colo.) Daily Times-Call,
via AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 14, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ID-theft rings catered to illegal workers

BYLINE: Donna Leinwand

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 464 words


A federal investigation that ended Tuesday in a raid on six meatpacking plants
has uncovered criminal groups around the country that steal real birth
certificates, Social Security cards and other documents and sell them to illegal
workers, federal officials said.

One fraud ring mailed dozens of Puerto Rican birth certificates to a
Worthington, Minn., man who resold them for as much as $1,000 to illegal workers
as part of a set of identity documents. Some of the sets were bought by workers
at the meatpacking plants, Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) spokesman
Marc Raimondi said.

In its largest workplace raid ever, ICE agents on Tuesday arrested 1,282 workers
at Swift & Co. meat-packing plants in Worthington, Minn.; Greeley, Colo.;
Cactus, Texas; Grand Island, Neb.; Marshalltown, Iowa; and Hyrum, Utah. Workers
were from Mexico, Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador,  Laos, Sudan and other
countries, Raimondi said.

Illegal workers have traditionally forged documents and invented social security
numbers, ICE Assistant Secretary Julie Myers said.

"The investigation uncovered substantial evidence that hundreds of illegal
aliens working at Swift had apparently stolen the identities of U.S. citizens,"
Myers said. "The illegal aliens had obtained these documents from a variety of
document rings and vendors."

In recent months, ICE agents have arrested  members of document rings in
Minnesota, Texas, Utah and Puerto Rico. Homeland Security Secretary Michael
Chertoff said federal agents continue to investigate fraud rings tied to
Tuesday's arrests.

More than 400 former Swift workers thought to be in the USA illegally are
missing. In October and November, Swift interviewed 450 employees it suspected
were working illegally and found 90% to 95% did not have proper documents, but
Swift did not notify ICE, the court documents say. More than 400 workers were
fired or failed to show up.

"Neither Swift nor ICE knows where those 400 workers are now," U.S. District
Judge Mary Lou Robinson wrote in a court ruling on Dec. 7.

Agents were tipped to the fraud ring in February while in Marshalltown
interviewing workers who had admitted assuming fake identities, Myers said.

ICE agents in July reviewed employment eligibility forms for 1,157 workers at
the Swift plant in Hyrum. They found 300 people -- 26% of the Swift workforce --
had suspect identities.

One of those people was Jose Esteban Aleman of Logan, Utah, hired at Swift in
2005 under the name of Christopher Padilla, 22, according to a sworn statement.
Investigators tracked the real Padilla to the Cook County, Ill., jail, where he
had been held on murder-related charges since 2004, court documents say. Aleman
has been charged with felony forgery and felony identity theft.

Swift said Wednesday it had resumed operations.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 1, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

White House renews effort to overhaul laws;
Cabinet members urge Congress: Give migrants a chance at legal status

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 797 words


WASHINGTON -- President Bush waded gingerly back into the debate over
immigration Wednesday, as two of his top lieutenants urged Congress to grant
"legal status" to an estimated 12 million people now living in the country
illegally.

Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez and Homeland Security Secretary Michael
Chertoff stopped short, however, of endorsing a plan to give illegal immigrants
a chance at citizenship. "I believe what people want first and foremost is to
have legal status," Gutierrez said. "I don't think everyone wants to be a
citizen."

The two men's appearance before the Senate Judiciary Committee marks the
beginning of an effort to revive a sweeping overhaul of the nation's immigration
laws -- a debate that last year set off a wave of demonstrations across the
country. Legislation bogged down late in the last Congress when House Republican
leaders refused to take up a Senate-passed bill that won Bush's public approval.

The Senate bill provided for improved border security, tougher penalties for
employers who hire illegal aliens, a tamper-proof Social Security card, an
expanded "guest worker" program to allow foreigners to work in the USA and a
chance at citizenship for those living and working in the country illegally. But
some Republican critics, such as Rep. F. James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., said the
bill was too lenient, equating the citizenship provision to amnesty.

Last year's election improved the bill's chances for passage by putting
Democrats in charge of both the House and Senate and ousting several leading
Republican critics of the Senate immigration bill, such as J.D. Hayworth of
Arizona and John Hostettler of Indiana. Voters were "clearly rejecting ... the
hard-line, tough-guy posture," said Cecilia Muooz of the National Council of La
Raza, a Hispanic advocacy group that backed the legislation. Muooz said this
year -- a non-election year -- is "the best window we're going to have" for
passage of legislation that "could be a, if not the, major piece of the
president's domestic legacy."

Bush seems to agree. At a news conference last month, the president said he sees
"an interesting opportunity" to work with Democrats to enact legislation he has
sought since his first term.

Once again, the chief sticking point appears likely to be fate of the nation's
illegal population. "We can't kick them out of our country," Bush said at his
news conference in February.

At the Senate hearing, Chertoff said deporting all of them would be "a
gargantuan task."

Democrats argue that offering an eventual chance at citizenship is the only way
to guarantee the elimination of an exploitable underclass of workers. "We need
to establish a path to citizenship that is fair and predictable," House Speaker
Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., was to have said in remarks scheduled for delivery
Wednesday night to the Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund. "It
may be a path of many steps, but the endpoint must be clear and attainable."

Under last year's Senate bill, illegal immigrants could seek citizenship if they
hold a job, pay taxes, take English classes, pay a fine for their illegal entry
and have not committed any felonies. "This is not amnesty," said Sen. Arlen
Specter, R-Pa.

Sen. Jon Kyl, R-Ariz., who was one of the leading opponents of the Senate bill
and who is now the third-ranking member of the Senate Republican leadership,
said in an interview outside the hearing that the two Cabinet secretaries
refusal to commit to the citizenship approach was deliberate.

"Everybody's being cautious about being very specific there because clearly
that's where the final compromises have to come if there's going to be
legislation," Kyl said. The senator said that Republican opponents of last
year's Senate bill might be willing to go along with a deal that offers some,
but not all, illegal immigrants a chance to gain legal status "if there are
other factors put into the mix." He put the chances of enacting a bill this year
at "better than 50-50."

Senate Judiciary Chairman Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., warned that enacting a bill "is
not going to be an easy process." That cheers Ira Mehlman of the Federation for
American Immigration Reform, which opposed last year's Senate-passed bill. He
predicted that lawmakers will remain split over the immigration bills most
controversial provisions. "There aren't very many Republicans left who are
prepared to go marching off a cliff with George Bush anymore," Mehlman said.

On the other end of the spectrum, Sonia Ramirez of the AFL-CIO said labor won't
back an immigration bill unless it contains safeguards that protect foreign
workers from abuse and domestic workers from job loss. She also said the unions
favor "a path to citizenship" for those who have been living and working in the
country illegally.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W, Chris Kleponis, Bloomberg News (2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 25, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

How the legislation's new rules would work

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 544 words


The Senate is taking a week-long Memorial Day break from its debate on the
immigration bill. It will resume when members return the week of June 4. Here
are some frequently asked questions about the complex legislation:

Q: Why are we having this debate?

A: There are an estimated 12 million people living in the USA illegally now.
Because an illegal worker can't press for fair wages and safe working conditions
without risking his or her livelihood, their presence in the workforce tends to
depress wages and working conditions for some Americans. The large influx of
illegal immigrants also has created  strains on schools and hospitals in certain
communities. The federal government is also projecting shortages in the
workforce as baby boomers begin to retire, so President Bush is urging lawmakers
to create a legal system to allow employers to fill jobs with more foreign-born
workers.

Q: When would the bill take effect?

A: People living illegally in the USA who want to attain legal status may apply
as soon as the bill becomes law, but other parts of the bill, including a "guest
worker" program designed to allow more foreigners to work temporarily in the
USA, could not take effect until certain "triggers" are in place. These include
improved border security and verifying the legal status of people hired in the
USA.

Q: How would this legislation affect legal residents?

A:  All Americans would be required to show proof of legal status when they
apply for a job. The bill would require potential hires to present a U.S.
passport or a driver's license and a newer, more secure Social Security card
when they apply for work.

Q: What do illegal immigrants need to do to become legal residents, and how soon
could they become legal?

A: People who can prove they have been living in the USA since before Jan. 1,
2007, would be able to apply for special probationary legal status immediately.
That would allow them to live and work in the USA legally. After the enforcement
triggers have been met, they would be eligible to obtain a Z visa, which would
enable them to travel abroad. After eight years as a Zvisa holder, they would be
able to apply to become permanent legal residents, the first step towards
citizenship.

Q: Would this bill affect legal immigration?

A: Yes. It would provide more opportunities to foreigner workers with skills
that are needed in the U.S. job market by setting aside 380,000 "green cards" --
permanent legal residency slots -- each year. These would be awarded on a point
system. That would reduce the number of relatives of U.S. citizens and legal
permanent residents who can get in. Preferences for adult children and siblings
would be eliminated.

Q: What is the guest-worker program, and why do we need one?

A: The guest-worker program would increase the number of temporary foreigner
workers by at least 200,000 a year. That doesn't include the unlimited numbers
of visas that would be available to agriculture workers. Backers of the bill say
the workers are needed because the economy is growing and baby boomers are
retiring, resulting in a labor shortage. The number of Americans at prime
working age, 25 to 54, is growing at 0.2% a year while the job market is growing
at 1.2% a year, says Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 28, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Time to dispel those immigrant myths

BYLINE: Raul Reyes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 434 words


Mitt Romney has a lot of nerve. He accused Rudy Giuliani of turning New York
into a "sanctuary city." He ran a TV ad accusing Mike Huckabee of being soft on
immigration. But when asked about his hiring of undocumented workers while
governor of Massachusetts, Romney blames his maintenance company. He said
homeowners shouldn't have to check the papers of people with "funny accents."

Besides being offensive, Romney's remark illustrates a common attitude among
those who actively demonize immigrants. They are dead set against illegal
immigration, but don't expect them to assume any personal responsibility.
Opposing illegal immigrants requires little beyond repeating familiar
complaints: Undocumented workers are a burden on social services. They're
ripping off the government. They refuse to learn English.

New reports challenge these assertions:

*A study by the University of California concluded that undocumented workers use
less health care services than citizens and are not a disproportionate burden on
the state's health care system.

*The Immigration Policy Center, a pro-immigrant think tank, recently reported
that immigration increases gross domestic product by $37 billion a year. It
found that immigrants pay more in taxes than they use in government services,
and that the vast majority of immigrants are not eligible to receive public
benefits.

*The Pew Center  found that only 23% of first-generation Spanish-speaking
immigrants spoke English very well. But 88% of the next generation reported
speaking English very well, and this figure jumped to 94% for later generations.
A whopping 89% of Latinos believed that English is necessary for success in the
USA.

Even so, I doubt the noisiest immigrant foes would consider these findings. It
saddens me that restrictionists have hijacked the immigration debate. After all,
polls show that most Americans support a path to citizenship for the 12 million
undocumented workers. It worries me that the USA is becoming a hodgepodge of
state and local laws. It angers me that a vocal minority demands simplistic
answers when nuanced solutions are needed. For that reason, I admire John McCain
for daring to suggest  that we show compassion for all children, regardless of
their immigration status, and Huckabee for pushing tuition breaks to illegal
immigrants.

Some day we will look back at this anti-immigrant period with shame. In the
meantime, the USA deserves leadership that can take us beyond pandering and
hatemongering, and out of our immigration crisis.

---

Raul Reyes is an attorney in New York and a member of USA TODAY's board of
contributors.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 25, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Need for immigrant workers in dispute;
Video clip riles bill's opponents

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 1004 words


WASHINGTON -- A grainy video on YouTube and the angry response it prompted from
two congressmen last week dramatize some of the tensions underlying the
immigration debate set to resume Tuesday in the Senate.

In the video, Pittsburgh lawyer Lawrence Leibowitz advises business owners on
how to help foreign employees on temporary work visas qualify for permanent
residence in the USA. The law requires that employers show that no qualified
American workers want the job. "Our goal is clearly not to find a qualified and
interested U.S. worker," Leibowitz tells his audience. "In a sense, that sounds
funny, but that is what we're trying to do here."

The Programmers Guild, a technology industry workers' association, featured the
video in a YouTube ad alleging an effort to "defraud" American workers. A
statement from Leibowitz's law firm, Cohen & Grigsby, expressed regret over his
"choice of words." Sen. Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, and Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas,
called for a Labor Department investigation of the firm.

The incident highlights a question at the center of the immigration debate
likely to rage in Congress all summer: Does a nation built by immigrants but now
more than 300 million strong require fresh influxes of foreigners to keep its
economy vibrant?

Home-grown or foreign-born?

The Bush administration, business interests from Microsoft to the Golf Course
Superintendents Association of America, and some unions with large numbers of
immigrant members, such as the Service Employees International Union, insist the
nation needs more workers. "All across the economy, jobs are being created for
workers who do not exist," said Matthew Shay, president of the International
Franchise Association, an organization of franchise operators.

Opposing this view are most labor leaders, computer engineers and Congress
members running the gamut from Grassley, a conservative, to Sen. Bernie Sanders,
a left-leaning Vermont independent. They contend the jobs could be filled if
employers increased wages and benefits to attract Americans, rather than looking
overseas for what AFL-CIO Secretary-Treasurer Richard Trumka describes as
"vulnerable, indentured workers."

The Senate immigration bill is designed to help fill jobs in the USA and would
make two major changes in policy to do that:

*It would change the criteria for determining who qualifies to become a
permanent legal resident -- the first step toward citizenship -- by making job
qualifications a factor for the first time in the nation's history. The bill
would set up a point system that would give an edge to foreigners with
experience in fields the U.S. Department of Labor projects will grow the fastest
over the next seven years and those with skills in "specialty" professions, such
as computer programmers, professors, physicians and engineers.

*It would create work visa categories and expand existing ones to allow hundreds
of thousands of "guest workers" to temporarily work in fields ranging from
agriculture to high technology. Several senators plan amendments this week that
would further increase temporary work visas for high-tech workers.

According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the unemployment rate for 2006 was
4.6%, the lowest since 2000. The number of Americans the BLS estimates to be
looking for work -- more than 7 million -- is almost equal to the number of
illegal immigrants working in the USA, as calculated by the Pew Hispanic Center.

Supporters of the immigration bill say the problem is matching the right workers
to the right jobs. "Microsoft says they have 3,000 jobs in Redmond (Wash.) alone
that they can't fill," said Eric Thomas, a spokesman for COMPETE America, an
alliance of technology companies lobbying to liberalize visa laws.

They say the best way to slow the tide of illegal immigrants is to let
businesses legally hire computer technicians, farmworkers and other employees
that they need.

Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff calls it "minimizing the magnet,"
which has attracted about 12 million illegal residents to the USA.

The Bush administration has worked to make what Commerce Secretary Carlos
Gutierrez calls "the economic case for immigration." In a report last week, the
White House Council of Economic Advisers said immigrants enable businesses to
grow. "Immigrants not only help fuel the nation's economic growth, but also have
an overall positive effect on the income of native-born workers," Council of
Economic Advisers Chairman Ed Lazear said.

Workers and wages

Gutierrez points out that the economy grew 3.1% last year while the number of
people in prime working years -- ages 25-54 -- increased by just 0.3%.

Bush administration officials argue that immigration will be needed to replace
retiring baby boomers. Patricia Buckley, a senior economist for the Commerce
Department, told a House subcommittee last month that nearly 70% of foreign-born
residents are of prime working age, compared with 50% of the native-born
population.

Skeptics say increasing immigration is a way for employers to avoid increasing
wages. "They want to defy the economic law of supply and demand," Sanders said
at a Capitol Hill news conference last week. "Instead of paying better wages and
benefits, they want to import cheaper workers."

In construction, where the Pew Hispanic Center estimates that about 14% of the
jobs are occupied by illegal immigrants, wages have stagnated, said Ed Sullivan,
president of the Building and Construction Trades workers' union. He said the
immigration bill's guest-worker provisions would continue that trend.

Similar suspicions are shared by computer programmers and engineers. Ron Hira, a
professor of public policy at the Rochester Institute of Technology, questions
the need for more foreign workers when technology companies such as Dell,
Motorola and IBM have recently announced layoffs.

"I don't think there's any indication of a broad shortage in IT (information
technology) workers," he said. "You'd see that show up in wage increases, and we
haven't seen wage increases."

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Alex Wong, Getty Images
PHOTO, B/W, Leslie Smith Jr., USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 25, 2008 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A corporate 'feeding frenzy';
Visas push is about helping companies rather than workers

BYLINE: Dan Stein

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 393 words


Today we are watching an amazing spectacle: Many in Congress -- including
allegedly labor-friendly Democrats -- are pushing to increase the importation of
foreign labor just as the USA slips into what may be its worst recession in
decades.

Why? Because the greed of a handful of multinationals is demanding more and more
access to "skilled" foreign labor.

Sure, we hear bogus "studies" that claim garden-variety foreign programmers will
save the U.S. economy. But former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan
recently admitted the real agenda: "Significantly opening up immigration to
skilled workers ... would compete with high-income people, driving more income
equality." In 2007, he further opined that, "Our skilled wages are higher than
anywhere in the world. If we open up a significant window for skilled (foreign)
workers, that would suppress the skilled-wage level and end the concentration of
income."

Thanks, Alan! Having shipped so many good jobs overseas, we now find that U.S.
workers who acquire job skills are overpaid!

Since 1990, Congress has allowed U.S. and multinational businesses to use
foreign "nonimmigrant" visa programs to drive down wages and displace American
workers. What began as a short-term fix for a supposed "short-term" shortage of
programmers has turned into another elitist feeding frenzy for greedy people at
the top of the food chain.

The use of foreign workers has exploded at a time of rising economic insecurity.
Since 1985, the number of foreign worker admissions has increased by 426%, while
the U.S. civilian workforce has only increased by about 29%. This is a
"temporary" shortage? The main culprits are the H-1B and L-1B visa programs with
meaningless labor protections now filling more than a million jobs.

Sens. Charles Grassley, R-Iowa, and Richard Durbin, D-Ill., are making a valiant
effort to curb the excesses. But as with most other bloated immigration programs
that become oversubscribed, Congress' first reaction is not to eliminate the
loopholes. It's to just raise the numbers.

Don't get me wrong. My organization supports competing to attract the world's
best and brightest. Jacking up the level of H-1Bs won't get us there.

---

Dan Stein is president of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which
advocates reducing legal immigration levels and aggressive illegal- immigration
enforcement.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          February 27, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Border agents increasingly targeted;
In 4 years of tighter controls, violence has more than doubled

BYLINE: Mimi Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 436 words


WASHINGTON -- Violence against government agents working along the U.S.-Mexican
border is escalating in response to government efforts to crack down on illegal
drug and human smuggling rings, Homeland Security officials say.

Since 2004, the number of assaults has more than doubled, from 384 that year to
987 in fiscal 2007. And this fiscal year, which began Oct. 1, is set to
significantly outpace the last one: 409 to 275.

Most of the assaults involve "rockings," in which drug and human smugglers throw
rocks, bricks and other objects at agents.

But Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said more serious incidents
have been reported.

"We've had occasions of people shooting at agents, trying to run agents down
with vehicles, throwing large rocks or pieces of brick or concrete at agents,
which actually can be fatal, and I've seen some pretty serious injuries that
have resulted from it," he said. "The levels have consistently increased."

He says the escalation is the result of stepped-up enforcement that aims to put
smugglers out of business. Since the 9/11 attacks raised fears of terrorists
slipping into the USA across its land borders, Homeland Security has nearly
doubled the size of the Border Patrol; 18,000 agents will be on the job by
year's end.

One of the most chilling examples of the trend was discovered this month when
five agents working near San Diego found a metal wire strung taut between a
section of double fence that runs along the border. The trap was designed to cut
an agent's throat.

The agents, who patrol between the fences on all-terrain vehicles at speeds of
up to 60 miles per hour, were speeding along on the night of Feb. 9 when the
lead agent spotted the neck-level wire.

"We get assaulted on a daily basis," says J.J. Carrell, a supervisory Border
Patrol agent who was in the group that night. "Between the rockings every day
and them trying to decapitate us ... I've never seen anything like this."

Agent Shawn Moran, vice president of the local Border Patrol union in Imperial
Beach, Calif., says the rockings are "like a biblical stoning. This is like what
they used to do to kill people."

The discovery of the wire followed last month's death of an agent in Yuma, Ariz.
Luis Aguilar of El Paso was run down and killed by a Hummer while laying spikes
down in an effort to blow out the tires of smugglers entering the country
illegally.

Mexican authorities have arrested suspected drug smuggler Jesus Navarro Montes
of Sonora.

Chertoff heads to Mexico today to talk with officials about border issues,
including the violence. "We take these threats very seriously," he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 23, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Cleaning company executives accused of employing illegal workers;
Three top managers indicted; 195 employees nationwide arrested

BYLINE: Donna Leinwand

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 469 words


WASHINGTON -- The president of a nationwide cleaning company that counts Hard
Rock Cafe and Planet Hollywood theme restaurants among its customers was
arrested Thursday for allegedly hiring hundreds of illegal workers.

Federal agents arrested 195  allegedly illegal workers at 63 businesses in 17
states and Washington, D.C., as part of the investigation into RCI
International, a janitorial contracting company owned by Richard  Rosenbaum, 60,
of Longwood, Fla.

An indictment made public Thursday charges Rosenbaum with conspiracy to defraud
the United States, harboring illegal immigrants and evading employment taxes.

Also charged in the indictment filed in U.S. District Court in Grand Rapids,
Mich., were company Vice President Edward Scott Cunningham, 43, of West Palm
Beach, Fla., and Controller Christina Flocken, 59, also of Longwood.

Attorneys representing Rosenbaum, Cunningham and Flocken did not return phone
messages left at their offices Thursday.

RCI allegedly hired hundreds of illegal workers from Mexico, Honduras, Guatemala
and Haiti and, in some cases, provided them with false immigration papers, the
indictment said. The laborers were allegedly paid in cash to avoid reporting the
income to the IRS, court papers say.

Prosecutors say the business failed to pay more than $18 million in employment
taxes. RCI had contracts to clean the Grand Traverse Resort & Spa in Acme,
Mich., and theme restaurants, including House of Blues, Planet Hollywood, Hard
Rock Cafe, Dave and Busters, Yard House, ESPN Zone and China Grill, the
indictment said.

Rosenbaum, Cunningham and Flocken allegedly skimmed money from the company to
finance a luxurious lifestyle that included multiple houses in Florida and
California, race horses and boats, the indictment said.

"They were able to do this because these employees were basically off the
books," federal prosecutor Hagen Frank said. "They became millionaires."

The investigation began two years ago when police in Grand Rapids arrested a man
who provided fraudulent documents. That arrest led Immigration and Customs
Enforcement (ICE) agents to 23 other illegal laborers working at the Grand
Traverse Resort & Spa, which had contracted more than $3 million in RCI cleaning
services from June 1997 to March 2006, ICE Assistant Secretary Julie Myers said
Thursday.

When the resort demanded proof that RCI employed legal workers, Rosenbaum
authorized his site manager to acquire fake immigration papers, Myers said. The
site manager paid $3,460 for the cards and was reimbursed and paid a $1,000
bonus by Flocken from company accounts, the indictment said.

Arrests were made in Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Illinois,
Maryland, Michigan, Missouri, Nebraska, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, North
Carolina, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Texas and Washington, D.C.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 6, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Chamber takes on law aimed at illegal workers;
Says it violates businesses' due process

BYLINE: Sue Kirchhoff

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 428 words


WASHINGTON -- The U.S. Chamber of Commerce Monday threw its considerable weight
behind efforts to eliminate a groundbreaking Hazleton, Pa., law penalizing
businesses that hire illegal workers and landlords who rent to them.

The Hazleton ordinance, which also makes English the official language of the
small town, has not been implemented because a federal judge issued an order
preventing it from going into effect. The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU)
has filed a lawsuit challenging it on behalf of a group local residents. A trial
is set for next week.

The U.S. Chamber of Commerce filed a legal document Monday in U.S. District
Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania backing the ACLU position and
calling the law unconstitutional on two grounds.

First, the Chamber says, the Hazleton ordinance is pre-empted by federal law.
Second, it says the law violates due process protections because it doesn't give
a business accused of hiring an illegal worker the right to challenge an
allegation before losing its right to operate.

"We need to bring some stability into the system until we come up with a federal
answer," says Angelo Amador, Chamber director of immigration policy.

"If not, we're going to end up with 50 state laws and a thousand local
ordinances," Amador adds. "A lot of people are copying what we think is a bad
law."

Hazleton Mayor Louis Barletta, a former small-business owner, says he never
expected to be on the opposite side from the Chamber.

"There's nowhere in our ordinance that we regulate immigration. We punish
businesses that hire illegal workers," Barletta says. "I would rather stand on
the side of the American workers than (with) businesses that break the law."

Hazleton has been raising money for its legal bills in part by seeking donations
on a special website.

As immigration legislation has languished in Congress, dozens of states have
passed measures aimed at an estimated 12 million undocumented immigrants.
Barletta says more than 100 localities are considering imitating Hazleton's law.

The Hazleton ordinance lets individuals lodge complaints if they suspect a
business has an illegal worker. Firms that can't verify an employee's status
have three days to fix the situation. If they don't, the city can suspend the
operating license. Workers who lose jobs at a business that had illegal
immigrants on the payroll, under certain circumstances, can seek damages.

The Chamber argues that, unlike federal law, the Hazleton plan makes employers
liable for penalties without proof they intentionally hired an illegal
immigrant.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 12, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Union, recruiter to help 'guest workers'

BYLINE: John Bacon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 755 words


The United Farm Workers of America and one of the nation's largest labor
recruiters announced an agreement Tuesday to improve wages, benefits and working
conditions for agricultural "guest workers." The agreement follows months of UFW
criticism of Los Angeles-based recruiter Global Horizons over working conditions
and wages.

The guest-worker program allows a labor contractor to bring in foreign workers
if it can prove workers can't be found locally. Arturo Rodriguez, UFW president,
said workers will receive a 2% pay raise over the federal Adverse Effect Wage
Rate, the minimum wage rates that employers must pay under the program. The
rates are set by states and are usually higher than state and federal minimum
wages, in some places about $9 per hour. Employers also will be required to pay
for medical care and provide work breaks and other benefits.

At any one time, Global Horizons has 3,000 to 4,000 farmworkers in up to 28
states, said its president, Mordechai Orian. He said the number is expected to
rise as farmers face a growing worker shortage. The union will represent all of
those workers.

Chertoff: Changes to be in place by June

The federal government is on pace to have 11 priority emergency response changes
completed when hurricane season starts June 1, Homeland Security Secretary
Michael Chertoff said. The changes involve restructuring to ensure that
officials at all levels of government can communicate; that Washington has a
real-time picture of a disaster as it hits; and that response staff and supplies
are ready to go. The changes also include updating the national alert system and
giving the military a greater role. "This is a case where we ... all hang
together or we hang separately," Chertoff said. "We've got to be  in
partnership."

Sailors accused of sham marriages

Eight sailors were charged with arranging sham marriages to Polish and Romanian
women in a scheme to collect bigger military housing allowances while helping
the women obtain U.S. citizenship. The Naval Criminal Investigative Service and
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement found that none of the women lived with
the sailors they married, federal prosecutor Paul Perez said. The eight sailors
received $35,000 in fraudulent basic housing allowance payments, the
investigators said. If convicted, the seven current and one former sailor from
the USS Kennedy and USS Simpson could face up to five years in prison per count.
The women also face charges, Perez said.

SAT chief apologizes for scoring errors

The president of the College Board sent an e-mail to more than 20,000 of its
members apologizing for scoring problems on the SAT exam. "This situation has
tested us. It has tested me," Gaston Caperton wrote in the e-mail to members,
which include high schools, colleges and non-profit groups. "We could not be
more sorry that this happened or more determined to learn from our experience."
A lawsuit filed Friday seeks unspecified damages for the 4,411 of 495,000
October test-takers whose scores were initially underreported.

Briton denies killing wife, child in Mass.

A British man accused of killing his wife and 9-month-old daughter pleaded not
guilty to murder charges during his arraignment in Cambridge, Mass. Neil
Entwistle, 27, is charged with two counts of murder and firearms charges in the
slayings Jan. 20 of his wife, Rachel, 27, and daughter Lillian Rose, who would
have turned 1 Sunday. Entwistle flew to his parents' home in England the day
after the killings. Prosecutors say he shot his family in their rented home
outside Boston after racking up tens of thousands of dollars in debts and
becoming dissatisfied with his sex life.

New telescope aims to get E.T.'s message

A Massachusetts observatory unveiled a powerful telescope designed to capture
light signals transmitted to Earth by extraterrestrials. The telescope is the
first to be developed solely to search the skies for light pulses from aliens
and will cover 100,000 times the amount of sky covered by current equipment,
said Bruce Betts, project director at The Planetary Society, a California-based
group that funded the telescope's development. The telescope was built at the
Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics' Oak Ridge Observatory, where the
non-profit group has searched space for alien life. The new telescope will
vastly improve the search, Betts said. "Sending laser signals across the cosmos
would be a very logical way for E.T. to reach out, but until now, we have been
ill-equipped to receive any such signal," Betts said.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Joe Raedle, Getty Images
PHOTO, B/W, Chuck Branham, The (Charlestown, Ind.) Evening News, via AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NATIONLINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          November 15, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'Guest workers' sue companies over pay;
Foreign laborers in visa program allege exploitation

BYLINE: Laura Parker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 463 words


Armenio Pablo-Calmo, a Guatemalan national, spent six winters as a tree planter
in the pine forests of the South as part of a "guest worker" program that is
required under federal law to pay him the prevailing wage for such jobs.

That ranges from $6.32 an hour in North Carolina to $9.20 an hour in Alabama,
according to the U.S. Labor Department. Pablo-Calmo says he and his co-workers
were paid less than the federal minimum wage of $5.15 an hour, were not paid
overtime and often were required to pay for their own tools, visas and travel
costs. Last year, they sued Eller and Sons Trees, their employer, for back wages
and reimbursement of out-of-pocket costs.

A federal judge classified the case as a class-action lawsuit on Sept. 28; the
case now involves about 6,000 tree planters. It is drawing national attention as
one of several legal challenges to the H-2B visa program, which admits 66,000
foreigners into the USA each year to do temporary manual labor. As President
Bush has proposed tripling the number of such visas issued each year, the H-2B
program has come under criticism from the Southern Poverty Law Center and other
groups that say it has been used by employers to exploit guest workers.

The center, which filed the lawsuit involving Pablo-Calmo, also has sued three
other forestry companies as well as a hotel chain on behalf of foreigners who
have worked at 15 hotels in New Orleans since Hurricane Katrina. One of the
forestry suits was settled in September, when Idaho-based Alpha Services agreed
to pay a group of Latino workers an undisclosed sum for back pay and travel
costs, according to court papers.

"We hope this has a huge impact and other employers see they cannot just choose
to hire guest workers and then abuse them with no consequences," says Mary
Bauer, an attorney at the law center.

Organized labor has long opposed the H-2B program and other guest-worker
initiatives, arguing that they are used to abuse immigrants and undermine wages
for U.S. citizens. Eller and Sons and other employers targeted in the lawsuits
reject the notion of any abuse and say that such programs help fill jobs most
Americans won't do.

Larry Stine, an Atlanta lawyer who represents the four forestry companies, says
that the claims in the lawsuits are "overblown" and that the workers are
overstating their hours on the job.

"This is not a case about people being exploited," he says.

The Ellers' suit also accuses the firm's recruiters in Guatemala of requiring
laborers to hand over deeds to their property to get jobs in the USA. Stine says
the company was unaware of the practice until the lawsuit was filed and that it
has been stopped. He says workers were asked to leave deeds with recruiters
temporarily to try to ensure the workers would return to Guatemala.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Southern Poverty Law Center

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              April 2, 2007 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                                 FINAL EDITION

Foreign workers sue U.S. companies under old law;
Lawsuits allege violations of 1789 statute

BYLINE: Alan Gomez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 826 words


Labor leaders overseas are turning increasingly to an obscure 18th-century law
that could for the first time make U.S. companies liable at home for the violent
and sometimes murderous actions of their employees around the world.

Several lawsuits alleging violation of the Alien Tort Statute are awaiting trial
in federal courts, filed with the help of unions and activist groups in the USA.

One against Geo W. Drummond Ltd. of Alabama alleges the contracting company's
subsidiary in Colombia paid death squads to kill labor leaders.

The lawsuits have set up a showdown over whether boardrooms in the USA should
pay big-money verdicts for crimes not prosecuted in countries where corruption
and violence are often seen as a cost of doing business.

"I realize that there are problems in lots of different countries," said William
Jeffress, a lawyer for Drummond. "But to have the U.S. courts attempt to provide
remedies for all of the injustices that occur in countries around the world is
not a rational system."

At least a dozen such cases are ongoing. Among them:

*Relatives of people killed in an airstrike by the Colombia military say that
Occidental Petroleum of Los Angeles should pay damages because its security
contractor worked with the military to take out leftist terrorists accused of
sabotaging Occidental's pipeline operation. The plaintiffs say the attack killed
17 unarmed civilians.

*Chevron, headquartered in San Francisco, is fighting a lawsuit filed by
Nigerians who say the company should be held responsible for the killing of
protesters by Nigerian security forces outside a refinery owned by its
subsidiary.

*Del Monte is being sued by five union officials in Guatemala who say they were
kidnapped by armed men hired by the Miami corporation's subsidiary and forced to
quit their jobs at a banana farm.

All of the lawsuits come under the Alien Tort Statute, a 1789 law that allows
citizens of foreign nations to sue in U.S. courts for actions that violate the
"law of nations," such as genocide, torture and slavery. Human rights activists
began using the law in the 1980s to sue foreign military leaders accused of
repression who had retired in the USA. Now, those activists have teamed with
labor unions here to sue U.S. corporations for oppression of workers in Latin
America and Africa.

"A lot of these countries do not have judicial systems which are independent and
free of corruption," said Dan Kovalik, a lawyer representing the families of
victims killed in the Drummond case. "It's unfair to make them try to bring a
case where it would be futile."

The companies say they are being unfairly targeted by liberal activists who are
using the law to try to remedy the injustices of foreign governments. Lawyers
for Drummond and other companies have said they are being blamed for crimes they
deplore and knew nothing about.

"We think the Founding Fathers didn't intend all this," said Bill Reinsch,
president of the National Foreign Trade Council.

Reinsch said the statute, which was almost never invoked until recently, is
being misused. "What you got is trial lawyers who have seized on it as the new
asbestos, filing these hoping to hit the jackpot," he said.

The Bush administration, in a federal court case involving charges against oil
giant Unocal in Burma, also known as Myanmar, stated that the federal courts
were never intended to settle disputes between foreigners who have no legal
issues against the U.S. government.

"Although it may be tempting to open our courts to right every wrong all over
the world, the function has not been assigned to the federal courts," stated a
Justice Department brief filed in 2003.

The State Department also weighed in, saying in an advisory letter to the
district judge presiding over the Occidental case that such litigation
interferes with U.S. diplomacy and foreign policy.

"It may also be perceived that the U.S. government does not recognize the
legitimacy of Colombian judicial institutions," according to William Taft IV,
the former chief legal adviser for the State Department.

The families of the victims killed in Colombia say in their lawsuit that they
can find justice only in the USA.

Most of the details of the Drummond case had been kept under seal. The 11th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals ordered the case unsealed March 14 after Stephen
Flanagan Jackson, a professor at Stillman College in Tuscaloosa, Ala., made a
request through the Freedom of Information Act.

Among the details revealed was that a witness says the head of the company's
Colombia operation gave a "suitcase full of money" to a paramilitary group to
commit the killings. The case is likely to go to trial this summer.

Reinsch warns that if the lawsuits prevail, U.S. companies may be forced to shut
down foreign operations. That could prove to be another injustice to workers who
rely on the companies for jobs that usually pay more than most.

"The oil in all the nice countries has been found already," Reinsch said.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 6, 2007



CORRECTION: Drummond Ltd. of Alabama is the subject of a lawsuit alleging its
subsidiary in Colombia paid death squads to kill labor leaders. The wrong
company was identified in a story Monday. Also, details of the case were made
public following a legal challenge based on the First Amendment, not the Freedom
of Information Act.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, 2005 AP photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 9, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Worker visa lottery holds little promise for immigrants

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 464 words


This is my family's fifth year living and working in the USA. My wife, Karen,
and I came here on an L-1B visa, a temporary worker permit for non-U.S. citizens
who work for international companies with U.S. offices.

Karen is a registered nurse, and I am an engineer. Naturally, Karen, my two sons
and I have come to consider this country home.

Our youngest son, Aiden, was born in Cincinnati. We recently bought a house in
Katy, Texas, and we have grown to love our community.

Basically, we are living the American Dream. Unfortunately, all this may soon
come to an end.

My green card priority date, November 2006, is backlogged by several years.

My company, which is sponsoring this application, has been advised to move me
into the H-1B visa, a visa for workers with highly specialized jobs.

The L-1B visa is valid for  a maximum of five years. The H-1B visa can be
renewed until we finally can file our green card applications.

My attorney filed for the H-1B visa on the first available date, April 2.

Unfortunately, so did more than 100,000 other applicants. Our future will be
decided by a computer that randomly picks visa numbers until it reaches about
65,000.

Statistically, we have about a 50% chance of success. I find it almost
impossible to explain to my family that our future will be decided this way.

I have no idea how to explain to my youngest son, a U.S. citizen, that we might
be forced to leave the country of his birth.

Something must be done -- especially when the future of families can be decided
by a lottery draw.

An immigration bill before Congress increases the number of available H-1B
visas.

If Congress fails to act on this fiasco, our family -- which is attempting to
legally obtain citizenship in this great nation -- might be forced to give up
the American Dream.

Jamie Marsden

Katy, Texas

Undermining Americans

USA TODAY's article "Foreigners seeking high-skilled worker visas hope to beat
the odds" glosses over the real issues with worker visas (News, May 1).

The article almost makes it seem as if there is a crisis because U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services recently got more than 123,000 applications
for the H-1B worker visa.

The truth is that these visas are being used to bring in cheap labor for
businesses and to undermine American workers.

Do you know that H-1B visa tech workers are paid, on average, $12,000 per year
less than U.S. citizens working in the same position, according to the Center
for Immigration Studies? How is this mathematically possible if companies are
following the law?

After all, the H-1B has a "prevailing wage" requirement as well as requirements
that jobs be posted for American workers before being given to an H-1B worker.
The simple answer is that the H-1B program has always been about cheap labor.

Keith Riley

Frisco, Texas

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, John Zich, USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 4, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Don't waste U.S. brainpower by hiring foreign workers for coveted jobs

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 814 words


I've heard the arguments in support of using the H-1B, or specialized worker,
visas to fill our country's technology positions with foreign employees. Some
have said that businesses need to harvest the brainpower from abroad because
qualified Americans don't exist and that H-1B visas are the only way to keep the
USA competitive in the global economy. But this argument only paints a picture
of America as a nation full of idiots.

The truth is that there are fully qualified American job candidates, such as
myself, who are trained right alongside foreign graduate students studying here.

To say that qualified candidates don't exist in the USA contradicts the Civil
Rights Act of 1964, which prohibits employment discrimination based on race,
color, religion, sex or national origin. In this case, the "Help Wanted" sign
now reads, "Americans Need Not Apply."

Five years ago, I graduated with a master's degree in aerospace engineering from
a U.S. university. Back then, I heard about a fellow classmate from Pakistan who
was immediately assisted in getting an engineering job before his student visa
expired. To this day, I have yet to land a comparable engineering position,
though my credentials declare me equally qualified. Recently, since the quota
for foreign employees has temporarily been filled, I've begun receiving more
interest by engineering recruiters. But if the cap on H-1B visas is further
increased, I might never find a decent technology job in the USA.

It's regretful we are wasting our country's most important resource --
brainpower -- by farming out our highly honored jobs to cheap foreign labor. If
this continues, the rest of us might be settling for cut-rate, low-skill jobs.

Dale Powers

Kissimmee, Fla.

Visa process is 'black hole'

The United States is a great country. It has adopted people from many different
nationalities with open arms. It is the land of hope and opportunity for
millions of immigrants like me. My wife and I have one dream -- to provide a
secure, prosperous tomorrow for our children. We want our children to grow up as
hard-working individuals and to call the USA their home. But we don't know
whether our dreams will come true.

In early 2002, my employer started the process of applying for my permanent
residency. But after almost five years, I am still waiting in an endless queue.
I have been told I might have to wait for at least three more years because the
yearly quota of immigrant visas is not enough for the number of applicants. For
the same reason, thousands of qualified doctors, engineers, nurses and other
professionals are stuck in the immigration black hole. It is sad to see such a
rough situation for highly qualified individuals in the USA.

Rajesh Arora

Austin

Swap service to stay

To secure a system of accountability in immigration reform, I have a suggestion
for the U.S. government:

Every man or woman ages 18 to 42, who can pass a background check and can
physically handle military service, should be granted U.S. citizenship after
serving for a minimum of six years. The French were successful with their
foreign legion. Why doesn't the United States have its own? If immigrants want
to use our social services, public education and hospital emergency care, then
they must give back by serving our country. This would show their allegiance to
our Constitution and laws, and officers and non-commissioned officers would need
to learn English.

Why rely on the legal citizens in our military when there are 12 million illegal
immigrants here who are not doing their share?

Staff Sgt. Kevin Knowles

South Carolina

Army National Guard

Aiken, S.C.

Hurdles hurt workers

I can only empathize with the difficult and bizarre hurdles that individuals and
families face as they legally try to make a new home in the USA. I am not a U.S.
resident, but I unsuccessfully have tried to gain employment in the USA.

After retiring as a Royal Air Force officer specializing in air traffic control
for 18 years, I applied to the Federal Aviation Administration for one of the
many controller vacancies. But an FAA administrator told me I could not apply
for the position because I was not a U.S. citizen. I then applied for and
received a study visa to complete an FAA aircraft dispatcher course. I
successfully completed the course and was awarded the license.

Even so, airlines seem reluctant to employ foreigners post-9/11 because of the
extensive background checks that are mandatory for aviation workers.

As a retired military officer whose home country, the United Kingdom, is
considered a close ally of the United States, and as a former air traffic
controller whose responsibility was to keep safe the U.S. military aircraft and
personnel in Europe, it seems I am regarded as a threat. Apparently, having
served as a military officer for 18 years doesn't count for anything in today's
society.

Alasdair McEwen Robb

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Canada

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Brian Albert Broom, The (Jackson, Miss.) Clarion-Ledger,
via AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 5, 2008 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Visa rule translates to 'help wanted';
Limit on foreign-worker permits leaves some businesses in search of workforce

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 709 words


Businesses that rely on seasonal workers are scrambling to fill positions, and
some are shutting down, because there are fewer visas for the foreign workers
who usually fill the jobs.

Industries from coast to coast say the reduction in visas for temporary workers
will hurt them and the economy.

"We're thinking about shuttering the daggone thing,"  says John Graham of his
crab processing company Graham & Rollins in Hampton, Va. Graham couldn't get
visas this year for 110 Mexican workers who work from April to November
alongside 18 locals.

Graham says he's the last crab processor in town. "I've survived where the other
17 didn't," he says. "Now something out of my control is going to take me out."

Exemption expires

Each year, 66,000 visas are designated for temporary workers in non-agricultural
labor. They're called H-2B visas. Temporary agricultural workers have their own
category, H-2A.

For the past three years, Congress allowed businesses to get H-2B visas for some
returning workers without counting them against that 66,000 cap. In 2006, that
exemption allowed visas to be issued to 51,000 returning workers, the State
Department says. In September, after immigration overhaul legislation failed,
that exemption expired. As a result, the limit was reached before some
businesses were allowed to apply.

"As of this moment, we're not even going to be able to place one worker," says
John Gallo, a consultant who helps businesses find up to 2,000 temporary workers
each year.

Gallo says the H-2B program isn't controversial and offers businesses a legal
way to bring in needed workers.

"This has nothing to do with immigration," he says. "Homeland Security knows who
these people are. Social Security keeps on top of them. When their visa expires,
they return home."

'We may have to scale back'

Gallo works with Gurney's Inn Resort, Spa & Conference Center in Montauk, N.Y.,
which applied for 90 workers from Jamaica, Ecuador and elsewhere for
housekeeping, landscaping and other jobs. Most would have been returning
workers. "We may have to scale back some on the amount of business we can accept
in the prime season," general manager Paul Monte says.

Sen. Barbara Mikulski, a Maryland Democrat, and other lawmakers have tried to
renew the exemption, but the Congressional Hispanic Caucus opposed it. Democrat
Joe Baca, chairman of the caucus, says the caucus doesn't object to H-2B visas
but believes they should be part of overall immigration changes.

Businesses that apply for H-2Bs must take steps such as advertising jobs locally
to give Americans first crack.

Roy Beck of NumbersUSA, a group that advocates reduced immigration, believes
H-2Bs hurt American workers. "Businesses should recruit from their own country,"
he says.

'You don't get a deal'

Michael Loukonen of Loukonen Bros. Stone in Lyons, Colo., which mines sandstone,
says locals don't want the backbreaking jobs that seasonal workers take.
Loukonen couldn't get visas this year for 30 workers who make up about 60% of
the company's peak workforce. "In the last five years, we've had three (local)
people apply," he says. "Two of them didn't show. One showed and worked one day
and said it was too hard and quit."

Jonathan Zeyl, president of Landscape Creations of Rhode Island, says businesses
that use H-2B visas pay fair wages and the workers pay taxes. Zeyl wasn't able
to get visas for 40 workers, nearly all of his peak-season labor.

"My wife and I and my managers have fairly strong feelings about operating
within the law," he says. "I'm bitter about having the rug pulled out from under
me."

"My payroll can run over $25,000 a week," he says. "You don't get a deal on the
labor. What you do get is ... guys who work all day long and don't complain
about the heavy, monotonous work."

Circus Chimera canceled its season this year.

James Judkins, owner of the no-animal circus, which performs mostly in the
Southwest and West, had to lay off local, year-round employees because he
couldn't get 50 visas for workers who perform, put up tents and do other jobs.
They were 90% of his staff.

Canceling his season will hurt other businesses, too, he says.

"I'm not going to be buying circus posters from the printing company," he says.
"I'm not going to be buying advertising in the newspaper."

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Todd Plitt, USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Heather S. Hughes, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            March 13, 2008 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Gates urges more tech worker visas;
Some in Congress want tighter rules

BYLINE: Michelle Kessler

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 473 words


Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates on Wednesday asked Congress to make it easier for
tech companies to hire foreign workers -- even though some members of Congress
want to make it harder.

Gates, testifying before the House Committee on Science and Technology, said
that the USA faces "a critical shortfall of skilled scientists and engineers."
Improvements in education would help, but more visas for skilled workers are
desperately needed, he said.

He wants Congress to raise the number of the most common type of skilled worker
visa, called an H-1B. So do many other big tech companies, including Google,
Intel and Hewlett-Packard.

Critics such as Rep. Dana Rohrabacher, R-Calif., want to make H-1Bs harder to
obtain. They say visa holders take American jobs and reduce wages by working for
less than their U.S. counterparts.

This battle, waging for years, is at a stalemate. The number of the main type of
H-1B visas has not changed since 2002. But neither side plans to back down.

Insufficient visas mean that "many U.S. firms, including Microsoft, have been
forced to locate staff in countries that welcome skilled foreign workers" to
stay competitive, Gates said.

Rohrabacher replied that Gates is "totally insensitive and unsympathetic to
average working people who are being displaced by foreign workers."

Congress allocates about 65,000 standard H-1B visas each fiscal year. Exemptions
and related visas often raise the number of skilled worker permits to nearly
130,000, says Ron Hira, a professor at the Rochester Institute of Technology and
author of Outsourcing America.

But demand still far outstrips supply. In fiscal 2007, which began Oct. 1, 2006,
the main type of H-1B visa was used up by early April.

Although Gates spoke of highly skilled specialists, the average H-1B worker has
a bachelor's degree, was born in India and makes about $55,000 a year, says the
most recent data from the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service. (The average
U.S. tech worker's salary is more than $74,500, says career site Dice.com.)

Many of the companies who hire H-1B visa holders are also from India, although
they have large U.S. operations. Huge outsourcing firms such as Wipro and
Infosys are among the biggest H-1B users.

That's a problem, says Paul Kostek, a vice president with IEEE-USA, a trade
group representing U.S. engineers and scientists. Since many visa holders are
not working for U.S. companies, raising the cap will not help America be more
competitive, he said.

Rohrabacher is co-sponsor of a bill that would make it tougher for foreign
workers to qualify for an H-1B. Hira says other reforms are needed. He advocates
higher wages for H-1B holders and audits that will require companies to prove
that they tried to hire U.S.  workers before seeking H-1Bs. The visas "can have
a positive effect, but let's mend (the program)," he says.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Adrienne Lewis, USA TODAY, Source: Department of Homeland
Security (BAR GRAPH)
PHOTO, B/W, Alex Wong, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 20, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Big cities balk over illegal migrants;
Enforcement is federal issue, local police say

BYLINE: Judy Keen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 536 words


CHICAGO -- Despite a federal effort to enlist help from local police to catch
illegal immigrants, some of the USA's biggest cities are declining to enforce
immigration laws.

Police chiefs, mayors and city councils are ordering local cops not to get
involved as federal agents crack down on people in the country illegally.

"Vulnerable people have always needed to see the police as being there to
protect and serve, and that can't happen when the first words out of a cop's
mouth are, 'I need to see your papers,'" Minneapolis Mayor R.T. Rybak said.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement has been visiting police conventions in
an effort to have departments join a voluntary program. ICE has trained officers
in seven jurisdictions to identify, process and detain illegal immigrants, said
Robert Hines, who heads the program started in 1996. Participants include state
police in Alabama and Florida, the Arizona corrections department and sheriff's
departments in San Bernardino, Los Angeles and Riverside counties in California
and Mecklenburg County, N.C.

Several jurisdictions have refused to help. Chicago police and city workers are
prohibited from asking immigrants about their legal status. Rybak asked ICE
agents last month to stop identifying themselves as "police." New York City's
public hospitals promised last month that they would keep secret an immigrant's
legal status.

In the broadest signal of opposition, a national group representing 57 big-city
police chiefs warned this month that local enforcement of federal immigration
laws would "undermine trust and cooperation" among immigrants.

The Major Cities Chiefs Association said in recommendations to President Bush
and Congress that police have long worked with federal agents to pursue illegal
immigrants suspected of crimes. The group said helping identify those suspected
only of being in the USA illegally could backfire.

"We have spent many years ... getting special communities to talk to us, to
report crime, to be witnesses," said Houston Police Chief Harold Hurtt. "If we
stop individuals (to ask about immigration status), we would lose all of that."

The association -- including police chiefs from Los Angeles, Detroit, Seattle
and Miami -- said most departments can't afford to spend time quizzing
immigrants. Members fear that "the call for local enforcement of immigration
laws signals the beginning of a trend towards local police agencies being asked
to enter other areas of federal regulation or enforcement."

Hines said, "The cooperation we get for the most part is outstanding." Illegal
immigration "is all of our problem, because these people are here in violation
of law."
Local resistance

Action by cities:

*The Minneapolis City Council voted in 2003 to prevent police from asking about
immigration status or enforcing immigration laws. Last month, Mayor R.T. Rybak
asked federal agents to stop wearing vests labeled "police." The agents have not
altered their wardrobes.

*Last month, New York City's Health and Hospitals Corp. distributed an open
letter promising immigrants that its workers "will not tell anyone" their legal
status.

*The Chicago City Council voted in March to bar police and city workers from
asking about legal status.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           August 23, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

New outlaws plague Arizona desert refuges;
Park rangers take on extra duties as scenic lands become illegal gateways to USA

BYLINE: Tom Kenworthy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 904 words


CABEZA PRIETA NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE, Ariz. -- Roger Di Rosa, standing atop a
high ridge overlooking a broad basin and the Growler Mountains beyond, recalls
what this protected area was like nearly 30 years ago when he did his first tour
here in the Southwest's Sonoran Desert.

"You could go out and not see another person for a week," says Di Rosa, who now
manages the sprawling U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service refuge that covers an area
the size of Rhode Island.

There's no longer a shortage of people here or on other federal land that makes
up 43% of the 1,900-mile boundary with Mexico. Aggressive crackdowns along the
border in recent years in places such as San Diego and El Paso have pushed
illegal immigrants and drug smugglers into remote desert areas in southern
Arizona.

As a result, employees from park rangers to biologists are dealing more with the
effects of illegal immigration, instead of protecting wildlife and helping
visitors.

Last year, 205,231 illegal immigrants were apprehended on Arizona border lands
managed by the National Park Service, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and Bureau
of Land Management, according to Di Rosa.

In addition to Cabeza Prieta, several other federal properties along the border
in southern Arizona -- Organ Pipe National Monument, Buenos Aires National
Wildlife Refuge, the San Bernardino National Wildlife Refuge, the Coronado
National Memorial and the Coronado National Forest -- have been hit with
immigration-related issues that cut into the time being spent on park issues.

Each year, an estimated 35 tons of marijuana  pass through the Coronado National
Memorial, east of Nogales, Ariz., the park service reports.

At Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument, run by the National Park Service,
superintendent Kathy Billings says her staff spends about 75% of their time on
border issues. Her park rangers, along with U.S. Border Patrol agents, detained
nearly 8,000 smugglers and illegal immigrants last year and seized 8 tons of
marijuana.

Because of possible danger to visitors, Organ Pipe has closed 90 miles of roads
that tourists once used to view scenery and wildlife. A 30-mile iron fence
costing $18 million was finished earlier this month along the border to stem
illegal vehicle traffic.

System of 'highways'

At Cabeza Prieta, which preserves habitat for such endangered wildlife as the
desert pronghorn antelope, illegal immigrants crossing from Mexico have created
a vast system of "major highways" across wilderness, Di Rosa says. At any one
time, there are several dozen abandoned vehicles on the refuge. Fires are
normally a rare occurrence here, but 7,500 acres burned last year as stranded
illegal immigrants set blazes to attract help as they struggled to survive in
the heat. This year, 250 people overcome by the harsh conditions after crossing
the border have been rescued on the refuge.

The refuge's two law enforcement agents, working with the Border Patrol,
confront organized gangs that smuggle drugs and illegal immigrants and "are
better equipped than we are," Di Rosa says.

The Bureau of Land Management, which oversees land along 155 miles of the
border, faces similar problems. From 2003 to 2005, the agency removed 700
abandoned cars and 250,000 pounds of trash in southern Arizona, BLM district
manager Bill Civish told Congress in June.

Cabeza Prieta was founded in 1939. In 1990, Congress designated nearly all of it
as wilderness, the highest level of federal protection.

Not long after, illegal immigration shifted to desert areas as the Border Patrol
stepped up interdiction efforts in traditional crossing areas in California and
Texas.

'Balloon effect'

Larry Parkinson, head of law enforcement for the Interior Department, which
oversees the National Park Service and U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, calls it
the "balloon effect" -- squeeze enforcement in one place, and the problem pops
out somewhere else.

In 2004, the Interior Department told the Government Accountability Office, the
investigative arm of Congress, that between 1997 and 2000 the number of illegal
immigrants detained on department lands within 100 miles of the border jumped
from 512 to 113,380 and has continued to increase.

For federal land managers along the border, the illegal immigration also means
severe budget strains. At Organ Pipe, about half the $3 million budget is spent
on immigration issues -- from arresting smugglers and illegal immigrants to
collecting trash to assessing damage to the fragile environment, Billings says.

After the 2002 murder of a park ranger by a smuggler, Organ Pipe doubled its law
enforcement staff to 14 rangers. Now there are 12 and should be 21, according to
the monument's assessment of what it needs.

The park service has increased spending on homeland security and border
protection by about $121 million nationwide since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks. While most of the costs have been covered by increased congressional
appropriations, at least $21 million has not, according to the park service.

At Cabeza Prieta, the basic work of the refuge -- protecting wildlife -- has
been compromised, Di Rosa says. The traffic is disrupting migration patterns and
destroying habitat used by the desert pronghorn antelope, which numbered only
about 20 here during a 2001-02 drought but is slowly increasing with the aid of
a captive-breeding program.

"We are not fulfilling our mandates for managing wilderness or the refuge," Di
Rosa says.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Dave Merrill, USA TODAY, Source: U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service and U.S. Border Patrol (Map, bar graph)
PHOTOS, B/W, Jack Gruber, USA TODAY (2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 13, 2005 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

More immigrants than ever flow into USA; nearly half do so illegally

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser and Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 348 words


Despite tougher border scrutiny after 9/11, a total of 7.9 million immigrants
have come to the USA since 2000, more than in any other five-year period in the
nation's history, figures released Monday show.

Almost half, or 3.7 million, entered illegally, according to an analysis of
Census data by the Center for Immigration Studies, a Washington, D.C., group
that advocates controlling the flow of legal and illegal immigrants.

The report comes as a heated immigration debate looms this week in Congress. The
House is expected to tackle a Republican bill that aims to strengthen border
security and increase penalties for illegal immigration. An estimated 11 million
immigrants live illegally in the USA.

The nation's immigrant population hit a record 35.2 million in March 2005, 2 1/2
times the number at the peak of the last great immigration wave of 1910, says
Steven Camarota, author of the report. Immigrants make up 12.1% of the U.S.
population, compared with 14.7% in 1910, the report says.

The analysis shows that 31% of adult immigrants have not completed high school.
A third lack health insurance.

The findings raise serious policy questions, Camarota says: "Does it make sense
to bring in so many people with relatively little education? What do we do about
illegals? Do we let them stay? Do we give them green cards?"

Jeffrey Passel, demographer at the Pew Hispanic Center, a research group, says
the data lump legal and illegal immigrants, which skews achievement numbers.

"To conclude that our legal immigration is somehow admitting the wrong people is
a leap of faith," he says. "The legal immigrants who've come in the last 10
years are better educated than the legal immigrants who came before.''

The report also confirms that large numbers of immigrants are headed to more
states, including Georgia, North Carolina, Virginia, Washington and
Pennsylvania.

Immigration is "starting to have a bigger impact on more states while it
continues to have a very big impact on traditional immigrant magnets such as
California," says William Frey, a demographer at the Brookings Institution.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Karl Gelles, USA TODAY, Source: USA TODAY/CNN/Gallup
Poll of 503 adults nationwide taken Friday to Sunday (Pie chart)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 11, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Feds to expand hunt for those ordered to be deported

BYLINE: Donna Leinwand

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 448 words


WASHINGTON -- In an unprecedented crackdown on more than 500,000 illegal
immigrants who have not followed deportation orders, U.S. authorities this year
are nearly tripling the number of federal officers assigned to round up such
fugitives.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) will deploy 52 fugitive-hunting teams
across the nation by December, up from 17 teams last year, says John Torres, the
agency's acting director of detention and removal.

Teams generally are made up of five to eight agents. They focus on rounding up
and deporting immigrants who have been ordered by a judge to leave the USA
because they are here illegally or have violated the conditions of their stay by
committing crimes.

"It is one of our top priorities," Torres says. "The message for absconders is
this: While they think they may be able to flout immigration laws, this is not
the case. They may get a knock on their doors very early in the morning."

The Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on New York City and Washington put a spotlight on
domestic security concerns, including the U.S. government's problems in tracking
down and deporting foreigners who are in the USA illegally. The fugitive teams
were created in 2003. Various researchers estimate that 10 million to 11 million
illegal immigrants are in the USA. The Department of Homeland Security, which
oversees ICE, does not dispute that.

In part because tracking down all of those illegal immigrants is unrealistic,
federal immigration agencies have focused on improving border security and on
catching the approximately 536,000 illegal immigrants who are fugitives from the
law.

The number of fugitives increases by about 35,000 annually, ICE spokesman Marc
Raimondi says. The new teams are expected to arrest 40,000 to 50,000 fugitives
annually, Torres says. That would be a dramatic increase in the rate of such
arrests; since March 2003, ICE has arrested 32,625 fugitives, agency records
show. The agency needs another 50 teams, Torres says.

"If we do the math, we're just breaking even with those teams," Torres said.
"We're looking to put a dent into the backlog."

The new teams are slated for Atlanta, Baltimore, Boston, Chicago, Dallas,
Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, San Antonio, San Francisco, San Diego, St. Paul and
several other cities across the USA. The agency is getting about $75 million
over two years to pay for the teams, Raimondi says.

"I think it's equally as important as securing the border," says Victor Cerda,
an immigration lawyer in Washington and a former acting director of detection
and removal operations at ICE. "The entire immigration system is chaotic at both
the border and the interior. Congress is going in the right direction."

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Dave Merrill, USA TODAY, Source: Immigration and Customs
Enforcement (Map)
PHOTO, B/W, Robert Deutsch, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 24, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Border control aims at wrong bad guys

BYLINE: Marisa Trevino

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 457 words


The latest news from the U.S.-Mexico border is not good. Violent assaults
against Border Patrol agents are up 108%, says Border Patrol Chief David
Aguilar.

Sheriff deputies haven't fared much better. After last month's clash between
Texas' Hudspeth County lawmen and armed drug smugglers dressed in Mexican
military-style uniforms,  deputies were warned  to "stay off the river" or risk
getting killed.

Journalists are not immune to the violence, either. There was the brazen attack
at the El Maoana newspaper in Nuevo Laredo, Mexico, across  from Laredo, Texas,
where a reporter was struck five times by gunfire. The motive for the attack
remains a mystery, though the drug cartels are strongly suspected.

The increasing violence along our southern border demands more congressional
scrutiny and a better understanding of who really are the bad guys. They belong
to  two groups: warring drug cartels and "coyotes," who smuggle people across
the border. These are the guys operating criminal enterprises, not the illegal
immigrants in search of a job and a future.

Congress' attention to the border violence, however, appears more like political
posturing to steer public opinion to endorse anti-illegal immigrant legislation.
Rep. F. James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., for one, recently said, "A lot of the
people coming across the border are criminals and potentially terrorists."

No immigrant advocate is naive enough to think that all illegal immigrants are
angelic. According to the Federal Bureau of Prisons, 28% of federal inmates are
non-U.S. citizens. But to date, no Spanish-speaking illegal immigrant has been
jailed for being a terrorist.

Though it is not clear whether critics believe that our porous border allows
"real" terrorists access to our country, what is clear is that this vocal group
is advancing a misguided approach that might best be described as trying to kill
two birds with one stone.

There's no denying our fear of terrorists. What's not clear is why we should
fear most illegal immigrants whose sole intent is to improve their quality of
life. A Pew Hispanic Center report  issued last year showed that most illegal
immigrants exhibited characteristics that everyone, from conservatives to
liberals, can appreciate: a strong work ethic and a deep commitment to their
families. The report showed that the median weekly wage of migrants is only
$300. The bulk of this income is often used to support their families.

Their deeds lead to the same conclusion:  The majority of illegal immigrants put
others before themselves. That doesn't sound like terrorism or a criminal
threat. It sounds like an unselfish act. Are these the kind of people who
deserve to be called the bad guys?

Marisa Trevioo is a freelance writer in Dallas.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 2, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Feds may soon check all workers' IDs;
Goal: Stemming illegal immigration

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 561 words


WASHINGTON -- Congress is headed toward approving a plan that would require
employers to check every worker's Social Security number or immigration work
permit against a new federal computer database.

Critics see the move -- aimed at stemming illegal immigration -- as the
beginning of a government information stockpile that could be used to track U.S.
residents.

"We're getting closer and closer to a national ID card," says Tim Sparapani,
legislative counsel for the American Civil Liberties Union.

Lawmakers such as conservative House Judiciary Chairman F. James Sensenbrenner,
R-Wis., and liberal Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., have signed on to the
verification plan, which is included in some form in every immigration bill
currently before Congress. The goal is to make sure everyone working in the USA
is doing so legally.

The Senate Judiciary Committee, which handles immigration, begins drafting its
version of the bill today. The House bill passed in December.

The bills would require that a pilot program now used by 5,000 employers to
check the legal status of job applicants be made mandatory. President Bush's
2007 budget includes $135 million to start expanding the verification system
nationwide.

Proponents say new tools are needed to curb illegal immigration. There are now
an estimated 11million illegal immigrants in the USA. "If we're going to have
any means of controlling our borders, you have to have a tamper-proof Social
Security card and verification at the time of employment," says Rep. Dan
Lungren, R-Calif.

Rep. Ken Calvert, R-Calif., says "this is not a national ID system." But several
bills authorize studies of "tamper proof" Social Security cards or their
issuance. The cards would include some biometric data and would be harder to
counterfeit.

During a debate in 1984, former congressman Don Edwards, D-Calif., compared a
proposed enhanced Social Security card to an "internal passport." Twelve years
later, conservative GOP lobbyist Grover Norquist flooded Capitol Hill with
activists wearing washable tattoos of an inventory bar code to show how a
government clearinghouse could become a way to "track" Americans.

Both sides agree that Congress' willingness to consider such proposals
represents a political shift. "They're talking about things that, if I had
talked about, they would have burned my humble butt," says former GOP senator
Alan Simpson, who helped write immigration laws passed in 1986 and 1996. He
contends that Congress' past refusal to create a secure ID system to verify
employment eligibility is a  reason that neither law stemmed the flow of illegal
immigrants.

Former Republican congressman Bob Barr of Georgia, now on the ACLU's advisory
board, agrees that attitudes have changed, but he doesn't think that is
positive. "Far too many people have been swept into the post-9/11 system of fear
that is the basis of all public policy these days," he says.
The legislation

Leading proposals to verify workers' legal status:

*A bill that has passed the House of Representatives would require all employers
to use an electronic verification system. It calls for a federal study of
tamper-proof Social Security cards.

*A bill by Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., calls for all employers to check documents
against an electronic database within five years of enactment. There would be a
$10,000 fine for hiring undocumented workers.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 2, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S. laws apply to 'bad guys' and illegal immigrants

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 391 words


Commentary writer Marisa Trevioo is highly critical of the U.S. Border Patrol
and other law enforcement agencies for picking on illegal Mexican and other
immigrants trying to sneak into the USA. Trevioo writes that she thinks that the
listed enforcement agencies charged with defending our borders should
concentrate on drug smugglers, "coyotes" and other criminals ("Border control
aims at wrong bad guys," The Forum, Friday).

Apparently, she feels that the "illegals" coming across are just trying to
support their families. Be that as it may, the key word is "illegal" -- that
makes them criminals, too.

It would help the Border Patrol officers immensely if Trevioo could get those
whom she considers bad people to wear signs stating "I am a terrorist," or "I am
a smuggler," for instance, so that the officers could identify them easily. But
I really don't think those people want to stand out in a crowd of other
illegals.

Until Trevioo can solve that problem, her so-called innocents are going to be
harassed and, I hope, sent back.

Walter C. Bright

Topeka

War on drugs' role

Writer Marisa Trevioo asks whether illegal immigrants coming across our border
with Mexico are really the "bad guys." A timely question, well put. But a better
question is whether our "war on drugs" makes any sense.

The U.S. war on drugs actually creates an ever-lasting profit motive for
criminals, thereby making the "war" self-perpetuating. Illegal immigrants often
get caught in the crossfire between drug gangs and the Border Patrol and local
law enforcement. The Drug Enforcement Administration targets them as potential
drug runners.  The war on drugs, then, is what causes the battles along our
Mexican border that Trevioo refers to.

In addition, the concern with drugs serves as a distraction from looking for
terrorists and slave traders on the nation's borders.

Gerald M. Sutliff

Castro Valley, Calif.

Guest worker programs

Marisa Trevioo's commentary makes me wonder why in her world  "illegal" does not
mean "bad" guy?

If a person breaks into her house to steal food and money to provide for his
family, is he suddenly a "good" guy in her book?

Wake up, Ms.  Trevioo. Until U.S. law says it is legal, illegal immigrants are
"bad" guys. Your focus should be on guest-worker programs that legally allow
immigrants to find work in this country.

James Murphy

Chandler, Ariz.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Omar Torres, AFP/Getty Images

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            March 8, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Loose border saps county coffers;
Local officials, new study say costs of illegal immigration creating a crisis

BYLINE: Donna Leinwand

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 964 words


The United States' inability to slow illegal immigration from Mexico is fueling
a financial crisis in the 24 counties along the 1,951-mile Southwest border,
according to a new study. It says the counties are struggling to fund law
enforcement, health programs and other necessities because they are spending
millions of dollars a year to care for illegal immigrants.

Illegal immigrants continue to flow across the border even as increased security
since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks -- there now are about 10,000
federal agents there, up from 7,000 -- has boosted arrests dramatically. In
2004, there were 1.14 million arrests along the border that stretches from
California to Texas, the Department of Homeland Security says. That was up 26%
from the year before.

The jump in arrests has come to symbolize how localities have been left with
much of the bill for border security, according to a study by the University of
Texas at El Paso (UTEP) to be released today by the U.S./Mexico Border Counties
Coalition. A funding increase by Congress last year will boost the number of
federal detention cells from 18,000 to 20,000. However, that's not nearly enough
to handle the waves of immigrants who are being arrested, so such people often
end up in local jails.

Reimbursements fall short

The federal government reimburses localities and states for services they
provide to illegal immigrants, but the payments don't come close to matching the
localities' costs, the report says. For example, Department of Justice records
show Arizona's four border counties asked the federal government for $23.2
million last year to cover the cost of jailing thousands of illegal immigrants.
The counties were reimbursed $731,000.

In California, San Diego County spends $50 million a year to arrest, jail,
prosecute and defend illegal immigrants, and is reimbursed about $2million, says
county Supervisor Greg Cox, president of the border counties coalition. The $48
million shortfall cuts into the $600 million a year the county has for
discretionary spending, he says. "That's money that would support libraries,
parks and public safety."

Dennis Soden, executive director of the Institute for Policy and Economic
Development at UTEP, says the border situation "creates a burden on the court
system, the jail system and the prison system.

"The fact that the border can't be controlled creates a law enforcement problem
that falls on the local jurisdictions," he says. "There's no other place in the
country in this situation."

Homeland Security spokesman Russ Knocke says that besides increasing security,
the federal government is launching a strategy to reduce the burden on state and
local governments by returning illegal immigrants to their native countries more
quickly.

Knocke says the department hopes to continue increasing the number of federal
detention cells in border states. He says Homeland Security also is counting on
Congress to create a guest-worker program that would allow the estimated
8million to 10 million illegal immigrants in the USA to stay here for a limited
time -- likely six years. "It's no longer a situation where border security
means just Border Patrol agents," he says.

This week, the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee is considering immigration
proposals that include registering, fingerprinting and issuing guest-worker
permits to illegal immigrants in this country. The full Senate is likely to
debate the issue March 27. Meanwhile, the House of Representatives has endorsed
building a controversial double fence between the USA and Mexico, and tougher
penalties for immigration violations.

Further effects

The impact of illegal immigrants on border counties reaches well beyond law
enforcement, Soden says:

*U.S. law requires hospitals to treat anyone who needs emergency care,
regardless of their ability to pay or immigration status. The UTEP study found
that border counties have some of the nation's highest rates for uninsured
patients, and that treating illegal immigrants accounts for nearly one-quarter
of the uncompensated costs at the counties' hospitals. In Pima County, Ariz.,
hospitals reported having to absorb $76 million in treatment costs in 2000,
about one-third of it from treating illegal immigrants.

*Cochise County, Ariz., reported spending tens of thousands of dollars each year
to collect trash left at remote campsites by illegal immigrants. County Board of
Supervisors Chairman Pat Call estimates that 13% of the solid waste generated in
Cochise comes from such sites.

"The garbage issue is huge. Diapers, toilet paper, plastic jugs, backpacks,"
says Call, whose sparsely populated county in southeastern Arizona has become a
favorite pathway into the USA for drug smugglers, human traffickers and Mexicans
seeking work. "You name it, we've got to pay the bill for cleaning it up."

Like Cox and other officials in border jurisdictions, Call says the increasing
cost of illegal immigration on local law enforcement is rippling through his
county's budget.

Prosecuting and jailing illegal immigrants who commit crimes costs Cochise
County about $5 million of its $49 million annual budget, Call says. In 2005,
the county asked the federal government for $2.5 million to help offset the
costs and received $73,000, Call says.

About 25% of Cochise's budget paid for health care to uninsured people -- most
of them illegal immigrants -- who went to the county hospital's emergency room,
he says.

"The border region has some unique hardships," Call says, citing the UTEP
report's analysis of the border counties' relatively high rates of uninsured
residents and shortages of doctors and nurses. "The immigration issue, because
the feds have not moved fast enough or thoroughly enough to deal with it, just
exacerbates the panoply of issues we have here."

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, USA TODAY, Source: Census Bureau (2000 statistics)
Institute for Policy and Economic Development, University of Texas at El Paso
(Map)
PHOTOS, B/W, Mark Levy for USA TODAY (3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 9, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Outcry grows over House-passed immigration bill

BYLINE: Wendy Koch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 536 words


On Friday in Chicago, thousands of marchers are expected to protest a bill,
newly passed by the U.S. House of Representatives, that they say would
criminalize clergy, doctors, social workers and others who help illegal
immigrants.

"The Irish are coming, along with Chinese bands and polka dancers," Rep. Luis
Gutierrez, D-Ill., says of the diverse groups slated to attend.

Opposition has been building elsewhere for weeks. On Tuesday, outside the U.S.
Capitol, thousands of immigrants rallied against the bill, waving placards and
wearing T-shirts that said, "We are not terrorists" and "I am not a criminal."
Last week in Los Angeles, Cardinal Roger Mahoney urged Roman Catholic priests in
his archdiocese to defy the measure if it becomes law.

The coast-to-coast outcry comes as the U.S. Senate begins crafting its own bill
to deal with the rising number of illegal immigrants. Nearly 12 million now live
in the USA, with 500,000 entering each year since 2000, says a new study  by the
Pew Hispanic Center.

After the Senate approves its own bill, the two chambers must resolve
differences before a final bill is sent to the president.

Opponents criticize several parts of the House bill, including its penalties for
people who knowingly "assist" or "encourage" illegal immigrants to remain in the
country.

Jeff Lungren, spokesman for the bill's author, Rep. James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis.,
says protesters misunderstand it.

"We want to crack down on illegal smuggling," Lungren says.  "That's the sole
intent." He says border-state attorneys general sought the language because
existing laws are "outdated." Lungren says it's already a crime to "harbor,"
"encourage" or "induce" an illegal immigrant to come to the USA or remain here
or to "aid" and "abet" such acts. "Church and aid groups are claiming nuns and
priests will be thrown in jail. Are they being thrown in jail now?" Lungren
asks.

"Those laws have not been enforced," says Deacon Joe Rubio, vice president of
Catholic Charities in the Galveston-Houston Archdiocese. But he says it's the
current "atmosphere of anti-immigration" that makes the House bill a threat. On
Friday, his diocesan newspaper will give parishioners a protest postcard they
can send lawmakers.

The House bill would toughen penalties and broaden the rules for who may be
prosecuted, says Kevin Appleby, director of migration and refugee policy at the
U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops. "This captures a whole new class of people
who perform acts of mercy," he says, such as giving someone a bowl of soup or a
night's shelter.

The Catholic Church has always opposed immigration controls, says Dan Stein,
executive director  of the Federation for American Immigration Reform. "If the
country is ever going to control illegal immigration, people at all levels are
going to have to accept responsibility for enforcing these laws."

Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, is
proposing to exempt people who give illegal immigrants humanitarian aid.

Catholic bishops are still concerned. Specter's language would apply only to
emergencies, and it might not be included in the final legislation, Appleby
says. "This is going to be a difficult fight -- emotional, complex."

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Joe Brier, The (Woodbridge, Va.) Potomac News, via AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            March 23, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Some uneasy as illegals change face of Minn. town;
Use of false IDs stirs debate over immigrants

BYLINE: Judy Keen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 990 words


WORTHINGTON, Minn. -- Rocio Vargas, 23, came here four months ago from a small
town in Mexico. She hasn't found a job and wishes people in this town of 11,000
would understand that illegal immigrants "have a dream and we have hopes."

Justin Grimmius, who grew up and works here but lives 25 miles away, frowns when
he's asked about illegal immigrants in a town where 30% of the population was
born outside the USA. "You get used to it," says Grimmius, 27. "But it's
something you shouldn't have to get used to."

In some ways, Worthington typifies towns across the USA that are experiencing an
influx of illegal immigrants. Some residents are dismayed by changes in their
community. Some newcomers feel isolated and unwelcome. Others say the influx
adds cultural vitality and keeps the town and its economy alive.

Public safety director Mike Cumiskey says there's been no surge in crime.
Schools Superintendent John Landgaard says the public schools have challenges,
but no big problems. In fact, those officials, along with Mayor Alan Oberloh and
hospital administrator Melvin Platt, don't want illegal immigrants to be sent
home unless they are criminals. They want them to be given legal status under a
guest-worker program so they can live here without fear.

"If you pull these people out of our economy, what's going to happen? Nobody
wants to talk about that," Cumiskey says. "It's easy to stay outside our city
and say, 'You ought to send all those people back.' That's not the answer."

As the mayor puts it: "We don't want to stop immigration. We want to fix the
immigration situation."

Oberloh wrote to Gov. Tim Pawlenty last fall to ask for help with Worthington's
biggest problem, one that would ease if immigrants had legal status: the sale of
identity documents such as birth certificates and Social Security cards. "We
desperately need your help, and soon," he wrote.

In response, Pawlenty asked for a study that concluded there are up to 85,000
illegal immigrants in Minnesota, costing the public $188 million a year. Members
of Congress and state legislators came here to hold town meetings. Pawlenty
proposed a team to enforce immigration laws, establishing tough penalties for
possession of false IDs and fining employers who knowingly hire illegal
immigrants.

This week, the Minnesota House voted to end local ordinances that bar police
from asking people about their legal status. Congress is debating several
immigration bills, and the House passed one that would require employers to
verify workers' immigration status. President Bush wants a guest-worker program
that would give legal status to illegal immigrants with jobs.

On the east edge of town is the Swift & Co. meatpacking plant, Worthington's
largest employer with about 2,300 workers. The plant is the magnet that drew
Hispanic immigrants here when it added a shift a few years ago.

A wave of immigrants arrived here in the 1970s from Laos and other Southeast
Asia countries after the Vietnam War. By 1990, 7% of Worthington's residents
were minorities. Immigrants, some illegal, from Mexico and Central America now
make up 20% of the population, and the mayor says Hispanic leaders tell him most
of them are here illegally.

New businesses popping up

Small businesses opened by newcomers, including markets Tienda Guatemala and
Tienda Telvis, La Fiesta clothing store and several restaurants, have kept
downtown alive despite Wal-Mart's arrival a few years ago.

At the Nobles County Integration Collaborative, a resource center for immigrants
funded by six area school districts, youngsters and adults learn English, get
help finding jobs and study cultural awareness. "We're trying to help people
understand that people come here for the same reason that our ancestors did:
opportunity," says Sharon Johnson, who runs the center.

The media attention Worthington has received since its appeal to the governor
makes some people feel scrutinized and insecure. Fatima Mendoza, 18, left her
1-year-old daughter in El Salvador, but she doesn't have a job and doesn't go
out alone. "I don't have a complete life here," she says.

"People don't want us here," says Manuel Sanchez, 37, who came here two months
ago from Mexico. Some residents, including retiree Beverly Kruse, have
befriended newcomers. She says locals who don't accept them "just have made up
their mind that they don't like them." Police Capt. Chris Dybevick says he's
written up one complaint for discrimination in 10 years.

Craig Sailor, 44, owns the A&T Tap, a downtown bar frequented by longtime
residents and immigrants. He has few gripes with the newcomers. There's a
language barrier, he says, although "Budweiser is a universal language."

Figuring out who's who is the biggest problem here. Platt, who runs Worthington
Regional Hospital, says illegal immigrants have come to the emergency room using
the same ID. He worries that the consequences could be fatal if one patient says
he has no allergies and another immigrant shows up later with the same ID but is
allergic to some drug.  "The liability, then, is whose? It's ours," Platt says.

'Let's help them' assimilate

Cumiskey says the sale of fake and authentic birth certificates and Social
Security cards is routine. Immigrants need proof of identity to work. Real IDs
sell for about $1,200.  People using false identities are afraid to report
crimes, he says.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), a branch of the Homeland
Security Department, investigated 3,591 cases of identity and benefits fraud in
fiscal year 2005 -- up from 2,334 in 2004.

Police detective Sgt. Kevin Flynn says, "We need to know who we're sitting
across from talking to, and those people need to be able to say, 'This is who I
am.'"

Oberloh, Cumiskey and Platt say a guest worker program would end that problem.
"Let's help them become part of society," Landgaard says. "Many of the people
who are here want the same things my grandparents wanted when they came from
Norway."

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, USA TODAY, Source: ESRI (Map)
PHOTOS, B/W, Greg E. Latza for USA TODAY (4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            March 30, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Latest immigration 'crisis' defies simplistic solutions

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 744 words


The USA, truly a nation of immigrants, is having another of its periodic bouts
of anxiety about immigration.

Communities even in areas far from any foreign border are dealing with the
burdens and social change caused by growing numbers of immigrants, both legal
and illegal. Longtime residents and local officials complain of the costs of
immigrant children in the schools, strains on health care systems for a
population that often lacks insurance, and economic impact of people willing to
work for low wages. Recent polls found that nine of every 10 Americans say
immigration is a serious problem, and three-fourths want more done to keep
illegal immigrants out.

Looking at these numbers, politicians are falling over each other with promises
to round up millions for deportation, erect massive walls along the porous
U.S.-Mexico border and crack down yet again on employers who hire those here
illegally.

The House of Representatives, sensing a potential vote-getting issue, passed a
draconian border control and immigration-enforcement bill in December. That
simplistic legislation has triggered large demonstrations in support of
immigrant rights, including one in Los Angeles on Saturday that drew more than
500,000 people. The Senate took up the issue Wednesday and will, we hope, bring
a more balanced and practical approach.

The backlash against immigration is happening in a country where nearly everyone
is either an immigrant or descended from immigrants, many of whom arrived
without anything resembling what would now be considered proper papers.

Energetic strivers have always been attracted to America, starting in the 1600s
with the likes of John Smith in Jamestown and William Bradford in Plymouth. And
as far back as the 18th century, Benjamin Franklin was fretting publicly about a
surge of German arrivals in Pennsylvania.

According to the Census Bureau, more than 35 million immigrants are in the USA,
a record number but a smaller proportion of the population now (12.1%) than at
the peak of European immigration early in the 20th century (14.7%).

Roughly two-thirds are here legally, but an estimated 11.5 million to 12 million
are undocumented. The legislation passed by the House would declare all of them
felons subject to expulsion, as if it were possible to round up a population the
size of Ohio and dump them across the nearest border.

Moreover, the illegals are roughly 5% of the labor force, heavily concentrated
in construction, low-wage service jobs and agriculture. Their abrupt departure,
even if it were possible, would seriously disrupt those sectors of the economy.
Their employers are violating the law, but successive administrations have
essentially abandoned enforcement of employer sanctions.

Clearly the immigration-control system enacted in 1986 and revised in 1996 is
broken. Pressures to revisit the issue run in cycles, usually paralleling
anxiety about the economy, jobs and national security. When concern slackens,
businesses become reliant on cheap labor, consumers welcome the lower prices for
food and services, and enforcement is gradually neglected.

Certainly, part of the answer to the immigration problem has to include improved
and serious border controls -- on both sides, as President Bush should make
clear when he meets his Mexican counterpart, Vicente Fox, in Cancun starting
today. Such controls are necessary not just to curb illegal immigration but also
to protect the nation in an age of terrorism.

But another round of chest-thumping about sealing borders and deporting illegals
is far from a solution. A balanced approach must also include some kind of
guest-worker program, like the one Bush has proposed, that would bring immigrant
laborers out of the shadows. And common sense suggests providing a route to
eventual legalization for those who have been here for years, in many cases
paying taxes and contributing to their communities. A Senate Judiciary Committee
proposal hammered out Monday is a step in that direction. It would offer not
amnesty but a chance to get in line for eventual citizenship to those who are
willing to continue working for six years, pay their fines and any back taxes,
and learn English.

Despite the frustrations and fears of the moment, and the obvious security
reasons for better management of the borders, a nation of immigrants cannot turn
its back on the new arrivals in its midst.

This is the first in an occasional series of editorials about
immigration-related issues.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, USA TODAY, Source: Pew Hispanic Center (Pie chart, bar
graph)
PHOTO, B/W, J. Emilio Flores, Getty Images

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            March 30, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Senators debate fate of illegals

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 325 words


WASHINGTON -- The Senate opened debate on immigration Wednesday as President
Bush delivered an impassioned plea for civility and a bill that will "uphold the
decency of America."

"I think a system which forces people underground and into the shadows of our
society, which causes people to have to sneak across our border and risk their
life, is a system that needs to be changed," Bush told a Washington audience.

Senators acknowledged they are heading into emotional territory. "The debate,
when you boil it down to its essence, is about the American dream," said Senate
Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn.

A key question facing the lawmakers: What to do with the as many as 12 million
people now living in the country illegally -- a figure greater than the
population of Ohio?

Republicans are divided on the issue. The Republican-controlled House of
Representatives in December ignored Bush's call for a plan that includes
expanded opportunities for foreigners to work here legally and an adjustment for
those living here illegally. The House bill focused on tightening the nation's
borders and cracking down on illegal immigrants and their employers.

House Speaker Dennis Hastert, R-Ill., signaled a willingness to negotiate.

"We're not going to discount anything right now," he said. "There is a need in
some sectors of the economy for a guest-worker program."

Some Republican conservatives say a Senate Judiciary Committee bill that would
give a chance at citizenship to those now working in the country illegally
amounts to rewarding lawbreakers. Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., is hosting a "Just
Say No to Amnesty" rally today.

Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Arlen Specter, R-Pa., said his panel's bill
exacts a stiff price by insisting that illegal immigrants pay fines, pass
background checks, pay back taxes and wait 11 years before becoming citizens.

The bill is "smart and tough," said Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vermont. "This is not
an amnesty bill."

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            March 30, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Illegal migrants persist despite fences, danger;
Mexicans try many routes to get into USA

BYLINE: Danna Harman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 923 words


ALTAR, Mexico -- They gather here, their backpacks stuffed with bottled water,
soap, chips and maybe an icon of the Virgin of Guadalupe. They wear double
sweaters and pull wool hats over their eyes against the cold nights.

Altar, a dusty town of 14,000 about 60 miles south of the Arizona border, is one
of the largest staging points for migrants trying to cross into the USA
illegally. They arrive from all over Mexico and from as far as Brazil. They eat
road-stand chicken from plastic foam containers and bed down at hostels. Then
they head for "El Norte."

Congress is considering dramatic changes in U.S. immigration policy this week.
President Bush is discussing the issue with Mexican President Vicente Fox in
Cancun. Here, though, migrants on the move to the USA say beefed-up enforcement
will deter few. "Walls and lights and sensors and police fill our heads," says
Dagoberto Martinez, a 17-year-old from Hidalgo, Mexico, who is headed north.
"But they don't make us turn back."

The U.S. Border Patrol caught 1.2million illegal immigrants in 2005, an arrest
rate of roughly one person every 30 seconds. There are no official statistics to
indicate how many illegal immigrants made it across, but the Pew Hispanic Center
estimates there are as many as 12 million illegal immigrants in the USA -- 56%
of them Mexicans.

From Altar, migrants guided by "coyotes," -- people smugglers -- might cross
near Naco, Mexico, and into the canyons, walking toward Tucson and Phoenix. Or
they trek through the mountains around Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument,
moving north to Phoenix or west to Los Angeles. Others take the Sasabe route and
follow "ghost roads," footpaths in the sand, toward Tucson. A few go through the
Barry M. Goldwater Range, an Air Force live bombing range, heading for Yuma,
Ariz.

The first time Jesus Ramirez sneaked across was three years ago, when he was 17,
he says. He worked construction and bused tables in Las Vegas, earning $350 a
week. He sent half his pay home to his parents in the Mexican state of
Michoacan, and saved much of the rest to travel back at Christmas and pay a
coyote for the return trip north. Back home in Michoacan, he says, he was never
able to earn more than $80 a week.

Last week, Ramirez set off again from Michoacan. He agreed to pay a coyote
$1,000 upon arrival in Las Vegas. From Altar, Ramirez's group drove to the
border near Sasabe and crossed on foot. After three days, they were rounded up
by border agents and handed over to Mexican immigration police.

Next week, Ramirez says, he will try a different route. He gives a cellphone
number. Call in a week, he says, and he'll be on the other side.

In Yuma, much has changed, says Mike Gramley, a U.S. Border Patrol agent who has
been there 12 years. When he started, there were 300 agents in Yuma who tracked
people by following footprints in the desert. There was also a new fence that
ran for 6 miles around Yuma, where the Border Patrol nabbed about 50 illegal
immigrants a day.

Now, there are 650 agents in Yuma; the fence is being elevated to 12 feet and
extended to 10 miles. A secondary fence is going up, stadium lights shine
through the night, motion sensors are buried in the ground, surveillance planes
fly overhead, and infrared cameras beam back to headquarters.

Yuma is the USA's busiest border station. Last year, 138,460 migrants were
caught coming through here.

In Arizona, many want a longer fence. They point to San Diego as proof it would
work. There, the fence helped send attempted crossings falling in the early
1990s. Last year, 126,910 illegal immigrants were caught near San Diego, down
from a peak of 629,650 in 1986, the Border Patrol says.  "California and Texas
got relief with increased border vigilance -- don't we deserve any in Arizona?"
Sen. Jon Kyl, R-Ariz., said this month.

Opponents of fences and walls say they only push the human traffic elsewhere.
The decline in crossings near San Diego coincided with increases in Arizona and
Texas, they say. "It's like a balloon. If you squeeze in one sector, the
migrants move to the other side," says Jon Amastae, director of the Center for
Inter-American and Border Studies at the University of Texas at El Paso.

Today, close to half of all illegal crossings take place in Arizona, according
to Humane Borders, a Tucson-based organization that offers humanitarian
assistance to illegal immigrants. Because of increased vigilance near heavily
traveled entry points and urban areas, illegal immigrants have begun crossing
over more difficult terrain -- remote locations where temperatures during the
summer often top 100 degrees.

A record 473 migrants died in 2005 while crossing the U.S.-Mexican border, the
most since the Border Patrol began tracking such deaths in 1999.

Also, by making the journey more difficult, the coyotes become more necessary
and can charge higher prices. That lengthens the stays of migrants who must
repay people smugglers, Amastae says.

Mexico's National Population Council says illegal immigrants stayed in the USA
an average of about six months during 1993-97. The average stay increased to
more than a year by 2001-04.

Back in Altar, Dagoberto Martinez is standing on the side of the road looking
south, toward home. It's his first time away from his brothers, his first
attempt at crossing the border. He looks scared.

He will go to Los Angeles. There is a job there and a second cousin. At home,
there was no work. "That's my whole story," he says.

Harman is Latin America bureau chief for USA TODAY and The Christian Science
Monitor.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Adrienne Lewis, USA TODAY, Source: ESRI (Map)
PHOTO, B/W, Hector Mata, AFP/Getty Images
PHOTO, B/W, Patrick Schneider, The Charlotte Observer via AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 31, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Quit posturing, stop illegal immigrants

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 638 words


In the ongoing immigration debate, there is one word people seem to be
overlooking: illegal ("Latest immigration 'crisis' defies simplistic solutions,"
Our view; "Myths vs. facts," Opposing view, Immigration reform debate,
Thursday).

The issue is not immigration, per se; it's about illegal immigration. To top it
off, we have such illustrious leaders as Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., offering
so-called solutions such as allowing people who came here illegally to work in
the USA for six years, then permit them to become citizens.

Did anyone hear of exploitation? What about upholding the laws of the United
States?

Politicians need to stop posturing for re-election and deal with the hard issues
they are in office to deal with, including  enforcing the law.

David Tishim

Dover, N.H.

Immigration still works

We must protect our borders and insist upon legal immigration first. Anyone in
this country illegally needs to be sent home immediately, and our borders must
be sealed for protection against terrorists and from people who want a pay check
but aren't willing to pledge allegiance to our country.

Immigration, the old-fashioned way, has worked since the birth of this nation.
It must continue. Immigrants who come here legally, learn the language and
eventually take a pledge of allegiance are always welcomed. This way helps
maintain the unique and vibrant culture that makes us what we are.

Otherwise, forget July Fourth and start celebrating Cinco de Mayo.

Harry Hoover

Huntersville, N.C.

What about U.S. security?

It is disgraceful that the illegal immigration fanatics -- who have no regard
whatsoever for our national security, the rule of law or the welfare of 300
million Americans -- want an unlimited, unregulated amount of immigrants to be
allowed to enter the USA.

Illegal immigration already costs U.S. taxpayers billions of dollars yearly --
not to mention the lost wages resulting from illegal immigrants taking jobs at
the lower end of the economic ladder.

Illegal immigration lowers the wage scale and hurts the middle class. It is a
major cause of overpopulation in our country and cannot continue unabated
without serious, detrimental and irreparable harm to life as we know it in the
USA.

Greg Horak

Aurora, Colo.

'Country's borders are weak'

I see on the news there are marches and protests against immigration reform in
this country. How is it possible that there are people in this country who do
not feel immigration is out of control?

How is it that anyone in this country can be against some sort of immigration
reform? What is the problem with proposing some effort to curb the illegal
invasion happening in the USA? What is the problem with trying to fix the
already strained social services departments, caused in part by the influx of
illegal immigrants?

This country's borders are weak and failing more every day. Until we strengthen
the borders, our safety, our culture and our way of life are all in danger. It
is time to roll up the "welcome" mats at the borders and replace them with "keep
out" signs.

Debra Adkins

Roanoke, Va.

Solutions will take guts

When it comes to getting a deal on immigration, Congress has no guts -- just as
our lawmakers lack guts to deal with other larger problems facing this country,
such as Social Security and the war in Iraq.

Our politicians don't want to upset their political base.

A fair deal, in my view, would be to allow illegal immigrants who are in this
country six months to register with immigration authorities without facing
criminal charges.

Let them have their cases heard as to why they should or should not be allowed
to stay in this country.

After that -- and no matter what -- no one should be allowed to remain in this
country illegally, and anyone who gives illegal immigrants cover should face
charges and a stiff jail sentence.

Garry Allyn DeManty

Stockton, Calif.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Bill Clark, GNS

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 6, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Dispute threatens immigration bill, senators warn

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 461 words


WASHINGTON -- A dispute over what to do about an estimated 12 million people
living in the USA illegally is threatening passage of a sweeping immigration and
border security bill, top Republican and Democratic senators said Wednesday.

A test vote is scheduled for today on an effort by Senate Democratic leader
Harry Reid of Nevada to end debate on the bipartisan measure.

Senators are trying to take final action before leaving Friday for a two-week
recess. Sen. John McCain of Arizona and other Republicans said they will oppose
the effort because it will cut off amendments.

Both sides said the immigration legislation, a top priority of President Bush,
is in jeopardy. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn., warned colleagues
that they are on course "to leave here in a few days having accomplished
nothing."

Sen. Dick Durbin of Illinois, the deputy Democratic leader, said the Senate is
approaching a "historic" vote and urged Bush to intervene.

The president, who supports a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants, called
on senators to pass a comprehensive bill "as quickly as possible."

The Senate is debating a bill that would beef up border security and penalties
for hiring illegal immigrants, expand opportunities for foreigners to enter the
USA legally but temporarily for jobs, and give those living in the country
illegally a chance at citizenship.

Some Republican conservatives, including Sens. Jon Kyl of Arizona and John
Cornyn of Texas, insist illegal residents at least briefly return to their home
countries or a border checkpoint before they can apply for legal status.

Sens. Mel Martinez, R-Fla., and Chuck Hagel, R-Neb., are floating a compromise
that would give those who have been in the country for five years or more a
chance to become U.S. citizens without leaving the country.

Illegal immigrants who have been here two to five years would be treated
differently.

For most of the week, the Senate has been at an impasse over the bill, which is
dividing both parties. At a news conference Wednesday, evangelical leaders
joined Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., to call for legislation that would give
illegal immigrants what Albert Reyes of the Baptist General Convention of Texas
called "a pathway to dignity and respect."

Some senators worry that the passions ignited by the immigration debate,
highlighted by rallies drawing thousands in recent weeks, will make it harder to
strike a deal if they wait.

"There's a lot of boiling across the country," said Sen. Sam Brownback, R-Kan.

Senators said they are struggling on an issue that they believe will have
implications for the economy, national security and this fall's elections. "If
we don't deal with this issue, it will come back to haunt us at the ballot box,"
said Sen. John Thune, R-S.D.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, AP
PHOTO, B/W, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              April 7, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Bill may clear way for illegals;
Millions may have shot at citizenship

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 527 words


WASHINGTON -- Senate leaders neared a deal on a sweeping immigration bill that
would give millions of people now living illegally in the USA a chance to become
citizens.

The deal, the outlines of which were announced Thursday, would be a breakthrough
for President Bush on a top legislative priority, one that has angered
conservatives within his own party and ignited passions among the nation's
fast-growing bloc of 9.3 million Hispanic voters.

Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn., and Minority Leader Harry Reid,
D-Nev., said they hoped the bill will win Senate approval before a two-week
recess scheduled to begin this weekend. A potential snag: The deal's supporters
want assurances that it will not be changed significantly before heading to
Bush.

The plan has broad Senate support, including from conservative Republican Sam
Brownback and liberal Democrat Edward Kennedy. But it faces resistance from a
wide range of opponents, including many Republicans in the House of
Representatives. AFL-CIO President John Sweeney predicted it would "drive down
wage and benefit standards for everyone." Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., leader of
a group pushing for tougher enforcement of existing laws, called it "miserable
public policy" that would be rejected by his colleagues.

The House passed a bill in December that focuses on enforcement and makes it a
crime to enter the country illegally. The Senate bill includes border-security
provisions. It also expands opportunities for more foreigners to work here
legally and creates a path to citizenship for most of the estimated 12 million
illegal immigrants.

In a statement, Bush praised senators working on the proposed deal for
"understanding there needs to be a comprehensive immigration bill." He urged
them to complete work quickly.

Sen. Mel Martinez, R-Fla.,  described the president as "ecstatic" when he
delivered the news.

Under the deal by Martinez and Sen. Chuck Hagel, R-Neb., all illegal immigrants
who can prove they have worked in the USA since Jan. 7, 2004, would have a
chance at citizenship. Nearly 2 million who have arrived since then, according
to Pew Hispanic Center estimates, would have to return to their home countries.

Those here two to five years would have to travel to a port of entry somewhere
along the U.S. border with Mexico or Canada to "re-enter" the USA legally with a
temporary work visa and could eventually become citizens. This affects about 3
million people.

About 7 million who have been here more than five years could win legal status
without traveling. They could become permanent residents, on track to
citizenship, after a six-year wait as long as they remain employed, pay their
taxes, learn English and U.S. civics, and pass a criminal background check.

Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., urged colleagues to oppose the bill because "it
rewards bad behavior." But Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., praised it as a humane
solution for "those who yearn to be Americans."

Debate over the bill sparked demonstrations by thousands of immigrant rights
advocates in cities from Los Angeles to New York. More are planned this weekend
and Monday.

Contributing: Mike Madden, Gannett News Service.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Public divided over how to treat illegals;
Poll: Let them stay, tighten borders

BYLINE: Susan Page and Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1817 words


WASHINGTON -- It's easy to understand why Congress is having so much trouble
settling on an approach to immigration: Americans endorse the most controversial
proposals of both those who want to penalize illegal immigrants and those who
want to let them stay.

A USA TODAY/Gallup Poll taken Friday through Sunday found a majority of those
surveyed want to make it a crime for foreigners to immigrate illegally to the
USA and for Americans to help those illegal immigrants once they arrive.

Still, nearly two-thirds also say the government should allow illegal immigrants
to remain and become U.S. citizens if they meet certain requirements over time.

"The same problems that bedevil Congress in trying to figure out how to handle
immigration are bedeviling the American psyche and the American public in trying
to deal with it," says Frank Newport, editor in chief of the Gallup Poll.
"There's no easy solution, as Congress has discovered, and I think the public
holds these same almost-contradictory attitudes about immigration."

That means the debate being waged in the halls of Congress and at rallies across
the country Monday could shape public opinion and, with it, public policy.

LeRoy Gomez, 58, a part-time union representative from Fort Collins, Colo., who
was among those surveyed, says the rallies have been inspiring for many Latinos
-- including those, like himself, whose families have been in the USA for
generations. "They want to be part of the American dream," he says of the
marchers.

Linda Martin, 56, a private investigator from Visalia, Calif., says the rallies
she watched on TV only reinforced her view that tough measures need to be taken
to deal with illegal immigrants.

"If they've come here illegally, then they all ought to be sent back," she says.
Of the children shown marching, she says, "A lot of them are just doing it to
get out of school."

There is nearly universal agreement on one point: The system needs fixing.

Eight in 10 say illegal immigration to the USA is "out of control." More than
nine in 10 say it's important for the government to take steps this year to
control the borders and deal with those illegal immigrants who already are here.
The feelings about border security are particularly intense.

Yet most Americans are pessimistic about whether that effort could ever succeed.

Six in 10 say that no matter what the government does, a "sizable number" of
illegal immigrants will be able to get into the country.

William Gretler, 77, of Shell Lake, Wis., worries about undocumented workers
taking jobs from Americans and creating burdens for taxpayers. "The local
government has to pick up their medical care, the school system has to pick up
their schooling and health care systems have to pick up the price for helping
keep them alive," the retired steelworker says.

On the other hand, he doesn't like the idea of forcing them to return to their
home countries. "I can't see splitting up families," Gretler says, and he thinks
it's "crazy" to penalize those who try to help them. The bill passed by the
House of Representatives in December would make it a crime to assist illegal
immigrants.

Joshua Akers, 22, a grocery-store stocker in Columbia, S.C., feels little of
Gretler's ambivalence toward illegal immigrants. "I think they should be
deported if they can't meet certain guidelines," he says, including having a
family member who lives in the USA and already is a citizen. "They know it's
wrong to come across the border and they do it anyway, which is not right."

There are close divisions over one of the most drastic proposals: building a
wall. The House bill includes plans for a 700-mile fence along the U.S.-Mexican
border where illegal crossings are most common.

By 48%-49%, Americans split over whether that would be effective in curbing the
number of people who come here illegally.

Layne Sanders, 42, of Oakland, Calif., supports setting a cutoff date to prevent
a new wave of illegal immigrants from taking advantage of any program enacted to
make current ones legal. But erecting a wall is "going a little far," he says.
"It's just a little too East/West Germany for my taste."

Most useful, according to those polled, would be instituting tough penalties for
businesses that employ illegal immigrants; 84% call that an effective step. A
similar number say that significantly increasing the number of law-enforcement
officers patrolling the border would help.

By more than 2-1, they say taking steps to raise the standard of living in the
immigrants' home countries would be effective, too.

"Different polls have reached different conclusions, but a common thread has
been that Americans are concerned about the lack of enforcement along our
borders, and rightly so," says Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas. He opposes a
bipartisan Senate plan -- crafted last week but then ensnared in procedural
roadblocks -- that would allow illegal immigrants in the USA for more than five
years to stay here and move toward citizenship.

Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., says Americans "know that our immigration system
is broken and are demanding that Congress take action." He helped draft the
Senate plan. "The only way to break the cycle of illegality is to offer a path
for earned legalization."

Views on immigration differ depending on where Americans live, how much
education they have -- and whether their family includes a recent immigrant.

In Sara Brodsky Sieman's family, her grandparents emigrated from Lithuania and
Russia, her father from Ukraine. "People come here, as they did in all the
generations before us, to help the people back home, and I think that's a very
important thing to remember," says Sieman, 53, a ballroom-dance instructor from
Newton, Mass. "I'd like to bring people into the civic and economic life of our
country, and make for them what I hope would be a more productive life and a
less scary life."

When it comes to whether illegal immigrants should be able to stay in the USA
and become citizens:

* Those who are immigrants or have at least one parent who is an immigrant are
more likely to support the idea; 71% do so, compared with 62% among those whose
parents were native-born.

*Among Democrats, 68% support citizenship for illegal immigrants, as do 65% of
independents. Among Republicans, a 55% majority endorse the idea.

*By region, those in the West are most favorable, at 67% support. Those in the
Midwest are least supportive, at 57%.

*Women are more supportive than men, 67% vs. 58%.

Some conservatives questioned those findings. "If you mention 'amnesty,' you
tend to get much different numbers," says Will Adams, a spokesman for Rep. Tom
Tancredo, R-Colo., who is leading the fight against legalization.

Lawmakers such as Kennedy who favor allowing illegal immigrants to stay deny
their proposal is "amnesty" because it includes fines and other requirements.

Personal connections

Just more than one-third of those surveyed say they know a recent immigrant who
they are sure is here illegally, or think may be.

Those relationships have tempered the views of James Stoddard, 52, of Santa
Maria, Calif. On one hand, the salesman questions whether the children of
illegal immigrants born in the USA should be granted citizenship, as they are
now. On the other, he says the undocumented workers he knows personally are
"good people" and "hard-working."

He adds, "Some of the ones I know I would love to have stay."

Carolyn Long, 62, a retired insurance manager from Alpharetta, Ga., says she
doesn't know the legal standing of workers she sees in her neighborhood. "We
have a lot of Mexicans that work ... here for the landscaping businesses, and I
have no idea if they're illegal or not," she says.

In any case, her view is unyielding: "Any illegal immigrants need to be sent
back to wherever they're from, and then they need to come through whatever the
correct way is."

Fewer than one in five Americans think all illegal immigrants -- a group
estimated at as many as 12 million, equal to the population of Ohio -- should be
deported. A similar number say they should be allowed to stay and work for a
limited amount of time.

Instead, a significant majority, 63%, say there should be a way for illegal
immigrants to stay here and become citizens if they meet certain requirements.

More than eight in 10 say those requirements should include:

*Having a job.

*Learning to speak English.

*Passing a health screening.

*Paying federal taxes due on past income.

Two-thirds say illegal immigrants should be required to have lived in the United
States for at least five years and pay a fine for coming to the USA illegally.

The politics of immigration is tricky, particularly in a year when control of
the House and Senate could be at stake in November.

Both Democrats and Republicans have powerful constituencies that favor the
Senate deal, which provides for a program to expand the number of foreign
temporary, or guest, workers and legal status for most illegal immigrants. They
include the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and businesses that rely on immigrant
labor, some unions that would like to organize those workers and civil-rights
groups. President Bush has called for bringing illegal immigrants "out of the
shadows."

Both parties also have powerful constituencies that oppose the Senate proposal,
however. Cornyn has been inundated with calls and mail from constituents who
oppose what they see as "amnesty" for lawbreakers, the senator's spokesman, Don
Stewart, says. Some African-Americans worry that illegal immigrants will hold
down wages or take jobs from American-born workers.

A prized voting bloc

And neither party wants the other to get credit for passing a bill that has
ignited passions among one of the nation's fastest growing and most prized
voting blocs, the nation's 9.3 million Hispanic voters.

On Monday, Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn., and Minority Leader Harry
Reid, D-Nev., issued dueling news releases blaming the other for the failure to
pass a bill before Congress left town on a two-week break for Easter and
Passover.

Tancredo, nationally known as a spokesman against illegal immigration, is
considering a dark-horse run for the White House in 2008 as a way to highlight
his concerns.

But many of the leading GOP presidential hopefuls are on the other side of the
issue. Sens. John McCain of Arizona, Sam Brownback of Kansas and Chuck Hagel of
Nebraska were architects of the Senate plan. After initially withholding his
support, Frist also embraced the proposal.

Bush favors "comprehensive" reform, including tougher enforcement and a
guest-worker program. In the USA TODAY poll, just 29% say they approve of his
handling of immigration; 62% disapprove.

That dismal rating reflects the public's "frustration" with the lack of progress
on immigration reform, says Rep. Henry Bonilla, a Republican whose Texas
district borders Mexico. "I think the public wants to see results," he says.

Contributing: Bill Nichols and William Risser

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: USA TODAY/Gallup Poll
of 1,004 adults nationwide taken Friday-Sunday (split samples for responses 2
and 3). Margins of error: 3 to 5 percentage points (Bar graph)
GRAPHIC, B/W, Karl Gelles, USA TODAY,Source: USA TODAY/Gallup Poll of about 500
adults nationwide Friday-Sunday. Margin of error: 5 percentage points (Bar
graph)
PHOTO, B/W, Khampha Bouaphanh, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 13, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GOP vow: Illegal immigration won't be felony;
Jail time still possible with misdemeanor

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 728 words


WASHINGTON -- A pledge by Republican leaders that they will not push to make
illegal immigration a felony is unlikely to defuse opposition to proposed
immigration and border security legislation, lawmakers on both sides said
Wednesday.

A bill the House passed in December called for making illegal immigration a
felony offense, punishable by at least a year in jail. That proposal has been a
rallying cry for thousands of demonstrators, some carrying signs saying, "We are
not criminals," who have protested across the USA against proposals in Congress
to crack down on illegal immigration.

In an unusual joint news release late Tuesday, Senate Majority Leader Bill
Frist, R-Tenn., and House Speaker Dennis Hastert, R-Ill., declared their
intention "to produce a strong border security bill that will not make unlawful
presence in the United States a felony." They said they would have eliminated
the provision earlier, but Democrats blocked them.

Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart of Florida, one of five Hispanic Republicans in the
House, hailed the promise to eliminate a plan that was "offensive, excessive and
demonized hard-working immigrants." He and other Republicans accused Democrats
of a Machiavellian move to retain the felony penalty. "Democrats are playing a
game," said House Homeland Security Chairman Pete King, R-N.Y.

In a letter to Frist released Wednesday, Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid,
D-Nev., accused the Senate Republican leader of flip-flopping on the immigration
issue. Reid also criticized President Bush, who has advocated helping illegal
immigrants, for seeming "to wilt in the face of right-wing opposition."

White House spokesman Scott McClellan said Reid is using "procedural gimmicks to
thwart the will of the American people" who want to see a comprehensive
immigration bill.

Immigrant rights advocates were not impressed by the promise from Frist and
Hastert. Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., dismissed the GOP statement as "empty
rhetoric." Frank Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum,
an immigration advocacy group, said it was "cold comfort" to illegal immigrants
who could still be jailed on a misdemeanor.

King, co-author of the House bill, said the decision to drop the felony
provision probably won't win over those who have been protesting it.

The controversy provides a window into the political maneuvering on immigration.
Democrats such as Sen. John Kerry of Massachusetts have accused Republicans of
trying to "criminalize immigrants." But it was Democrats who ensured that the
felony plan was included in the House bill.

Republicans made what Rep. Dan Lungren, R-Calif., described as "a good-faith
effort" to remove the felony penalties from the House bill in December, after
realizing such a move would increase the cost of prosecuting illegal immigrants.
Defendants in felony cases, Lungren said, would be entitled to a jury trial and
taxpayer-paid defense attorneys.

But when House Judiciary Committee Chairman F. James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis.,
tried to reduce the penalty for illegal immigration to a misdemeanor, his
amendment was defeated, 257-164. Among those voting against Sensenbrenner's
amendment were 191 Democrats.

Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., said Democrats deliberately torpedoed
Sensenbrenner's amendment to reduce penalties in order to make the House bill
unpalatable.

"We weren't going to help them," he said of the bill's Republican backers.
Voting for Sensenbrenner's amendment, Gutierrez said, would still have amounted
to criminalizing illegal immigrants because they would be charged with a
misdemeanor. "I wasn't going to collaborate," he said.

Under the law, people who cross the border without permission are already guilty
of a criminal misdemeanor. But people who enter the country legally and then
overstay their visas -- as many as 40% of the nation's estimated 12 million
illegal immigrants, according to Sensenbrenner -- are guilty of a civil
violation.

"It's important to be consistent. Both are equal crimes," said King of why he
and other Republicans support making all forms of illegal immigration a
misdemeanor.

Gutierrez says he and other immigrant rights advocates have been demonstrating
to ensure passage of a bill that includes a path to citizenship for many of the
illegal immigrants now living here.

"The public is demanding a policy which is compassionate and comprehensive," he
said.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W,Madalyn Ruggiero,AP
PHOTOS, B/W, Meet the Press(2)
PHOTO, B/W, Meet the Press

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 21, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Arrests stay flat asborder bolstered;
Impact of agency's growth uncertain

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 549 words


WASHINGTON -- The U.S. Border Patrol is poised to become the federal
government's largest law enforcement agency, but it's not clear that more agents
have slowed illegal immigration.

The Border Patrol will soon rival the FBI in terms of the number of agents each
agency has in the field. By the end of September, the Border Patrol will have
12,100 agents, according to spokesman Salvador Zamora. As of March, the FBI had
12,515. A 2004 law calls for expanding the Border Patrol to 21,000 agents by the
end of the decade.

A recent analysis by Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse, a Syracuse
University-based data research center, found that increasing the size of the
Border Patrol has not yielded more arrests. In 1995, the agency reported
apprehending more than 1.3 million illegal immigrants. In 2005, with more than
twice the number of agents as in 1995, the Border Patrol apprehended just under
1.2million illegal immigrants.

Border Patrol officials don't argue with the figures but Zamora says they don't
reflect the efforts agents are making to maintain control of areas where they've
stopped illegal crossings.

"These figures don't mean anything," says T.J. Bonner, president of the border
agents union and a 28-year veteran.

The Border Patrol won't be able to secure the nation's borders until the
government enforces laws against hiring illegal immigrants, Bonner says.

"Most of the people who are now coming across the border have a job waiting for
them," he says.

Other experts agree.

"We have focused our resources on the symptom, which is people crossing the
border, but we've done very little to address the underlying reason people come
to this country, which is work," says Deborah Waller Meyers of the non-partisan
Migration Policy Institute.

At a news conference Thursday, Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff
announced plans for a crackdown on employers.

Chertoff described this week's arrest of seven managers and more than 1,100
suspected illegal immigrant employees at IFCO Systems North America, a pallet
services company based in Houston, as the start of a major campaign.

"We are looking at those people who adopt as a business model the systematic
violation of U.S. laws," Chertoff said. "We are continuing to investigate other
companies."

President Bush's 2007 budget seeks funding for an additional 200 investigators
to focus on employers who hire illegal aliens; that would bring the number of
people investigating employers to about 525 -- still far fewer than the number
guarding the border.

A report last year by the Government Accountability Office, Congress' auditing
arm, criticized the lack of emphasis on prosecuting employers of illegal
immigrants; it found that investigators issued just three citations for hiring
illegal workers in 2004.

Supporters of expanding the Border Patrol say increased vigilance is needed,
especially after the 9/11 terrorist attacks. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, notes
there are nearly 40,000 police officers in New York City, but fewer than a third
as many guarding 7,000 miles of border.

"Surely we need more than that," he says.

Other experts remain skeptical.

Douglas Massey, a Princeton University professor who studies illegal
immigration, says increasing the size of the Border Patrol is "a complete and
total waste of money."

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: Transactional Records
Access Clearinghouse (Bar graph0

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 25, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Bush says large-scale deportations are 'unrealistic';
Tells group he's still pushing his version of immigration bill

BYLINE: David Jackson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 560 words


President Bush on Monday revived his call for an immigration bill with temporary
worker provisions, saying it's not possible to send home the estimated 12
million illegal immigrants already in the USA.

"Massive deportation of the people here is unrealistic," Bush told the Orange
County Business Council in Irvine, Calif. "It's just not going to work. You can
hear people out there hollering it's going to work -- it's not going to work."

Bush said he would continue pushing the Senate for legislation that includes
both border control and provisions for temporary workers, non-citizens working
here for a limited time. The approach is in contrast to a bill passed in
December by the GOP-led House that focuses on law enforcement.

The president spoke as senators returned to Washington from a two-week recess,
seeking to pick up the shreds of an immigration proposal that collapsed just
before the Easter break. Some of those senators are scheduled to be at the White
House today for an immigration meeting with Bush.

The guest list includes top Senate Democrat Harry Reid of Nevada and Sen. Arlen
Specter, R-Pa., chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, which produced the
Senate bill. That committee is scheduled to hold a hearing today on the economic
impact of immigration.

The issue raced to the top of the political agenda this month as hundreds of
thousands of immigrants took to the streets in large immigrants rights rallies
across the USA.

The subject has caused a deep GOP rift. Supporters of the House bill, which
calls for a fence along the U.S.-Mexican border and penalties for illegal
immigrants and anyone who helps them, say illegal immigrants are a drain on
public resources. Others, such as Specter, see the undocumented workers as vital
to the economy and favor giving many a way to stay and work, and some a path to
citizenship.

Rep. Dana Rohrabacher, R-Calif., a supporter of the House bill, said Monday that
Bush's warning about massive deportations is a "bogus argument." If illegal
immigrants are denied jobs and benefits, he said, "they will go home on their
own."

Bush said he understands the emotions of the debate, but "one thing we cannot
lose sight of is that we're talking about human beings, decent human beings that
need to be treated with respect."

While insisting that the government's primary job is "to enforce our border,"
Bush said it is also important to recognize that people are sneaking into the
country to feed their families through "work that Americans won't do."

He said that's why he is promoting "a rational plan that recognizes people
coming here to work, and let them do so on a temporary basis." Bush added that
temporary workers would be required to carry a "tamper-proof card" that
employers would have to see before hiring.

He also said "a person should never be granted automatic citizenship," and that
temporary workers would have to go to "the back of the line" for naturalization.

The Senate seemed on the verge of passing a bill this month, but the plan fell
apart amid a dispute over amendments. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist,
R-Tenn., has said he wants a bill passed by Memorial Day at the end of May.

A member of the crowd in Irvine asked Bush whether he knew any illegal
immigrants from his days in Texas.

"Had I hired somebody who had been here illegally, I guarantee you'd have read
about it," Bush said.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Branimir Kvartuc, AP
PHOTO, B/W, Gerald Herbert, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 26, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'Mixed status' tears apart families;
When illegal immigrants' kids are legal, choices painful

BYLINE: Wendy Koch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 1008 words


Deportation split Julie Santos' family in 2001, forcing her husband, an illegal
immigrant, to return to Mexico while she and their two U.S.-born children
remained in her hometown of Chicago.

George Santos had worked and paid taxes in the USA for 15 years but is barred
from ever returning because he used false identity papers to claim he was a U.S.
citizen.

"He has said, 'Continue with your life and forget about me,' but I can't," says
Julie Santos, 40, a real estate agent and secretary of the Latino Family Unity
Campaign. She calls often and, whenever possible, visits him in Mexico with
their 10-year-old son and 8-year-old daughter.

About 2 million families nationwide face a similarly gut-wrenching risk of
deportation because the children are U.S.-born citizens but at least one parent
is an illegal immigrant, according to the Pew Hispanic Center. If deported, the
parent must decide whether to leave the kids with relatives in the USA or take
them along.

Many "mixed status" families are created because the 14th Amendment to the U.S.
Constitution grants automatic citizenship to all children born in the country
except those of foreign diplomats.

"It's a nearly absolute birthright citizen, and in that way, it's unusual. But
it's not exceptional," says Peter Spiro, international law professor at the
University of Georgia School of Law.

He says most countries have tighter limits on citizenship, but several Western
Hemisphere countries, including Canada, Mexico, Brazil and Argentina, also grant
it to all children born on their land. He says other countries are adopting
broader U.S.-style language.

As Congress returns from a two-week recess and again wrestles with the thorny
issue of immigration reform, some House Republicans have proposed limiting
birthright citizenship.

Rep. Nathan Deal, R-Ga., and 83 GOP co-sponsors are pushing a bill that would
restrict automatic citizenship at birth to children of U.S. citizens and legal
residents. He says he doesn't expect the measure to be included in any broader
reform package this year but hopes it generates debate.

Mixed-status families pose "a huge problem," says Ira Mehlman of the Federation
for American Immigration Reform, which backs Deal's bill. They "complicate an
already complicated issue."

At least 3.1 million U.S.-born children live in families headed by an illegal
resident, the Pew Hispanic Center estimates. They account for two-thirds of all
children of illegal immigrants.

Deal argues that birthright citizenship is a magnet for many illegal immigrants
who use so-called "anchor babies" to establish a U.S. foothold. These U.S.-born
children are eligible for government services, and at  21, can petition for
their parents' residency.

Deal says the 14th Amendment was not intended to include these children.

Historians say the Amendment was ratified in 1868 to ensure the citizenship of
freed slaves. "There's no question" that it would have excluded children of
illegal immigrants had there been many illegal workers at the time, says Peter
Schuck, professor at Yale Law School and author of Citizens, Strangers and
In-Betweens.

The amendment has been misinterpreted for more than a century, says John
Eastman, director of the Center for Constitutional Jurisprudence at the
Claremont Institute. He argues that its authors, in granting citizenship to "all
persons born or naturalized in the United States," meant only those not owing
allegiance to a foreign power, not simply those born on its soil.

Whatever its intent, birthright citizenship has been widely accepted as applying
to all children born in the USA.

"There are good arguments" for and against this citizenship, says Schuck. He
says some illegal immigrants may take advantage of it, but "it does not lead to
a multigenerational, long-term population of people who are not citizens."

Schuck says Germany has had big problems because it has many immigrants,
particularly from Turkey, living their entire lives there who weren't voting
citizens and felt alienated. As a result, he says, Germany and France have
broadened their citizenship laws to include more immigrants.

Spiro says children of illegal immigrants will likely spend their entire lives
in the USA. By depriving them of citizenship, he says, "you'd have a significant
portion of the population being legally subordinated on an inter-generational
basis."

Rep. Howard Berman, D-Calif., member of the House Judiciary Committee, says
Deal's bill would create more illegal residents. "It's unconstitutional. It
creates a larger underclass, and it's unenforceable," he says. "It does nothing
to secure our borders." For decades, the undocumented parents in "mixed status"
families have been deported. Some, citing the plight of their U.S.-born kids,
have been spared.

Immigration judges decide whether a parent qualifies for a waiver on a "case by
base basis," says Ernestine Fobbs, spokeswoman for U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement. In fiscal 2005, she says more than 162,000 people were deported
from the USA, but it's unclear how many had U.S.-born children or spouses.

Waivers are "much less frequent than in the past," says John Trasvina, interim
president and general counsel of the Mexican American Legal Defense and
Educational Fund. He says Congress has tightened the criteria since 1996, giving
judges less discretion to stay a deportation.

Currently, deportation can be suspended for illegal immigrants only if they have
lived in the USA longer than 10 years, have no criminal record and can prove
their removal would cause "extremely unusual hardship" to a close relative with
legal status.

Julie Santos says her husband, George, owned a home and worked full time as a
furniture refinisher in Chicago. She says he did not seek legal residency
because he did not want to admit to his employer that he was in the country
illegally.

They considered moving the family to Mexico, but economic conditions are too
tough.

She tries to keep him connected to the family, but it's difficult.

"Now sometimes it feels I'm talking about a ghost," Julie Santos says.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Steve Conley, USA TODAY, Source: Pew Hispanic Center and
U.S. Census Bureau (Pie chart)
PHOTO, B/W, Toribio Barrera
PHOTO, B/W, Rich Pedroncelli, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 26, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Yes, the law can be enforced, but will you like the result?

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 552 words


Every few years, when the country goes through one of its paroxysms over
immigration, the debate follows a predictable path, reflecting the nation's
ambivalence.

There are promises to tighten borders, to deal with illegal aliens already here
and to crack down on employers who hire and harbor illegal immigrants.

It's largely a political charade -- the latest installment of which played out
Thursday when the Bush administration promised a new enforcement strategy: using
criminal statutes against employers who blatantly ignore the law. Homeland
Security Secretary Michael Chertoff trotted out Exhibit A: Raids in 26 states at
the plants of IFCO Systems North America Inc. Not only did the government arrest
more than 1,180 illegal workers, it also charged several IFCO managers in a
scheme to hire and harbor them.

Fine, as far as it goes. If companies are allowed to flout the law, everyone
loses respect for it. But as a strategy to rein in illegal immigration,
crackdowns are mostly myth.

The law is enforced only in fits and starts. Beginning in the late 1990s,
enforcement plummeted. In 1998, immigration authorities arrested about 14,000
illegal immigrants at worksites. The next year, arrests dropped by 80% -- and
kept on dropping, according to a study by Congress' non-partisan Government
Accountability Office. In 2003, there were just 445 arrests, the GAO reported.

Even if the government wanted to use worksite arrests to stamp out illegal
immigration, it doesn't have the manpower. Homeland Security has about 325
agents to enforce the law against 7.2 million illegal workers. But the biggest
reason crackdowns on business don't work is that powerful forces don't want them
to.

Consider a strategy tried in 1998, one that had all the makings of success. In
Operation Vanguard, authorities focused on the meatpacking industry in Nebraska.
After comparing records at every plant in the state against Social Security
numbers, they notified the employers of about 4,700 suspect workers. The program
worked so well that 3,500 workers disappeared.

The long-range plan was to repeat the experiment  industry by industry and state
by state. This, immigration authorities logically concluded, would persuade
employers that it's more economical to hire legal workers. With jobs drying up,
illegal immigration would slow. All of this would be done without disruptive
raids or  wholesale deportations, such as those voted by the House of
Representatives in January. But the plan worked too well.

Unions, immigration advocates, the industry and  Nebraska's politicians
stampeded to protest. Plants couldn't find workers. Livestock demand dropped.
Nebraska's economy was disrupted, and immigrant families were torn apart. In a
year, Vanguard was gone.

What to conclude from the experience?

First, that the law can be enforced, just as so many people today are urging.
But also that once the results appear, many of those same people are likely to
change their minds.

That is the perpetual dilemma of America's immigration debate. People want the
law to have meaning. They also want the services that the immigrants provide.

Ways exist to address that dilemma --expanded legal immigration coupled with
meaningful employer enforcement, for instance. But for now, trumped-up schemes
and anti-immigrant pandering rule the stage.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Alejandro Gonzalez, USA TODAY, Source: Government
Accountability Office, Dept. of Homeland Security (Bar graph)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 27, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Don't reward illegal immigrants for breaking the law

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 557 words


My sister, a widow in Africa with two kids, was sponsored to come to the USA by
my dad under the family reunification quota. She waited in the immigration queue
for two years to get her visa call in Zambia -- but six weeks before her visa
call, my dad died and my sister lost her chance to come to the USA as a legal
alien. When the sponsor dies, the beneficiary is no longer eligible to receive a
green card. And she does not want to start the years-long process over again.

My sister subsequently visited the USA two times and returned to Zambia; she did
not break immigration laws.

So, my sister, a law-abiding would-be immigrant who patiently waited overseas,
gets denied entry by the system. But, under reforms being considered, someone
who came here illegally from Mexico would be rewarded with legal status ("Bush
says large-scale deportations are 'unrealistic'," News, Tuesday)?

This is what is wrong with America. We promote lawbreaking and bad behavior.
Consider, for example, the airport security line: If you arrive late for your
flight, you can get whisked quickly through the security line so you don't hold
up the departing flights. Whereas, if you came on time, you'd need to wait in
line.

Let's send a message to illegal immigrants that we won't reward lawbreaking, so
that future immigrants can learn from it. Otherwise, we'll have these debates
every 10 to 15 years.

Or, if we are to give them amnesty, how about clearing the backlog of all
approved immigrants waiting patiently in their homelands to come to the USA?
Let's reward them for their patience, and remove this artificially imposed
immigration quota so that we don't force people to take the illegal route to
come to the USA.

If the USA needs immigrants, why make them wait for years overseas once they've
been approved for residency? There has to be a balance to help these
law-abiding, future permanent residents.

Mukesh Desai

West Palm Beach, Fla.

Misperceptions of Mexico

Reader Adam Kirk Pruden recently wrote that "Education in Mexico ... is
considered of less value" and asks, "When did you last hear of a well-known
Mexican inventor, scientist or philosopher?" ("Immigration takes toll on Mexico,
too," Letters, Monday).

I could not disagree more with his view.

I am an immigrant who came to the USA to work. I have a degree in my area of
expertise and was invited by a company to work. I am from Mexico, and I value
education.

There are a number of Mexican intellectuals. We have Carlos Fuentes, Octavio
Paz, Alfonso Garcia Robles and Mario Molina to name a few. The latter three were
Nobel prize winners in the past 25 years, one of them in the field of chemistry.

It is evident that most of the people who argue against immigration tend to see
the negative aspects of the people they want out of this country. Most of this
is a result of the ignorance that generalizes a group or a society as a whole.

Just as there is poverty in Mexico, I have seen an intellectual poverty in many
people here in the USA who do not know even basic geography and cannot
distinguish one culture from another. I see a very poor knowledge in many
Americans about other countries and their realities. Perhaps this is due to the
fact that this country is isolating itself more from the rest of the world.

I am an educated Mexican, and I am not the exception.

Aldo Castellanos

Ooltewah, Tenn.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                               May 1, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

For L.A. priest, providing aid is God's work

BYLINE: Martin Kasindorf

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 428 words


LOS ANGELES -- Every night, the altar at Dolores Mission Church in East Los
Angeles is pushed against the wall for some of the 60 shelter cots that the
Roman Catholic parish for 17 years has provided to homeless illegal immigrant
men.

For many of the men from Mexico and Central America who sleep in the sanctuary,
this yellow stucco church is the first stop after crossing the U.S.-Mexican
border. The church is in Boyle Heights, a low-income area of the Hispanic barrio
where many new immigrants live.

The Rev. Sean Carroll, 39, a Jesuit priest and the church's associate pastor,
says most of the men are in their 20s and 30s -- and none wants a handout.

"The thing that's moved me deeply is their longing and determination to find
work, to find a future for themselves and their families," he says. "I see their
love for the United States. They see it as a country with a lot of opportunity."

Asking no questions about immigration status, the church gives new arrivals a
bed, breakfast and dinner for up to 90 days. A church van drives the men to a
day-labor center where many get hired as construction workers and electricians,
Carroll says. When the 90 days are up, many have saved enough money to rent an
apartment with friends, he says.

Carroll entered the seminary in 1989 after attending Stanford. He polished his
Spanish in Mexico, Guatemala and Uruguay, and arrived at this church in 2004.

Risking penalties

Carroll says he agrees with the stand that Cardinal Roger Mahony of Los Angeles
has taken against an immigration bill the House passed in December. If the
"blameful, vicious" legislation becomes law, Mahony said, he'll ask the
archdiocese's 288 parishes to ignore its prohibition on aiding illegal
immigrants, even if that means risking criminal penalties.

"We've made it an important part of our mission to provide assistance to anyone
in need," Carroll says. The House bill would have "potentially a detrimental
effect on outreach programs like shelters," he says. "To criminalize assistance
is not only an unjust solution, it's an ineffective solution."

Carroll and others have been urging Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., to back a
"guest worker" program and a path to citizenship for some illegal immigrants.

Nearly 600 parishioners have fasted and prayed for "just and humane immigration
reform," says Carroll, who has attended marches and rallies.

"The identity of the United States is very much in play," he says. "Who do we
want to be? I find it heartening to see people marching to say we want to be a
country that welcomes immigrants."

By Martin Kasindorf

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Robert Hanashiro, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 2, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Think all illegal immigrants are sneaking in? Think again;
Years after 9/11, government still can't track all who overstay visas.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 552 words


Place in your mind the image of an illegal immigrant and chances are you'll
think of a Spanish-speaking worker who sneaked across the porous Mexican border
in search of a job. That is the stereotype -- and it was the dominant image
caught by TV cameras Monday as hundreds of thousands of protesters from Boston
to Los Angeles took to the streets for the "Day Without Immigrants" rallies.

But an accurate portrait of the illegal immigrant population is surprisingly
different -- so much so that it exposes some proposed responses as off-target,
particularly those aimed at border security.

Here's a fact you don't hear much about: Between a third and a half of the
nation's illegal immigrants -- at least 3.8 million people -- entered the USA
legally. That's right. They didn't slip across the border in the dead of night.
They came from all over the world, stayed longer than their visas or entry
documents allowed, and melted into society. There's little to stop them, despite
millions spent on a post-9/11 program supposedly aimed at those who "overstay."

That's what four of the 19 Sept. 11 hijackers did, according to a 2004 report by
Congress' Government Accountability Office. Ringleader Mohamed Atta, who came
legally on a visitor's visa, stayed longer than he was supposed to, left and was
allowed back in the USA, despite having illegally overstayed.

Record-keeping on who stays and goes has been so haphazard for decades that the
government can't even say how many "overstays" there are, let alone figure out
how to find and deport them. To do those jobs, the Department of Homeland
Security (DHS) would need three things: an effective system to track all foreign
entrants, another to track those who leave, and enough agents and judicial
manpower to go after those who remain illegally.

It has none of those.

But DHS isn't solely to blame. Until 9/11, Congress was as schizophrenic about
tracking foreigners who overstayed their visas as it is about nearly every other
aspect of immigration.

More than two years after the terror attacks, the government started an
automated entry-exit system called US-VISIT. Then-DHS undersecretary Asa
Hutchinson promised that "we will be able to know who is overstaying their
visa." But US-VISIT can't deliver because of how DHS has chosen to run it:

*The program covers a small percentage of foreign visitors. It exempts the vast
majority of Canadians, as well as Mexicans who enter for short-term stays, even
though an estimated 80% of illegal immigrants are from Mexico and other Latin
American nations. People from Canada and Mexico accounted for nearly 156 million
border crossings in 2002, the latest data available.

*The exit system, the key to detecting overstays, is running at only a dozen
airports, three seaports and none of the nation's 154 land ports of entry. Where
it exists, there's nothing to prevent visitors from ignoring it.

While the program has denied entry to about 1,100 criminals and other violators,
it has done little to prevent or detect overstays.

Fixes for the nation's out-of-control immigration problem aren't easy in any
case, but they'll prove useless as long as those who write the laws respond
solely to stereotypes. A fence in the backyard isn't the solution if as many as
half of the illegal immigrants are walking in through the front door.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Tony Gutierrez, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              174 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 2, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Asians are becoming more vocal in the debate;
Community is taking part in push for change

BYLINE: Wendy Koch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 859 words


In New York City's Chinatown, Asian immigrants held hands and formed a "human
chain" at 12:16 p.m. Monday to highlight the day, Dec. 16, when the House of
Representatives voted for a bill that would make illegal immigrants felons.

In Philadelphia, Korean activists held a forum on immigration. In Los Angeles,
they encouraged employers to let workers take the day off to join a march down
Wilshire Boulevard.

Latinos have been the face of recent immigration rallies, but Asians and
Asian-Americans are increasingly joining the protests or taking their own
approach. They are speaking out on issues such as reducing the wait times for
visas for family members or green cards for skilled workers.

"This is a turning point for them. More Asians are joining into this larger
civil rights movement," says Pueng Vongs, an editor at New America Media, a
consortium of ethnic news media.

"Our community has been fairly slow to mobilize, but we are definitely working
together now," says Daniel Huang, policy advocate for the Asian Pacific American
Legal Center. He says Spanish radio stations helped Latinos organize quickly for
rallies, but varying languages mean it's harder to reach Asians that way.

People of Asian ancestry were 13% of the 11.1 million undocumented population in
a 2005 Census survey, says Jeffrey Passel, senior research associate at the Pew
Hispanic Center. Four countries -- China, India, the Philippines and South Korea
-- accounted for most of them.

Korean-Americans have been among the most vocal Asians in the immigration
debate, Huang says.

"We have a particularly large undocumented population," says Eun Sook Lee,
director of the National Korean-American Service and Education Consortium. She
says 18% of the Korean population in the USA is undocumented.

Vongs says Korean-American businesspeople, who hire substantial numbers of
Latinos, are concerned about penalties they could face as employers.

The Korean Apparel Manufacturers Association in Los Angeles sent a memo to its
1,000 members urging them to allow workers to take Monday off.

"We don't want this to be a racial issue," says Mike Lee, the group's president,
noting that many of the employers are Korean-American but the workers are
Latino. Lee, a former U.S. Army officer who owns an apparel factory, joined a
march Monday, as did all his Latino workers. Only a handful of his Asian workers
took the day off.

The Chinese community has been less active until recent weeks, Huang says,
noting their large turnout at rallies April 10.

"Chinese are sort of a quiet, conservative community," says Cat Chao, host of
the radio call-in show Rush Hour on Chinese-language station KAZN in Los
Angeles. She says that when Latinos organized the initial protests, many of her
callers admired their activism. Now, she says, many say the activists have gone
too far and call Monday's boycott too "aggressive."

Aman Kapoor, a software programmer from India at Florida State University,
didn't join the boycott. His venue: the Web. Four months ago, he posted a
message about his years-long, ongoing wait for a green card, which documents an
immigrant's permanent legal residence in the USA. He says 3,400 workers like
him, who have H-1B visas to take "highly skilled" jobs employers couldn't
otherwise fill, formed Immigration Voice. Most come from India or China.

"We don't know the system here," Kapoor says, explaining why the group hired the
lobbying firm Quinn Gillespie & Associates. The firm is helping the group urge
senators to expedite the green-card process and change rules so some applicants
enduring a long wait could change jobs.

More than other immigrants, Asians tend to be well-educated, professionally
employed and in the USA legally, Passel says. About 10% of the Asian and
Pacific-Islander population in the USA is undocumented, compared with 19% of the
Latino population, he says.

The difference in legal status helps explain why the Asian community is less
concerned than Latinos about legalization, says Karin Wang, an attorney for the
Asian Pacific American Legal Center.

In a March poll of 800 legal immigrants by New America Media, 39% of
Asian-Americans favored deporting all illegal immigrants; 9% of Latinos
supported the idea. Forty-seven percent of Asian-Americans favored erecting a
wall along sections of the U.S.-Mexican border; 7% of Latinos did.

Vongs says Asian immigrants are more concerned about human trafficking, the
smuggling of people into the country for forced labor, sexual exploitation or
other illicit purposes. "The highest number of people trafficked are Asian," she
says. "It's primarily for the sex trade."

Civil liberties is another issue, Huang says. He says the House bill would make
some misdemeanors, including drunken driving, a reason to deport someone. That
could leave some people in U.S. prisons indefinitely because some Asian
countries -- Vietnam, Laos and China -- permit few deportees to return.

Reuniting families is another concern of Asian-Americans. Huang says children or
spouses of U.S. citizens wait one to two years for a visa to the USA, but
parents, siblings and other relatives wait five to 12 years.

*"A Day Without Immigrants," 3A

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Robert Deutsch, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 10, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Legal route can be daunting or impossible

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 1142 words


As an immigration attorney with 25 years of experience, I'm fascinated by all
the misinformation regarding the immigration debate. For example, the question,
"Why don't illegal immigrants just come here legally?"

Well, it's not like the days of old when you could come through New York's Ellis
Island with just a mark in large letters, WOP -- "without papers." The modern
system has quotas, backlogs, preferences, family-based visas, employment-based
visas. If you don't fit into the right peg, you can't get in. Most of the
undocumented lack a qualifying relative to petition them.

Even if they do, they might have to wait years to come in. The brother of a U.S.
citizen from the Philippines, for example, has to wait at least 23 to 30 years.
(They are processing cases filed before Oct. 15, 1983.) The wait for Mexico is
15 to 20 years. No special privilege is given to Mexico. It's just based on the
number of applicants.

There are further twists.

You are penalized if you have lived illegally in the USA. The penalty is either
three years or 10 years, depending on your time illegally in this country.
Pardons are available but are hard to get. If, for example, you are the mother
of a U.S. citizen and you lived illegally in the USA for more than a year --
forget about it. You must wait a decade before you can come into the country
legally. There is no pardon for the parents of a U.S. citizen.

As you can see, getting here legally is a daunting task for those who qualify.
And it is impossible for those who don't.

It is a lie to tell Americans that the massive numbers of undocumented
immigrants could come here legally. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn.,
knows it; Rep. James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., knows it. It is a lie that they
leave unchallenged.

Comprehensive immigration reform is needed that balances justice with
compassion. Unfortunately, I doubt the ability of our present leadership to
accomplish it.

Vicenta Montoya

Las Vegas

Fix border security first

I am getting sick and tired of reading columns such as Raul Reyes'. There are
some nativists, racists and hard-core law-and-order types who would absolutely
try to deport 12 million illegal immigrants --  but they are a minority. Columns
such as Mr. Reyes', which extolled the work ethic of his illegal-immigrant
grandfather, are not going to convince that crowd ("'They're people just like my
grandpa'," The Forum, Friday).

But there are a lot more people who don't have a problem with the illegal
immigrants who are already here and are trying to better their family's
fortunes.

While they might not be happy about having 12 million people here illegally,
this group of people recognizes that, in the end, we'll need to regularize these
immigrants' status and provide some path to citizenship for those who want it.

The problem is that doing that with our current faulty border security and
interior enforcement systems solves nothing.

We want a solution.

What happened in 1986, when a federal law granted amnesty to millions of illegal
immigrants, was not a solution. Political promises to follow through on security
and enforcement are simply not credible. The politicians and the business lobby
have demonstrated that they have no intention of preventing another 12million
from sneaking in. Until that changes, all these stories about hard-working
families will change nothing.

Anthony E. Greene

Bowie, Md.

Legal way is right way

Raul Reyes shared a very touching story about his grandpa. I could also tell a
very touching story about my grandpa, and how hard we had it. But we came to
this country legally.

That wasn't easy, either. We had to wait five years after we applied to emigrate
to this country, and we had to show documentation that we were financially
responsible, had no criminal records and had a sponsor in the USA so we wouldn't
be a burden on this country. We all learned English, and made no demands to have
schools or books in our native language. No entitlements.

Reyes seems to talk about immigrants without distinguishing the legals from the
illegals. The issue here is the illegal immigrants. I'm not against immigration.
I'm a legal immigrant U.S. citizen myself.

Is Reyes suggesting that it's OK to break the immigration laws? If so, where do
you stop disobeying the laws? What kind of message are you sending? Break the
law when it is in your way?

I recognize the positive contributions immigrants have made to America for
hundreds of years. I find it very insulting when people demand rights and
citizenship for those who consciously violated this nation's laws.

I realize there is no easy answer, but I feel the United States needs to send
the right message: that immigrants are welcome, that our laws must be respected
and that violation of those laws will not be rewarded.

Vito Ramanauskas

Peoria, Ariz.

Costly toll on taxpayers

USA TODAY's story "'Mixed status' tears apart families"  missed the fact that
American taxpayers are saddled with the burden of absorbing the tremendous costs
incurred for "legal" children of illegal immigrants (News, April 26).

In Los Angeles County alone, nearly 100,000 children of illegal aliens collected
nearly $23 million in CalWORKS (formerly Aid to Families of Dependent Children)
funding this January  -- or nearly $276million annually.

There are 98,703 children of 57,458 undocumented parents who received aid in
January -- for a total population of 156,161. If incorporated into a city, this
group would be the sixth-largest in L.A. County.

In public safety, health care and public social services, illegal immigrants
cost our county's taxpayers nearly three-quarters of a billion dollars a year.

While legal immigration is a positive influence on our culture and economy,
illegal immigration has had a devastating impact on our counties and our nation.

Michael D. Antonovich

Mayor, Los Angeles County

'I still wanted' that job

"Illegal immigrants only take jobs Americans won't do." That is a misperception,
which I can counter with facts.

I spent more than 20 years in the drywall and carpenter trade. The job offered
paid medical, vacation and pension benefits. I made more money than many in my
circle of friends, who included college grads and mid-level management at IBM.
My wife did not work. We bought a new car every two to three years and had money
for investment.

When the Mexicans came in force, it became possible to man a job site with all
immigrants. Wages dropped by half. All the benefits disappeared. It's not that
Americans won't do the jobs. It's that they won't accept the wages.

Illegal immigrants took my job, and I still wanted it. All the jobs they do at
such cheap costs got done before they arrived. My father was a janitor.

If immigration could be controlled and be done legally, they would not have to
work off the books for "poverty-inducing wages." This would benefit all
Americans.

Bruce Wilcox

Canton, Texas

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Jeff Topping, Reuters

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 10, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S.-born Hispanics propel growth;
Immigration is not biggest factor in boom, Census finds

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 513 words


Hispanics remain the USA's fastest-growing minority group, but most of their
population increase comes from births here rather than immigration, according to
Census Bureau estimates released Tuesday.

As debate over immigration policy roils the nation, government numbers show that
60% of the 1.3 million new Hispanics in 2005 are citizens because they were born
here.

"When all the attention is on immigration, natural increase is what's driving
the population change," says Roberto Suro, director of the Pew Hispanic Center.

A third of the nation's 296.4 million people are considered minorities.
Hispanics are the largest minority group at 42.7 million, up 3.3% from mid-2004
to mid-2005. The Census counts all residents and makes no distinction between
those here legally and illegally. The Pew Center estimates that up to 12 million
U.S. residents are undocumented, most of them Hispanic.

"Obviously, a very large share of U.S. population growth and of Hispanic growth
is driven by illegal immigration," says Steven Camarota, research director at
the Center for Immigration Studies, a Washington think tank that favors stricter
immigration controls.

In effect, the data show that even if immigration came to a standstill, the
Hispanic population boom would not end for at least another generation.

"Illegal immigration has long-term consequences," Camarota says. "What this
shows is that they have hundreds of thousands of children born here."

His research shows that Hispanic women who are here illegally give birth to
one-third of babies born to Hispanics.

William Frey, demographer at the Brookings Institution, says one of every two
new Americans every year is Hispanic.

"Hispanics are here, and they're part of our future, and they're a large part of
our young population," he says. "They're a part of America because they're born
in America."

There are 35.2 million foreign-born people, about 12% of the population. The
share of immigrants has soared since its historic low of 4.7% in 1970. The
percentage of foreign-born is still below peaks reached more than 100 years ago,
but it's fast approaching them. From 1860 to 1920, the foreign-born population
fluctuated from 13% to 15%.

African-Americans were 18%-19% of the population until 1830, says Jeffrey
Passel, a demographer at the Pew center. Population projections for 2050 mostly
put white non-Hispanics at about 50% (compared with 67% in 2005) of the
population and Hispanics at about 25%, compared with the current 14%, Passel
says.

Suro says it will take awhile for Hispanics' political effects to match their
growth. "You've got this steady flow of new people becoming eligible to vote but
low rates of participation," Suro says.
Other ages and races

Census estimates for the period from mid-2004 to mid-2005 also show:

*Blacks increased 1.3% to 39.7 million. About 31% are under 18.

*Asians grew 3% to 14.4 million.

*About 30 million non-Hispanic whites -- 15% -- are 65 and older and 4.3 million
are 85 and older.

*About 61% of the 523,000 new non-Hispanic white residents were born here, about
the same share as new Hispanics.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: Census Bureau (Chart)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 15, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Bush to call on Guard to monitor borders;
Mexico's Fox concerned about troop presence

BYLINE: David Jackson and Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 683 words


WASHINGTON -- President Bush will use a prime-time address today to call for the
temporary use of National Guard troops to help block illegal immigration from
Mexico, according to administration officials.

The officials, speaking on the condition they not be named so as not to pre-empt
Bush, said the Guard would be used to support the Border Patrol, rather than
engage directly in law enforcement. They said the administration is still
working on the details of the plan, but it would involve fewer than 10,000 Guard
members.

Bush's remarks come as the Senate is trying for the second time this year to
pass an overhaul of the nation's immigration laws, an effort that has divided
the president's political base.

Mexican President Vicente Fox phoned Bush to express concern about a possible
military presence so close to his country. White House spokeswoman Maria
Tamburri said Bush told his counterpart that "what is being considered is not a
militarization of the border, but support of Border Patrol capabilities on a
temporary basis by National Guard personnel."

National security adviser Stephen Hadley declined to detail Bush's speech, but
he said on CBS' Face the Nation that it will not call for "militarizing the
border." Hadley noted the Guard has been used "to help the Border Patrol" with
"things like intelligence and training. ... I think that's the kind of thing
people have in mind."

Bush's approval rating has hit a new low -- 31% in a USA TODAY/Gallup Poll taken
May 5-7. The low number may be driven by members of Bush's party. In recent
polls, Republicans have given Bush low marks for his stand on illegal
immigration.

The president says he backs "comprehensive reform," including better border
enforcement and temporary "guest worker" provisions.

The Republican-led House of Representatives passed an enforcement-only bill last
year. Senate debate broke down in April because of GOP disagreement over whether
to include guest-worker provisions in the bill. Senate Democrats raised
procedural objections.

"This is a difficult debate," Mel Martinez, the Senate's only immigrant member,
said Friday at the National Press Club. "It's tearing the country into different
directions."

Martinez, a Florida Republican who came to the USA as a Cuban refugee when he
was a teenager, is a co-author of a bipartisan proposal that would beef up
border security, increase opportunities for foreigners to work in the USA and
give most of the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants in the country a chance
to stay.

If senators approve a bill with guest-worker provisions, they must negotiate
differences with the House. The president's challenge: to win over enough
conservative Republicans in the Senate to improve his leverage in talks with
House members.

"Their goal is to get half the Republicans" in the Senate, says Frank Sharry,
executive director of the National Immigration Forum, who has been in political
strategy sessions at the White House.

Bush has said he has already taken steps to protect the border, including
providing more Border Patrol agents.

Republican Sen. Johnny Isakson of Georgia said he would offer an amendment this
week that would require the Department of Homeland Security to certify that the
border is secure before enactment of any other immigration provisions, such as
an expanded guest-worker program or legalization of undocumented workers.

In an interview with USA TODAY, Isakson said White House chief of staff Joshua
Bolten has visited him to discuss the White House plans for border security. The
senator was taking a wait-and-see attitude.

"I don't want to pass a new immigration bill on the promise we're going to take
care of the border," Isakson said. "I hope it's a firm commitment."

On CNN's Late Edition on Sunday, Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist of Tennessee
endorsed the use of the National Guard as "the only thing we can do to secure
our borders right now."

Democrats in border states, such as New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson, and some
border state Republicans, such as California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, have
questioned whether the concept will work.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO,color,AFP/Getty Images
PHOTO, B/W, Sandy Huffaker,Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 16, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Life imitates art on immigration

BYLINE: DeWayne Wickham

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 658 words


The national debate over illegal immigration, hoisted to new heights by
President Bush's Oval Office address Monday night, is beginning to look like a
bad case of real life imitating art.

In Arizona last week, a 250-member posse organized by Maricopa County Sheriff
Joe Arpaio began scouring the countryside looking for illegal immigrants. The
sheriff is using a state law to treat people who enter this country illegally as
smugglers.

The Minuteman Project, a vigilante group that claims to have "tens of thousands
of dedicated volunteers," has branded an "occupying army" the hundreds of
thousands of people who demonstrated last month in opposition to a congressional
effort to make illegal entry into this country a felony.

And in an ironic twist, Rep. Pete King, R-N.Y., a co-sponsor of that bill, has
the lawn of his Long Island home tended by immigrants, at least one of whom
entered this country illegally. The man has since obtained a  "green card," The
New York Times reported.

All of this is an eerie reminder of the 1997 HBO movie The Second Civil War, a
farcical story about how the nation was pushed to the brink of another internal
war by a rogue governor's attempt to keep America "as it should be," even as he
was having an affair with a Mexican immigrant.

"This action is being implemented to preserve our way of life; the American
dream that has been falsely and cynically held out to the entire rest of the
world," the fictional Idaho Gov. Jim Farley said in announcing his decision to
close the state's borders to a planeload of Pakistani children orphaned by a war
between Pakistan and India. "And by allowing the stampede of whatever you want
to call them -- immigrants, refugees, illegals, legals, migrants, aliens, you
name it -- we are being swamped and we are destroying our own way of life,"
Farley said.

Real-life concern

Earlier this year, Rep. F. James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., a real-life member of
Congress, sounded a similar alarm.

"Illegal immigration is an expensive problem for law-abiding citizens. ... This
burden on the taxpayer is wrong. It undermines the economy, and it puts undue
pressure on people to pay even more in taxes to pay for those who are here in
America," he said.

While the HBO movie was a sharp-edged comedy, the real-life battle over how to
deal with unwanted immigrants to this country is no laughing matter. In many
border states, a lot of people think the federal government isn't doing enough
to keep people from stealing into this country -- a belief that has given rise
to the Minutemen and Sheriff Arpaio's posse.

In his televised address Monday night, President Bush announced a decision to
send thousands of National Guard troops to the Mexican border in an effort stem
the flow of illegal immigrants into this country.

That action seems to parody the decision of Idaho's governor in The Second Civil
War to use his state's National Guard to keep out the Pakistani orphans. In the
movie, black gang members, angered by the rising political power of Mexican
immigrants, showed their solidarity with Gov. Farley by ambushing the Los
Angeles Hispanic mayor as he held a news conference on the steps of City Hall.

Outreach to blacks

In the real-life world of the festering national debate over what to do about
illegal immigration, the Minutemen began a cross-country caravan to Washington
earlier this month by courting black support in Los Angeles. They won a few
converts, but they also stoked a lot of anger among blacks who think their
conservative views are a greater threat than is the arrival of illegal
immigrants who are willing to work for low wages.

While the HBO movie was a dark comedy, the fate of this country's up to 12
million  illegal immigrants is no joke. But for those of us who think that life
often imitates art, it's worth noting the five words that appeared beneath the
title in the film's opening scene.

"Sometime in the near future."

DeWayne Wickham writes weekly for USA TODAY.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Matt York, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 16, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Guard troops to have a limited role

BYLINE: Mimi Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 525 words


President Bush's plan to hire 6,000 new Border Patrol agents by the end of 2008
and send as many as 6,000 National Guard troops to the southern border raised a
series of questions Monday -- about border policy, troop deployments, the
politics of homeland security and the immigration debate in Congress. A look at
the issues surrounding Bush's new proposal:

Q: How many Border Patrol agents are there now?

A: When Bush took office, there were roughly 9,000 agents. By the end of
October, there will be 12,300. "We do not yet have full control of the border,
and I am determined to change that," Bush said.

Bush is asking Congress to pay for 6,000 more agents over the next two years.
That would double the size of the Border Patrol since 2001.

Q: Why is Bush sending the National Guard troops to the southern border?

A: Those troops, to be initially deployed for one year, will help the
overwhelmed Border Patrol until the new agents are hired and trained.

Q: What will the Guard troops do -- and not do?

A: They will not apprehend or arrest illegal immigrants. That's the Border
Patrol's job. Instead, they'll operate surveillance systems, analyze
intelligence, install fences and build patrol roads.

Q: Are more illegal immigrants crossing the border or is there new intelligence
indicating a terrorist threat?

A: If there is any new intelligence, the White House hasn't said so, and the
stream of illegal immigrants has remained fairly steady.

Bush says his proposal is designed to address chronic security problems along
the border and increase support among conservatives in Congress for immigration
legislation that would tighten border security and give immigrants temporary
work permits.

Q: What's the reaction to Bush's plan?

A: Two of the four border-state governors support it, along with some key
members of Congress, such as Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn. Others,
including Sen. Chuck Hagel, R-Neb., have questioned whether the plan would shore
up the border and whether the military should be called in at a time when the
National Guard is stretched thin by deployments in Iraq.

Q: What do critics say?

A: Many experts say it will have little effect on border security and illegal
migration.

Retired Air Force colonel Randall Larsen, a homeland security expert, called it
"just a political stunt" to win passage of immigration legislation in Congress.
T.J. Bonner, president of the Border Patrol union, said such a small number of
troops won't make much of a difference.

Q: What about the northern border?

A: The overwhelming majority of illegal immigrants are Mexicans who flood across
the southern border. Security experts and intelligence officials are just as
concerned -- if not more concerned -- about terrorists coming across the border
with Canada.

Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison, R-Texas, said Bush should "immediately" deploy troops
to the northern border as well. P.J. Crowley, a Homeland Security expert and
former Clinton administration official, agreed. "If we need to secure the border
against al-Qaeda infiltration, it is the wrong border," he said. "There are far
more al-Qaeda sympathizers in Canada than Mexico."

*Bush's plan, 1A

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Sandy Huffaker, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 16, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Bush plan calls for thousands of Guard troops along border;
Conservatives maintain doubts

BYLINE: David Jackson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 467 words


WASHINGTON -- President Bush called Monday night for a one-year deployment of up
to 6,000 National Guard troops at the U.S.-Mexico border, saying that "for
decades, the United States has not been in complete control of its borders."

Though he repeated his call for a program to allow undocumented immigrants to
work temporarily in the USA, Bush used a televised address from the Oval Office
to emphasize new border security proposals, a major concern for many of his
fellow Republicans. Besides the Guard troops, who would be sent to the border
for two- or three-week shifts, plans include 6,000 new Border Patrol agents by
the end of 2008.

Bush timed his speech to a renewed effort by the Senate to pass an immigration
bill. The issue has stoked mass demonstrations nationwide and split Republicans
at a time the president's approval ratings have hit the lowest point of his
presidency.

Bush called for a civil debate. He said Congress should note that "every human
being has dignity and value, no matter what their citizenship papers say."

Some GOP members of Congress want to seal the border before making any
allowances for foreign workers; others, including Bush, say "comprehensive
reform" must provide for temporary or "guest" workers, which could include many
of the estimated 12million illegal immigrants already in the USA.

"All elements of this problem must be addressed together, or none of them will
be solved at all," Bush said during the 17-minute speech.

The National Guard deployment is designed to assist the Border Patrol with
intelligence analysis, surveillance and other support activities, Bush said. He
said that Guard units would not conduct "direct law enforcement activities,"
such as arresting illegal immigrants.

Senate Democratic leader Harry Reid of Nevada questioned the plan's
effectiveness. He said the National Guard is already stretched by Iraq and
natural disasters.

House Republicans pushed through an immigration bill last year that was devoted
to border enforcement and had no provisions for temporary workers. The Senate
failed to pass a bill earlier this year.

Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., said a guest-worker program would amount to amnesty
for lawbreakers. Conservatives will be "waiting to see if the president follows
through on his pledge to enforce the law."

Bush said that he opposes amnesty, and that illegal immigrants already in the
USA must apply for citizenship, pay penalties and taxes, learn English, and
"wait in line behind those who played by the rules."

A temporary worker program also recognizes the reality that many people "will do
anything to come to America to work and build a better life," Bush said.

Rep. Dan Lungren, R-Calif., said Bush needs to convince GOP conservatives that
"the government is serious about enforcement."

Contributing: Kathy Kiely

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, APTV

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 16, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Bush calls in the Guard, but answers lie far from border

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 553 words


President Bush' proposal to send National Guard troops to the U.S.-Mexico
border, unveiled Monday night in a rare prime-time speech on a hotly contested
domestic policy issue, was designed to get attention. That it did. Calling in
the Guard is a vivid way to signal, as Bush admitted, that "we do not yet have
full control of the border."

The president didn't hold out the Guard as the solution, and clearly it won't
be. The "up to" 6,000 Guard members won't make arrests, and they'll be deployed
only temporarily. But to the extent this deployment supports the overwhelmed
Border Patrol and helps sell a broader immigration plan, with crucial votes
pending in Congress, it might serve a purpose.

In his speech, Bush outlined an appealing blueprint for dealing with the two
major elements of the immigration problem: stemming illegal immigration, mostly
from Mexico, and dealing effectively but compassionately with those already
here.

It was the kind of vision that years of governing in Texas can inspire. But it
is also a plan that recalls failed reforms of the past.

Those plans failed not because they were bad ideas, but because the Congresses
and presidents who put them forth never provided the means to make them work.
They did so knowingly. And that failing again appears to be at work in the
president's plan.

As is Bush's habit, he offered no plan to pay for his ambitions, nor any
estimate of the cost, which would be substantial.

On the enforcement end, in addition to the Guard troops, Bush called for beefing
up the Border Patrol, constructing high-tech fences in urban corridors, and
employing motion sensors and other technology. All are worthy approaches, but
there may be more cost-effective options. In a meeting with USA TODAY's
editorial board last week, Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff, whose
department is in charge of immigration, said sealing the border would cost
billions. He saw greater promise in a targeted crackdown on employers who hire
large numbers of illegal workers. The idea would be to target so effectively
that others would fear being put out of business. Illegal immigration would
slow.

Bush gave short shrift to employer sanctions -- such crackdowns draw howls of
protest from powerful industries that hire cheap labor -- and focused on the
need for a tamper-proof ID card for every legal foreign worker. Development of
such a card, however, shouldn't excuse delaying enforcement actions against
employers.

As for calls to round up and deport the nation's estimated 12 million illegal
immigrants (equal to the population of Ohio), Bush correctly said, "It is
neither wise nor realistic."  Instead, he called for a temporary worker program
and an opportunity to apply for citizenship, though "behind those who played by
the rules and followed the law."

Bush's plan is far more reasonable than the enforcement-only approach passed by
the House in December, which would declare all illegal immigrants felons subject
to expulsion. That approach provoked immigrant rallies throughout the nation.
Now the Senate has a chance to pass a more balanced plan.

The challenge, as Bush put it, is to recognize that we are both a nation of laws
and a nation of immigrants. It remains to be seen if either Congress or Bush
will pay to create an immigration system that honors that legacy.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              182 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 17, 2006 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 FINAL EDITION

Center ties hate crimes to border debate;
Report: Racists are taking advantage of immigration anxiety

BYLINE: Kevin Johnson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 540 words


WASHINGTON -- Tension over illegal immigration is contributing to a rise in hate
groups and hate crimes across the nation, according to the Southern Poverty Law
Center. It says that racist groups are using the immigration debate as a
rallying cry.

The center -- an Alabama-based non-profit organization that tracks racist,
anti-immigrant and other extremist groups -- says in a new report that there
were 803 such hate groups in the USA last year, up from 762 in 2004 and a 33%
jump since 2000.

The center's report says the national debate that has focused on Hispanic
immigration has been "the single most important factor" in spurring activity
among hate groups and has given them "an issue with real resonance."

The debate over immigration "has been critical to the growth of the hate
movement," says Mark Potok, editor of the center's quarterly report on
extremists. "More and more groups are turning to immigration to help
recruitment."

Potok says the center has seen increasing signs that groups that have encouraged
a particularly aggressive response to illegal immigration are working with
neo-Nazi organizations to try to intimidate illegal immigrants.

He cites groups such as the Arizona-based Border Guardians, whose members burned
a Mexican flag last month in front of that nation's consulate in Tucson.

Border Guardians is a relatively new organization and was not included on the
center's 2005 list of hate groups. Its director, Laine Lawless, disputes the
center's report last month that she has encouraged neo-Nazi groups to threaten
and steal money from illegal immigrants. In an interview, Lawless said her group
supports only "lawful actions."

Lawless said she gets "contacted by all sorts of groups" and "some of them are
Nazis," but she said she does not recruit neo-Nazis. Lawless went on to describe
the most vocal organizers of last month's immigrants' rights marches as militant
"brown Nazis" whose activities threaten to ignite a "civil war" in America.

The building tension over illegal immigration's impact on America comes at a
time when the FBI says that the number of hate-crime victims in 2004 -- the last
year for which figures are available -- was 9,528, up nearly 5% from 2003.

The numbers don't approach the 12,020 hate-crime victims reported in 2001, when
there were a rash of attacks against Muslims across the nation in the weeks
after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

There are about 12 million illegal immigrants in the USA.

Such immigrants -- particularly Hispanics who cross from Mexico in search of
work -- also have become targetsfor private groups that have formed patrols
along the southwestern border, usually against the wishes of law enforcement.

One of those groups is American Border Patrol. Its efforts have included
rounding up illegal immigrants and turning them over to law enforcement. The
Southern Poverty Law Center has accused ABP of abusing and illegally detaining
immigrants, and the center lists ABP as a hate group.

ABP's director, Glenn Spencer, is a vocal critic of illegal immigration but says
his group has done nothing wrong.

"Our borders are unprotected, and the (U.S.) Border Patrol is derelict in its
duty," Spencer says. "We are trying to help by any means necessary."

*Senate debate, 8A

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 8, 2006



CORRECTION: A story May 17 mischaracterized the Southern Poverty Law Center's
accusations against the Arizona-based American Border Patrol. The center has not
accused the ABP of illegally detaining or abusing immigrants. The ABP says it
has never detained or abused any individuals and it does not round up illegal
immigrants.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC,B/W,Robert W. Ahrens,USA TODAY,Source: FBI Uniform Crime
Reports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              183 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 18, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration may play a key role in Arizona's Senate race

BYLINE: Andrea Stone

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 633 words


PHOENIX -- Barbara Orr sees Minutemen trying to keep out illegal immigrants and
Hispanics marching downtown to support the border crossers. She's fed up that
the government has been unable to control illegal immigration.

"Anyone who's an incumbent, I'm not too happy with," says Orr, a water planning
analyst.

She includes Republican Sen. Jon Kyl, whose bid for a third term this fall could
hinge on immigration.

Kyl is co-sponsor of a Senate bill that would require illegal immigrants to
leave the country and return only through legal means. His likely opponent,
Democrat Jim Pederson, backs a bill being debated in the Senate this week that
would offer many of the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants a chance to
become citizens. The plan's author: Arizona's other, more well-known GOP
senator, John McCain.

On Wednesday, the Senate adopted Kyl's amendment to exclude illegal immigrants
convicted of a felony or three misdemeanors from a chance at remaining in the
country. The move came two days after President Bush's call to send National
Guard troops to help police the border with Mexico.

In Arizona, Kyl says it "will matter a lot" to voters whether government
addresses immigration. Democratic Gov. Janet Napolitano declared a state of
emergency last year because the state cannot keep up with the cost of providing
services to illegal immigrants.

Border security and immigration were already campaign topics before Bush's
speech, including Nebraska's Senate race where incumbent Ben Nelson, a Democrat,
is trying to win support for a proposal for a longer fence along the U.S.-Mexico
border.

Kyl's bill is at odds with Bush's goal of creating a path to citizenship for
many illegal immigrants. Arizona State University political analyst Bruce
Merrill says that stance appeals to the conservative voters Kyl will need in
November.

Former Republican state senator John Verkamp is also running for the Democratic
nomination.Verkamp says Pederson and Kyl have failed to talk about the Iraq war,
which he opposes. Pederson has a financial edge over Verkamp and has already
loaned his own campaign $2 million.

Pederson, a shopping mall developer, accuses Republicans of whipping up a wedge
issue. They "are using immigration in '06 the way they used terror and national
security in '04," he says.

Pederson also supports strong border security but says his "realistic approach"
would allow illegal immigrants to eventually become citizens if they have no
criminal record, pay fines and learn English. He hopes to appeal to Hispanics,
who are 28% of the state's population and 13% of its voters.

Interviews with voters highlighted mixed feelings. "We need to put some
limitations on (illegal immigration), but I don't necessarily believe that we're
supposed to pick up 11 million people and send them all back to Mexico," says
Republican Steve Keiper, 45, a Chandler sales manager.

Kyl calls his plan the "moderate" approach. He opposes a House bill that would
make illegal immigration a crime and says the citizenship proposal in McCain's
bill "doesn't seem necessary."

An Arizona State University poll last month showed Kyl with a 42% to 31%
advantage over Pederson.

Pederson agrees with Bush on the need for a "guest worker" program, but he
points out that Kyl has voted 97% of the time with the president. Pederson also
has run TV ads that include criticism of Kyl's immigration plan by McCain, the
senator's campaign chairman.

McCain said he was "disappointed" that his name was used to attack a fellow
Republican. Pederson often contrasts the former presidential candidate to Kyl,
who was recently dubbed "that other guy" in the Senate by a local alternative
newspaper.

"It's a disadvantage because you haven't been bragging about yourself all this
time," Kyl says. "That's something I have to deal with."

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Todd Warshaw, Getty Images for NASCAR
PHOTO, B/W, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 19, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Bush takes immigration vision to Ariz.;
Says plan must be 'comprehensive'

BYLINE: David Jackson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 411 words


YUMA, Ariz. -- President Bush continued walking a fine line Thursday in the
Republican immigration battle, including the line at the U.S.-Mexican border.

Accompanied by Arizona Gov. Janet Napolitano, a Democrat, Bush toured one of the
nation's most porous border areas, where Border Patrol agents apprehended 70,000
illegal entrants last year. He stood a few hundred feet from a 20-foot fence of
corrugated metal and inspected new camera, communications and lighting systems.

In remarks at the Border Patrol headquarters, Bush said there is common ground
between the two visions of immigration overhaul that have split his party -- one
that stresses keeping illegal immigrants out, and another that favors making
immigrant workers legal temporarily and giving some illegal immigrants a path to
citizenship.

Bush favors elements of both. "You cannot secure the border unless you have all
elements of a comprehensive plan," he said.

The Republican-led Senate is debating a bill that does much of what Bush wants.
The GOP-led House has passed a bill that focuses on border enforcement.

Bush's trip Thursday was his first since his Monday night address on
immigration, when he reached out to GOP immigration hard-liners by proposing
tougher border security, including deployment of up to 6,000 National Guard
troops.

The flight aboard Air Force One underscored GOP differences. Bush's guests
included Rep. J.D. Hayworth, R-Ariz., who wants a law enforcement bill only.

Hayworth said he and Bush have "profound disagreements."

"I don't believe the House will accede to his wishes on a 'guest worker'
program, despite his recent protestations to the contrary," Hayworth said.

Bush noted that immigration is "an emotional issue." That seems especially true
in Arizona.

Al Garza, who lives near Tucson, said he voted for Bush twice but would not do
so again. The director of a group that works to stop illegal entrants at the
border, Garza called Bush's troop proposal "a political ploy."

"No one seems to be listening to what the citizens want," Garza said. "It's all
what Mexico wants, or what the illegal aliens want."

Robin Hoover, head of a group that maintains watering stations in the desert
where illegal immigrants cross, said a guest-worker program recognizes the need
to deal with people already here. He said the Guard deployment is "silly."

"Putting the soldiers down here is all politics, bad politics," he said.

Contributing: Kathy Kiely, Susan Carroll of The Arizona Republic

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Pablo Martinez Monsivais, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 19, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Local authorities take border control into own hands;
Critics say issue should be left to U.S. government

BYLINE: Sharon Coolidge

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 614 words


Some local law enforcement officers are tackling illegal immigration while
President Bush and Congress debate what to do.

These officers are making arrests, warning employers not to hire illegal
immigrants and training deputies to spot phony identification:

*In Maricopa County, Ariz., Sheriff Joe Arpaio has jailed more than 140 illegal
immigrants accused of conspiring with a "coyote," or smuggler, to sneak across
the border. A state law enacted last fall paved the way for the arrests.

*Garrett Chamberlain, the police chief in New Ipswich, N.H., arrested an illegal
immigrant on a criminal trespassing charge last year for being in the country.

*In Allen County, Ohio, Sheriff Daniel Beck has made it a priority to train
deputies to spot phony identification.

*About 100 miles away in Butler County, Ohio, Sheriff Richard Jones is putting
up billboards warning employers that hiring illegal immigrants is against the
law. He also has billed the federal government $150,000 for what he says is the
cost of jailing illegal immigrants who have broken the law.

The sheriffs say they're frustrated by the federal government's inability to
control its borders. "I support President Bush, I voted for him both times, but
on immigration, I give him an F-minus," Jones says.

The proactive sheriffs have their critics, too.

"They can't do anything, and they shouldn't," says Firooz Namei, a Cincinnati
attorney who handles immigration cases. "Can you imagine if every sheriff or
police chief was able to make arrests how they saw fit?"

Brent Wilkes, national executive director of the League of United Latin American
Citizens, a Latino civil rights organization, says local authorities should
leave immigration enforcement to the federal government.

"Our criminal justice system is built on the basis that the punishment should
fit the crime," Wilkes says. "When you see someone acting far beyond the nature
of the crime, you have to be suspicious of the motivation."

The proper role of state and local officers in immigration control is a hot
issue, says Mary Ann Viverette, president of the International Association of
Chiefs of Police and the police chief in Gaithersburg, Md. The topic was
discussed at a national meeting last month.

Some members said local authorities should not be involved in enforcing
immigration laws because that would make all immigrants -- legal and illegal --
less likely to assist police in investigations, Viverette says. Others said
local officers should get involved because illegal immigrants are breaking the
law.

Senate leaders are nearing a deal on a sweeping immigration bill that would give
millions of illegal immigrants a chance to become citizens. The House of
Representatives has passed a tougher bill that would impose criminal penalties
on those who sneak into the USA.

Rick Glancey, interim executive director of the Texas Border Sheriff's
Coalition, says something has to be done. "Heaven forbid we have another Sept.
11 and the federal government points toward a border county," Glancey says. "We
don't want them to say, 'Why didn't you do something?'"

Powerless to make arrests if immigrants are in his county illegally, Beck
focuses on violations he can act on -- such as possession of fraudulent
documents. Sixty of his officers received special training. "We have to know who
we're talking to to file charges and to run background checks," Beck says.

Chamberlain says local police "shouldn't have to worry" about threats to
national security from illegal immigration. "That's the purpose of Homeland
Security."

Until Congress acts, he says, he won't back down. "I can't just look the other
way," he says.

Coolidge reports daily for The Cincinnati Enquirer

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W
PHOTO, B/W, Roy Dabner, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              186 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 24, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'Sealing the border is a tall order';
*Immigration: Chertoff calls for 'creative' approach to enforcement *Hurricanes:
Says U.S. is better prepared, but urges personal responsibility

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 1319 words


Illegal immigrants are flooding into the USA, with an estimated 12 million
calling this country home. Congress and the president are struggling to craft
meaningful reform; in an age of terrorism, a porous border is a clear
vulnerability. Another danger on the horizon: hurricane season. The federal
government has acknowledged that last year's response to Hurricane Katrina was
largely a failure. What lessons have we learned, and what changes can we expect
for the next big storm? Immigration and disaster preparedness fall under the
umbrella of the Department of Homeland Security. Its secretary, Michael
Chertoff, discussed these and other issues with USA TODAY editors and reporters.
His visit came just before President Bush announced plans to send Guard troops
to the southern border. Chertoff's comments were edited for length and clarity.

Question: Immigration reform is high on the president's agenda. Where can this
administration be successful where others have not?

Answer: You've got to use three elements to have a successful strategy. One is
increased border security, including the use of more agents, enhanced technology
and some fencing along the border where it makes sense. Also, making sure the
people we catch are returned. The second piece is interior enforcement.  That's
part of a philosophical change. This will yield the best results because that's
where you can really get deterrence. Third, you've got to give people a clear
path to following the law, and that's why a sensible temporary worker program is
something we have to have.

Q: Do you have the means to seal the border, track people coming in legally and
find them when their visas run out? And can you put pressure on employers to
deter illegal immigration?

A: Sealing the border is a tall order. What we can do is control the border,
which means ultimately detecting everybody who crosses the border in enough time
to intercept them. A whole separate issue is our ability to track people who
overstay visas or who get smuggled in through the ports of entry.

Q: How much progress has been made on this overstay issue since the 9/11
attacks? Because terrorists aren't here for jobs, going after employers wouldn't
be the way to get these people, would it?

A: The optimal thing is to keep people out because frankly, if a terrorist comes
in, they could act within the period of time allotted to their visa. So the
overstay visa doesn't necessarily deal with that issue. Our US-VISIT program,
which is at all of our permanent ports of entry, is a terrific tool for
screening out terrorists based on names and on biometric-based fingerprints.
We've added considerably to the resources for tracking down overstays and
fugitives.

Q: Have you caught any known or suspected terrorists under the US-VISIT program?

A: We have sent people back who have connections to terrorism. It's rare you
have a card-carrying terrorist because most of the ones we know about are either
dead or in jail. But when you see somebody who has links to al-Qaeda, the
evidence may not be sufficient to convict them of a crime, but it is  sufficient
to say this is a person we should be worried about for terrorism. We have
certainly sent back people with such links.

Q:  Employer enforcement of immigration laws has been declining. What will
change this?

A: There was a time when enforcement was focused on meager civil sanctions. Now,
part of the goal is to move to a more powerful enforcement with real sanctions.
Criminal law is one. We've also been talking to Congress about beefing up civil
sanctions.

Q: How would you measure success in purging the workforce of illegal immigrants?

A: I don't want to measure based simply on the number of actions. As a
prosecutor in the '70s, we  measured success by the number of informants and
number of arrests. We retooled the strategy against organized crime. We said,
let's do high-impact cases. What I want to do is introduce a level of
uncertainty in the minds of employers who are thinking of building a business
based on illegal workers.

Q: A reader recently wrote a letter about his experience in the construction
trade. He had a job, but said because of illegal immigrants, his employer
lowered wages. He ultimately lost his job. Would cleaning up the construction
trade, for instance, be a realistic objective?

A: Anytime you're dealing with large-scale illegality, 100% is a difficult point
to reach. I do think we can have a significant impact on the trade. Frankly,
you've got to start with the larger entities. We've invited economists and other
experts to talk about (identifying) large markets of illegality. We're trying to
understand what is the business model of the lawbreaker, which can tell us
something about what is the most cost-effective way to enforce the law.

Q: Have you and these experts devised any new approaches to enforcement that
might be more effective than those attempted in years past?

A: There are all kinds of creative things I'm open to doing in terms of people
who violate the law, and ways we might use our leverage as a government
contractor to drive best practices into the industry.  So if you want to do
business with the government, we're going to write down certain standards, and
maybe even make you drive those standards into your subcontractors. My
commitment is to put into the interior enforcement the same kind of discipline
and a little bit out-of-the-box thinking about how to break this business apart
as we did with border enforcement. But it all comes back to a temporary worker
program. Without it, some employers will feel they can't find an alternative to
illegal workers and are going to want to try to save their business by breaking
the law.

Q: Any chance we'll see meaningful reform?

A: Now there is real attention being paid to this issue. Probably no one will
like everything (in an immigration reform law), but everyone will like
something. That's what a comprehensive solution is.

Q: Let's switch to one of your other jobs: disaster relief. In retrospect, do
you blame yourself for any of the Katrina failings?

A: In hindsight, I can't say that relying on the then-director of FEMA (Michael
Brown) to use the tools I'd given him turned out to be a good decision. But when
I look back, I want to underscore the rescuers. A lot of lives were saved. What
was the least well done was getting people out of the Superdome and convention
center. There was not a sufficient plan for how to get buses into an area, and
that's precisely the kind of contingency plan we've spent the last six months
doing.

Q: If there were to be a repeat of  Katrina this year, can you paint a picture
of how the government would operate this time?

A: We're still adhering to the traditional model that state and local government
has the principal responsibility to be the first responder for two reasons.
First, that's the way our legal system is set up in terms of the authority.
Second, they know their people and their geography best. But all of this begins
with the presumption that individuals take personal responsibility.

Q: Why are you certain things will be better the next time around?

A: Let me conclude by saying one thing. There is something that could be done
that would really, really screw us up this hurricane season. Congress could
decide it wants to take FEMA (Federal Emergency Management Agency) out of DHS
(Department of Homeland Security). I could guarantee that will give us a much
worse hurricane season than we had because historically, the stuff that worked
well in Katrina worked well because of elements in DHS that were able
immediately to come and fill in gaps that FEMA wasn't able to do. If someone
were to pull FEMA out, you'd have to rebuild that system.

Q: Are you concerned that the government may be seen as overreacting this
season?

A: We may have some false alarms. But you're either too early and you have a
false alarm, or you're too late and you're dead.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC,b/w,Julie Snider,USA TODAY(Bar graph)
PHOTO,b/w,Robert W. Ahrens,USA TODAY(Bar graph)
PHOTOS,b/w,Kate Patterson,USA TODAY(3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              187 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 25, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Bipartisan Senate plan for illegals nears vote;
McCain: 'We're down the homestretch'

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 433 words


WASHINGTON -- The Senate headed Wednesday toward approval of a bill that would
provide about 10 million illegal immigrants a chance at citizenship, setting up
a showdown with the House that President Bush may have to settle.

A test vote Wednesday morning showed strong bipartisan support for the
comprehensive immigration bill, which includes plans to expand visas for "guest
workers," fines against employers who hire illegal immigrants and tough border
security measures.

The Senate voted 73-25 to cut off debate and move ahead to final passage,
probably by today.

"We're down the homestretch," said Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., a key member of
what Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., described as "an amazing bipartisan coalition"
that pushed for the comprehensive approach.

Sen. Barack Obama, D-Ill., said the bill's offer of citizenship for illegal
immigrants expresses the nation's "big-hearted attitude toward those who are
taking care of our children and trying to build a better life for themselves."

Sen. Jeff Sessions of Alabama, one of 23 Republicans who voted against moving
the bill forward, called it "the worst piece of legislation to come before the
Senate." He is against the citizenship plans and wants the focus to be on border
security.

Republican and Democratic supporters say the president will have to push hard to
get a compromise from a panel that will reconcile differences between the House
and Senate bills. "He's going to have to weigh in," said Sen. Ken Salazar,
D-Colo.

The Senate bill includes elements Bush favors but many House Republicans oppose.

Among the Senate bill's provisions: expanded opportunities for foreigners to
work in the USA and provisions to allow those who have lived here illegally
since January 2004 a chance to become citizens. About 2 million illegal
immigrants would have to leave the USA.

The Congressional Budget Office estimates that if the Senate bill becomes law,
the nation's population would increase by 8 million over the next 10 years.

The House bill, passed last December on a 239-182 vote, focuses largely on
border enforcement. It would make illegal immigration a felony and require
construction of 700 miles of fence along the U.S.-Mexican border.

House Judiciary Chairman James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., the author of the House
measure, says the Senate bill amounts to amnesty for lawbreakers.

Senators acknowledge Sensenbrenner will be a formidable opponent. "Very
difficult" is how Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., rates the upcoming
negotiations. Other supporters are confident Bush will help them prevail. "I'm
optimistic," said Sen. Chuck Hagel, R-Neb.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Gannett News Service
PHOTO, B/W, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              188 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 25, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Minuteman's goal: To shame feds into action;
Co-founder says Bush's plan for 6,000 troops is too small. '(Our ) mission is to
. . . expose the hypocrisy.'

BYLINE: Dennis Wagner

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 1066 words


NOGALES, Ariz. -- Chris Simcox, co-founder of the Minuteman border watch
movement, is feeling vindicated.

President Bush last week ordered 6,000 National Guard troops to the Mexican
border, a move the 45-year-old former kindergarten teacher says is long overdue.

"We feel that's a victory," Simcox says, "but it's not nearly enough." At least
30,000 troops are needed, he says, and that's why he'll press his war over
illegal immigration.

He'll continue patrolling the desert southwest of Tucson with a ragtag band of
volunteers. He and his Minuteman Civil Defense Corps will start building a
border wall Saturday on a private ranch in Arizona. He'll stand on the border
doing live TV interviews.

The made-for-TV drama of gun-toting activists guarding the border is Simcox's
way of exposing America's border as "a 2,000-mile point of entry that's
controlled by criminal cartels."

With that kind of rhetoric, Simcox has propelled himself to the forefront of
America's angst-filled debate over illegal immigration. He's the darling of
right-wing radio talk-show hosts, a nemesis to immigrant-defense groups and a
lightning rod for controversy.

"The entire mission is to embarrass the government and expose the hypocrisy,"
Simcox says.

His guerrilla tactics and oratory generate blunt reactions from both sides of
the issue.

Raul Yzaguirre, former chief executive at National Council of La Raza, says the
Minuteman organization is "a hate-mongering group from the lunatic fringe."
Simcox bristles when others suggest traces of racism. "My second wife is black.
My son is biracial."

Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., who also calls for stiff border security, says:
"Much of the success of our movement is a result of the Minuteman Project. I
give him enormous credit."

Nomadic childhood

The son of a machinist and a cardiac-care nurse, Simcox spent a nomadic
childhood shifting between households of divorced parents. His father, Paul, is
a "Goldwater-type conservative" who raises the Stars and Stripes outside his
Moline, Ill., home at 6o'clock each morning and brags about European forefathers
who waited five years in Canada before they could enter the USA. "We came to
this country legally," the elder Simcox says.

After graduating from high school in Kentucky, Chris Simcox tried to launch
careers in pro baseball and playing drums in a band. Then he moved to California
with a new wife who had acting ambitions.

There, Simcox says, he became a teacher. He recalls with distaste his first job
at "a very bad high school in South Central L.A., in the middle of Bloods and
Crips warfare." He switched to the affluent, private Wildwood Elementary School,
teaching kindergarten through third grade for 13 years before becoming a private
tutor. He divorced, married again and had a son.

During that time, Simcox says, he saw Los Angeles schools overwhelmed by
Hispanic gangs and immigrant students who could not speak English.

Fear of terrorism

Simcox says his misgivings about life in Los Angeles were compounded by a fear
of terrorism. "You could see it coming," he says. "And then Sept. 11 hit, and
that was it."

The day hijacked jets toppled the World Trade Center, Simcox left phone messages
for his second wife, Kim Dunbar, according to transcripts filed in Los Angeles
County Superior Court in connection with custody proceedings.

In one voice mail, according to the transcripts, Simcox said: "I purchased
another gun. I have more than a few weapons and I plan on teaching my son how to
use them. I will no longer trust anyone in this country. My life has changed
forever, and if you don't get that, you are brainwashed like everybody else."

Dunbar sought sole custody of their son, claiming in court that her ex-husband
had suffered a breakdown. She also worried for their biracial son because, she
alleged, Simcox had announced that African-Americans "don't deserve the benefits
they receive under the Constitution because they've never suffered
discrimination."

Shaking his head, Simcox says his wife exaggerated. Sure, he was upset about
9/11 like millions of Americans. Yes, he tried to enlist in the Army and got
turned down because of his age. But that doesn't mean he lost grip with reality,
he says.

Dunbar could not be reached for comment.

Simcox did lose custody of his son. And, as word spread of his apocalyptic
diatribes, private students dropped out of his tutoring program, he says.

Desert retreat

With no more family or job, Simcox says, he decided in late 2001 to clear his
head in Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument on the southern Arizona border.
Camping miles from civilization, he watched illegal immigrants and drug
smugglers streaming north from Mexico. "At that moment, it clicked," Simcox
recalls. "The borders were wide open. Terrorists could come through."

Simcox says he signed up for the Border Patrol but again was rejected because of
his age.

During a stay in the Old West town of Tombstone, Simcox worked briefly as a
cowpoke in mock gunfights -- "I always got killed," he notes, wryly. Then he saw
an ad in the local newspaper, the Tombstone Tumbleweed, seeking an assistant
editor. Simcox says he was hired on the spot.

In 2002, Simcox cashed his retirement fund and bought the paper for $60,000,
transforming it into a chronicle of illegal immigration.

Three years later, he and California activist Jim Gilchrist launched the
Minuteman Project, stringing sentries along border smuggling trails and drawing
worldwide attention.

But the notoriety was tempered by criticism of his motives and credibility.

The Southern Poverty Law Center, a liberal organization that monitors hate
groups, commissioned a report that depicted Simcox as a " relentless
self-aggrandizer who comes across with the smug egotism and fiery conviction of
a former nobody."

Simcox says he feels empathy for immigrants and worries that his work causes
them pain.

"If I were in another country and right across the border was a land of milk and
honey, I'd be doing it, too," he says. "Don't blame the victims."

Which brings Simcox back to the true culprit he sees in the immigration impasse,
as explained in manifestoes on his Minuteman website: "The existing border
crisis is a dereliction of duty by those entrusted with American security and
sovereignty. ... We demand that President Bush (and) members of Congress
maintain an orderly queue of entry into our country."

Wagner reports daily for The Arizona Republic in Phoenix

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO,color,Khampha Bouaphanh,AP
PHOTO, B/W,Jeff Topping,Getty Images
PHOTO, B/W,Khampha Bouaphanh,AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              189 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 25, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

No getting around it: Fence needed at high-traffic points;
Border barriers would plug holes, demonstrate U.S. determination.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 541 words


Anyone who has looked at the illegal immigration issue knows the limits of
border fences. Fences can't clamp down on employers who knowingly hire illegal
immigrants. They can't stop people who come to the USA legally but overstay
their visas. They can't create jobs in Mexico that would dampen the desire of so
many to come here.

There are many reasons fences won't solve the nation's illegal immigration
problems. And yet they have an undeniable logic as part of the solution.

Sections of the U.S.-Mexico border are so inundated with illegal crossings that
to not build a fence is tantamount to giving up. In the areas along the border
south of Tucson, the Border Patrol is apprehending almost half a million people
a year. While fence opponents often speak of the negative symbolism of walling
off the border, the absence of any meaningful barriers in high-traffic areas is
highly symbolic itself. It conveys the unmistakable message that the United
States isn't serious about stemming the tide of illegal immigration.

The Senate has voted for a 370-mile,triple-layer fence, with a cost estimate
starting at about $1 billion and going as high as several times that, situated
in places with a high volume of illegal crossings selected by the Homeland
Security secretary. The House of Representatives has approved a 700-mile
non-contiguous fence, and some anti-immigration groups support a 2,000-mile
barrier along the entire U.S.-Mexico border.

The Senate plan, part of an immigration bill approaching passage, is a
reasonable compromise and an appropriate part of a broader strategy. It's no
panacea, but experience suggests it would deter illegal crossings.

In San Diego, 14 miles of triple fencing built a decade ago is generally
considered a success. Apprehensions there have dropped dramatically -- from
524,231 in 1995 to 126,913 last year. To be sure, much of this is because
immigrants are crossing farther to the east. But the fence clearly has made it
harder for illegal immigrants to cross at the point where it is most convenient.

A fence, along with the appropriate manpower and technology to patrol it, could
save some of the 400 to 500 people who die in crossing each year. The harsh
Sonora Desert, along the Arizona-Mexico border, is one of the most heavily
trafficked crossing points.

Critics say a fence would be ineffective or inhumane. They raise legitimate
points. But ultimately, how effective such a fence is won't be known without
trying it.

A fence isn't an appealing image of a welcoming nation, but it doesn't
necessarily reflect hostility toward all immigration. Even as the nation debates
efforts to stem illegal immigration, this year it will grant permanent residence
to more than 1 million immigrants who played by the rules and came here
lawfully.

Combined with other enforcement measures and a path to legality for some of the
estimated 12 million illegal immigrants already in the country, a fence in
high-traffic areas makes sense. It won't fix all of the problems related to
illegal immigration, but it will solve one -- the nation's lack of determination
to even try to secure its borders.

This is one of an occasional series of editorials on immigration issues. View
the previous editorials at editorialpage.usatoday.com.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Fred Greaves, Reuters

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              190 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 25, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Don't fence U.S. in;
Barrier at one section just pushes migrants to find other entry points.

BYLINE: Robin Hoover

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 343 words


Since 1994, law enforcement has failed to reduce the average number of people
crossing the U.S.-Mexico border by even one person per year. Universities attest
to the migration pattern.

No matter how many agents, no matter how much infrastructure, and no matter how
many tools and toys have been given to do the job, nothing has worked. Nothing.

Border fences might contribute to a perception of stability in border
communities as far as local law enforcement is concerned, but they do not deter
border crossers in the whole. They move migrants around a bit, but the U.S.
Border Patrol union opposes the walls precisely because they are ineffective.

The proposed fences are very expensive. When we consider all of the expenses
that are being proposed to reduce the amount of illegal immigration through
enforcement, it's obvious that the United States will eventually come to a time
of diminishing returns. It might already be cheaper to go to the Mexican city of
Nogales, for instance, and give away $5 bills than it is to continue to practice
deterrence.

Border fences are an affront to the Mexican government and the Mexican people.
We are not at war with Mexico, and, hopefully, we won't incite one.

Humane Borders is a humanitarian organization dedicated to trying to save lives.
We operate with permits to be on public lands. We don't get in the way of law
enforcement. We are funded in part by government. We try to reduce costs by
reducing the numbers of people who end up in emergency rooms, operating rooms
and the morgue.

The bottom line for us is that the fences will increase the number of migrant
deaths. In just the past few days, men, women and children have died preventable
deaths. The youngest was a 3-year-old boy.

Migrant feet will find the ends of the fences. Migrants will cross inhospitable
country and be exposed to the elements for longer periods of time. More migrants
will die. Face it, the fences are a public works project, not a project that
works.

Robin Hoover is president of Humane Borders and pastor of First Christian Church
in Tucson.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 26, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Senate passes immigration bill; GOP advocate of crackdown pledges 'battle'

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 507 words


WASHINGTON -- A bipartisan coalition held together to give President Bush the
comprehensive immigration bill that he says he wants. But the president may have
to shatter his own party's unity in the House of Representatives if the bill is
to become law.

"The ball is in the president's court," Sen. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., said
Thursday as the Senate approved the first rewrite of immigration law in 20 years
with mostly Democratic and independent support.

The 62-36 vote capped a month-long debate punctuated by lawmakers' stories of
their own immigrant roots. In the end, 38 Democrats, 23 Republicans and one
independent supported the bill.

The Senate bill would add staff and technology at the nation's borders, expand
opportunities for foreigners to work in the USA and give millions of illegal
immigrants who have lived here since Jan. 7, 2004, a chance to become citizens.

"It strengthens our security and reflects our humanity," said Sen. Edward
Kennedy, D-Mass., an architect of the bill. Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., opposed
the bill, calling it "a tremendous budget-buster."

The legislation faces strong opposition in the House, which passed a bill in
December that would make illegal immigration a felony, increase penalties for
hiring undocumented workers and beef up border security.

Some backers of the House bill say the Senate version awards amnesty to
lawbreakers. They promised to take a tough line in the House-Senate conference
committee that will hammer out differences between the bills.

"I'd rather see no bill than a bad bill," said Rep. Pete King, R-N.Y. "An
overwhelming majority of House Republicans are opposed to legalization."

Rep. Tom Tancredo, a Colorado Republican who has become a national spokesman for
cracking down on illegal immigration, sounded a defiant note. "The battle has
been joined," he said.

Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Arlen Specter, R-Pa., a supporter of the
Senate immigration bill, joined Democratic leaders in calling on Bush to
overcome GOP opposition. "We are looking forward to the president's more
intensive participation," he said.

Specter and House Judiciary Committee Chairman F. James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis.,
have said they want to begin ironing out differences. "The public deserves to
know where their elected representatives stand on this before the elections in
November," Sensenbrenner said.

Specter warned that Republicans, who control the House and Senate, could pay a
price if Congress fails to reach a compromise. "There is an election in
November, and our leadership position as Republicans is on the line," he said.

That could put Bush in the politically awkward position of relying on Democrats
to produce an immigration bill. Of the Senate's 55 Republicans, 32 voted against
the bill containing many elements the president favors. The House bill was
supported by 203 of the chamber's 231 Republicans.

Democrats and Republicans said Bush will have to flex his muscle to get a bill
he can sign. "His biggest work is ahead of him," said Senate Minority Leader
Harry Reid, D-Nev.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 30, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Nation splits 4 ways on illegals;
Compromise could alienate half of USA

BYLINE: Susan Page

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 532 words


WASHINGTON -- Americans hold strong and conflicting views about immigration that
underscore the difficulties Congress will face in reaching a final legislative
deal on the issue, an analysis of USA TODAY polling data shows.

The public splits into separate camps over whether illegal immigrants should be
able to work toward citizenship, whether they help or hurt the economy -- even
whether immigration is an urgent problem that must be addressed.

Those disagreements are reflected in the Senate immigration bill that passed
Thursday and the House bill, passed in December, which takes a tougher approach.
A conference committee will try to resolve conflicts between the two measures on
the issue, President Bush's top domestic priority before Congress.

A USA TODAY breakdown of public opinion, based on Gallup polls taken in April
and May, finds Americans falling into four clusters that are roughly equal in
size but vary dramatically in point of view. The groups can be characterized as
"hard-liners," "unconcerned," "ambivalent" and "welcoming."

"You're talking about irreconcilable groups that represent substantial parts of
the population," says Roberto Suro, director of the non-partisan Pew Hispanic
Center. "A compromise that 50% of the population can go for leaves half the
public feeling unhappy, and very unhappy."

Among the findings in the USA TODAY analysis:

*Traditional partisanship doesn't drive views on immigration. Gender, education
and family history seem to do as much to shape attitudes as political party or
ideology. Significant numbers of liberals and conservatives are divided among
three of the four groups. Moderates spread across all four.

In Congress, too, partisanship doesn't rule on this issue. Republicans are
particularly divided: 23 Senate Republicans voted for the immigration bill, 32
voted against it.

*Those who want to take the toughest steps against illegal immigration also feel
the most urgency about the subject. Two-thirds of the "hard-liners" call the
issue "extremely important." No one in the most lenient group, the
"unconcerned," feels that way.

The intensity of their views magnifies the clout of those most opposed to
citizenship programs. "They project a loud voice," says Frank Sharry of the
pro-immigrant National Immigration Forum.

"The people whose political decisions are based on a candidate's immigration
stance are mainly pro-control, pro-enforcement people," says Mark Kirkorian of
the Center for Immigration Studies, which supports tougher enforcement.

The "hard-liners" are also the most Republican group -- one reason many House
Republicans, especially those considered at risk in November's elections, may be
reluctant to compromise.

*The four groups are starkly at odds on basic issues, making it difficult to see
common ground. No one in the "hard-liner" group supports a proposal to allow
illegal immigrants to work toward citizenship, but more than three-fourths of
those in the other three groups do. The Senate bill includes such a provision;
the House bill doesn't.

In two of the four groups, overwhelming majorities say removing illegal
immigrants would hurt the economy. In the other two groups, solid majorities say
it would help.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              193 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 6, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Runoff for disgraced congressman's seat may be bellwether;
Illegal immigration, corruption big issues

BYLINE: William M. Welch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 600 words


A special election today in San Diego to fill the seat of a congressman
imprisoned for bribery has become a test of voter discontent with Republican
leadership and frustration over the porous border with Mexico.

In the race to replace disgraced Republican former congressman Randy "Duke"
Cunningham, Republican nominee Brian Bilbray, a former three-term congressman
from a neighboring district, would in any other time be a heavy favorite against
a Democratic opponent.

California's 50th Congressional District tilts heavily Republican in
registration. A Democrat hasn't won here in modern times, and President Bush
twice carried the district by 10 percentage points.

Yet the race between Bilbray and Francine Busby, a relative newcomer to
politics, appears to be coming down to a tight finish. Both candidates have said
their private polling shows each with a very slight lead.

"If Republicans lose a district that is this Republican, they ought to be real
worried," says Gary Jacobson, political scientist at the University of
California, San Diego. "It's driven by unhappiness with the state of the
nation."

The winner will serve out the remaining seven months of Cunningham's term.
Whoever wins, Jacobson says, will prevail for reasons that transcend "local
politics or local issues."

Bilbray has focused on illegal immigration, criticizing Bush for what he says is
amnesty for illegal immigrants and Busby for supporting a bill that would permit
those who got into the country illegally to qualify for legal status. Bilbray
calls for a crackdown on employers who hire illegal immigrants, thousands of
whom have used the area as a port of entry from Mexico.

"The choice between Busby and Bilbray is between benefits for illegals and
amnesty, or no benefits," Bilbray says.

With Bush's popularity low in polls in California as well as nationally, Bilbray
has made a point of separating himself from the president even as Vice President
Cheney visited recently to help Bilbray raise campaign money.

On immigration, Bilbray says of Bush: "We don't casually disagree. We strongly
disagree."

Busby has tried to capitalize on voter discontent on issues such as gas prices,
deaths of servicemembers in Iraq, and a lobbying scandal in Washington she ties
to the Republicans.

"I think people are looking at me as a messenger of hope and a symbol of change
in Congress," she says. "People are dissatisfied both with his direction and
that of Congress. They see Congress rubber-stamping everything."

She calls Cunningham the personification of corruption and has tried to tie
Bilbray to it by pointing to his work as a Washington lobbyist. After losing his
House seat in 2000, Bilbray lobbied for clients including an
anti-illegal-immigration group and a utility company.

A TV ad she is airing charges Bilbray "flip-flopped on a guest-worker program"
and plugs a third candidate -- independent anti-illegal-immigration hard-liner
William Griffith -- as an alternative for conservatives.

"Don't expect lobbyist Brian Bilbray to fix Washington or fix our borders," her
ad says.

A school board member who lost overwhelmingly to Cunningham two years ago, Busby
has been catapulted to contender status by Cunningham's bribery convictions and
Bush's difficulties. She has raised more campaign money, $2.25 million to
Bilbray's $1 million as of May 17 federal reports.

Bilbray says his victory would dampen national Democrats' hopes for a House
majority.

"Mrs. Pelosi," he says, referring to the House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi
who hopes to be elevated out of the minority, "shouldn't be measuring the
speaker's office just yet."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W, Lenny Ignelzi, AP (2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              194 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 6, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

More migrants apprehended along border;
Explanations differ for 4% rise so far this year

BYLINE: Judy Keen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 603 words


CHICAGO -- The Border Patrol says apprehensions of illegal immigrants along the
Mexican border are up nearly 4% so far this year because of increased
enforcement.

But advocacy groups say greater numbers are crossing the border because they are
confused about conflicting legislation passed by Congress and hope to qualify
for legal status.

"More people are coming because they believe they'll get a crack at
legalization," says Jessica Aranda of the Latino Union of Chicago. Chicago has
one of the USA's largest Mexican immigrant communities.

There is no official data on the flow of illegal immigrants. Border Patrol Chief
David Aguilar said Monday there has been no surge in the number of illegal
crossings since President Bush announced in May that 6,000 National Guard troops
would be sent to the border. Aguilar expects a decrease as more agents and Guard
members are deployed.

Border Patrol spokesman Richard Rojas says apprehensions at the southern border
are up this year to 826,109, from 795,218 at this point in 2005. "We're
enforcing more; therefore, we're apprehending more," he says.

Daniel Martinez, immigration program director at Catholic Charities in Laredo,
Texas, says some immigrants believe crossing is easier now than it will be when
National Guard troops arrive.

Other immigrants believe "maybe they can qualify" for a "guest worker" program
or citizenship if they enter the USA soon, Martinez says.

Sheriff Omar Lucio in Cameron County, Texas, says his department is getting more
reports of illegal immigrants abandoned in trucks or jammed into apartments.

A House bill passed in December would make illegal immigration a felony and
boost enforcement. The Senate version, passed May 25, calls for a guest-worker
program proposed by Bush and giving illegal immigrants here since Jan. 7, 2004,
a chance to become citizens. Both chambers will negotiate compromise
legislation.

Groups say confusion over the bills means some illegal immigrants are being
ripped off. Some pay $500-$1,000 to people claiming to be lawyers who promise to
expedite applications for a guest-worker program that was passed by the Senate
but not the House. Applications don't exist.

"The fake lawyers disappear with the money," says Ana Maria Achila of the Latin
American Integration Center in New York City. "There is definitely confusion.
We're seeing a lot of people asking where they sign up."

Advocacy groups and Spanish-language media are trying to educate immigrants.
Meetings were being held here Monday and today to tell immigrants that they
can't apply for guest-worker status. In Alamosa, Colo., a community meeting
Sunday explained that no bill has become law.

People who work with immigrants say the uncertainty and a legal crackdown are
roiling communities:

*Tougher border enforcement is prompting some illegal immigrants to use
crossings that are "more isolated, desolate and dangerous," says Jennifer Allen
of Border Action Network, a human-rights group in Tucson.

*Workplace raids that became more frequent recently made some illegal immigrants
afraid to leave home, says Mariano Espinoza of the Minnesota Immigrant Freedom
Network in St. Paul: "They want to work, but they don't know if the next time
they will be detained."

*"I see more fear than anything, because people just don't know what's going
on," says Flora Archuleta of the San Luis Valley Immigrant Resource Center in
Alamosa.

"There is fear, there is confusion," says Catherine Salgado of the Illinois
Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights. But the possibility of a new path to
citizenship means "there is hope, too."

Contributing: Mimi Hall in Washington

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Jae C. Hong, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 15, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

More than 2,000 illegal immigrants nabbed in sweep

BYLINE: William M. Welch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 391 words


LOS ANGELES {ndash} Federal agents have arrested more than 2,000 illegal
immigrants, many of them convicted criminals, child predators, gang members and
fugitives, in sweeps across the country over the past three weeks, authorities
said Wednesday.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement's Operation Return to Sender was the latest
in a series of crackdowns on illegal immigrants since Homeland Security
Secretary Michael Chertoff promised a tougher enforcement effort in April.

"America's welcome does not extend to immigrants who come here to commit
crimes,'' ICE Assistant Secretary Julie Myers said in Houston, where she
announced 2,179 arrests.

The arrests came in every region of the country -- 34 states and the District of
Columbia. The most, 722, were in California and included 402 in San Diego, site
of the busiest U.S. border crossing with Mexico.

Elsewhere in Southern California, agents focused on illegal immigrants with a
record of sexual offenses against children, said Kumar Kibble, assistant special
agent in charge for Orange County. He said the agency "targeted the greatest
threats" with its operation, which began May 26 and concluded with the
announcement.

"Our efforts continue,'' Kibble said.

Nationwide, those arrested included 146 people previously convicted of sex
offenses involving minors; 367 members or associates of violent gangs; and 640
fugitive immigrants who had failed to comply with orders to leave. An additional
121 people were arrested on charges of felony re-entry after deportation,
illegal alien possession of a firearm and similar charges.

Among those arrested were Franklin Ademir Rodriguez, 25, a Salvadoran with a
criminal history and membership in the violent street gang Mara Salvatrucha, the
agency said. He was arrested at his job at a car rental agency at Boston's Logan
Airport. Another, Wilber Kuk, 24, is a Mexican national and member of the 18th
Street gang in Washington, D.C.  Kuk has convictions for abduction, malicious
wounding and robbery.

Kibble said agents tracked down people by examining lists of sex offenders,
checking criminal and other records and following up on tips.

Some of those arrested fell into the net by accident: In San Marcos near San
Diego, agents arrested two illegal immigrants after their car struck an ICE
patrol vehicle from the rear, ICE spokeswoman Lauren Mack said.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Michael Dwyer, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 22, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Republicans plan dueling hearings on immigration;
Split over issue spurs media campaigns

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely and David Jackson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 757 words


WASHINGTON -- The congressional immigration debate took on the trappings of a
national political campaign Wednesday, as each side planned a series of
made-for-media events across the country to highlight the pros and cons of
granting millions of illegal immigrants a chance at citizenship.

One day after Republican leaders in the House of Representatives announced they
will put a sweeping Senate immigration bill under summer-long scrutiny with a
series of public hearings, Senate Judiciary Chairman Arlen Specter, R-Pa.,
countered with plans for hearings of his own.

Specter said his sessions, beginning July 5 and lasting through the summer, will
highlight "the need for a comprehensive bill" instead of the more narrowly
focused border-security legislation that the House approved last December.

The dueling hearings are unusual because both the House and Senate have already
passed legislation. Normally, the next step would be a House-Senate conference
committee to reconcile differences between the bills. That now will be put off
while both sides take their case to the public over the summer.

Unlike most national political campaigns, this one will feature Republicans vs.
Republicans, and pit President Bush's domestic legacy against his party's
congressional majority.

Bush, a former Texas governor who speaks some Spanish and has worked hard to woo
the nation's fast-growing bloc of Hispanic voters to the Republican Party, has
made overhauling the nation's immigration laws a priority since the beginning of
his first term. He favors expanding opportunities for foreigners to work here
and giving many workers now here illegally a chance to stay.

Now, some of the same conservatives who helped elect Bush are blocking his
immigration plan from becoming law.

"I love him, but the president is in error on this," said Sen. Jeff Sessions,
R-Ala.

One of Bush's chief obstacles is a man who until now has been one of his most
loyal lieutenants: House Speaker Dennis Hastert, R-Ill. Hastert is trying to
hold together restive House Republicans in an election year when polls show
public dissatisfaction with the GOP-led Congress.

Last month, the Senate passed an immigration bill that includes many of Bush's
proposals with the support of an overwhelming majority of Democrats and 23 of
the chamber's 55 Republicans. Rep. Jim Kolbe, an Arizona Republican who has
co-authored a similar measure, says the same thing would happen in the House if
he could get a vote on his bill.

Kolbe can't because House rules give the majority party strict control over what
legislation gets to the floor and Hastert has refused to permit votes on bills
that aren't supported by a majority of House Republicans. It's unlikely the
speaker will make an exception for the president now, Hastert associates say.

"I don't see it happening," said Dan Mattoon, a Republican lobbyist who has been
a top Hastert adviser. "The election is less than five months away."

Election-year politics may be a crucial element in Hastert's strategy. Sen. John
McCain, R-Ariz., said the  victory by Republican candidate Brian Bilbray in a
June 6 special election for a Southern California congressional seat influenced
House Republicans' decision to put off negotiations on the immigration bill.
Bilbray campaigned aggressively on the need to crack down on illegal immigration
and held a seat the Republican Party feared losing.

"A lot of them obviously drew the conclusion that the Bilbray election was an
affirmation of a hard line on immigration," McCain said.

The senator, who canceled a fundraising appearance for Bilbray after the
candidate attacked the Senate immigration bill that McCain helped to write,
offered a different explanation: He says more than $4.5 million in contributions
from the National Republican Congressional Committee was "the critical factor."

Some Republican strategists say party conservatives are taking a risk in
postponing action on immigration. "If nothing is done, House Republicans will be
blamed," former House majority leader Dick Armey, a conservative Republican,
said in an interview last week. He said Republican leaders are paying too much
attention to a small group of anti-immigration militants. "Immigration has been
run from the back benches and the far right," Armey said.

Vividly illustrating the split in the Republican ranks, Sessions offered a sharp
retort to Armey's views. "What planet is he on?" the Alabama senator asked. "I
think the people who are in trouble over immigration are the ones who voted for
this terrible (Senate) bill."

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Scott Olson, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 6, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Lawmakers hear Americans' voices on immigration;
Hearings held on both coasts to discuss bills

BYLINE: William M. Welch and Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 646 words


SAN DIEGO -- Congressional Republicans heard lively testimony Wednesday from
mayors, sheriffs and ordinary citizens in two public hearings held on both
coasts to discuss illegal immigration.

The hearings in San Diego and Philadelphia marked the opening of a summer season
that will take proponents of competing immigration proposals in Congress across
the country. The aim is to demonstrate public support for their plans.

The House bill focuses on enforcing the border and cracking down on companies
that hire illegal immigrants.

The House version does not include the proposal of the Senate bill to create a
path to citizenship for most of the estimated 12 million people living here
illegally.

In Washington, President Bush appeared at a donut shop in Virginia owned by an
Iranian immigrant to reaffirm his call for a bill that allows some of those here
illegally to qualify eventually for citizenship. Although he called for more
border security, Bush said, "We're not going to be able to deport people who've
been here working hard and raising their families."

On the West Coast, much of the talk was about how hard it is to handle the
stream of Mexican citizens coming across the border.

Rep. Ed Royce, R-Calif., chairman of the subcommittee on international
terrorism, said that if Congress approved the House-passed bill, it would
establish "operational control of our border."

"It is elementary: To defend ourselves, we must secure our borders," Royce said.

Law enforcement officials testified that a large number of criminals were
slipping across the border.

Los Angeles County Sheriff Lee Baca said 27% of the inmates in his jails are
illegal immigrants. Rick Flores, sheriff of Webb County, Texas, says his
department duels with drug cartels and smuggling operations across the border in
Nuevo Laredo, Mexico.

"We need your help," he said. "The Mexico government is in on the
narco-smuggling."

Darryl Griffen, chief of the San Diego sector of the U.S. Border Patrol, said he
needs not just more officers but better technology to stop illegal entrants.

He said electronic monitoring equipment that assists officers covers 9 miles of
the 60 miles of border for which he is responsible.

"They're turning our country into their country," said Dan Colandria, 34, of
Vista, Calif.

Colandria said he is a member of the Minutemen, a volunteer group that patrols
the border with Mexico and calls authorities when people are spotted trying to
sneak across.

"It's just not right," he said.

Democrats mocked the Republicans for holding hearings they said would not lead
to solutions.

"These hearings are not designed to legislate -- they are designed to whip up
public opinion," said Rep. Brad Sherman, D-Calif.

New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg, a Republican, urged lawmakers to find a
way to let illegal immigrants remain in the country. He told the panel in
Philadelphia that New York City is home to more than 3 million immigrants and a
half-million of them came here illegally.

"Although they broke the law by illegally crossing our borders ... our city's
economy would be a shell of itself had they not, and it would collapse if they
were deported," he said. "The same holds true for the nation."

Philadelphia Police Commissioner Sylvester Johnson and representatives of
Pennsylvania's dairy, landscaping and hospitality industries testified in favor
of giving illegal immigrants a chance at citizenship.

Louis Barletta, the Republican mayor of Hazleton, a northeast Pennsylvania town
of 22,000 people, said his city has been "terrorized" by illegal immigrant drug
dealers and murderers.

He said he is pushing an ordinance that will impose tough penalties on employers
who hire illegal immigrants.

"I have had enough," Barletta said. "This ordinance is intended to make Hazleton
one of the most difficult places in the United States for illegal immigrants."

Kiely reported from Philadelphia

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, William Thomas Cain, Getty Images
PHOTO, B/W, Jason Reed, Reuters
PHOTO, B/W, Denis Poroy, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 14, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Poll: Political debate spurs Hispanic unity

BYLINE: Charisse Jones

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 412 words


Hispanics say they are suffering more discrimination because of the debate over
illegal immigration but feel that the controversy has sparked greater unity
among them, according to a survey released Thursday.

The poll, conducted by the Pew Hispanic Center, a non-partisan research group,
is the first national survey of Hispanics since the spring, when debate over the
nation's estimated 12 million illegal immigrants escalated in Congress. A House
bill that would make illegal immigrants felons helped spark protest marches on
behalf of immigrants in dozens of cities.

"By any measure, the spring of 2006 ... (was) a historical period for the Latino
population here," says Roberto Suro, the Pew Center's director. "Clearly, both
the marches and the immigration debate have made deep impressions."

Among the survey's findings:

*54% say the debate about immigration policy has led to an increase in
discrimination against Hispanics. A majority of those surveyed, regardless of
income, education or gender, hold this view, including 51% of foreign-born
Hispanics and 57% of those born in the USA.

*63% say the marches were the start of a social movement that will continue.

*58% say Hispanics are working together toward shared goals, an increase from
2002 when only 43% of those surveyed saw such unity.

*Three-fourths say the policy debate will spur more Hispanics to vote in
November, but it is unclear which political party might benefit most. One in
four say that neither Republicans nor Democrats have the best position on
immigration.

"What we see in the survey is the bounce the Republicans got off the Bush
election in 2004 is basically gone," Suro says. President Bush received 40% of
the Hispanic vote in 2004, according to the center's analysis of exit poll data.
"On the other hand, there are no clear Democratic gains."

While a majority of Hispanics sees the street demonstrations as a galvanizing
force in their community, some supporters of tighter immigration controls say
the marches made many Americans less sympathetic toward the undocumented.

"Americans who didn't march but watched on TV got really ticked off," says John
Keeley, spokesman for the Center for Immigration Studies. "You are, generally
speaking, talking about illegal aliens and their supporters making demands of
rights and invoking the language of the 1960s civil rights marches, which, of
course, involved U.S. citizens. And I think whatever the goals of those marches,
it dramatically backfired."

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Adrienne Lewis, USA TODAY, Sources: Poll of 2,000
Hispanic adults taken June 5-July 3 (Bar graph, pie chart)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              199 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 20, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration issue takes flight;
Campaign topic even in states far from border

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 980 words


MONROEVILLE, Pa. -- In the debate now raging over the USA's estimated 12 million
illegal immigrants, this Pittsburgh suburb of aging strip malls and tidy brick
homes seems anything but ground zero.

It has been decades since waves of foreigners came to western Pennsylvania to
man the region's mills and factories. In fact, local officials are worried about
the lack of newcomers from other countries.

"One of the reasons Pittsburgh isn't growing is that we don't do a good enough
job welcoming legal immigrants," says Sen. Rick Santorum, R-Pa., whose father
came from Italy as a child.

The Pew Hispanic Center estimates Pennsylvania's illegal immigrant population at
no more than 175,000, or 1.4% of the population. The impact is felt less on the
state's western side, where jobs are harder to find.

Buzz word: 'Border security'

That hasn't stopped illegal immigration from becoming a campaign issue, not only
here but in places such as Omaha, Nashville and Salt Lake City. Santorum,
running behind Democrat Bob Casey in his race for re-election to a third term,
made border security the theme of his first campaign commercials, which began
airing last month. At a local fire hall recently, he hosted a community forum
under a banner touting "Border Security First."

Regardless of the size of the local illegal immigrant population or a region's
proximity to the U.S.-Mexican border, in this election year "every state is a
border state," says Lance Frizzell, spokesman for Republican Jim Bryson, who is
running for governor of Tennessee.

People on both sides of the immigration debate agree it could help decide this
fall's elections. "After the Iraq war, it is the issue that is paramount on
everybody's mind," says House Majority Leader John Boehner, R-Ohio.

Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., agrees: "It's obviously the No. 2 issue in the
country."

McCain, President Bush and Democrats such as Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass.,
believe it is important to bring illegal immigrants out of the shadows. The bill
McCain helped write includes a plan to offer millions of illegal immigrants a
chance at citizenship. The Senate passed it in May.

Boehner, Santorum and other conservatives back the approach taken in a competing
bill passed by the House in December. It would not offer citizenship to people
in the country illegally and would crack down on employers who hire them. There
will be no need to deport illegal immigrants, supporters argue; they'll leave
because they won't get jobs.

"We can solve this problem without even dealing with the issue of what you do
with all the people who are here," Santorum said.

Casey supports the Senate bill, spokesman Doug Anderson says.

The battle for control of Congress is complicating efforts to reach a
legislative compromise. "The closer we get to the election, the harder it is,"
says Sen. Mel Martinez, R-Fla. Some accuse politicians of pandering to elements
that Rep. Chris Cannon, R-Utah, says are "absolutely, clearly racist."

'Playing to primal fear'

Cannon successfully fended off a challenge in Utah's June 27 primary because of
his support for an immigration bill similar to the Senate's. He says much of the
rhetoric on illegal immigration is "playing to primal fear" and keeping
lawmakers from compromise.

Many of his colleagues "don't want to be associated with a solution," Cannon
says. "There are races where losing 4%, 5% or 7% of the Republican vote to a guy
who claims to be tougher on immigration could make a difference."

Rep. Brian Bilbray, R-Calif., won a June 6 special election in suburban San
Diego by campaigning against illegal immigration: "I bet the farm on it."

Bilbray makes no apologies. "The American people are sick and tired of political
correctness standing in the way of not only common sense but common decency," he
says.

Other unlikely places where immigration is a hot issue:

*Nebraska. Sen. Ben Nelson is campaigning on the fact that he was one of only
four Democrats to vote against the Senate bill. "I happen to be on the right
side with a majority of Nebraskans," he says.

It was also an issue in the Republican gubernatorial primary between incumbent
Gov. Dave Heineman and Rep. Tom Osborne, a former University of Nebraska
football coach. Heineman opposed a measure that would allow children of illegal
immigrants in-state college tuition rates; Osborne supported it and lost.

*Tennessee. Bryson is attacking Democratic Gov. Phil Bredesen for opposing
legislation that would require state law enforcement officials to turn illegal
immigrants over to federal authorities. Bryson is highlighting the case of an
illegal immigrant charged with killing a Tennessee couple in a car accident.

Bredesen spokesman Will Pinkston says it amounts to asking state police to
become immigration agents. He accuses Bryson, lagging Bredesen in recent polls,
of playing desperation politics.

*Michigan. Mike Bouchard, the leading Republican candidate for the Senate
nomination, is attacking Democratic Sen. Debbie Stabenow for opposing amendments
to make  English the nation's official language and bar illegal immigrants who
become citizens from collecting Social Security for work done unlawfully.

"The biggest issue in Michigan is the economy. This rates right next to it,"
Bouchard says. He's making an issue of Stabenow's votes on immigration
amendments even though she voted against the overall bill. "This bill does not
do enough to protect American jobs," she wrote recently.

In Pennsylvania, participants at Santorum's community forum said they were
pleased with his emphasis on border security. "It's something people can
understand," said Terra Jackson, a 29-year-old nurse.

Len Young, 49, a Republican activist, said Santorum's focus on immigration will
energize supporters. "I'm very vehement about this issue," he said. "When I'm on
the phone and they say, 'For English, press 1,' that's where it stops. There
shouldn't be a choice."

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              200 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 21, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Border security should be priority, Hastert says

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 474 words


WASHINGTON -- Two months after the Senate passed a bill that would give
citizenship to millions of illegal immigrants, House Speaker Dennis Hastert
remains adamant that border security must be improved before Congress considers
other changes to the law.

"I would look at it as if you have a patient who is bleeding to death," Hastert
told USA TODAY. "Close the wound first. Secure the border. And then you can
begin to look at what other options are."

The Illinois Republican's comments came on the eve of a weekend inspection of
the U.S.-Mexican border, which he calls "a sieve." He is leading a delegation
that includes supporters of a House immigration bill that emphasizes tighter
border security and penalties on employers who hire illegal immigrants, as well
as opponents who prefer the Senate bill.

As the top House Republican, Hastert will be a key figure in determining whether
an immigration bill is enacted this year. He's determined to use his leverage to
get a bill more to his liking.

Hastert is making no promises about when or if he will appoint House negotiators
to a committee that will work out differences between the two immigration bills.
It will happen "when I think we're ready to move a bill," he said.

That may take longer than some supporters of a comprehensive immigration
overhaul, such as President Bush, had hoped. Hastert said he may extend House
hearings on immigration and border security into September, a move that could
jeopardize chances for a compromise before the Nov. 7 elections. Congress is set
to recess for the campaign on Sept. 29.

Hastert's go-slow approach puts him at odds with Bush, who has urged quick
congressional action. Bush says the legislation should go beyond border-security
measures to include more opportunities for foreigners to work here temporarily
and a promise of citizenship for many of the nation's estimated 12million
illegal residents.

Supporters of the Senate bill, such as Sens. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., and Lindsey
Graham, R-S.C., have said they have opened informal discussions with House
Republicans and are still hopeful that a compromise can be struck.

Hastert said he won't be moved, not even by White House overtures. "I don't need
assurances from the president," he said. "I know what we want."

The speaker said he told Bush recently that he wants to see a measurable drop in
illegal border crossings before considering other immigration measures the
president wants.

Hastert and five other House lawmakers will tour border hot spots in Arizona and
Texas today and Saturday. He plans to meet with National Guard troops and
homeland security officials. "I'm going to be talking to people who are actually
at the gates," he said.

One out of every five voters in Hastert's suburban Chicago district is Hispanic.
He said his stance has sparked "a mixed attitude" from his constituents.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Tim Dillon, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              201 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 14, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Towns take aim at illegal immigration;
In Hazleton, Pa., landlords, employers could face fines

BYLINE: Oren Dorell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 598 words


Lou Barletta says illegal immigrants are overfilling schools in Hazleton, Pa.,
cramming local health clinics and overrunning the playground where he once
played basketball.

Barletta, mayor of the city of 22,000 south of Wilkes-Barre, says illegal
immigration is "destroying small towns" that don't have the budget to deal with
the influx.

So Barletta proposed a law that fines landlords for renting to illegal
immigrants and punishes employers for hiring them. The City Council passed the
measure, and Barletta signed it into law last month. To implement it, Barletta
wants to require renters to go to City Hall and obtain a permit assuring
landlords that they are in the USA legally. That would require a background
check with the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Barletta says that even though the law isn't in effect yet, it's having an
impact: "People are leaving daily."

Hazleton's requirements are strict, but other communities also are targeting
landlords and employers. A similar law passed recently in Riverside, N.J., and
others are being drafted or voted on in several other communities where leaders
have complained for months about inaction by federal lawmakers.

"If a byproduct of this is to send out a message and embarrass the people out in
D.C., then maybe that's good," says Andy Anderson, a councilman in Palm Bay,
Fla. The city of 93,000 is one reading away from adopting a law that would fine
anyone who employs an illegal immigrant a minimum of $500.

Similar measures are scheduled for votes in the Pennsylvania towns of Allentown
(population 107,000), Shenandoah (5,300) and Mount Pocono (3,000). Local
legislators in Gadsden, Ala. (population 37,400), Kennewick, Wash. (61,000), and
Escondido, Calif. (134,000), are considering proposing legislation. A bill was
narrowly rejected in Avon Park, Fla. (8,900).

Opponents, however, are lining up for a fight in Hazleton.

"This is a test case that will serve as a model for challenges around the
country," says criminal defense lawyer David Vaida of Allentown, Pa. He has
joined forces with the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund and the
Pennsylvania chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union and says they are
preparing a lawsuit.

"I don't think there was a municipality in the country until this came up that
has ever required such a thing," he says. "Have you ever heard of a tenant
needing an occupancy permit?"

Kris Kobach, once an immigration adviser to former attorney general John
Ashcroft, disagrees. He says it is possible to draft a local ordinance that
deals with immigration that will stand up to judicial scrutiny. He has helped
several states draft immigration-related bills, including one in Utah that would
penalize employers. Four states have passed similar laws this spring: Georgia,
Louisiana, Colorado and Pennsylvania.

"States and localities bear a significant amount of the burden for dealing with
illegal aliens, but the federal government bears the brunt of enforcing the
law," Kobach says. "And when they don't, states and local governments pay the
price."

Joseph Turner, an activist in San Bernardino, Calif. (population 199,000),
pushed the idea before Hazleton adopted its law. The City Council declined to
vote on it, and Turner was unable to gather enough signatures to put it on the
ballot. He says passage across the country will "put enormous pressure on the
federal government to come up with a solution that will finally solve this
problem once and for all."

Barletta, meanwhile, says he has been contacted by officials from 30 towns
asking for a copy of Hazleton's law.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              202 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 15, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Census: Newest arrivals fan out;
Patterns change for immigrants

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 421 words


Mexicans with little education and limited English skills are leading a wave of
newly arrived immigrants who are increasingly fanning out from traditional
gateway states, Census data released today indicate.

The dispersal of new immigrants to parts of the Southeast and Midwest that are
unaccustomed to foreign-born populations in large numbers may be fueling
national concerns about illegal immigration, some population analysts say.

"The most rapid gainers are almost every state in the southeastern U.S. other
than Florida," says Jeffrey Passel, demographer at the Pew Hispanic Center.
"Those are the states with the highest percentage of undocumented immigrants."

The foreign-born population in South Carolina grew 48% from 2000 to 2005,
according to Passel's analysis. Indiana registered a 30% gain and Nebraska 34%.

Florida is one of six traditional immigration gateway states, along with
California, Texas, New York, New Jersey and Illinois. The share of the
undocumented population living in those states dropped from 80% in 1990 to 60%
in 2005, according to Passel's research. The number of illegal immigrants in the
USA has jumped from about 3.5 million then to about 12 million today.

The new data provide the most details about the nation's population since the
2000 Census. The Census Bureau traditionally has reserved its most exhaustive
survey for the official head count every 10 years.

To track rapid demographic shifts every year, the bureau launched the American
Community Survey to gather household information such as family size, income,
and grandparents as caregivers. The survey is reaching 3 million addresses
nationwide -- 2.5% of the population -- and for the first time offers interim
data on cities that have as few as 65,000 people.

"It's much meatier data for local planners," says Bob Coats, a Census expert for
the North Carolina governor's office. The information can help school districts
plan construction and curricula, including English as a second language, Coats
says.

The statistics are becoming crucial as recent arrivals to the USA settle in new
places. "There's a big growth in people who don't speak English at home in
Nevada, Delaware and Georgia," says William Frey, demographer at the Brookings
Institution.

Frey also found that many recent Hispanic immigrants don't have high school
diplomas.

"Mexicans are making a huge impact on states where they only tread lightly in
the 1990s," Frey says. "The gateway states are not dominating the influx
anymore. It's hopscotching across the country."

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: Analysis of Census
Bureau data by Jeffrey Passel, Pew Hispanic Center (Map)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              203 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           August 16, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

ACLU sues city over immigrant crackdown

BYLINE: John Bacon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 105 words


Hispanic activists and the ACLU sued Hazleton, Pa., challenging one of the
nation's toughest crackdowns on illegal immigrants.

Hazleton, a city of 31,000 people 80 miles from Philadelphia, voted last month
to fine landlords $1,000 for renting to illegal immigrants, to deny business
permits to companies that give them jobs and to make English the city's official
language.

The Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund and other plaintiffs contend
the Constitution gives the federal government exclusive power to regulate
immigration. "We're confident the ordinance will stand up to judicial scrutiny,"
Mayor Lou Barletta said.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NATIONLINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              204 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 5, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration drops off the political calendar;
Wide differences, elections combine to stall legislation

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 697 words


WASHINGTON -- As Congress returns to work this week after a month-long break,
little progress is imminent on an issue that leaders of both parties have
identified as urgent: illegal immigration.

No meeting has been scheduled for House and Senate negotiators to resolve
differences between the two chambers' competing plans for tackling the problem.
Both measures include beefed-up border security and penalties for employers who
hire illegal immigrants. The Senate bill would offer most of the estimated 12
million illegal immigrants now working in the USA a chance to become citizens;
the House bill would not.

A major reason for the lack of action: the Nov. 7 elections. Both the House and
Senate plan to recess at the end of the month. Lawmakers' need to campaign will
limit the time they have to work on legislation and has made them less willing
to compromise.

"So many of the campaigns want to use this as a political football," said
Cecilia Muooz of the National Council of La Raza, a Latino civil rights
organization. "You can't do that and legislate seriously."

Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., an author of the bipartisan Senate bill, said last
week that no action is likely unless President Bush, who supports the Senate
approach, forces Republican congressional leaders to the negotiating table. "If
he wants to put this as a prime issue before the Congress, he can do it; he can
influence the Republican leadership," Kennedy said. "This requires presidential
attention and leadership. Without it, we're going to have a difficult time."

Many Republican conservatives, led by House Speaker Dennis Hastert, R-Ill.,
oppose legislation that would provide what they describe as "amnesty" for
illegal immigrants. GOP Sens. John Cornyn of Texas and Jon Kyl of Arizona and
the conservative Heritage Foundation say the Senate bill would expand the U.S.
population -- and federal spending -- by adding millions of citizens, who then
could petition for their relatives to enter the USA.

The White House is signaling that Bush would prefer to put off a showdown with
those opponents until after the elections.  Bush wants an immigration bill, but
"we recognize it will be a heavy lift with such a short legislative period,"
White House spokeswoman Dana Perino said. "Our aim is to get a good bill that
meets the objectives outlined by the president. If that requires more time, we
will use it."

La Raza is expressing concern over the tone of the immigration debate. "Campaign
ads from both parties are crossing the line," Janet Murguia, president and CEO
of the organization, said in a statement last week. Murguia called on leaders of
both parties to discourage "inflammatory" rhetoric and campaign tactics that
"demonize immigrants and Latinos."

Rep. Mike Pence, R-Ind., echoed that view. "We're talking about real people, the
overwhelming majority of whom have just come to this country to work," he said.

Pence is promoting a compromise bill that would allow illegal immigrants to
become "guest workers" by leaving the country and applying to re-enter with
legal status.

He said Republicans may be making a political mistake by putting off work on
immigration until after the election. "Congress has spent the last 18 months
telling the American people the immigration system is broken," Pence said.
"Without significant progress, there may be a price to pay."

In a report last month, the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office estimated
that the Senate immigration bill would increase federal spending $126 billion
over the next 10 years. The largest cost, $24.5 billion, would be tax credits
for low-income workers who would become legal under the legislation. An earlier
CBO estimate pegged the cost of the House bill at $1.9 billion over the next
five years.

Supporters of the Senate legislation say there will be social and financial
benefits from granting legal status to a large population of underground workers
and from permitting more foreigners to work legally.  Some leading Republicans,
such as Sens. John McCain of Arizona and Sam Brownback of Kansas, hold this
view, as do Republican-leaning business organizations such as the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce.

Contributing: David Jackson

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W, Getty Images (2)
PHOTO, B/W, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 7, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

On border, a daily game of cat and mouse;
Agents spend their days and nights chasing illegal immigrants -- only to have
most released and caught again days later

BYLINE: William M. Welch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 1422 words


TECATE, Calif. -- In the soft light of dawn, Nick Coates crouches behind dry
scrub at the mouth of Canyon 56 and waits.

Four figures make their way toward him in a line down a steep foot trail
surrounded by bush. Coates springs from his hiding spot and, without touching
his holstered gun, pushes the four men face down in the dirt.

Turning them over, Coates exclaims, "You again!"

So goes another day at the office for the U.S. Border Patrol, or La Migra to
those who try to cross the rugged peaks here from the border with Mexico just
beyond.

As the nation debates what to do about tens of thousands of people who cross
into the USA illegally every year, it is here along the dusty border that one
sees the enormous difficulty of cutting off the flow.

Despite night-vision cameras, helicopters and seismic-motion detectors, the
success of border-enforcement policies in the Southwest often come down to
whether an agent can run faster than whomever he is chasing.

On this night, the agents managed to outfox rather than outrun the men.

In serviceable Spanish, Coates asks the men for immigration papers. Each shakes
his head no.

"This guy here," he says, "I've caught three times in the last week and a half."

The last time was three days ago, at the same desolate spot.

900,000 people caught this year

Roughly 10,000 agents working in shifts are charged with watching the 1,951-mile
border with Mexico, from the beach west of Tijuana through Arizona and Texas to
the Gulf of Mexico. Assisting them are 6,000 members of the National Guard
ordered to the border by President Bush.

This year, the Border Patrol has caught more than 900,000 people trying to
cross. How many people are not caught is anybody's guess, the Border Patrol
says.

This 21-mile section of the U.S.-Mexican border along state Highway 94 is one of
the busiest sections of border in California. The rugged section stretching to
San Diego was once the site of the biggest flow of illegal immigrants in the
nation, with more than half a million illegal immigrants apprehended annually in
the mid-1990s.

A decade-long enforcement crackdown, called Operation Gatekeeper, has focused
equipment and agents here. As of Aug. 24, the Border Patrol had apprehended
129,655 illegal migrants entering in the San Diego sector in fiscal 2006. That's
down significantly from the 1990s but up 16% over the same period in the
previous year.

The Guard's presence appears to have had an effect. Apprehensions of illegal
immigrants have dropped where the Guard's presence is heaviest, along the
western Arizona border, according to Border Patrol Chief David Aguilar.

But the stepped-up enforcement appears to have rerouted traffic rather than slow
it down.

Big numbers of illegal immigrants shifted to the east and are crossing the
border near Tucson, says Todd Fraser, spokesman for the Border Patrol in
Washington. Arrests also have increased recently in other parts of the border
region in New Mexico and California, Aguilar says.

"The Border Patrol doesn't think there's going to be a point in time when we
ever get to 100%, where we just seal off the border. We're not kidding anybody,"
Fraser says. "But we want to make it a high probability that we're going to
detect the intrusion and apprehend" illegal migrants.

On this night in Tecate, about a dozen agents are on patrol; a few others run
the checkpoint and station.

For Coates, a supervisory agent, and Carlos Perez, an agent working with him,
the workday begins shortly before midnight.

Coates has been at it for eight years. The 34-year-old former Army airborne
infantryman relies on his conditioning and stamina to do the job. He sets out in
the dark on hikes across intimidating terrain that can last hours -- perhaps his
entire shift.

As is typical, most of those caught tonight are from the interior of Mexico.
They are assisted by a foot guide, or "coyote," who normally lives just across
the border in or near the teeming city of Tijuana.

Those captured are taken to a Border Patrol regional headquarters at a
checkpoint along Highway 94 outside Jamul, Calif., a tiny town in eastern San
Diego County. They are held in a glass-walled cell, questioned and usually
returned to Mexico within hours.

A bus bearing the Department of Homeland Security emblem waits to transport the
night's tally home.

"They know we're going to take 'em to the station, give them some juice and
crackers and send them back home -- so they can do it again tomorrow," Coates
says.

The U.S. policy of "catch and release" appears practical given that trying to
jail all comers for illegally entering the country would require the building of
a lot of prisons.

But what of those who are found to have committed violent crimes?

The agents wonder aloud about the wisdom of returning felons to Mexico, knowing
that they will likely try again to enter the USA and perhaps succeed.

Agent T.M. Farmer, processing one man for deportation, says "the ones with the
long criminal records" are who he hates to see released. He worries about
confronting a violent criminal in the dark who is intent on getting past him.

Coates says: "There are hard-core felons, gang members. You have to be really,
really careful."

Twenty-five Border Patrol agents have died in the line of duty since 1992, and
93 since government agents began patrolling the border. Sixteen have been killed
in the 66-mile-long San Diego sector, which includes this stretch of border.

To prosecute or not?

The decision to return or prosecute illegal immigrants caught at the border
rests with the U.S. attorney's office in San Diego.

Deborah Hartman, spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Carol Lam, said in an e-mail
response to questions that her office does not publicly discuss its guidelines
on prosecution decisions.

"We prosecute thousands of immigration cases each year," she says. "Our highest
priority is prosecuting those who are a danger to others, either because they
are risking peoples' lives or because they are coming to this country to commit
crimes. So obviously someone's criminal history is an important factor, but it
is not the only factor."

Before anyone can be prosecuted or deported, they have to be caught. Technology
has helped, but stemming the tide still relies mostly on cunning, running and
courage.

High in the mountain peaks and along well-worn trails, seismic and other sensors
alert agents when someone is walking by. The agents are so tuned to the nuances
of the seismic signals that they can distinguish between human and animal foot
traffic.

Large, infrared scopes fixed on the beds of pickups are used to scan the
landscape. The night-vision scopes show surprising clarity on a screen in the
truck cab. Scope operators who spot people radio agents who scout the terrain in
vehicles or on foot.

The group captured at dawn had tripped the sensors. Perez surmised the canyon
they would take and headed that way. Coates caught a glimpse of the group
against a canyon wall. Then they lay in wait for the Mexicans to run into them.

The four men captured were in addition to eight caught about 1 a.m. by Coates
and other agents. The men were caught crossing ranches in groups of three and
five. Both groups tried to hide in the grass and gave up with no struggle.

Most of the men had light backpacks with water, some food and clothes. One
fresh-faced young man carried books.

Some people slip by

By the time the agents' shift ends, 40 border crossers have been caught.

"It's just one of those days where you can throw a stick and hit a group,"
Coates says.

But many have gotten in.

Perez and Coates go after a group that eludes the first line of sensors and
agents.

They ride a Jeep along dirt trails until they can go no further, then hike up
barely discernible trails to head them off at a pass. They find fresh footprints
but no people. From the distant north comes the sound of barking dogs.

Well past dawn, the radio crackles. Sensors suggest it's a big one, maybe 15
people. Coates and agent Jose Hernandez hike uphill in pursuit. The sun is out
and growing hot. The terrain turns steep.

The agents call for a helicopter. It swoops in close to the mountainside. After
an hour of climbing, the agents conclude this group, too, has eluded them.

Tracks suggest the crossers split up and made their way down two nearby washes,
through some culverts under the highway and toward the USA.

Coates and others have worked well past the end of their shifts. Tired and
dirty, Coates is asked about the debate in Washington over how to enforce the
border.

"Whatever they do," he says, "I still have to go chase aliens."

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, Color, Bob Riha Jr., USA TODAY (2)
PHOTO, B/W, Bob Riha Jr., USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              206 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 21, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Task force rejects push to fence border;
Some worry 'piecemeal' effort will delay broader legislation

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 650 words


WASHINGTON -- As congressional Republicans pushed before the fall elections to
extend fencing along the U.S.-Mexican border, leaders of a bipartisan task force
Wednesday dismissed such an effort as a "piecemeal" approach that won't curb
illegal immigration.

"We view this as much more than building fences," said task force co-chairman
Lee Hamilton, a former Democratic congressman and vice chairman of the 9/11
Commission.

The move in Congress runs counter to what President Bush wants. Bills before the
House of Representatives and Senate this week aim to make it harder for
immigrants to cross the border illegally and easier to punish those who do.

The legislation does not address what to do about employers who hire illegal
immigrants or with the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants already living
and working here.

Bush has said any immigration bill must be comprehensive and deal with a host of
issues. That view was endorsed by task force leaders Hamilton and Spencer
Abraham, a former Republican senator and Bush Cabinet member.

The House and Senate have been deadlocked for months on immigration.

Backers of the tough border enforcement bills say they will make the country
safer.

"Border security is national security," said Rep. David Dreier, R-Calif.

The Senate continues debate today on a bill to construct 700 miles of fence
along the U.S.-Mexican border. The House passed the bill last week. Today in the
House, lawmakers will consider three measures to increase penalties on illegal
immigrants and speed deportations.

Some Republicans expressed concern that passing the border enforcement bills now
will slow momentum for broader immigration legislation, which the Senate passed
in May. The House passed a bill emphasizing border security in December. Sen.
Larry Craig, R-Idaho, who favors expanding opportunities for foreign
agricultural workers, said crops are rotting in the field "because we in
Congress haven't gotten our act together."

For Democrats, the legislation presents a political dilemma. They must either
support legislation that many consider inadequate or cast a vote that could be
portrayed during fall campaigns as anti-border security. Sen. Dick Durbin of
Illinois, the deputy Democratic leader, said his party members haven't decided
how they will vote on the border fence bill. "We'll wait and see how this
unfolds."

The immigration task force was convened by the Migration Policy Institute, a
think tank that tracks immigration, and included participants from liberal
immigrant-rights groups such as the National Council of La Raza and conservative
groups such as the Manhattan Institute.

Most of the task force's 16 recommendations are not included in the immigration
bills that have already passed the House or Senate. They include:

*Creating a biometric Social Security card that could be used to verify the
legal employment status of job applicants.

*Giving illegal immigrants now living in the USA a chance to become citizens, as
the Senate's comprehensive measure now does.

*Collapsing a system of dozens of entry visas into three groups of immigrants:
permanent, provisional (for workers who might end up staying permanently) and
temporary (for seasonal or part-time workers).

*Setting new legal immigration levels at 1.5 million people a year and
establishing a commission to adjust levels up or down according to labor needs.

*Giving priority to immigrants with job skills the USA needs, such as
farmworkers and engineers, which could reduce the number of visas available to
family members of people now in the USA.

*Streamlining the labor certification system to allow employers to more easily
hire foreign workers.

Abraham and Hamilton, who presented their proposals to White House aides and
Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., don't believe Congress will act
quickly. "Our proposal is more long-term," said Hamilton. "The politics of this
are very tough."

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Ric Feld, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              207 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             October 9, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Court tests await cities' laws on immigrants

BYLINE: Laura Parker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 604 words


Cities and towns that have passed local laws aimed at driving out illegal
immigrants are gearing up for court fights over whether they will be allowed to
enforce them.

The key battles are being waged in Hazelton, Pa., Riverside, N.J. and Valley
Park, Mo. Civil rights and business groups sued after each of those cities made
it illegal to employ or rent housing to illegal immigrants. The lawsuits say the
ordinances are discriminatory.

The court action has put the small communities at the forefront of a national
debate over what to do about the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants in the
USA at a time when Congress is considering a range of border security
initiatives. If Hazelton, Riverside and Valley Park prevail in court, dozens of
communities from Massachusetts to California are poised to follow their lead
with similar ordinances.

More than 30 city councils have passed or are considering local measures aimed
at curbing illegal immigrants' access to housing, voting and jobs. At the state
level, lawmakers in 33 states have passed 78 bills, most of them imposing
restrictions similar to the city measures, the National Conference of State
Legislatures says.

The laws challenge a principle established by the U.S. Supreme Court, which has
long held that immigration policies fall under the authority of the federal
government, not that of cities, counties or states. Local and state officials
have pushed these measures because, they say, illegal immigrants are straining
the budgets of local schools, hospitals and police.

"I am prepared to fight this to the highest court in the country if we have to,"
says Hazelton Mayor Lou Barletta.

He says he gets calls every day from officials in other cities who want a copy
of Hazleton's new law. "It's a good ordinance that other cities can model
themselves after. The message is: Illegal aliens are not welcome here."

Barletta says he proposed Hazelton's new ordinance after a series of crimes
allegedly involving illegal immigrants. "Our police department is stretched
beyond its limits. I've had enough."

The ordinance penalizes business owners and landlords -- not the immigrants they
employ or rent to -- by revoking their licenses to do business.

To defend Hazleton's law, Barletta put together a legal team that includes a
Philadelphia law firm and lawyers from conservative groups such as the Mountain
States Legal Foundation and the Federation for American Immigration Reform.

Michael Hethmon, a lawyer for the Immigration Reform Institute in Washington,
D.C., helped Hazelton rewrite the ordinance that was passed in July to give it a
better chance of surviving in court. Valley Park has since adopted the Hazelton
model, and Riverside is considering whether to do so.

Hethmon says he thinks the revised ordinance will pass muster in court because
it "respects the powers and authorities" of local and federal governments.

The original law was vague about how a resident's immigration status would be
determined. Under the revised law, the city would determine immigration status
by submitting information to the federal government for verification. The
revised ordinance also gives landlords and business owners three to five days to
correct violations before fines and other penalties are imposed.

Some legal experts say the cities face an uphill fight.

"The line of cases stretches back 150 years in a range of situations that are
analogous to what is happening now," says Michael Wishnie, a Yale Law School
professor who specializes in immigration law. The Supreme Court "has made it
very clear that the regulation of immigration is exclusively a federal
function."

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Tim Shaffer, Reuters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              208 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 24, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration call: Top-to-bottom reform

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 911 words


The immigration issue provided an excellent case study for my midcareer graduate
student class at Western International University because it involves every
level and branch of government. One quarter of the class members are Hispanic.
Two members are children of illegal immigrants who settled, advanced in jobs,
paid taxes and otherwise assimilated into the Phoenix area's population. The
class was unanimous in support of a guest worker program or similar process that
would allow illegal immigrants to come forward, obtain green cards and access
the path to citizenship.

Here in Arizona, passions run high. Those who favor enforcement first, and even
somehow forcing illegal immigrants to return to their homelands, seek
legalization and return. The class felt that every person entering the country
and in the country should have a verifiable ID card and enjoy the opportunity to
be legalized; they believed human traffic predators should be prosecuted as
felons;  they favored enforcement penalties for employers hiring illegal
immigrants; and they thought that documented felons should be denied entry or be
deported. The class also felt that the Mexican government was not doing its
share of creating jobs and enforcing border security. Many said the United
States has never put real pressure on the Mexican government and corporations to
participate in a comprehensive border security program.

The class wanted to see a top-to-bottom reform that includes new visa
requirements; recognition of the need for foreign skilled, semiskilled and
unskilled workers; a national ID and tracking program to prevent document fraud;
a bilateral agreement between the United States and Mexico on border
enforcement; virtual border fencing and electronic support that includes
portable radar; and stricter custom entry screening.

Immigrants are part of our national fabric. With few exceptions, every class of
immigrants has confronted economic, social and political discrimination.
Policies should dictate that every non-citizen assimilate in the culture, learn
English and enjoy educational opportunities.

Many Arizonans, perhaps a majority, express concerns over the costs of health
care, education, voting, driving without proper insurance and numerous other
issues tied to illegal immigrants. They want abuses stopped. They also want the
governor to be more active in border enforcement beyond kicking the problem back
to the federal level.

Nicholas P. Thomas

Scottsdale, Ariz.

Population saps resources

The question should not be "What impact has immigration had on me?" but, rather,
"What impact has uncontrolled illegal immigration had, period?"

North Carolina had more than 390,000 illegal immigrants in 2004, according to
the Pew Hispanic Center.  Our schools have become overcrowded, and our
children's education has suffered. Our social services, particularly health
care, have been overwhelmed to the point where our own citizens have trouble
getting the help they need.

Housing costs, especially for renters, have been inflated because of the rapid
population growth caused by illegal immigrants.

The crime rate has risen rapidly.

My once quiet and safe neighborhood has become a noisy and dangerous place to
live.

To sum up: The impact of uncontrolled illegal immigration has been very
negative. It needs to be dealt with by enforcement of our immigration laws. The
only thing broken about our immigration laws is the lack of enforcement -- both
in the work place and the general population.

Fred Smith

Chapel Hill, N.C.

Reward true citizens

As a construction worker, I am so tired of hearing that undocumented workers
only take jobs that Americans won't do. The Republicans control all three
branches of government and have failed to secure the borders or enforce labor
laws. That sent a message to foreigners to cross the border for available
employment. It's clear the Republican Party and corporations want to sustain a
large pool of cheap labor whose members can't vote. With an election looming,
many Republican state legislators support handing the enforcement of illegal
immigration to county sheriffs and local authorities. Talk about passing the
buck!

Indentured servitude is not American. Give citizenship rights to people who are
allowed to stay. Take control of the border. Enforce existing labor laws.

D.P. Zimmerman

Columbus, Ohio

Where is respect for laws?

Lakewood, N.J., just spent $40,000 to build a day-laborer pick-up station
outside the downtown area. It is complete with a roof for workers' comfort, but
the laborers won't use the station. Instead, they continue to clog up the
merchant area with truck traffic, and illegally parked commercial vehicles pick
them up.

What part of "illegal" isn't understood in the immigration debate? Yes, we need
their labor. Yes, most illegal immigrants are productive. The concern I have is
that this wave of immigrant workers isn't on a path to citizenship -- the kind
of path that respects the law of our land and commands respect from those who
live around them.

It seems our federal government has sold out to pure economic greed. Impeach the
president, throw out most of our lawmakers, seal the borders and give all
illegal immigrants a chance to register for a path to citizenship or as a guest
worker. After the registration period, throw out all who have not complied and
collect payroll taxes from the ones who have, so they can continue to receive
free health care, food and other assistance.

Greg Young

Brick, N.J.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Mel Evans, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              209 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 30, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration is beneficial -- if it's legal

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 1400 words


I favor immigration. My wife came over from the USSR, worked until her visa
expired and then returned to post-Soviet Russia.  Next, she got a visa and
returned with her daughter. After the expenditure of time, money, study and hard
work needed to legally qualify, she got green cards for both. They became
citizens.

Elena and Nadia followed the law and waited. They got no tax amnesty and were
not permitted to step in line ahead of others. Neither has relied on welfare,
bilingual education or other means that liberal politicians use to pander to
cheaters and lazy people who want something for nothing.  Both Elena and Nadia
speak better English than the average basketball fan, work harder than the
average native-born American, inform themselves about the issues and vote at
every legal opportunity.

I oppose illegal immigration, and I do not support amnesty for those who snuck
in and who would, with the help of pandering politicians, cut in line and evade
taxes. If those who came illegally return home and get in line with the others
who are willing to learn English and become Americans, and who come over when
it's their turn,  that's OK with me. Furthermore, those who knowingly employ
illegal immigrants are complicit in their flouting of the law.

In the meantime, illegal immigrants should return home at their own expense and
be grateful that the United States doesn't treat them as their home countries
probably treat people who sneak over their borders.

Charles H. Collins Jr.

Ledgewood, N.J.

Hurdles to legal status

We are a family of four and live in Colorado. We came five years ago, we've had
five lawyers to "help" us and we are still illegal immigrants.

I wish somebody would tell us what to do. We have two children, and we want to
have legal status or go to Slovakia. Our lawyer can't do anything until the law
changes.  We would like to be able to work legally, have insurance and live here
without being afraid -- not knowing what the future is. We want our kids to
study, but we are not sure whether it is possible. Anything we want to
accomplish is more difficult. We can't buy a car.  I wanted to study at Pueblo
Community College, but I had to have a TOEFL test score, which is a test of
English for foreigners.  I went to Denver to take the test, paid $150 and they
did not let me do it. I do not have a Colorado ID.

Why did we not take care of our status when we came? We spoke very little
English and we weren't sure who to ask or what to do when our visa expired.
We've talked with some lawyers who could not help us.

We like it in Colorado. The mountainous country reminds us of home. We think
there are great opportunities for children in the USA, and we would like to
stay. We wish it would be easier to become legal.

Ludmila and Roman Uskovits

Beulah, Colo.

We are a nation of laws

Though I think we should never disdain the value and dignity of each person, we
are, nevertheless, a nation of laws. Just as we hold ourselves accountable to
our laws, we must hold accountable people who have chosen to  illegally enter
our country.

I firmly believe that immigration must be regulated according to laws developed
in our country's legislatures.

People who do not abide by those laws should be made to leave our country. This
process must be reasonable and compassionate, but resolute in its purpose and
outcome. We should not simply grant amnesty to illegal immigrants.

I also believe that the root of the illegal immigration problem is that our
government, at all levels, is willing to "look the other way" in order to
provide a cheap labor force. We should require employers to verify that all
employees are here legally. Finally, I do not agree with our country's practice
of granting citizenship to any person born on U.S.  soil. The status of the
child should be equal to the preferred status of either parent. If either parent
is a citizen, then the child is a citizen. If the parents are in the immigration
process, then the child is, too.

Asa Wilson

Manchester, Mo.

Employment is affected

I am a licensed general contractor in California. I originally got my license in
1972. During the late 1970s and early 1980s, I became aware of the deterioration
in the construction trades because of the huge influx of illegal alien
construction workers. This influx resulted in depressed wages, lower quality of
work on projects, and a feeling of hopelessness on the part of American
construction workers, myself included.

In 1987, I moved my family to Colorado, mainly to escape the illegal invasion of
California. Much to my horror, within a few years, the illegal immigrants began
pouring into Colorado, too, lowering wages and the general quality of life for
residents and workers here.

In frustration and anger, I was determined to do something about it. In February
of 2005, I joined the Minuteman Project and attended its operations on the
Mexican border near Sierra Vista, Ariz. Yes, I'm one of the original Minutemen.
I have been active politically since. I am still working part-time because I was
forced into early semiretirement because of the illegal Mexican invasion, and I
cannot live on the lesser income that I draw because of the hordes of illegal
invaders.

James M. Haas

Grand Junction, Colo.

No amnesty for lawbreakers

People who are here illegally are  criminals under U.S. law and should be
deported accordingly.

I am an immigrant to the USA. My family and I came here in December 1970 after
waiting 17 months for a visa that allowed us to enter as "resident aliens." I am
a graduate engineer and had a position waiting for me.

Before being allowed into this country, my family and I were subjected to
scrutiny by federal officials, our immediate family members were also
scrutinized,  and inquiries about our character were made to neighbors. My wife,
myself and our two very young children were each required to submit to a
complete physical and had to prove that we could speak English before we were
issued that visa. We carried and paid for our own health insurance.  While we
were resident aliens, we were required to prove that our taxes were fully paid
before leaving the country to visit family in our mother country.

We have since become proud and lawful U.S. citizens. Why should these illegal
aliens be allowed to receive benefits? As criminals, they are certainly not
entitled to them, and just because they are now residents in our country does
not automatically make them U.S. citizens. There should be no amnesty.

Kenneth G. Bristow

West Plains, Mo.

Legal system is broken

I am an immigration attorney in Boston with a small practice focusing on
securing temporary and permanent (green card) visas for foreign workers. I work
closely with employers of all sizes and industries and can say that the problems
with the U.S. immigration system have never been worse.

While much attention is focused on the dilemma surrounding illegal aliens -- and
surely some type of comprehensive remedy is needed to address this massive
undocumented and undertaxed population both for economic and security reasons --
little to no focus is on legal immigration.

What is unknown to most people, including those in Congress, is that thousands
of foreign workers are languishing with no ability to immigrate legally.

Currently, there are no permanent visas available for skilled and professional
workers and few for advanced-degree and highly skilled aliens.

We have clients with highly skilled tradesmen, such as a German glass painter or
a Japanese sushi chef, or professional workers, such as an Irish mechanical
engineer, who are forced to wait outside the USA or to leave America and their
employer because there are not sufficient visas to legally immigrate here.

Thus, when those such as Rep. James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis.,  pay lip service to
legal immigration vs. illegal immigration, the reality is that there is no legal
immigration of any significant level because the system is entirely broken.

If the United States is not able to accommodate controlled and regularized legal
immigration, how is the problem with illegal workers ever to be sensibly
addressed?

Fortunately, some in the Senate and House have supported the Securing Knowledge
Innovation and Leadership (SKIL) bill, which would provide relief for these
talented foreign workers and their employers -- but this bill has stalled since
the summer. I hope with a new Congress, this will change.

David S. Merson

Sharon, Mass.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Sandy Huffaker, Getty Images

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              210 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 9, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Voters send messages

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 680 words


On immigration. As the saying goes, the people have spoken. And many of them did
so with Spanish accents.

In Tuesday's elections, Latino voters, whom President Bush had aggressively
courted with some success in previous years, surged back to the Democratic
column. The Republican share of the Latino vote plunged from 44% in 2004 to 29%
this year, exit polls showed.

To some degree these voters were motivated by the war in Iraq, the economy and
other issues of broad interest. But surveys showed they were also fired up by
some of the more strident anti-immigration measures and rhetoric coming from
Capitol Hill.

Tuesday's results suggest that any legislation seen more as anti-immigrant
rather than anti-illegal immigration can easily backfire. This point was made in
some individual races, even in border states. Randy Graf, a candidate for a seat
held by a retiring House Republican in Arizona, was soundly defeated after
running almost exclusively on a hard-line anti-immigrant platform.

None of this is to say that Americans do not want a serious and multipronged
attempt to reduce the flood of illegal immigrants pouring into this country.
They have grown increasingly weary of the government's inability to enforce
basic laws.

Nonetheless, they do not want excessively harsh and impractical policies
designed to win quick political points. The past two years have seen more than
enough of that.

Ironically, Bush's loss in the House puts him in a stronger position on
immigration, something he acknowledged Wednesday. The GOP-controlled lower
chamber, which sought to evict all 11 million illegal immigrants already in the
country, was the main hurdle to his own proposal, which would balance tougher
enforcement with a path to legitimacy for current illegals.

That plan, if funded adequately and strengthened in areas ranging from employer
sanctions to beefing up efforts to find people who overstay their visas, could
be the starting point for immigration reform. Simply building a fence and
threatening to deport illegal immigrants looks to be a political loser.

On abortion. In the nation's most closely watched ballot measure on Tuesday,
South Dakota voters rejected a state law banning all abortions except those
required to save a mother's life.

The 56%-44% vote, in a state where there is little sympathy for abortion, sent
what should by now be a familiar message to combatants in the abortion wars but
one that never seems to sink in.

A majority of Americans, 53%, say abortion should be legal under certain
circumstances, according to a Gallup Poll last May -- almost the same number who
believed precisely the same thing in 1975.

For all the angst, protests, debates, challenges and violence over abortion,
those at the extremes -- believing it should be legal in all cases or none --
have always been in the minority. And yet that's where the battle has been waged
since 1973, when the Supreme Court legalized abortion in Roe v. Wade.

Advocates of South Dakota's ban had hoped it would become the test case for
overturning Roe. Even the day after their defeat, they vowed to try again,
possibly by allowing exceptions for cases of rape or incest.

On the other side of the debate, abortion rights advocates, who celebrated
victory in South Dakota, continue to vehemently oppose reasonable restrictions
-- such as requiring girls younger than 18 to notify a parent or another adult.
Such notification is favored by most Americans and required in 34 states.

Because it involves deeply held religious beliefs, abortion is the hot-button
social issue that least lends itself to compromise, which is why the debate
seems endless.

Most Americans want abortions to be available, safe and rare. As with the Terri
Schiavo right-to-die case, they resent efforts by the most fervid "pro-life"
forces to enlist government to impose their morality on everyone else.

In the conservative state of South Dakota, where the nation's most restrictive
ban on abortion had been passed by the Legislature and signed by the governor,
voters sent that message again. Maybe this time, someone will listen.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              211 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 24, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Infants caught in political crossfire

BYLINE: Raul Reyes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 468 words


As a kid, I was taken aback when Aunt Emma mentioned that she and all her
siblings had been born at home. I thought all babies were born in hospitals. My
grandfather was an illegal alien and didn't have much money, my aunt explained,
so going to the hospital wasn't an option. Like others in el barrio, my
relatives made do with prayer and the neighborhood midwife. Now it looks like
the not-so-good old days are here again, at least for the children of
undocumented workers.

Until recently, all infants born to low-income mothers automatically received
one year of Medicaid eligibility. But the federal Deficit Reduction Act now
requires illegal immigrant parents to file an application along with proof of
their child's U.S. citizenship before states can provide Medicaid. Though this
law took effect in July, states have lagged in enforcing it, so health care
advocates are only lately becoming aware of its effects on newborns.

Filing an application along with supporting documents might be a no-brainer for
most Americans. Yet many illegal immigrants will not apply for care for their
infants because of language barriers and fears of arrest or deportation.

Our country continues to be locked in an immigration debate, even as the Bush
administration has backed off comprehensive reform in favor of a 700-mile fence
along the Mexican border. I recognize that our broken immigration system has led
to high social, economic and security costs. Indeed, the law was intended to
curb alleged Medicaid fraud by illegal immigrants. But its practical effect will
be to create barriers to health care for the most vulnerable. These infants are,
in fact, U.S. citizens. They should not be punished because their parents are
here illegally.

Making preventative care more difficult to obtain for eligible newborns could
lead to higher public health care costs. About 4 million babies are born in the
USA each year, and Medicaid -- the largest insurance program for the poor --
pays for more than a third of these births. It's not unreasonable to require
proof of citizenship before covering anyone for Medicaid. Yet most hospitals
already keep birth records, and the Medicaid program keeps billing records. So
why put the burden of proof on the people least likely to meet it?

In the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, many low-income people had great
difficulty presenting proper documentation to receive benefits. And these were
predominantly English speakers. Any law that hurts newborns is cruel. Worse, the
act creates a discriminatory, two-class system for infants based on who their
parents are. It's the latest byproduct of our dysfunctional immigration system
-- a federal policy that is anti-family as well as anti-American.

---

Raul Reyes is an attorney in New York and a member of USA TODAY's board of
contributors.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              212 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 28, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Fence plan alarms landowners;
Some say barriers aren't answer to curbing illegal immigration

BYLINE: Kevin Johnson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1869 words


EAGLE PASS, Texas -- Ranching magnate Bill Moody's vast holdings spread across
three Texas counties and include 35 miles of frontage along the Rio Grande,
where thousands of illegal immigrants and smugglers have crossed from Mexico
into the USA. They have worn paths through Moody's pastures, cut his fences and
stolen some of his cattle.

From his perch on the front lines of the battle against illegal immigration,
Moody would seem to be the type of person who would embrace the federal
government's most provocative effort to stop illegals from entering this
country: a plan to build 700 miles of fence along the 2,100-mile Southwest
border, including Moody's land. Instead, Moody is a powerful voice in a growing
alliance of border landowners and local law enforcement officials who oppose a
fence.

"They're not gonna build it," Moody says flatly. "We darn sure don't need a
wall. Everybody knows the Great Wall of China wasn't worth a damn."

Most everyone here agrees that more border security is needed to curb illegal
immigration. Ranchers such as Moody and Dob Cunningham, who has a 700-acre
spread north of here with 2 miles of river frontage, say they often give Border
Patrol agents access to their land to help the agents track down illegals.

However, the fence plan -- the centerpiece of an immigration bill President Bush
signed last month -- has come to reflect the disconnect between many landowners
here and officials in Washington who see the project as a key part of the
nation's strategy to slow illegal immigration. Here, where the impact of illegal
immigration is greatest, the fence is widely viewed as an economic and
environmental threat. In Eagle Pass, a city of 25,000 that is 95% Hispanic, it's
also seen as a rejection of the region's tradition of shared cultures and open
ranges.

Like many ranchers and local law enforcement officers, Cunningham believes the
U.S. government should focus on hiring more and better-trained Border Patrol
agents rather than erecting the proposed double-walled barrier. He fears the
fence would deny him access to the Rio Grande's waters that are a lifeline for
his cattle and for the migrating wildlife sought by hunters who lease parts of
his ranch.

Cunningham also isn't happy about the possibility of having to give up a strip
of his land along the river to the U.S. government for fence construction.
"We'll fight it tooth and nail," he says, including filing lawsuits to stop the
fence, if necessary. "This might work west of El Paso, where there is nothing
but sand and hills. Not here."

Moody, whose land was a backdrop for the film version of the cowboy saga
Lonesome Dove, says there are enough fences here, and that the boundary between
the USA and Mexico should remain natural: "The River," as he calls it.

The bill Bush signed does not include money to build the fence, and it's unclear
how aggressively Congress will pursue the multibillion-dollar project once
Democrats assume leadership of the House and Senate in January.

Supporters of the plan, including Rep. Duncan Hunter, R-Calif., say the success
of a fence along 10 miles of the border south of San Diego suggests that fences
at other heavily traveled crossings would help curb illegal immigration.

Hunter says the government will develop plans to preserve border landowners'
access to water. As for the potential condemnation of property, he says the
"overwhelming" need for a secure border should outweigh other concerns. Russ
Knocke of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) says landowners and law
enforcement officials "will be key partners in the effort to secure the border."

Matt Brockman, executive vice president of the 14,000-member Texas and
Southwestern Cattle Raisers Association, says economic and environmental
questions -- notably landowners' concerns about access to the Rio Grande --
should be enough to stop the project.

"I don't think it's as easy as slapping up a fence," Brockman says. "It's
alarming to us. We could be talking about hundreds of thousands of acres that
could be condemned" for construction.

As the fence plan made its way through Congress, law enforcement officials here
were dubious.

Maverick County Sheriff Tomas Herrera and Val Verde County Sheriff D'Wayne
Jernigan say they constantly are seeking more money to protect residents from
crimes involving illegal immigrants, including burglaries, vandalism and cattle
thefts. However, Jernigan says skepticism about the fence planned for parts of
California, Arizona, New Mexico and Texas is such that local officials have not
discussed it.

"Trust me, it's not gonna happen," Jernigan says. "There's not gonna be a fence.
I have landowners here who put it this way: 'Over my dead body.'"

Seeking 'boots on the ground'

There are about 12,500 Border Patrol agents in the USA, up from 9,000 before the
Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Bush has vowed to boost the number of agents
to 18,000 before he leaves office in January 2009. All but slightly more than
1,000 of the current agents are deployed along the Southwestern border,
according to DHS.

As the number of agents patrolling the border has increased, the number of
illegal immigrants arrested has declined. The DHS has said that is an indication
that the increased security discourages people from trying to enter the USA
illegally. DHS reported nearly 1.1 million arrests at U.S. borders in the budget
year that ended in September, down from nearly 1.2 million the previous year.
About 98% of the arrests occurred along the U.S.-Mexican border.

The use of National Guard troops to beef up border security, along with
increased efforts to deport illegal immigrants from nations other than Mexico,
have been key factors in reducing border arrests, Knocke says. Even so, the flow
of illegals into the USA continues.

Cunningham says that in recent years, thieves cutting through his land have
stolen ranch equipment and threatened his neighbors. Some have returned to
Mexico with a few of his cows.

"I feel like Sam's Wholesale Club," says the 72-year-old retired Border Patrol
agent, flashing a smile under his frayed cowboy hat. "I live with this all the
time."

However, it hasn't been enough to make Cunningham support building a fence along
the Rio Grande. He says increasingly aggressive patrols and better use of
technology -- not a fence -- are keys to improving security.

Cunningham notes that he has allowed the Border Patrol to place a security
camera tower atop a scenic peak on his property that overlooks the Rio Grande.
He says the camera gives agents a broad view of what federal authorities have
designated as a prime corridor for smuggling illegals and drugs.

Maverick County Sheriff Herrera agrees with Cunningham. He says there is recent
evidence indicating that boosting law enforcement officers' presence along the
border deters illegal immigration more efficiently than would a costly fence.

Since two state-funded border-crime initiatives were launched last December,
Herrera says, Maverick County has seen a 65% decline in burglaries linked to
illegal immigrants. The programs, launched with grants of more than $360,000 to
each of Texas' 16 border counties, allowed Herrera in Eagle Pass to pay overtime
costs to double the number of sheriff's deputies on each shift, from six to 12.

State troopers and agents from the Texas Department of Parks and Wildlife
patrolled the region as well. Herrera says the operations provided a "second
line of defense" that allowed the Border Patrol to focus directly on the border.

Herrera believes the increased law enforcement presence contributed to a drop in
arrests of illegals in the 55 miles between Del Rio, Texas, and Eagle Pass.
Arrests there fell from 68,506 in 2005 to 42,636 this year, U.S. Customs and
Border Protection reports.

"Boots on the ground will do the work," Herrera says.

'There's not an easy answer'

Hunter offers his own set of numbers that he says boosts the argument for a
fence.

Before construction of a 10-mile stretch of fence between San Diego and Tijuana,
Mexico, in 1994, authorities caught more than 500,000 illegals there each year.
The number dropped to about 100,000 by 2002 before ticking upward recently,
Border Patrol spokeswoman Wendi Lee says. Meanwhile, violent crimes linked to
illegals, including murders, robberies and assaults, fell 46% in the San Diego
area after the fence was built, she says.

"The fence brought order to an extremely dangerous border," Hunter says. Before
the fence, he says, there was "lots of fear." Now, "people don't have to worry
about smugglers coming through."

Some smugglers, however, have begun using more isolated crossings in the
Southwestern desert, where hundreds of illegals have died in summertime heat,
says Jennifer Allen, director of the Border Action Network, an immigrant rights
group in Arizona. More than 200 illegals have died crossing the southern Arizona
desert since October 2005, the group says.

"The unintended consequence of the border-security buildup has been to
strengthen the smuggling groups" that use more desolate and dangerous routes to
elude border agents, Allen says.

In the legislation authorizing the new fence, Hunter says he identified "primary
smuggling corridors" to be barricaded, including stretches between Del Rio and
Eagle Pass and Laredo to Brownsville. Hunter believes that many landowners and
other critics of the fence eventually will adopt the view of Ernie Davis, who
operates a 30,000-acre ranch 50 miles northwest of Laredo.

Davis says parts of his land, about 20 miles inland from the Rio Grande, have
been plundered by illegal immigrants, drug traffickers and thieves. In the past
two years, five vehicles have been stolen from the ranch, Davis says, and
burglars often have targeted his home.

"I'm for anything that would limit the illegal border crossings," Davis says. "I
would support (Hunter) on this fence, with the idea that it would help control
this thing."

However, Davis acknowledges that the issues are different for ranchers with land
along the river. "If I had river frontage, I would be concerned. There's not an
easy answer to any of this."

Many remain pragmatic

The worn fairways of the Eagle Pass Golf Course, about 100 yards across the Rio
Grande from Piedras Negras, Mexico, have become a well-traveled gateway to the
USA. Night and day, illegals emerge from the river's murky water and dash across
the course, sometimes interrupting play.

"You see ladies with kids running right across the fairway," says David Chisum,
who manages the nine-hole course. He acknowledges that most people might assume
he would want a fence here, if for no other reason than to protect the course's
115 members or speed the pace of golfers' play. However, Chisum reflects many
residents' pragmatism when it comes to the thorny issue of illegal immigration.

"We really haven't had any major damage here," he says, except perhaps for the
thefts of a few flags that can be seen whipping in the wind from some porches in
Piedras Negras. Chisum says most of those who play the course understand the
peculiar hazards here.

"I don't think a fence would help us," he says. "I like seeing the river. People
here understand that sometimes you just have to wait and allow people to cross
before you hit."

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Jack Gruber, USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Photos by Jack Gruber, USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W
GRAPHIC, B/W, Marcy E. Mullins

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              213 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 28, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Fence plan alarms landowners;
Some say barriers aren't answer to curbing illegal immigration

BYLINE: Kevin Johnson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1860 words


EAGLE PASS, Texas -- Ranching magnate Bill Moody's vast holdings spread across
three Texas counties and include 35 miles of frontage along the Rio Grande,
where thousands of illegal immigrants and smugglers have crossed from Mexico
into the USA. They have worn paths through Moody's pastures, cut his fences and
stolen some of his cattle.

From his perch on the front lines of the battle against illegal immigration,
Moody would seem to be the type of person who would embrace the federal
government's most provocative effort to stop people from entering this country
illegally: a plan to build 700 miles of fence along the 2,100-mile Southwest
border, including Moody's land. Instead, Moody is a powerful voice in a growing
alliance of border landowners and local law enforcement officials who oppose a
fence. "They're not gonna build it," Moody says flatly. "We darn sure don't need
a wall. Everybody knows the Great Wall of China wasn't worth a damn."

Most everyone here agrees that more border security is needed to curb illegal
immigration. Ranchers such as Moody and Dob Cunningham, who has a 700-acre
spread north of here with 2 miles of river frontage, say they often give the
Border Patrol access to land to help the agents track down illegal immigrants.

However, the fence plan -- the centerpiece of an immigration bill President Bush
signed last month -- has come to reflect the disconnect between many landowners
here and officials in Washington who see the project as a key part of the
nation's strategy to slow illegal immigration. Here, where the impact of illegal
immigration is greatest, the fence is widely viewed as an economic and
environmental threat. In Eagle Pass, a city of 25,000 that is 95% Hispanic, it's
also seen as a rejection of the region's tradition of shared cultures and open
ranges.

Like many ranchers and local law enforcement officers, Cunningham believes the
U.S. government should focus on hiring more and better-trained Border Patrol
agents rather than erecting the proposed double-walled barrier. He fears the
fence would deny him access to the Rio Grande's waters that are a lifeline for
his cattle and for the migrating wildlife sought by hunters who lease parts of
his ranch.

Cunningham also isn't happy about the possibility of having to give up a strip
of his land along the river to the U.S. government for fence construction.
"We'll fight it tooth and nail," he says, including filing lawsuits to stop the
fence, if necessary. "This might work west of El Paso, where there is nothing
but sand and hills. Not here."

Moody, whose land was a backdrop for the film version of the cowboy saga
Lonesome Dove, says there are enough fences here, and that the boundary between
the USA and Mexico should remain natural: "The River," as he calls it.

The bill Bush signed does not include money to build the fence, and it's unclear
how aggressively Congress will pursue the multibillion-dollar project once
Democrats assume leadership of the House and Senate in January.

Supporters of the plan, including Rep. Duncan Hunter, R-Calif., say the success
of a fence along 10 miles of the border south of San Diego suggests that fences
at other heavily traveled crossings would help curb illegal immigration.

Hunter says the government will develop plans to preserve border landowners'
access to water. As for the potential condemnation of property, he says the
"overwhelming" need for a secure border should outweigh other concerns. Russ
Knocke of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) says landowners and law
enforcement officials "will be key partners in the effort to secure the border."

Matt Brockman, executive vice president of the 14,000-member Texas and
Southwestern Cattle Raisers Association, says economic and environmental
questions -- notably landowners' concerns about access to the Rio Grande --
should be enough to stop the project.

"I don't think it's as easy as slapping up a fence," Brockman says. "It's
alarming to us. We could be talking about hundreds of thousands of acres that
could be condemned" for construction.

As the fence plan made its way through Congress, law enforcement officials here
were dubious.

Maverick County Sheriff Tomas Herrera and Val Verde County Sheriff D'Wayne
Jernigan say they constantly are seeking more money to protect residents from
crimes involving illegal immigrants, including burglaries, vandalism and cattle
thefts. However, Jernigan says skepticism about the fence planned for parts of
California, Arizona, New Mexico and Texas is such that local officials have not
discussed it.

"Trust me, it's not gonna happen," Jernigan says. "There's not gonna be a fence.
I have landowners here who put it this way: 'Over my dead body.'"

Seeking 'boots on the ground'

There are about 12,500 Border Patrol agents in the USA, up from 9,000 before the
Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Bush has vowed to boost the number of agents
to 18,000 before he leaves office in January 2009. All but slightly more than
1,000 of the current agents are deployed along the Southwestern border,
according to DHS.

As the number of agents patrolling the border has increased, the number of
illegal immigrants arrested has declined. The DHS has said that is an indication
that the increased security discourages people from trying to enter the USA
illegally. DHS reported nearly 1.1 million arrests at U.S. borders in the budget
year that ended in September, down from nearly 1.2 million the previous year.
About 98% of the arrests occurred along the U.S.-Mexican border.

The use of National Guard troops to beef up border security, along with
increased efforts to deport illegal immigrants from nations other than Mexico,
have been key factors in reducing border arrests, Knocke says. Even so, the flow
of illegal immigrants continues.

Cunningham says that in recent years, thieves cutting through his land have
stolen ranch equipment and threatened his neighbors. Some have returned to
Mexico with a few of his cows.

"I feel like Sam's Wholesale Club," says the 72-year-old retired Border Patrol
agent, flashing a smile under his frayed cowboy hat. "I live with this all the
time."

However, it hasn't been enough to make Cunningham support building a fence along
the Rio Grande. He says increasingly aggressive patrols and better use of
technology -- not a fence -- are keys to improving security.

Cunningham notes that he has allowed the Border Patrol to place a security
camera tower atop a scenic peak on his property that overlooks the Rio Grande.
He says the camera gives agents a broad view of what federal authorities have
designated as a prime corridor for smuggling illegal immigrants and drugs.

Maverick County Sheriff Herrera agrees with Cunningham. He says there is recent
evidence indicating that boosting law enforcement officers' presence along the
border deters illegal immigration more efficiently than would a costly fence.

Since two state-funded border-crime initiatives were launched last December,
Herrera says, Maverick County has seen a 65% decline in burglaries linked to
illegal immigrants. The programs, launched with grants of more than $360,000 to
each of Texas' 16 border counties, allowed Herrera in Eagle Pass to pay overtime
costs to double the number of sheriff's deputies on each shift, from six to 12.

State troopers and agents from the Texas Department of Parks and Wildlife
patrolled the region as well. Herrera says the operations provided a "second
line of defense" that allowed the Border Patrol to focus directly on the border.

Herrera believes the increased law enforcement presence contributed to a drop in
arrests of illegal immigrants in the 55 miles between Del Rio, Texas, and Eagle
Pass. Arrests there fell from 68,506 in 2005 to 42,636 this year, U.S. Customs
and Border Protection reports.

"Boots on the ground will do the work," Herrera says.

'There's not an easy answer'

Hunter offers his own set of numbers that he says boosts the argument for a
fence.

Before construction of a 10-mile stretch of fence between San Diego and Tijuana,
Mexico, in 1994, authorities caught more than 500,000 illegal immigrants there
each year. The number dropped to about 100,000 by 2002 before ticking upward
recently, Border Patrol spokeswoman Wendi Lee says. Meanwhile, violent crimes
linked to illegal immigrants, including murders, robberies and assaults, fell
46% in the San Diego area after the fence was built, she says.

"The fence brought order to an extremely dangerous border," Hunter says. Before
the fence, he says, there was "lots of fear." Now, "people don't have to worry
about smugglers coming through."

Some smugglers, however, have begun using more isolated crossings in the desert,
where hundreds of illegal immigrants have died in summertime heat, says Jennifer
Allen, director of the Border Action Network, an immigrant rights group in
Arizona. More than 200 illegal immigrants have died crossing the southern
Arizona desert since October 2005, the group says.

"The unintended consequence of the border-security buildup has been to
strengthen the smuggling groups" that use more desolate and dangerous routes to
elude border agents, Allen says.

In the legislation authorizing the new fence, Hunter says he identified "primary
smuggling corridors" to be barricaded, including stretches between Del Rio and
Eagle Pass and Laredo to Brownsville. Hunter believes that many landowners and
other critics of the fence eventually will adopt the view of Ernie Davis, who
operates a 30,000-acre ranch 50 miles northwest of Laredo.

Davis says parts of his land, about 20 miles inland from the Rio Grande, have
been plundered by illegal immigrants, drug traffickers and thieves. In the past
two years, five vehicles have been stolen from the ranch, Davis says, and
burglars often have targeted his home.

"I'm for anything that would limit the illegal border crossings," Davis says. "I
would support (Hunter) on this fence, with the idea that it would help control
this thing."

However, Davis acknowledges that the issues are different for ranchers with land
along the river. "If I had river frontage, I would be concerned. There's not an
easy answer to any of this."

Many remain pragmatic

The worn fairways of the Eagle Pass Golf Course, about 100 yards across the Rio
Grande from Piedras Negras, Mexico, have become a well-traveled gateway to the
USA. Night and day, illegal immigrants emerge from the river's murky water and
dash across the course, sometimes interrupting play.

"You see ladies with kids running right across the fairway," says David Chisum,
who manages the nine-hole course. He acknowledges that most people might assume
he would want a fence here, if for no other reason than to protect the course's
115 members or speed the pace of golfers' play. However, Chisum reflects many
residents' pragmatism when it comes to the thorny issue of illegal immigration.

"We really haven't had any major damage here," he says. Chisum says most of
those who play the course understand the peculiar hazards here.

"I don't think a fence would help us," he says. "I like seeing the river. People
here understand that sometimes you just have to wait and allow people to cross
before you hit."

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Jack Gruber, USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Photos by Jack Gruber, USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W
GRAPHIC, B/W, Marcy E. Mullins

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              214 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 8, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Runoff candidates avoid immigration;
In district on border, campaigns believe issue cuts both ways

BYLINE: Alan Gomez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 884 words


EAGLE PASS, TEXAS -- The border between Texas and Mexico is as fluid as the
river that separates them.

Signs hanging outside American storefronts read "Pesos welcome." Parking lots in
U.S. schools are filled with Mexican license plates. Pregnant mothers from
Mexico go to U.S. hospitals to give birth while American residents cross the
border for cheaper prescription drugs and doctor visits.

"I'd say 90% of our customers are Mexican," said Armando Jose Zertuche in a
men's fashion store on the U.S. side of the border.

One would expect that a special election being held Tuesday for a congressional
seat between Republican Rep. Henry Bonilla and Democratic challenger Ciro
Rodriguez would be rife with debate on the issue of illegal immigration.

The GOP has tended to favor strong enforcement of current laws to catch illegal
immigrants, and a fence to keep them out. Democrats, who could strengthen their
hold on the House with a Rodriguez win, have mostly opposed the fence and
favored a measure that would allow the millions of illegal immigrants here to
remain and become citizens.

Yet the two candidates campaigning to represent Texas' 23rd District have made
it a point to avoid any discussion of immigration. Neither of their campaign
websites mentions the issue or the nearly 700 miles of fencing approved by
Congress. At rallies in San Antonio and along the border recently, the
candidates spoke of health care, education and taxes, but not of immigration.

Bonilla and Rodriguez each cite the importance of other issues and the diversity
of the district -- the largest in Texas at more than 400 miles wide and 300
miles north to south -- when asked why they have avoided the debate.

The U.S. Border Patrol estimates that roughly a quarter of the Mexicans they
apprehend entering the country illegally are in Texas.

"How can you resolve a problem if there's no dialogue," said Juan Maldonado of
the Southwest Voter Registration Education Project. "They treat it like racism.
You just can't talk about it."

So why is the topic being ignored?

"They're scared of it," said Rosie Carrillo, a Del Rio resident.

Or, as University of Texas government professor Sean Theriault put it, "It cuts
too hard both ways.

"For as many people in the district that would be pleased with a hard line for
immigration, you're going to rally as many people to vote against you, (and vice
versa)," he said. "It strikes at the heart of so many people that it would be
hard to garner political traction on either side of the issue."

The topic becomes touchier as the race tightens.

Bonilla has represented the district for 14 years, but his hold has been
weakened by the national tide against Republicans and a state Supreme Court
decision to redraw the district.

The high court ruled that the Republican-controlled state Legislature unfairly
repressed the Latino vote when it redrew the 23rd District, so it added heavily
Hispanic areas.

Bonilla got more than 70% of the vote in 2004 and outraised his six opponents by
a 2-to-1 margin this year. But because of the changing landscape, he only got
48% of the vote in November.

That prompted the Dec. 12 runoff with Rodriguez, who is now getting help from
the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. The DCCC sent down campaign
staffers and purchased a TV ad that started airing this week.

Both candidates are of Mexican descent, but Bonilla is the only Mexican-American
Republican in Congress. He calls himself a business-friendly, fiscally
conservative Republican and shudders at what he calls "pseudo-intellectuals" who
try to stereotype him.

"They always think that the color of your skin should dictate what your
political philosophy is," Bonilla said. "Nothing can be more insulting."

Rodriguez is a former four-term congressman who paints Bonilla in the "stay the
course" brush strokes that worked for other Democrats nationwide.

Of their many differences, immigration is one of the most clear.

Bonilla voted for the border fence and for the House bill that would have made
it a felony to be an illegal alien. Rodriguez is strongly against both measures.

Some here say that despite the many illegal immigrants coming, the issue is not
a big deal here as it is in the north.

"When (illegal immigrants) come across, there are eyes on them all over the
place. They're trying to get as far away from the border as they can," said
Jerry McNeese, 74, who is retired from an El Paso oil field. "They can get lost
in places like Chicago ... places up north."

But "up north" could be as close as San Antonio, where a majority of the
district's population lives. Many in that area say a fence may be the only way
to stop the wave of illegal immigration.

"It's making a mockery out of our nation," said Bonilla supporter Thomas
Marburger, a retired tax attorney. "It's putting tremendous pressure on our
social services, hospitals are shutting down, and our taxes are going up because
we can't handle that influx."

People along the border agree that the system must be fixed, but they laugh at
the idea of a fence. "If you build a 10-foot wall, they're just going to build
an 11-foot ladder," said Democratic state Sen. Carlos Uresti, whose district
overlaps most of the congressional district. Uresti questions his fellow
Democrats' decision to avoid the debate.

"It should be an issue," he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC,b/w,USA TODAY(Map)
PHOTOS,b/w,Mark Greenberg for USA TODAY(2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              215 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 21, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Illegal immigration is not 'victimless' crime

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 471 words


The story "Raid targets illegal migrants," about the recent arrest of workers at
meat processor Swift & Co., just proves that, contrary to popular belief,
illegal immigration is not a victimless crime (News, Dec. 13).

Oftentimes, illegal immigration involves ID theft, fraud and other crimes that
hurt Americans, often on a personal level ("ID-theft rings catered to illegal
workers," News, Dec. 14).

Whether illegal immigrants come here to get jobs to feed their families or come
here for some other reason, we should not excuse their crimes -- especially
crimes that affect real people.

We need to crack down on and, I hope, stop illegal immigration completely.

Chris M. Forte

Bishop, Calif.

Raids won't solve problem

The crackdown on illegal immigrants was long overdue, but it won't solve the
problem.

Let's face it: Immigration is a touchy subject. I don't think that we can deport
12 million people, but I am also against uncontrolled immigration. So, a
compromise should be worked out.

Establish some guidelines for people who are already here so they can become
residents and then citizens.  I also believe we need a national ID for all U.S.
citizens so that, in the future, illegal immigrants will know they can't have
access to services without such an ID.

Joachim de Posada

Miami

Legal way is only way

I am all for "legal" immigration, but I am very much against people breaking our
laws to come to this country. Businesses should be fined and their leaders
possibly imprisoned for blatantly breaking our laws.

Let us enforce what laws we have and then  look at amending the laws, if
necessary.

People who come here illegally have no rights. Let them come through proper
channels and learn our system and our language to show that they really want to
be a part of our great society, not just to take what they can and have loyalty
somewhere else.

It is not fair to the American taxpayer to allow these people to stay in this
country. They need to go through the proper channels, as our ancestors did, and
become proud to be Americans.

Patricia Lamphear

Oldsmar, Fla.

Unimpressive crackdown

The Immigration and Customs Enforcement's (ICE) raid against illegal immigrants
at meat processor Swift & Co. is such a joke it amounts to an insult to the
public's intelligence.

We have an estimated 12 million illegal aliens living in the USA, with more
streaming across our open borders every day. The use of 1,000 federal agents to
catch about 1,200 illegal workers at a meat plant is front-page news?

The rest of the joke is that Swift & Co. has not been charged for hiring these
illegals, nor for the expense of using 1,000 agents to conduct this raid. This
is like throwing a glass full of water on a burning house and expecting
applause.

Please pass along the word to officials at ICE that this charade doesn't fool
anyone.

Terry Ray

Indiana, Pa.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Lane Hickenbottom, The Grand Island (Neb.) Independent, via
AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              216 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 22, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration issue blew up in 2006

BYLINE: William M. Welch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 255 words


From massive urban marches by Latinos to law-enforcement sweeps of illegal
meatpacking workers, 2006 was a year when immigration became the domestic issue
the United States could not ignore.

Concern about the influx of illegal immigrants, mainly from Mexico, grew into a
major issue that echoed through the November election campaigns.

Towns and cities across the country expressed frustration with the issue by
passing anti-illegal-immigration ordinances and resolutions.

Hundreds of thousands of Latinos marched through Los Angeles and other cities in
the spring to show their opposition to get-tough legislation. Many waved Mexican
flags, prompting criticism.

The long border with Mexico was a focal point of the debate. Congress voted to
construct 700 miles of double-layered fencing along the border.

President Bush directed 6,000 National Guard troops to the border. He proposed a
"guest worker" program that would offer citizenship for the estimated 12 million
illegal immigrants in the USA. Opponents derided the proposal as an amnesty for
lawbreakers, and it was not acted on by Congress.

Volunteers with the Minuteman Project kept up their patrols. The border remained
porous. Near San Diego, federal agents found numerous secret tunnels, raising
fears that if poor immigrants could get into the USA that way, so could
terrorists.

Federal immigration officials stepped up enforcement.  Last week, more than
1,200 meatpacking workers suspected of immigrating illegally were arrested in
six states. Some face identity-theft charges.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO,b/w,Hector Mata,AFP/Getty Images
PHOTO,b/w,Romain Blanquart,Gannett News Service
PHOTO,b/w,David McNew,Getty Images
PHOTO,b/w,Andrew Councill for USA TODAY
PHOTO,b/w,Ahmad Terry,The Rocky Mountain News
PHOTO,b/w,Jack Gruber,USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              217 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           February 1, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Approach immigration issue with creativity

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 1007 words


Immigration is a divisive topic among Americans. We seem to forget completely
that we are a nation of immigrants; that immigrants, legal or otherwise, come
here for a better life; and that we are all people, regardless of color, race or
nationality. Men have migrated everywhere since the beginning of time, mainly to
improve their families' lot.

To say that illegal immigrants come to America only to break our laws, take
unfair advantage of the system so they can have medical attention, drive
recklessly on our roads or live boisterous lives in our communities is pretty
myopic and misses the big picture. The sum of our complaints won't solve the
problem.

We're living in a pivotal moment and facing one of our greatest challenges.
Immigrants -- illegal or legal -- will keep coming whether we like it or not,
regardless of  state and federal measures that are adopted. I am sure we can
find better uses for our tax dollars to make this illegal immigration problem
work for us, not against us.

Instead of getting all riled up and complaining, we could be more proactive,
creative and positive about this challenge, regardless of our party affiliation,
our religion, national origin or color of our skin.

Fellow Americans, our reputation in the world neighborhood is at an all-time
low.  What can we do to turn this illegal immigration issue on its head and make
it work for us?

This is our chance to make America even greater, with courage, ingenuity and
creativity.

Mario Chavez

Carlsbad, Calif.

Toll of illegal influx

To those whose hearts bleed with sympathy for these so-called decent,
hard-working undocumented workers who come here only for a better life, I'd like
to ask you a few questions:

*What do you say to the janitor who cleans your office building and who wants a
better life?  He has seen his income decrease markedly because his employer is
competing with firms that hire illegal aliens.  He had hoped to go to school to
train for a better job, but now he just hopes to keep the dead-end job he has.

*What do you say to the father whose daughter contracted tuberculosis from an
illegal alien? Illegal aliens aren't screened for diseases the way legal
immigrants are.

*What do you say to the mother whose son died because he was in an accident, and
the local emergency room had run out of money and closed? Illegal aliens use the
ERs of this country as primary care facilities and rarely pay their bills.

The questions could go on, but one thing is clear: Every citizen and legal
immigrant pays the price for illegal immigration. When is this madness going to
stop?

Stuart Jones

Lynchburg, Va.

Turned away by system

I am a white, middle-class, 63-year-old Englishman who retired as a London
police officer 12 years ago. As a committed lover of America and Americans, I
thought I might be able to spend some of my retirement in the USA.

At the time of my retirement, prospective immigrants could enter a "green card
lottery" that was open to world citizens. My wife, also a retired police
officer, and I entered the lottery without realizing that  because we are
English, neither of us really had a chance of being chosen. Later I found out
that, in the interest of "diversity," you really needed to come from more
obscure regions of the world.

However, a friend of a friend who is Irish was given a green card almost
immediately. He has since been arrested twice for drug violations and once for
driving under the influence.

My wife and I would have come to the United States as model citizens with an
income from pensions; we would not have needed any welfare benefits. Indeed, the
idea was to bring money into the states and purchase a property with cash. We
would not have plotted against the state and would have willingly trained with a
view to gaining citizenship.

Now we're resigned to just visiting our holiday home in Florida and experiencing
America in short bursts. When I think about the fact that foreign plotters who
attacked the World Trade Center were welcomed with nearly open arms, as a
Yankophile (if that's the word), I am very Englishly miffed.

Jim Havell

West Sussex, England

What about rule of law?

A distinction needs to be made between legal and illegal immigration. Legal
immigration is an essential part of what has made and will continue to make
America the great country it is.

Illegal immigration is a disgrace that needs to be addressed, or we will be
admitting that the rule of law is no longer supreme in the United States.
Illegal aliens are not immigrants, and they are undermining our tax system, our
health system and our education system by not paying taxes or medical bills.

Francis Connon

Los Angeles

Dial down emotions

In discussing illegal immigrants, I would like to see people deal with facts and
not emotions. The millions of illegal immigrants here are not going to be
deported. Most have zero chance of getting into this country legally with all of
the requirements for permanent residency.

Illegal immigrants would not come here if there were not jobs waiting for them
-- mostly jobs that no American wants to do, even if the pay were a little
better. The vast majority of them are hard-working, productive members of
society. As our population ages, we will need their labor more.

Are there immigrant issues that need to be resolved relating to health care,
education and the environment along the border areas? Absolutely. So let's work
on them and come up with real solutions instead of rhetoric. My sneaking
suspicion is that if the skin color of most of these immigrants were white, the
uproar against them would not be as loud.

Bill Cusack

Dallas

---

Voices of immigration

Are you feeling the impact of immigration? What is life like for an illegal
immigrant living in the USA, and for others in the communities where he or she
works and lives? We're interested in hearing your experiences. Send comments to
editor@usatoday.com or fax to 703-854-2053. Please include your contact number,
city and state for verification purposes. Comments will be considered for an
ongoing conversation in letters and online.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              218 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 12, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Effects of raid still felt in Iowa town;
Bust at Swift plant split some immigrant families and renewed debate over laws

BYLINE: Judy Keen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 987 words


MARSHALLTOWN, Iowa -- When Jose Mora tucks his 7-year-old niece into bed at
night, she often asks, "Where's my mommy?"

He doesn't want to say that her mother is in a Des Moines jail awaiting a
hearing that could result in her being deported to Mexico.

"I say only, 'Your mother might be coming home next month,'" says Mora, who
won't discuss the child's legal status.

Mora, 41, who has three children, took in his two nieces before Christmas. Their
father, Mora's brother-in-law, was deported to Mexico after a raid Dec. 12 at a
local meatpacking plant. Federal agents raided Swift & Co. plants here and in
five other states and arrested more than 1,200 illegal immigrants as part of a
probe into stolen and fake IDs that such immigrants allegedly have used to get
jobs in the USA.

Exactly two months after the raid, the effects in this town are still apparent.
Families are fractured, some illegal immigrants have left town or gone
underground, and there's renewed debate about immigration laws. Police and some
longtime residents say it's about time there was a crackdown. Others say they
feel new empathy.

Immigrants fearful

For Mora, the raid was the beginning of upheaval in his family: His nieces'
mother was detained a week later. "I don't have a problem having the girls
because I love them," he says. "My question is only: Why do that? Why take
parents away from their children?"

The legal status of about 6,000 Hispanics in this city of 27,000 is often a
mystery even to their friends: Police don't ask for proof of citizenship, and
schools require only students' birth certificates and don't check parents'
documents.

"There's probably more fear in the immigrant community" since the raid, Mayor
Gene Beach says. A community summit will be held Feb. 26 to discuss ways to
change immigration laws so "people who want to work and contribute to the
community" can stay legally. "We really are dealing now with what can we do to
make changes in the policies in Washington," he says.

Two weeks before Christmas, agents from U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
(ICE) arrived at the Swift plant here at 7 a.m. They also raided plants in
Colorado, Nebraska, Texas, Utah and Minnesota. A total of 1,297 people were
arrested, says ICE spokeswoman Jamie Zuieback. Of those, 274 -- including 30
from Marshalltown -- face criminal charges, she says.

Tom Vilsack, then Iowa's governor, said in a letter to Homeland Security
Secretary Michael Chertoff that the raid "created undue hardship ... and led to
resentment and further mistrust of government."

Zuieback says agents took "unprecedented steps" to ensure that the raids were
"orderly, humane and respectful of the rights and needs of all involved
parties." They set up a toll-free number so people could find out where those
who were arrested were being held and allowed 120 people with children or other
dependents to go home -- though many still face charges.

Word spread quickly on that rainy day that the first immigration raid here in a
decade  had begun. People rushed to the plant and to schools to pick up their
children.

"People were in an absolute panic," says Woodbury Elementary School Principal
Tom Renze. "I got many calls that day just wanting assurances that the
enforcement agents were not coming to school." In the next few days, Renze and
his staff went to immigrants' homes to tell them it was safe to send their
children to school. Some parents wouldn't answer their doors.

Things are calmer now at Woodbury, where 78% of the 300 students are Hispanic,
but 20 students have left since the raid, Renze says. "We know that some of our
children are without their parents."

Christine Feagan, a nun who runs the Hispanic ministry at St. Mary's Catholic
Church, has a list of 92 people who were deported or detained, and she suspects
there are more. "Everybody was affected in some way. Spouses are separated.
Women who were left here don't speak English, don't drive." Her group has
received $85,000 in donations to help families pay bills and legal fees.

Some Hispanic immigrants have been in Marshalltown for more than a decade, but
the Latino and Anglo communities don't mingle socially.

Still, most residents are accepting, says Ken Anderson, the Chamber of Commerce
president. There's a Hispanic festival every summer, and the YMCA is a gathering
place for both communities. After the raid, city leaders met to discuss ways to
help those affected.

"It's a real subtle maturing process that we're going through," Anderson says.
"Hispanics are buying homes, filling up Main Street with their businesses. We're
working to build one community."

The first immigrants to arrive here were young men drawn to jobs at the
meatpacking plant, Police Chief Lon Walker says. Families followed, but he says
some residents blame immigrants for drug-dealing and violent crimes. Since 1999,
he says, the city has had no dramatic increases in crime.

Walker says cases involving illegal immigrants who use stolen identities are the
most "time-consuming, complex and frustrating." His officers recently found a
Swift worker with stolen IDs that had been used by people in four states. Last
Easter, an illegal immigrant was killed in a hit-and-run accident. "We're still
not 100% sure who got buried," he says.

Locals have mixed feelings

After the raid, Walker says, "I got call after call from people saying: 'About
time. Good job.'"

Deb Williams, 46, a tax preparer, says many people in town have no sympathy for
illegals. "The people that were mad before are kind of glad they got busted,"
she says.

Robin Blue, who works at a telemarketing company, says the raid was "the right
thing to do. If you're going to come here, work here and live here, you need to
learn the language."

Aimmie Carter, 21, Blue's co-worker, says, "A lot of people in my family hate
Mexicans." Even so, she thinks some now feel sorry for families affected by the
raid. "I don't like the way they did it at all."

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, USA TODAY, Source: ESRI (Map)
PHOTO, B/W, Ken Black, (Central Iowa) Times-Republican via AP
PHOTO, B/W, Jim A. Heemstra for USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              219 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           February 27, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Cashing in on immigrants;
Bank of America's campaign to offer credit cards to illegal aliens provokes
indignation. But guess what? This promotion isn't being done as a favor to
immigrants -- quite the opposite.

BYLINE: Ruben Navarrette

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 876 words


SAN DIEGO -- Critics are still fuming over Bank of America's plan to offer
credit cards to people without Social Security numbers or credit histories,
characteristics common to illegal immigrants.

CNN's Lou Dobbs called it "idiotic."  Roy Beck of Numbers USA, a proponent of
immigration controls, accused Bank of America of "unpatriotic greed." Callers on
talk radio have suggested the company change its name to "Bank of Mexico."
Syndicated columnist Michelle Malkin argued that the company is defying federal
immigration law by "aiding and abetting illegal activity." Funny thing. I've had
credit cards for more than 20 years, and I don't remember feeling aided and
abetted. Preyed upon, maybe.

This circus is not what Javier Palomarez expected. The advertising veteran has
spent nearly 20 years helping Fortune 500 companies tap the Hispanic market. In
2002, he was working for Bank of America as senior vice president of marketing
when he proposed the idea. It's perfectly legal and logical.

Previous programs

The bank was already experimenting with its SafeSend program, which allows
immigrants who open a checking account in the United States to transfer money to
a bank in Mexico where it can be retrieved by a third party. Bank of America
also offers mortgages for immigrants. Palomarez argued that credit cards were
the next step. Not everyone in the company was sold, however, which could
explain why it took several years to bring the idea to fruition. Some bank
executives feared that illegal immigrants were bad credit risks. "That was the
debate," Palomarez told me recently in an interview. "And additionally, the idea
was, you know, it's still too close to 9/11."

Not this again. Let's not confuse terrorists with immigrants. Here's a tip on
how to keep the two groups straight: One wants to do us harm; the other wants to
do our cooking, gardening and child care.

The distinction escapes Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo.,  an anti-immigrant
demagogue. Tancredo fears Bank of America might unwittingly give credit to a
terrorist.  Get real. According to Palomarez, credit limits for illegal
immigrants would be about $500. The 9/11 hijackers ran through tens of thousands
of dollars in planning the attacks.

I wish critics would give the scare tactics a rest and come clean about what
really bugs them: The fear that Americans are getting comfortable with illegal
immigration and the concern that initiatives like this will take the steam out
of enforcement efforts by making immigrants seem less threatening.

As for this being a giveaway, Palomarez says it was never any such thing. "There
is a ton of money to be made," he said. Consider the interest rate. "Just
imagine the worst there are," Palomarez said. "Twenty-one percent and up."
Immigrants will pay it, he said, because they're grateful to have the card and
to build up credit histories.

High interest rate

That's exactly where Bank of America landed -- on an interest rate that can top
21%,  which is higher than most people pay. As for the claim that illegal
immigrants don't pay their bills, Palomarez disagrees. "These people went
through a lot of trouble and expense and risk to get here," he said. "They
didn't come here to mess it up."

But getting a credit card into the hands of a Latino is only half the battle.
You still have to get him to use it. "We were raised that, you know what, if you
can't buy it (with) cash, you can't afford it," he said. "That whole mentality
hasn't left us yet as a culture."

So how does Bank of America hope to get illegal immigrants hooked on credit? We
had millions of dollars worth of campaigns in place dedicated solely to the guy
who got the card and hasn't used it," Palomarez said. "Mailers congratulating
him on receiving his Bank of America credit card and reminding him of the
benefits that the card afforded him, blah, blah, blah. ... We knew what buttons
to push."

How would they know? "If you've got a guy's debit card, or even his checking
account, and you get activity on it, you have such robust data," he said,
"because you are in his wallet."

Palomarez is no longer with Bank of America, but he still wants to be in your
wallet. Now based in Dallas, he aims to get in there again with his latest
venture -- a pre-paid debit card, which he and his associates hope will
revolutionize how Hispanics (particularly immigrants) handle remittances,
purchases and ATM withdrawals. Other companies are doing the same.

It's an interesting idea. But it's not like immigrants are clamoring for debit
cards, any more than they're demanding credit cards. That's the whole point.
This controversy should dispel the myth that illegal immigrants come here with
outstretched palms.

Credit cards aren't freebies, and it isn't immigrants who demand them. These
things come along because someone wants to cash in. As with bilingual education
and beer sales, this isn't something that is being done for illegal immigrants;
it's something that is being done to illegal immigrants. It's such an obvious
point that you'd have to be blind not to see it. Of course, fear and nativism
have been known to cause a lack of vision in people.

---

Ruben Navarrette is an editorial writer for the San Diego Union Tribune, a
syndicated columnist and a regular contributor to CNN.com.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Keith Simmons, USA TODAY (ILLUSTRATION)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              220 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 1, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Mexican park gives visitors a border run for their money;
Tours simulate, stress the dangers of illegal crossing

BYLINE: Sara Miller Llana

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 563 words


EL ALBERTO, Mexico -- Sirens wail, and Rosa Estrada, 34, scurries down the side
of a muddy bank.

"Get under the bushes!" someone whispers urgently in the dark. "Immigration is
coming!"

Estrada and 20 other Mexicans hit the ground, crouching among thick branches and
brambles. Red and blue lights streak overhead, and then a voice booms in
English: "Hello, this is Border Patrol."

If this were in the USA, Estrada probably would be detained and deported.
Instead, it's all happening at a park in central Mexico, where Estrada and
others have paid about $18 each for a simulated experience of what it's like to
cross the U.S. border.

During a five-hour trek that goes past midnight, visitors walk in ankle-deep
mud, balance on steep ledges and sprint across cornfields. All the while, they
try to evade "U.S. Border Patrol officers" -- actually local actors -- who are
pursuing them.

Located in the rugged mountains of Hidalgo state about 700 miles from the real
U.S.-Mexican border, the park has been criticized by some Mexicans as a training
ground for would-be illegal migrants, says Bernardino Martin, the mayor of
nearby El Alberto.

EcoAlberto Park was founded by the Hoahou, an indigenous community that has been
decimated by emigration. Of the 2,200 residents of El Alberto, Martin says about
half of them have left for the USA.

Martin says the park seeks to generate jobs and money so the rest of the
community can stay in Mexico. Some of the park's employees have worked in the
USA but returned home.

The park "has been interpreted badly by some," says Martin. "It is
misunderstood. This is so my neighbors prosper, so that no one else is forced to
go."

Aspects of the experience appear designed to give pause to anyone contemplating
a trip to El Norte. When Estrada and her group are confronted by the "Border
Patrol," one of the agents yells: "Are you Mexicans? It's too dangerous to cross
the river. Remember your kids and families at home!"

The adventure is nowhere near as dangerous as an actual border crossing -- but
it's no walk in the park, either. Visitors run through tunnels and lie still on
the dusty ground for up to 20 minutes at a time.

About 3,000 Mexicans have taken the tour -- called the Caminata Nocturna, or
Nighttime Hike -- since the park opened 2 1/2 years ago.

"It's an adrenaline rush," says Alfredo Trejo, 31, an accountant from
Tlalnepantla in the state of Mexico.

Trejo and a group of family members and friends came not for tips on how to
cross the border, but out of curiosity. "Someone recommended it. They said it
was fun," Trejo says.

Others, including Estrada, say that they feel a certain empathy for emigrants
and that participating for laughs is in poor taste.

Estrada says she has been on the park tour three times with family members or
friends.

As the border run winds down, participants collapse onto the cold earth,
exhausted and dirty. One man has fallen into a rushing stream. A few people are
limping.

"We get so immersed in our lives that we forget how much other people suffer,"
says Estrada, from Mexico City, who came this time with eight family members.
The group includes her 12-year-old son, whom she says she hopes will never make
the real journey.

"I don't want this to just be fun for him," Estrada says. "I want him to take
home the message."

Miller is the Latin America bureau chief for USA TODAY and The Christian Science
Monitor

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, USA TODAY, Source: ESRI (Map)
PHOTO, B/W, Asel Llana Ugalde

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              221 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 13, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration debate squeezes some businesses;
Cities, states passing rash of laws on illegal aliens

BYLINE: Sue Kirchhoff

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1578 words


WASHINGTON -- Mayor Louis Barletta of Hazleton, Pa., issued a glowing
proclamation in October recognizing "Local Chamber of Commerce Month" in his
small town and praising the group's vital work on behalf of business.

This week, he's in federal court fighting the powerful U.S. Chamber of Commerce,
which wants to kill a Hazleton ordinance penalizing employers who hire illegal
aliens. The court's ruling on the law, which other cities have imitated, could
have major repercussions for U.S. immigration policy.

"Unfortunately for some, this is more about business profiting from illegal
aliens," Barletta says of the Chamber's decision to join the American Civil
Liberties Union in challenging the measure, which also makes English Hazleton's
official language and punishes landlords who rent to illegal immigrants.

"We're fighting for more than Hazleton now," Barletta says. "If we win, cities
across the country win."

The Hazleton case exemplifies the growing tension between business and lawmakers
as voters clamor for muscular action on illegal immigration, and state and local
officials respond by passing a rash of laws governing hiring, public services,
housing, language and use of financial services.

More than 80 cities have considered ordinances similar to Hazleton's, the ACLU
says. Nearly 600 immigration-related bills were introduced in state legislatures
last year, and at least 84 new laws were enacted, according to the National
Conference of State Legislatures. Federal officials are stepping up workplace
raids, and Congress soon could launch an effort at a major immigration overhaul.

Businesses are hoping Congress will break the deadlock on immigration policy
this year, worried that without new uniform national standards, they will be
subject to hundreds of laws that increase their legal exposure, make it tougher
to attract high-skilled workers and foreign capital, or sell to the immigrant
market.

To bolster political clout, business leaders are forming unlikely alliances with
Hispanic, religious and civil rights groups, and labor unions. They're often
battling Republican lawmakers, such as Barletta, normally their free-market
allies.

"From bad law comes all variety of perversions or disruptions and distortions:
people dying in the desert to try to get work, employers not talking to each
other or legislators for fear of becoming an (enforcement) target or the target
of the Minutemen," an anti-immigration group, says Sheridan Bailey, a founder of
Arizona Employers for Immigration Reform.

Bailey, president of Phoenix steel fabricator Ironco Enterprises, has raised
wages to $20 an hour from $15, but still can't find workers.

He fears that some of his employees could be in the country illegally -- given
estimates that as many as 12 million undocumented immigrants are in the USA --
though he complies with workplace laws. He also faces the possibility of tougher
state measures, including one requiring businesses to swear they haven't
knowingly hired an illegal worker.

A growing movement

Bailey's fledgling group, which advocates a federal temporary guest-worker
program and "sensible enforcement," has 50 members and 150 on an e-mail list.

There are similar efforts:

*The Texas Association of Business last month announced an expanded coalition,
including the Mexican American Legislative Caucus, the Texas Employers for
Immigration Reform and the American Civil Liberties Union, to fight an
"onslaught of anti-immigrant legislation." The group wants lawmakers to hold off
and let Congress act.

There are several immigration bills in the Texas Legislature, including
proposals to charge a fee on "remittance" money sent to immigrants' home
countries and to deny benefits to illegal immigrants' children who are born in
the USA.

Texas Democratic Sen. Royce West, who introduced the remittance bill, resents
being lumped into the category of immigrant-basher. His measure would use
proceeds from the fee to fund health care for the indigent, including
undocumented aliens.

"You can only raise so much money from the traditional sources; you've got to
find other sources that are fair to everyone," West says. His bill doesn't
single out immigrants, but the fast-growing remittance sector is fueled by
immigrant dollars.

*Florida TaxWatch last month organized an immigration and visa policy summit of
Realtors, the hospitality industry, farm interests, contractors and others. They
are now forming a coalition to address issues from workers to foreign investment
and visa policy. Restrictions on foreign travel or investment are of high
interest  in Florida, where 15% of housing is owned by foreign nationals.

"Most of what we're hearing about the immigration issue is enforcement,
enforcement, enforcement. That's always the easiest way to deal with issues;
it's not always the best," says Roy Bedard, president of RRB Systems
International, a member of the group's steering committee. Bedard, whose firm
trains police officials, wants "comprehensive, not one-sided reform."

*At the federal level, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, National Council of La
Raza, Service Employees International Union and U.S. Conference of Catholic
Bishops, among others, are seeking an immigration bill that includes a path to
permanent residence for undocumented workers, tougher enforcement and adequate
visas for foreign workers.

Some back tougher policies

While the business community is vocal, it's hardly monolithic. Some say their
colleagues have been too willing to turn a blind eye to abuses of immigration
law. A number of recent high-profile immigration raids have turned up widespread
abuses of immigrant labor and guilty pleas.

Rod Gallagher, president of Virginia School Equipment in Lynchburg, Va., has
signed on to a campaign by advocacy group Federation for American Immigration
Reform (FAIR), under which businesses voluntarily certify the legal status of
their workers.

In return for checking employee information against a special federal database
and weeding out workers whose documents don't pan out, Gallagher can call his
14-person firm FAIR-approved.

"We want to take a stance and say who we are, and try to differentiate ourselves
and use it as a selling feature," says Gallagher, whose company designs and
installs gyms, auditoriums and classrooms. His workers range from carpenters to
designers, and he says he's at a disadvantage compared with firms that hire
lower-cost immigrant labor.

FAIR hopes businesses will use its seal of approval as a selling point,
comparing it with efforts to build a market for such specialty goods as organic
food.

"The perpetrator of illegal immigration in this country is the U.S. business
community," says Susan Tully, organizing the campaign for FAIR. "Twenty years
ago, it was not OK to hire illegal aliens. ... Now, blatantly, U.S. businessmen
not only hire them, but they encourage it."

Immigrants in labor force

How important is the immigration issue to business?

Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez told a Senate hearing recently that
immigrants account for 15% of the U.S. workforce and about half of labor-force
growth since 1996. Opponents of immigration cite millions of low-skilled workers
coming into the country illegally. But in high-skilled professions such as
computers, mathematics, engineering, architecture and science, immigrants
account for more than 40% of workers with Ph.D.s, Gutierrez noted.

Last year, more than 30 states passed legislation dealing with issues related to
illegal immigration.

The bulk of proposals introduced in legislatures deal with such things as
requiring documentation to get a driver's license, state job or service; making
English the official language; setting tougher penalties for companies that
knowingly hire illegal workers; and cracking down on hiring centers for day
laborers, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures.

Still, in a USA/TODAY Gallup Poll conducted March 2-4, three-fourths of
respondents said the federal government hadn't gone far enough on immigration,
and 69% said states hadn't done enough.

Businesses disagree, saying the efforts are inflating costs and creating
confusion. One example is the HR Initiative for a Legal Workforce, a new
coalition of human resource organizations that will lobby Congress. The group,
advertising in Capitol Hill newspapers, is pressing for a simple and workable
employee-verification system.

Another catalyst is the proliferation of state laws. The number of new state
mandates aimed at preventing the hiring of illegal workers is "causing great
confusion for employers with sites in multiple states," says Lynn Shotwell,
executive director of the American Council on International Personnel.

The importance of the issue extends far beyond the workforce. The 41 million
Hispanics in the USA are a major market. Hispanic spending power will hit $863
billion in 2007, an 8% rise from 2006, according to the University of Georgia's
Selig Center for Economic Growth.

English-only mandates, taxes on services such as remittances and other measures
send a message that immigrants are not welcome customers, business owners say.

"It's a way of legislating a very exclusionary ... attitude to business," says
Tricia Juhn, director of the Financial Services Practice at InfoAmericas, a
research firm that specializes in Hispanic and Latin American markets. "It makes
it sound like we're doing a favor to these immigrants by letting them bank with
us -- that's really not the case."

---

Contributing: Kathy Kiely

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Source: National Conference of State Legislatures (CHART)

GRAPHIC, B/W, Adrienne Lewis, USA TODAY, Source: National Conference of State
Legislatures (MAP)
PHOTO, Color, Christine Keith, The Arizona Republic for USA TODAY
PHOTO, Color, Rick Smith, AP
PHOTO, B/W, Kristen Mullen, The Wilkes-Barre, Pa. Citizens' Voice via AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              222 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 27, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Extreme measures won't fix immigration

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 293 words


Michael Medved's recent commentary "Who should stay? Who should go?" divides
illegal immigrants up into those who deserve to stay and those who deserve to be
deported (The Forum, Wednesday).

From what I understand in talking with people who deal with illegal Mexican
immigrants, most of them do not want to stay but they do seek to save enough
money to buy a small home back in Mexico so they can return and offer a better
life to their families. Therefore, I think a better way of looking at it is to
divide illegal immigrants up into those who want citizenship and those who just
want to make some money and leave.

The extreme views are either full deportation or full amnesty. Medved recognizes
that trying to find and deport some estimated 11 million people -- roughly the
population equivalent of Los Angeles and San Francisco counties combined --
would be impossible. To force them to leave voluntarily by cutting off jobs
would only result in a huge increase in crime by turning people who are working
hard at low-paying jobs into thieves and killers. This is no answer. Offering
amnesty is not the answer either, as it unjustly penalizes those who have gone
through our naturalization process. I reject these two extremes as being
unacceptable.

We need a simple but voluntary solution to the issue.

For those who want to become U.S. citizens, allow them to buy citizenship by a
program of federal "citizenship" loans, to be paid back over several years while
they work toward citizenship. For those who want to return to their country of
origin, we should make sure that they are documented and that they pay their
taxes while here. In exchange, they would get some benefits afforded citizens,
such as schooling for children.

Kenneth J. Branch

Kenilworth, Ill.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Adrienne Lewis, USA TODAY (ILLUSTRATION)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              223 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 30, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Local police confront illegals;
Agencies turn to feds for training

BYLINE: Oren Dorell and William M. Welch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 532 words


More than 60 law enforcement agencies across the country are teaming up with the
federal government to have the power to arrest illegal immigrants, a move that
could add hundreds of new officers to the effort.

At least 14 police and sheriff's departments have already received training from
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE).

Many of the 50 new departments looking into training are from smaller cities and
suburbs that have seen a wave of illegal immigrants looking for work.

"It's something that is expanding," says Marcy Forman, director of ICE's office
of investigations. "It's certainly been a success."

Forman says the training will expand enforcement of federal immigration laws
well beyond the 5,600 special agents with ICE.

Some major cities have spurned the federal government's offer, saying their
officers don't have time to look for illegal immigrants and worry about the
effect, according to the Major Cities Chiefs Association.

Some communities want only the authority to check the status of prisoners who
can then be handed over for possible deportation. Others want their police to
check the status of people suspected of crimes or even traffic violations.

In Arizona, the Maricopa County Sheriff's Office this week is graduating the
first of 100 patrol deputies and 60 detention officers scheduled to get the
training -- the biggest group yet.

"The people of Maricopa County want me to do something," Sheriff Joe Arpaio
says. "They want me to lock up illegals."

In Southern California, two counties using ICE training to screen inmates in
their jails report finding large numbers who appear to be in the country
illegally.

During the first three months of this year, Los Angeles County sheriff's
spokesman Steve Whitmore says 1,422 prisoners were held over for federal
immigration authorities -- more than half the 2,685 foreign nationals who were
screened in the county's jails.

"The real reason for my request is so we can pursue people who are violating
federal law as far as hiring practices," says Mayor Donald Cresitello of
Morristown, N.J., which wants training for 10 of its 60 officers.

Morristown, where an estimated 1,500 illegal immigrants live among 19,000
residents, is looking for ways to deal with day labor sites that have become a
nuisance, Cresitello says.

Morristown Police Chief Peter Demnitz has concerns. Victims of crime and
witnesses who are illegal immigrants might not cooperate with police, he says.

"Morristown is very diverse," Demnitz says. "We have forged relationships, and I
am concerned that this will have an impact on our relationships."

14 agencies working with ICE

The federal government has agreements with 14 law enforcement agencies to
deputize their employees as immigration officers:

*Alabama Department of Public Safety/State Police

*Arizona Department

of Corrections

*Florida Department of Law Enforcement

*Herndon, Va., Police Department

Sheriff's departments

*Maricopa County, Ariz.

*Los Angeles County, Calif.

*Orange County, Calif.

*Riverside County, Calif.

*San Bernardino

County, Calif.

*Cobb County, Ga.

*Alamance County, N.C.

*Gaston County, N.C.

*Mecklenburg

County, N.C.

*Davidson County, Tenn.

Source: U.S. Immigration and

Customs Enforcement

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              224 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 3, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Tancredo jumps into race for presidency;
Colo. Republican will focus on immigration

BYLINE: Thomas Beaumont

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 292 words


DES MOINES -- U.S. Rep. Tom Tancredo of Colorado, a leading voice against
illegal immigration, announced his candidacy for the 2008 Republican
presidential nomination Monday.

Tancredo made his announcement on WHO host Jan Mickelson's radio program,
Mickelson in the Morning. Tancredo promised to make the fight against illegal
immigration the cornerstone of his 2008 bid.

He joins a crowded field that includes better-known hopefuls such as former New
York City mayor Rudy Giuliani and Arizona Sen. John McCain.

"The crisis of illegal immigration threatens not only our economy and our
security but our very identity," Tancredo said in a statement released by his
campaign. "That ends today."

An estimated 12 million illegal immigrants now live in the USA.

Tancredo said he chose to declare his intentions on talk radio because the
medium has raised awareness about illegal immigration. A recent USA TODAY/Gallup
Poll shows immigration ranks fourth behind the Iraq war, terrorism and
corruption as an issue that Republicans want the president and Congress to
address.

"America is in a crisis of enormous proportion," Tancredo said. "This battle
over immigration is really to define the nation." Curbing illegal immigration is
a popular cause among some conservatives in Iowa, where caucuses will launch the
presidential nominating cycle in January.

Tancredo, in his fifth term in Congress, advocates eliminating incentives for
immigrants to come to the USA. Tancredo supports deporting all illegal
immigrants and has criticized a plan by President Bush, McCain and others to
give some illegal immigrants a chance for citizenship.

The former middle school teacher planned to travel to New Hampshire today to
announce his candidacy in the leadoff primary state.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Kevin Sanders, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              225 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 5, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Anti-terrorism officials take aim at giant border weed

BYLINE: Mimi Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 289 words


A giant, aggressive weed growing along the border with Mexico is draining
massive quantities of water, overrunning roads and bridges and providing cover
for illegal immigrants, drug smugglers and anyone else trying to sneak into the
country, the Homeland Security Department says.

Called Carrizo cane, the invasive, non-native plant grows stalks up to 18 feet
tall and can get so dense it makes roads impassable.

"It's like a big spider web" that stretches for hundreds of miles along the Rio
Grande, says Hilario Leal, a Border Patrol agent in Del Rio, Texas.

A "veteran of scratched eyes and hands" who once got so lost in the cane at
night that he had to be guided out by helicopter, Leal says illegal immigrants
cut trails through the dense stalks and smugglers hide loads of drugs in the
cane.

Rep. Henry Cuellar, D-Texas, says the cane will interfere with government plans
to install more cameras and ground sensors along the border.

That's why Homeland Security is paying the Agriculture Department $1.5 million
this year for help getting rid of the cane, an exotic plant that is native to
Mediterranean Europe.

Scientists have found that cutting it down with heavy machinery does little
good; the stuff simply grows back. The area in question is too large to spread
chemical weed killers.

It looks like the best way to combat the cane may be biological, with bugs
collected from Spain, Homeland Security's Gerry Kirwin says.

If early determinations prove right, the predators -- wasps, flies and scale --
would infest and kill both new shoots and mature stalks.

Kirwin says it will take three years to determine whether the bugs really do the
trick and make sure there won't be any unforeseen consequences to importing them
into the USA.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Theresa Scarbrough for USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              226 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 19, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Public favors giving illegal immigrants in USA a break

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 458 words


WASHINGTON -- While Congress and the White House remain divided over what to do
with the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants living in the USA, a new poll
shows the American public appears to have reached a consensus on the question.

A USA TODAY/Gallup Poll taken last weekend found that 78% of respondents feel
people now in the country illegally should be given a chance at citizenship.

Sen. Edward  Kennedy, D-Mass., who is drafting legislation to grant illegal
immigrants an opportunity to stay in the USA, said: "As with so many issues, the
American people are ahead of Washington on immigration reform. They know that
only a plan that offers a path to earned citizenship will fix our broken
system."

Disagreements about the fate of the nation's illegal residents were a major
factor in the deadlock that kept Congress from enacting an immigration bill last
year, despite the support of key Democratic and Republican leaders, as well as
President Bush. The president and members of his Cabinet, including Homeland
Security Secretary Michael Chertoff, have said it would be prohibitively
expensive to deport all the nation's illegal residents.

But many conservatives strongly oppose to putting illegal immigrants on a path
to citizenship. "You'd be rewarding them for breaking our laws," said Rep. Brian
Bilbray, R-Calif.

Supporters of a plan to give illegal immigrants a chance to stay in the USA
expect smoother sailing for legislation in a Democratic-controlled Congress.
Both Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi,
D-Calif.,  have said they want to work with Bush to enact legislation this year.
Reid has set aside the last two weeks of May for debate on an immigration bill;
House Democrats hope to act before the August recess.

Even so, immigrant rights advocates have been taken aback by some cracks in last
year's bipartisan coalition.

Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., who co-sponsored last year's Senate-passed
immigration bill with Kennedy,  has stepped back from the leading role he had
played in the talks as he focuses on his presidential campaign. Frank Sharry of
the National Immigration Forum, a pro-immigration group, told  reporters this
week that McCain's absence from talks "destabilizes the debate."

A leaked White House proposal recommended making illegal immigrants pay a
$10,000 fine in order to have a chance at citizenship. White House spokesman
Scott Stanzel called it a negotiating document. "It is neither wise nor
realistic to round up and deport millions of illegal immigrants, and the
president believes this issue should be addressed without amnesty and without
animosity," he said.

But Sharry expressed concern. "We're in a very different posture than we thought
we would be," he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Suorce: USA TODAY/Gallup Poll of
1,007 people Friday-Sunday (Bar graph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              227 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 27, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

USA might lose good citizens due to immigration process

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 336 words


I am a native-born U.S. citizen. A few years ago, I married a retired, Pakistani
physics instructor. We filed forms for about a year and a half. Finally, we
received a letter from the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS).

It basically said that USCIS had noted the many petitions we had sent, thought
this was curious and wanted to deport my husband.

When it takes a lawyer to wade through this immigration mess and his/her fees
are three times more than are the petition fees, something is wrong.

If I had known what I would suffer at the hand of my own government, I would
have moved to Pakistan.

When being an illegal immigrant is easier than being a legalized citizen, what
incentives are there for people to follow the rules? If the U.S. government
wants fewer illegal immigrants, then it needs to make it easier to gain
citizenship. Otherwise, the United States will not only lose potential citizens
but it will also lose Americans who want a life with those immigrants.

The USA loses more by making immigration difficult.

Sue Brittain

Chicago

Amnesty not mainstream

"Public favors giving illegal immigrants in USA a break" mentions a recent USA
Today/Gallup Poll on immigration that claims  "78% of respondents feel people
now in the country illegally should be given a chance at citizenship" (News,
April 19).

The article is misleading.

The actual results do not show such wide support for amnesty. The article
combines answers to two polling responses to add up to 78%. But 42% of the total
simply responded they would approve of allowing illegal immigrants to leave the
country and get citizenship if certain criteria are met.

The article seems to imply that the 78% supports amnesty. But the respondents
might well believe that the illegal immigrants could come back to the USA  by
waiting in line and going through normal legal channels.

We need more facts in the immigration debate, not more assumptions that give
false impressions.

Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas

Ranking Member

House Judiciary Committee

Washington

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Brian Snyder, Reuters

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              228 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 30, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration rallies likely smaller;
Activists expect new tactics, new climate to lower attendance

BYLINE: Martin Kasindorf

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 602 words


LOS ANGELES -- Marchers demanding a path to U.S. citizenship for as many as 12
million undocumented immigrants will take to the streets in many cities Tuesday,
but organizers say crowds will fall far short of last year's giant rallies on
May 1.

A year ago, police estimated that more than 1 million people rallied for rights
for illegal immigrants and against a short-lived proposal in Congress that would
have made illegal entry to the USA a felony.

Crowds were estimated at 400,000 in Los Angeles, 400,000 in Chicago, 30,000 in
Houston and 20,000 in New York City. In economic boycotts billed as "a day
without immigrants," hundreds of thousands of Hispanic workers and their
supporters didn't punch the clock. The ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach shut
down, and 72,000 students walked out of classes in Los Angeles.

In contrast, a march here Tuesday is likely to attract no more than "tens of
thousands," says Javier Rodriguez of the March 25 Coalition, a group named for a
rally of 500,000 here in 2006.

In Tucson, where 18,000 marched last year, 10,000 are expected to turn out, says
Frida Espinosa of the Tucson May 1 Coalition. There's comparatively little talk
of boycotts.

Event planners attribute part of the difference to nationally syndicated
Spanish-language radio disc jockeys. They whipped up crowds last year but have
shifted political tactics.

The popular Eduardo Sotelo, known as Piolin or "Tweetybird," is asking listeners
to write a million letters in support of immigration changes. He says he'll
deliver those letters to Congress. Renan Almendarez Coello, the DJ known as El
Cucuy ("the boogeyman"), says persuading legal residents to become citizens and
vote is more effective than marching.

"It was very nice to see everybody walking around and being supportive and not
making a big mess, but it is more important to register and vote," he says.

Demonstration organizers also attribute lowered expectations to fragmented
leadership, discouragement that Congress approved no immigration bill last year
and a more punitive climate.

"The situation has changed drastically for us," says Armando Navarro,
coordinator of the National Alliance for Human Rights. "Last year, there was a
sense of passion and determination, inspired by fear of criminalization and
rising expectations for legalization. The political climate is becoming more
restrictionist right now, and our capacity to respond is not there."

As cities such as Hazleton, Pa., pass laws cracking down on illegal immigrants,
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement stages raids on workplaces to detain
undocumented workers.

By displaying such toughness in protecting borders, President Bush could soften
opposition to the kind of immigration bill he wants: one that would combine
stepped-up law enforcement with a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants.

House Republicans blocked such a bill last year after the Senate passed it.
Democrats now control Congress and side with Bush on the issue, but Republican
votes are needed.

Immigrant rights groups are split over the latest proposal in Congress,
sponsored by Reps. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., and Jeff Flake, R-Ariz. The bill
would provide a way to earn citizenship that "could take up to 20 years," the
skeptical Navarro says.

Navarro says activists did little to keep immigrant communities mobilized after
last year's rallies and find it hard to "rekindle that spirit." Jorge-Mario
Cabrera, a spokesman for the Central American Resource Center here, cites one
reason it's so hard: "There is a real disappointment in the community that last
year we became so engaged, and nothing happened."

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, J. Emilio Flores, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              229 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 18, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Senators reach deal on immigration;
Members of both parties attack proposal

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 735 words


WASHINGTON -- An influential group of senators reached a bipartisan deal
Thursday that would give an estimated 12 million illegal immigrants a chance to
stay in the USA legally and create a new system for future immigration.

It would also greatly expand the opportunities for foreigners to work here
temporarily.

The proposed legislation, which the Senate will begin debating Monday, is
already coming under fire from some lawmakers and interest groups on both sides
of the emotional issue. Nonetheless, it represents a breakthrough in President
Bush's quest to enact a key piece of his domestic legacy.

Bush made an  appearance before reporters to hail the agreement, saying it would
offer illegal immigrants a chance to come out of the shadows "without amnesty,
but without animosity." He called for its quick passage.

Members of the bipartisan group that spent the past three months negotiating the
legislation said they backed it even though none of them are satisfied with the
final product. "It's not perfect," said Sen. Jon Kyl, R-Ariz. "But it represents
the best opportunity we have to do something in a bipartisan way." Sen. Dianne
Feinstein, D-Calif., appealed for the public to give the delicately balanced
compromise a chance. "Please, please, please, please, don't let the perfect be
the enemy of the good," she said.

The talks brought together liberal Democrats such as Sen. Edward Kennedy,
D-Mass., with conservatives such as Kyl, the third-ranking Senate Republican
leader and an opponent of the immigration bill that Kennedy crafted last year.
The negotiators sought to strike a bargain between Democrats who argued that
millions of illegal immigrants have contributed to the nation's prosperity and
deserve a chance to become citizens, and Republicans who insisted on changes in
the legal immigration system to favor highly skilled workers.

Under the proposal, people who immigrated to the country illegally before Jan.
1, 2007, could apply for provisional legal status when the bill takes effect.
They can eventually become citizens if they have no criminal record and pay back
taxes and a fine of $5,000 per household. They would also need to  know English
and return to their native countries to reapply for guaranteed legal entry.

The bill would provide for more fencing and other security measures along the
U.S.-Mexican border, and it would require employers to check all new hires
against a government database to determine whether they can legally work in the
USA.

In a historic shift, it also would eliminate some of the preferences given to
adult children and siblings of U.S. citizens applying to immigrate and create a
merit-based point system designed to promote immigration by workers whose skills
are in demand in the USA.

A new temporary worker program and an increase in the number of existing
temporary work visas could raise the number of foreigner workers entering the
USA each year to as many as 859,000, depending on market needs. That's not
including agricultural workers, a category that is not capped.

Sen. Robert Menendez, D-N.J., who took part in the talks that led to the
proposal, said he decided not to support it in part because of the point system.

"It changes the spirit of our immigration policy," said Menendez, the son of
Cuban refugees. "If this system had been in place when my mother and father
attempted to come to this country, they certainly would not have qualified."

Supporters said it offered "the last best chance," in the words of Sen. Lindsey
Graham, R-S.C., to strike a deal.

Contributing: David Jackson

Key provisions in the proposal

The proposed immigration bill would:

*Let an estimated 12 million illegal immigrants who arrived before Jan. 1, 2007,
apply for legal status.

*Allow illegal immigrants to seek citizenship if they pay back taxes and $5,000
in fines, have no criminal record and return to their home country within eight
years to apply for  re-entry.

*Permit an additional 400,000 foreign workers to take temporary jobs.

*Establish new criteria for legal immigration that would increase the number of
foreign high-skilled immigrants and reduce the percentage of green cards for
family-sponsored immigrants.

Note: Tougher security measures, including a system to verify the legal status
of new hires, must be in place for the rest of the bill to take effect. The
Department of Homeland Security estimates this would take 18 months.

Source: U.S. Senate

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Chip Somodevilla, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              230 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 21, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Feds watching anti-immigrant extremists;
Authorities see tensions rising as groups grow

BYLINE: Kevin Johnson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 625 words


Carl D. Wynn Jr., who last fall posed as a U.S. border agent and wrongly
suggested that a Little Rock construction company had hired illegal immigrants,
has come to symbolize how the divisive immigration debate can progress from
legal expressions of opposition to offensive action.

Wynn, also accused of attempting to sabotage the same company by planting
tire-ripping spikes outside the business, has quickly come to represent a
"troubling" development within the radical ranks of the anti-immigration
movement, said Little Rock U.S. Attorney Tim Griffin, whose office won a guilty
plea last month from the laborer.

Since 2000, the number of extremist groups has increased by 40%, according to
the Southern Poverty Law Center, which closely tracks the groups' activities. In
the past two years, the growth has been largely driven by the emergence of about
144 "nativist" groups that oppose immigration.

"When folks try to take law enforcement matters into their own hands, it creates
a potentially dangerous situation," Griffin said. "Mr. Wynn's actions are
troubling to us."

Charles Frahm, FBI deputy assistant director for counterterrorism, said there is
increasing concern that the most radical elements of the anti-immigration wing
may be "susceptible" to recruitment by white supremacists and other groups
inclined toward violence.

Police departments across the country also are uneasy as political divisions
regarding immigration enforcement have raised local tensions.

"This is certainly a concern for every police chief in the country," said
Charlotte-Mecklenburg, N.C. Police Chief Darrel Stephens, president of the
national Major Cities Chiefs Association. "As long as the issue remains
unsettled, the tension grows."

Perhaps not since the anti-government militia movement came to prominence in the
early 1990s, the Southern Poverty Law Center says, have so many groups embraced
such a common campaign for dealing with what they describe as failed government
policy.

"The infection is spreading," said Mark Potok, editor of the center's
Intelligence Report.

"It's no longer unusual to hear vilifying fairy tales of immigrant-borne secret
conspiracies and massive criminality on radio, cable television and even in the
mouths of pandering politicians," he said.

Among the most abrasive figures on the anti-immigration movement, according to
the center, is Donald Pauly of Nevada.

In an interview with USA TODAY, Pauly's voice is calm but serious.

Frustrated by the surge of illegal immigrants into Las Vegas, the self-employed
electrical engineer formed the Emigration Party of Nevada. Headquartered largely
on the Internet, Pauly has advanced some radical ideas for dealing with illegal
immigrants. He openly advocates the deployment of government snipers to the
porous southwest border and favors the forced sterilization of Mexican women
after the birth of their first child.

"For the time being, we do not associate with anyone who is violent unless in
self-defense," Pauly said in a later e-mail message. "However, I remind you of
this quote of Thomas Jefferson's: 'The tree of Liberty must be refreshed from
time to time with the blood of patriots & tyrants. It is its natural manure.' "

The radical discourse has become increasingly common across the USA.

Last year, an Arizona jury leveled a judgment of nearly $100,000 against a
rancher for threatening a Mexican-American family.

Prior to the court decision, the rancher, Roger Barnett, gained national
attention for his efforts to round up illegal immigrants who had cut paths
through his property.

"There is not a clear understanding (among the public) of who is ultimately
responsible for enforcing immigration laws," Stephens said. "The tension will
only increase until the issue is resolved."

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              231 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 8, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Amnesty? What amnesty? Critics substitute fear for facts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 573 words


Opponents of the immigration compromise that stalled in the Senate on Thursday
night have wield the word "amnesty" like a club, as if repeating it over and
over constitutes rational argument.

Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., displays the word prominently on his presidential
campaign website and describes amnesty variously as a "travesty" and a
"catastrophe." CNN's Lou Dobbs invokes the word so often (six times in the
introduction of his Wednesday broadcast alone) you'd think his anchor seat was
under imminent threat from border-jumping TV hosts.

Such is the politics of fear, and if it is deplorable, it is also effective.

Although polls show that most Americans support giving illegal immigrants a path
to citizenship, the bipartisan immigration bill was on life support after Senate
leaders pulled it off the floor in the face of relentless opposition. Never mind
that what it offers is not amnesty at all. Never mind either that defeating it
-- thereby retaining the current system -- means that the 12 million illegal
entrants already here will stay. It's fear that counts, not reason.

This is what the critics call amnesty:

Over time, illegal immigrants would have to pay fines and fees of more than
$9,000 (plus thousands more for each family member). They'd have to prove
they're working and have no significant criminal record. They'd have to learn
English and American civics. And, if they want legal permanent residence, they'd
have to return to their home country to apply for it there. Getting a green card
would take at least eight years, citizenship at least 13.

Some amnesty.

In a perfect world, it might be reasonable to say that everyone here illegally
should be deported. Lawbreaking, obviously, cannot be ignored. But if that were
possible at all -- which is very dubious -- the cost would run far into the
billions.

And for what?

Most immigrants work hard. They came to make better futures for themselves and
their families. They have put down roots and are vital to the American economy.
Even small crackdowns produce wails from employers who can't find replacement
workers.

Ask detractors to stop braying "amnesty" for a minute and offer an alternative,
and the response is too often the sort of non-answer Republican presidential
candidate Mitt Romney gave during Tuesday's GOP debate on CNN. Romney proposed
"to enforce the law ... that was passed in 1986."

Alas, that ship has sailed. It's simply not feasible to go back two decades to
start over -- or to suddenly make it so difficult for illegals to work here that
at least 12 million people magically self-deport, leaving restaurants, hotels
and millions of small businesses with a crippling labor shortage.

The critics should instead focus their efforts on a more legitimate goal: Making
sure this reform includes both the means and the funding to keep millions more
illegal immigrants from coming. If the federal government follows through
aggressively -- a big if, given the abject failure of the 1986 bill's
enforcement provisions -- the nation could get control over its borders and its
workplaces.

The time to keep 12 million illegals who are here now out of the country was
long ago. Maintaining the status quo is, as Sen. John McCain and others have
said, simply a matter of "silent amnesty."

---

This is the third in an occasional series of editorials about this year's
immigration debate. View the previous editorials at
blogs.usatoday.com/oped/immigration_editorial.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Brian Albert Broom, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              232 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 8, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration bill not dead yet, backers say

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 318 words


WASHINGTON -- An immigration bill endorsed by a bipartisan group of senators and
President Bush suffered a potentially fatal setback Thursday as Republican and
Democratic leaders failed to quell opposition within their party ranks.

Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid pulled the bill from the floor because backers
couldn't muster the 60 votes necessary to schedule a vote on final passage.
"We're finished with this for the time being," he said.

Sen. Edward Kennedy, the chief sponsor of the immigration legislation, said he
would not give up on a bill that is aimed at "remedying one of the great
national challenges we have."

Even so, the Senate's failure to complete the bill now raises questions about
whether Congress can deal with the contentious issue with a presidential
campaign in gear.  "I doubt if prospects will get better," said Senate Minority
Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky.

The legislation calls for beefing up security along the border, requiring all
job applicants to prove they are eligible to work in the USA, and expanding
opportunities for foreigners to take temporary jobs. It also would grant a
chance at citizenship to an estimated 12 million people now living in the
country illegally.

The bill has drawn wide bipartisan support but also intense opposition from
factions in both parties. Its collapse came despite an emergency trip to the
Capitol by Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez and Homeland Security Secretary
Michael Chertoff to lobby for votes.

Rep. Zoe Lofgren, a California Democrat who chairs the House immigration
committee, said it is unlikely the House will act if the Senate doesn't pass its
bill first.

The Senate's inability to act exasperated some. "Are we men or are we mice?"
said Sen. Trent Lott, R-Miss., his party's No. 2 leader. "If we can't do this,
we ought to vote to dissolve the Congress and go home until the next election."

*Vote stuns bill's supporters, 13A

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              233 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 11, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Bush to meet with GOP over immigration;
Rare visit to senators 'shows his dedication to this issue'

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 643 words


WASHINGTON -- President Bush plans a rare trip to Capitol Hill on Tuesday in an
effort to resurrect a bipartisan immigration deal that collapsed last week amid
partisan recriminations.

Bush will join Republican senators at their weekly luncheon meeting, White House
spokesman Tony Fratto said Sunday. Backers of the bill that Senate Majority
Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., pulled from the Senate agenda late Thursday are
hoping that Bush's personal lobbying will help revive the measure.

"The fact that he's coming to the Hill is kind of dramatic and shows his
dedication to this issue," Sen. Mel Martinez, R-Fla., told USA TODAY on Sunday.
Martinez, who also serves as general chairman of the Republican National
Committee, acknowledged that the immigration stalemate threatens to drive a
wedge between his party and Hispanic voters.

In a crucial procedural vote last week, 38 Republicans and 12 Democrats voted
against moving the immigration bill to a final vote.

Among the bill's key provisions: a path to citizenship for an estimated 12
million illegal immigrants now living in the USA and expanded work opportunities
for foreigners. The measure also would beef up border security and impose
tougher penalties on those who come here illegally in the future. For the first
time, more emphasis would be placed on job skills -- instead of family ties --
to determine who can become an American.

"It's an opportune moment to blame Republicans because it looked as though we
were against the bill," Martinez said in a telephone interview.

A number of Republicans, including Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell of
Kentucky, said they would be prepared to vote in favor of the immigration bill
if conservatives in their party had a chance to propose changes to it.

Democrats accused Republicans of threatening the bill with death by amendment.
"We need a breakthrough on the Republican side," Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill.,
Reid's deputy, said on Fox News Sunday. "We're not going to waste more time on
procedural slowdowns."

Although the bill has bipartisan support  it is a lightning rod for interest
groups at both ends of the political spectrum. Some Republicans, such as Sen.
John Cornyn of Texas, see the bill's provisions for illegal immigrants as
tantamount to amnesty. Some Democrats, such as Sen. Byron Dorgan of North
Dakota, worry that expanded opportunities for foreign "guest workers" will cost
Americans their jobs.

Martinez said the bill was stymied by a "coalition of the extremes." He noted
that both Sens. Jeff Sessions, a conservative Republican from Alabama, and
Barbara Boxer, a liberal California Democrat, opposed the immigration measure.

Frank Sharry of the National Immigration Forum, one of the groups lobbying for
passage of the immigration bill, put the chances for resurrecting it at "50-50."
He said that Democrats can't afford to sit back and enjoy GOP infighting. "If
they want to find a way to avoid the 'do-nothing' label, they'll find a way to
get this done," Sharry said Sunday.

Bush's trip to Capitol Hill follows a call from the immigration bill's chief
Democratic sponsor, Sen. Edward Kennedy of Massachusetts, for "the president's
personal involvement." In a news conference Friday, Kennedy called Bush's stand
"courageous" and added: "I think his influence is important to have."

Also on Friday, Bush held phone consultations with the Senate's top GOP leaders,
all supporters of the bill. Bush called McConnell, Sens. Trent Lott, R-Miss.,
and Jon Kyl, R-Ariz., from Air Force One as he headed from Poland to Rome.
Later, Bush told reporters he had discussed immigration Saturday with Pope
Benedict XVI.

"I told him I was a person who strongly supports comprehensive immigration
reform," Bush said. "On the one hand, we'll enforce our law; on the other hand,
we need to treat people with dignity."

Contributing: David Jackson in Tirana, Albania

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W,Alex Wong,Getty Images
PHOTO, B/W,C-SPAN2
PHOTO, B/W,Freddie Lee,Fox News Sunday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              234 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 22, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

We won't be fooled again;
Common sense demands shelving amnesty until borders are secure.

BYLINE: Jim DeMint

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 435 words


We do not need the Senate immigration bill to secure the border.

Congress has already passed laws authorizing border security, but the Homeland
Security Department has failed to fully implement them. The administration
already has the authority to build hundreds of miles of border fencing, hire and
train 6,000 border patrol agents (bringing the total number of agents to
18,000), end catch and release,  and create a national employment verification
database. Essentially, all of the security benchmarks in the current Senate bill
are already law.

Unfortunately, proponents of this bill would have us believe that none of these
security measures can be implemented unless we pass a bill that grants amnesty
to 12 million to 20 million illegal immigrants. In short, security is being held
hostage in return for amnesty.

What's worse is that backers of this bill are hoping Americans have a short
memory.

In 1986, the government was trying to figure out how to deal with a porous
southern border and roughly 3 million illegal aliens who resided in America as a
result.

It was decided that granting amnesty was acceptable as long as the border was
made secure and immigration laws on the books were enforced.

Looking back, we see that amnesty was granted, but the border was never secured.

Now here we are, more than two decades later, with a new generation of
Washington politicians pushing a similar proposal but expecting different
results. Only this time, the illegal population has skyrocketed and unsecured
borders pose a far graver national security threat in an age of terrorism.

This is a completely backward approach. Common sense demands that we put first
things first. That means shelving amnesty proposals and making national security
our first priority. Before we address the problem of the illegal population, we
need to prove to the American people that we will keep our word.

Those who support this bill tell us we must pass it because the status quo is
unacceptable. True. Millions of illegal aliens and a dysfunctional immigration
system have created huge problems for our nation. But the most pervasive problem
now is the 20-plus years of broken promises to secure the border and enforce our
immigration laws. Americans agree this status quo must be rejected, and we must
enforce our laws.

It is time for our government to do right by America. It's past time to right
the wrong of 1986. Only then will we have the credibility to address the problem
of the current illegal population.

As the saying goes, fool me once, shame on you; fool me twice ...

---

Sen. Jim DeMint is a Republican from South Carolina.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Robert W. Ahrens, USA TODAY, Source: Los Angeles
Times/Bloomberg poll of 1,373 adults, April 5-9, 2007. Margin of error:+/-3
percentage points (BAR GRAPH)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              235 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 28, 2007 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                                 FINAL EDITION

Social Security, immigration entwined in debate

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 753 words


WASHINGTON -- Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., said earlier this month that the
immigration issue has replaced Social Security as the "third rail" of politics
-- an issue that's so incendiary most politicians are afraid to touch it.

Now, the two have been joined.

One of the biggest political flashpoints in the immigration debate involves the
question of what the government should do with Social Security taxes it collects
from people who work here illegally.

In 2004, the most recent year for which figures are available, the Social
Security Administration collected $8 million in payroll taxes that were
deposited into a "suspense fund," said spokesman Mark Lassiter, because the
names and Social Security numbers  didn't match government records. Social
Security Administration's inspector general, Patrick O'Carroll, told Congress
last year that he believes illegal workers are the source of much of the
unclaimed cash.

Some workers could become eligible to collect those benefits under a Senate bill
that would grant a chance at citizenship to an estimated 12million illegal
immigrants.

Shannon Benton of the Senior Citizens League, a group representing retirees,
told a House of Representatives subcommittee last week that the bill "will
result in significant damage to the already strained Social Security trust
fund." According to her group's calculations, Benton said, the total cost could
be $966 billion by 2040.

That estimate is "wildly at odds" with the Social Security Administration's
estimates, Lassiter said. He argued that "immigration is a net plus for Social
Security," because of the taxes the newcomers pay into the trust fund's coffers.

Suspicions about the potential cost of legalizing illegal workers have been
fueled, however, by the government's reluctance to unveil details of an
agreement worked out with Mexico to provide reciprocal retirement credits for
people who work in both Mexico and the USA. Benton said the Senior Citizens
League had to go to court to get a copy of the agreement.

Similar deals have been struck with 21 countries to prevent workers and their
employers from double taxation. The Mexico deal, signed in 2004, has never been
presented to Congress and has never taken effect.

Lassiter said it's because the Mexican government never responded to a
diplomatic note clarifying that the deal does not apply to illegal Mexican
workers.

The Social Security Administration insists the cost of a reciprocal deal with
Mexico will be negligible, but federal auditors in the Government Accountability
Office disagree. A 2003 GAO report said cost estimates of the reciprocal
retirement deal with Mexico are "highly uncertain" because of the possibility
that Congress will legalize a large number of Mexicans now working illegally in
the USA.

Last year, candidates in at least 29 congressional campaigns accused their
opponents of supporting Social Security benefits for illegal immigrants,
according to FactCheck.org, a non-partisan watchdog group that monitors
political advertisements. "It didn't matter that the ads were false," said
Cecilia Muooz, vice president of National Council of La Raza, the nation's
largest Hispanic organization. "They were effective."

Muooz thinks the 2006 ad campaign -- and the possibility of a repeat in next
year's congressional elections -- is the chief reason Democratic and Republican
sponsors of the Senate immigration bill included provisions to bar people with
fraudulent Social Security cards after 2004 from qualifying for Social Security
benefits.

The sponsors accepted an amendment by Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison, R-Texas, that
also bans non-citizens with legitimate Social Security numbers -- but no
authorization to work -- from receiving Social Security benefits. Most are
people who came to the USA on a visa but overstayed their time.

The limits the immigration bill puts on Social Security claims from illegal
workers affect only those who obtained their Social Security cards after 2004.
Critics, including Benton and Sen. John Ensign, R-Nev., argue that many illegal
immigrants still could be eligible to claim Social Security benefits under the
Senate bill.

Immigrant rights advocates argue that illegal immigrants who later earn legal
status in the USA should be able to claim Social Security benefits they earned
by paying into the trust fund. Stripping them of their retirement checks "is
tantamount to stealing," Muooz said.

She accused Democrats of not being willing to fight for the workers' rights.
"They don't want to vote on it," she said.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 2, 2007



CORRECTION: A story Thursday on the Senate immigration bill incorrectly stated
the amount of money in a Social Security fund for unclaimed payroll taxes. The
amount was $8 billion in 2004, the most recent year for which figures are
available.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              236 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 28, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Attempts to alter bill fail

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 253 words


A key vote today could determine the fate of the immigration bill in the Senate.
The bill's supporters must get 60 votes on a motion to schedule a final vote.

Failure could end President Bush's hopes of accomplishing one of his top
domestic priorities before he leaves office.

"If we don't take this bill up now, we're looking at 2009," Sen. Arlen Specter,
R-Pa., one of the bill's sponsors, said Wednesday.

Proponents defeated amendments Wednesday that threatened to unravel their
bipartisan coalition. But they did not always get the 60 votes that will be
needed to move it toward final passage.

Key amendments rejected would have:

*Eliminated the path to citizenship that the bill offers an estimated 12 million
illegal immigrants. The Senate rejected the amendment, by Sen. Kit Bond, R-Mo.,
56-41.

*Required all adult illegal immigrants to return to their home countries to
apply for legal status. The vote was 53-40 against the amendment by Sen. Kay
Bailey Hutchison, R-Texas.

*Enabled relatives of U.S. citizens and permanent legal residents to earn
additional points under a new merit-based immigration system. The bill heavily
favors work experience and job skills. The  amendment by Sen. Robert Menendez,
D-N.J. , failed 55-40.

*Required illegal immigrants to prove they have resided in the USA for four
years in order to qualify for legalization. The bill makes all those in the
country as of Jan. 1, 2007, eligible to become legal residents. The amendment by
Sen. Jim Webb, D-Va., was rejected, 79-18.

By Kathy Kiely

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              237 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 9, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Illegal immigrants find refuge in holy places;
Churches, citing 'broken law,' revive the ancient tradition of sanctuary

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2124 words


LONG BEACH, Calif. -- Five immigration agents rapped on Liliana's front door one
morning in May. "We've come for you," she recalls them saying.

Liliana, a 29-year-old factory worker from Mexico who crossed the border
illegally in 1998, begged and pleaded. "What about my children?" she asked. "I
have a baby. I'm nursing."

The agents softened when they heard Pablito crying, she says, and gave her a
reprieve. They ordered her to report to a detention center five days later to be
sent back to Mexico.

Instead, Liliana hid at the home of a Catholic deacon and his wife. Last month
she emerged from hiding and took up residence at St. Luke's Episcopal Church,
which has pledged to protect her from deportation.

St. Luke's and Liliana are central characters in the New Sanctuary Movement, a
small but growing coalition of churches, synagogues and other houses of worship
that is challenging the immigration system, despite legal risk, as the nation
debates how to deal with the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants in the USA.

The congregations say the immigration system mistreats immigrants and breaks
families apart. They want to end raids of job sites that have led to the arrest
of thousands of undocumented workers, and they're lobbying for policies that
would help keep the families of illegal immigrants together and in the USA.

Drawing on the tradition of sanctuary, in which churches declare themselves safe
havens for those fleeing violence or prosecution, congregations from New York to
San Diego have begun to view supporting illegal immigrants -- and occasionally
sheltering them from deportation -- as a moral and religious duty.

"We don't accept a broken law that causes separation of families," says Richard
Estrada, an associate pastor at Our Lady Queen of Angels Catholic Church in Los
Angeles. "We will protect families, those in danger of being separated. ...
We're doing what we think is the right, moral thing to do."

Congregations in about 50 cities have joined or expressed interest in the
sanctuary movement, says Alexia Salvatierra, a Lutheran pastor and one of the
national coordinators. Churches in Los Angeles, San Diego, Seattle, Chicago and
New York are helping and housing immigrants, and congregations in Miami, Kansas
City and Phoenix plan to start soon, she says.

Salvatierra and others acknowledge their protection is mostly symbolic because
the government has the legal authority to send agents into a church and detain
immigrants. But they're betting the government won't.

"It doesn't make good press for the government to go into churches," says Julia
Wakelee-Lynch, associate rector at St. Luke's. "Many media outlets have called
and said, 'Please call us the minute something happens.'"

Groups: No one above the law

Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff agrees that immigration officials
want to avoid "a media circus and a confrontation." Even so, his department must
enforce immigration laws "whether people are happy or unhappy" with them.

"We reserve our options, and we take the action that we feel is appropriate,"
Chertoff says. "We don't give people assurance that they have a sanctuary, nor
do we necessarily indicate when we're going to do something. They're on their
own if they're going to defy the law."

The sanctuary movement is drawing criticism from groups such as the Federation
for American Immigration Reform, which promotes limits on immigration. Dan
Stein, president of the group, calls the family separation argument "ridiculous"
and says the movement acts as if it's above the law.

"You leave your family behind when you make the decision to come (to the USA),
and then you break the law to do it," he says. "If people come illegally,
they're taking certain risks."

Jose, a 43-year-old undocumented immigrant from Mexico, moved into Our Lady
Queen of Angels in May. Two of his four sons were born here and are citizens.

Jose first crossed the border illegally through Tijuana in 1989. He has been
battling immigration officials since 2002, he says, when they discovered he
worked at Los Angeles International Airport. Last year, they told him he had to
leave the USA by November. He didn't.

Jose is appealing his case, Estrada says, but fears he'll be deported and his
family split up. At the church, Jose's second-floor room opens to balcony pews.
"I'm very close to God," he says in Spanish.

Hundreds of immigrants have sought help from the church movement recently, but
congregations typically give sanctuary only to those who fit a profile. They
seek immigrants facing deportation who have children, parents or other close
relatives in the USA legally, to emphasize immigration laws' impact on families.
Such immigrants must be willing to speak publicly to draw attention to the
cause.

So far, eight immigrants across the nation are getting financial, legal and
other help from the movement. Four of them, including Liliana and Jose, are
staying in church buildings. Most speak to reporters on the condition their last
names not be publicized, for fear their families would be harassed.

Sanctuary can take various forms. Congregations supply lawyers or medical care,
provide financial assistance or offer moral support at immigration hearings.
Immigrants who seek shelter -- not all want it, and not all congregations
involved can provide it -- never leave church grounds.

Church leaders usually make a three-month sanctuary pledge to the immigrants but
acknowledge it may last much longer. The immigrants say they will remain
cloistered until their legal cases are resolved or until Congress approves a
plan to help lead to their legalization. Among those receiving help:

*Joe, 28, and his wife, Mei, 26, came to the USA from China using fake
passports. He came in 1996; she in 2000. They applied for asylum but it was
denied, Joe says.

Authorities discovered them in the country illegally in late 2005, when the
Brooklyn residents were in a car pulled over for speeding. They now face
deportation.

They have two children, 2-year-old Crystal and 4-month-old Jeffrey, who are U.S.
citizens because they were born here. The couple fear they would be punished in
China for violating the government's population-control policy that limits many
families to one child.

Members of the three Lutheran churches in Brooklyn that have "adopted" Joe and
Mei attend immigration hearings with them. The couple have declined physical
sanctuary so far but say they may seek shelter if they lose their appeals.

*Marco Castillo, 25, came from Mexico with his mother and two sisters when he
was 4 to join his father. They crossed into this country legally with a
visitor's visa in 1986 but stayed after it expired.

They applied for legal residency and got bad legal advice, he says. Castillo,
his mother and one sister -- the other married a citizen -- signed papers saying
they would leave voluntarily without realizing what they were doing, he says.
Their case is being appealed.

Castillo was senior class president at San Diego's Crawford High School, where
he graduated in 2000. He worked his way through San Diego State University as a
janitor, cashier, busboy and restaurant manager. Now a graphic designer in San
Diego, he gets financial and moral support, but not shelter, from Quakers.

"It's spiritual sanctuary," he says.

*Juan, 38, came to the USA in 1992 to escape poverty in Guatemala. He says he
paid a smuggler $1,600 to sneak him into the USA through Nogales, Ariz.

He went from making $1 a day cutting bananas in Guatemala to owning a
landscaping business in Southern California with 40 customers. Juan sought legal
residency but missed a meeting with immigration officials because he couldn't
read a notification letter in English. He was ordered deported in 2004.

In May, Juan moved into a Lutheran church in North Hollywood, Calif., because he
feared immigration agents would show up at his home.

His daughters, 1-year-old Michelle and 6-year-old Yanette, visit him each day.
The children, who were born here, are citizens. Their mother, Juan's common-law
wife, is in the country illegally.

Members of the congregation bring food and some fill in for him on his
landscaping rounds, says Father Richard Zanotti of Our Lady of the Holy Rosary,
one of five churches helping Juan.

A Christian tradition

The tradition of sanctuary dates to the first centuries of Christianity, when
churches were considered places of peace, says Daniel Maguire, professor of
moral theology at Marquette University in Milwaukee. In 11th-century Europe, the
"Truce of God" formalized the concept, he says, giving legal protection from the
authorities to those who sought sanctuary in churches.

"If you could get yourself onto a church property ... you were safe," Maguire
says.

Today, sanctuary offers no legal protection from the government, including
immigration agents. "If they have a warrant for an individual's arrest, whether
they are in a church or a shopping mall, they have a right to enter and enforce"
it, says Carlina Tapia-Ruano, past president of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association.

Still, some churches feel a moral obligation to offer sanctuary during crises.
In the 1980s, U.S. churches smuggled and hid Central American refugees they said
faced persecution and death squads at home.

"This is what we are called to do by our Christian principles," says Reginald
Swilley, a former associate pastor at Maranatha Christian Center in San Jose,
Calif. His congregation soon may offer sanctuary, including shelter, to an
immigrant.

It is illegal to harbor illegal immigrants or shield them from detection, says
Charles Kuck, president-elect of the immigration lawyers group. Penalties
include stiff fines and prison sentences. Providing shelter to an illegal
immigrant could be interpreted as breaking that law, he says. "If I were going
to advise a church, I would tell them not to do this."

But Peter Schey, the lawyer advising the sanctuary movement and president of the
Center for Human Rights and Constitutional Law in Los Angeles, says the churches
are within the law. He advises congregations that they're not guilty of
harboring if the immigrants aren't in hiding and have active cases pending to
legalize their status.

Church leaders say that if U.S. agents arrived with a warrant to take an
immigrant into custody, they would not block them. "That's what we call the
worst-case scenario," Wakelee-Lynch says. "I don't anticipate we would resist."

Elvira Arellano, 32, became the first face of the emerging sanctuary movement
when she moved into Adalberto United Methodist Church in Chicago with her son on
Aug. 15, 2006, the day she was supposed to report for deportation.

Arellano never leaves church grounds, but 9-year-old Saul, who was born here and
is a citizen, goes to school and other activities, says church pastor Walter
Coleman.

"We fear God more than we fear Homeland Security," Coleman says.

A Haitian's story

The sanctuary movement isn't only for illegal immigrants. Jean Montrevil, 38,
came here from Haiti in 1986 and is a legal resident.

But a 1989 drug conviction, which sent him to prison for 11 years, qualified
Montrevil for deportation and landed him in detention for six months in 2005. He
reports monthly to immigration officials. The Brooklyn resident is married to a
U.S. citizen. The couple have four children.

Two Manhattan churches have written letters on Montrevil's behalf and sent
members with him to immigration hearings. If his legal options fail, he says, he
could leave his family or take them to Haiti, which he fears is unsafe because
of poverty and political instability.

He's unlikely to choose either, he says. "The entire family probably will go
into sanctuary," he says. "We really want to stay together as a family to face
the consequences."

Behind church doors

Across the country, 4-month-old Pablito naps at St. Luke's to the sound of
Latina music star Marta Sanchez. The room that the church hastily converted from
an office is filled with furniture donated by parishioners, including a bed, a
refrigerator and a kitchen table.

Pablito is still nursing, so Liliana keeps him with her. She left Susi, 4,  and
Gerardo Jr., 7, at home in Oxnard, Calif., with her husband. They and their
father, who are U.S. citizens, visit on weekends.

Her deportation order stems from 1998, when she was caught trying to get into
the USA with a fake U.S. birth certificate. She says she didn't realize that
would thwart her chances of becoming a legal resident. She later hired a
smuggler to sneak her into Arizona.

When immigration agents ordered her to report for deportation in May, she says
she couldn't do it.

"I understand it was a serious responsibility to appear, but my obligation to my
kids was bigger," she says in Spanish. "I will stay in sanctuary as long as it's
necessary."

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Bob Riha, Jr., USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Jennifer S. Altman for USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Bob Riha Jr., USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              238 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 13, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Churches breaking law should lose tax-free status

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 289 words


Though most Americans are compassionate about keeping families intact, many also
respect that the United States has laws that must be followed. I don't agree
with families that have come to the USA by breaking our laws and then seek help
from churches so they can continue breaking our laws ("Illegal immigrants find
refuge in holy places," Cover story, News, Monday).

I am especially disappointed in the behavior of U.S. churches that conceal
illegal immigrants. Many churches have a tax-free status.  I would suggest that
if they continue to support illegal activities, they should pay taxes.

They can then put their money where their sermon is.

Greg Johnson

Humble, Texas

Prosecute religious groups

I don't understand why churches and other religious groups think they can put
their doctrine ahead of the laws of our country by harboring illegal immigrants.
We live in a nation governed by laws. Any religious group willfully violating
our laws should have its non-profit status revoked, and the individuals
responsible for the violations should be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the
law.

Ron Sutton

Orlando

Deport her

The woman featured in USA TODAY's story "Illegal immigrants find refuge in holy
places" had a chance to do what was right and to follow U.S. laws.

But Liliana, an illegal immigrant, instead hid from immigration agents and
sought out the help of a Catholic deacon. Now St. Luke's Episcopal Church in
Long Beach, Calif., has vowed to protect her! When immigration agents catch her,
they should deport her. Her case highlights one of the primary reasons many
Americans don't want immigrants to come to the USA. They ignore our laws. They
enjoy freedom they never earned. It's all about the taking.

Bruce Gary

Rhinelander, Wis.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Bob Riha, Jr., USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              239 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 26, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

For many Mexicans, migration is a two-way street;
'What we really want is to make some money (in the USA), then go home to our
families.'

BYLINE: Chris Hawley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 731 words


SAN JOSE BUENAVISTA, Mexico -- The plan was simple: Go to the USA. Get a job
washing dishes. Make enough money to start a business back home.

Five years after he arrived in New York, Manuel Faustino had accomplished it
all. So earlier this month he collected his last paycheck, packed his bags and
went back home to Mexico.

In the debate over illegal immigration, much attention has been focused on
Mexicans and other foreigners who want to stay in the USA indefinitely, even
become U.S. citizens. Often forgotten are the people like Faustino who come to
work for a short time, then return home because of family ties or other reasons.

There are no reliable data on how common such cases are, but Mexico is full of
taxi drivers, waiters or salesmen who can rattle off the names of tiny towns in
Michigan or Oregon where they picked vegetables or worked in construction for a
few years.

"Americans don't understand -- many of us don't want to live in the United
States," said Faustino, 35, as he attended a welcoming party in his honor in the
tiny hamlet of San Jose Buenavista. "What we really want is to make some money,
then go home to our families."

Faustino and his cousin crossed the border illegally in 2002. Living in a
three-bedroom apartment with 18 other migrants, they eventually became
restaurant cooks and managed to save $35,000 apiece.

The two men recruited other investors, then combined the money with a grant from
Mexico's Puebla state to build a complex of tomato greenhouses in San Jose
Buenavista, 120 miles northeast of Mexico City. The first crop will be ready
next month, and the Faustinos already have a buyer lined up in New York.

Such short-term migration used to be more common until the 1990s, when Mexico's
economy crashed, sending a new wave of job-seeking migrants north. U.S. efforts
to fortify the border also have discouraged Mexicans and other immigrants from
trying to cross back and forth as often.

The flow of migrants back into Mexico "is a tendency that is in decline, but
there are still many people who continue to come and go," said Juan Artola,
chief of the Mexico mission for the International Organization for Migration.

There are an estimated 6 million Mexican illegal immigrants living in the USA,
according to an estimate last year by the Pew Hispanic Center. In a 2004-05
survey conducted by the group, 27% of Mexican migrants said they wanted to stay
in the USA five years or fewer.

A 2005 Mexican government survey of Mexicans returning home for the winter
holidays showed 79%  of them had crossed into the United States during the
previous three years.

Many ex-migrants say they returned because they missed their families.

Plumber Antonio Salazar crossed the Arizona desert in 2004, leaving behind a
wife and three children in Chimalhuacan, near Mexico City. He worked as a
construction worker for a year in New York before returning to Mexico.

"I couldn't take being away from my wife and children," he said.

Now 29, Salazar spends his days waiting for plumbing jobs in a corner of Mexico
City's Zocalo plaza. He earns about $120 a week, a third of what he used to earn
in New York.

"You earn more there, but it's not worth it," he said.

Politicians in Mexico have been trying to encourage people to stay in the
country through financial incentives to create jobs in their hometowns.

The state of Puebla has funded 40 business ventures founded by migrants in their
hometowns, including the company Faustino set up in San Jose Buenavista. The
state contributed half of the $170,000 cost to build the greenhouses.

The goal of such programs is to break the cycle of migration, keeping families
together and exploiting the talents of people who might otherwise go to the USA,
said Carlos Olamendi, Puebla state's high commissioner for migrant affairs.

"We want migration to be an option, rather than a necessity, for these towns,"
Olamendi said.

As Manuel Faustino and his cousin, Jose Luis Faustino, sipped beers at the
welcome home party, they discussed their ultimate dream: expanding the
tomato-growing enterprise so it could employ every member of their family,
keeping them all in Puebla state.

Under a nearby tent, the mariachis sang "Que chula es Puebla, que linda!" (How
pretty Puebla is, how beautiful!)

"I'm never going back to New York, never," Manuel Faustino said.

Hawley is the Latin America correspondent for The Arizona Republic and USA

TODAY.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W, Chris Hawley, USA TODAY(2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              240 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 1, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Border-crossing deaths on rise;
Tight security, heat exposure, trickier routes cited as factors

BYLINE: William M. Welch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 580 words


The number of illegal immigrants who have died trying to get into the USA is
higher than ever this summer, calling into question assertions that tougher
border enforcement has cut the flow of people, immigration groups say.

A U.S. group that tries to reduce the number of illegal immigrants who die while
trying to get across the border says an increase in such deaths this year
suggests there has been no lessening in the flow of migrants. Robin Hoover, a
pastor who runs Humane Borders out of Tucson, says people are skirting crossings
where the U.S. Customs and Border Protection agency has increased enforcement
for more remote, deadly spots.

"They're pushing the migrants farther into the desert," says Hoover, whose group
installs desert water stations and shelters.

Last weekend, five bodies were found in remote crossing areas near Tucson,
bringing border deaths for the year  to 155, said Bruce Parks, chief medical
examiner for Pima County, which includes Tucson. That is a 22% increase over the
127 people found dead as of July 30 last year in that area.

The number found dead this year is 12% above the 138 people found dead during
the same period in 2005, which was the deadliest year on record for border
crossings in the Tucson region, Parks said.

The biggest cause of death is heat exposure, Parks said. Many other cases are
listed as "cause unknown" because bodies are too badly decomposed when found.
"Most ... are probably heat as well," he said.

The Border Patrol has sent more agents and improved technology into Arizona in
recent years in an attempt to block what is the busiest corridor for illegal
immigration from Mexico.

Agent Jim Hawkins, Border Patrol spokesman in Tucson, says crossings appear to
be down even if deaths are not. As of June 30, U.S. agents arrested 303,825
migrants in the Tucson area, down from 324,825 during the same period last year,
he says.

"There's still obviously a heavy volume of traffic but not like it used to be,"
he said. "Typically when we see a decline in apprehensions it does mean the
traffic is trying to go somewhere else."

Still, he says, "we are the heaviest sector in the United States, by far (for
illegal crossings)."

Targeting its Tucson sector, the Border Patrol has added at least 300 agents, to
2,700, in the past year, he says.

Hoover says increased numbers of Border Patrol agents and the increased use of
new intercept technology has not discouraged migrants. He says the reason
arrests are down near Tucson is because people are taking the more difficult
paths across the desert and mountains between Tucson and the Mexican border to
avoid the beefed-up areas.

"The consequence of that has been an increased number of deaths," says Hoover,
pastor of First Christian Church, Disciples of Christ, in Tucson.

Kat Rodriguez, coordinator of another Tucson group, Coalicio´n de Derechos
Humanos, or Human Rights Coalition, says her group monitors border-crossing
deaths and believes the true number is higher when nearby counties are included.
"We're easily in the mid-180s," she says of the deaths. "They are definitely
higher."

Rodriguez says most years see a lull in attempted border crossings during the
hot summer months but that crossings appear to be continuing this year. She says
no one is sure why but that economic factors are the main motivators for
migrants from Mexico and other Latin American nations to the USA.

"There is no accurate way for us to know how many people are coming into the
country," she says.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Chip Somodevilla, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              241 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           August 15, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Car ordinances hurt illegal immigrants;
City officials punish non-licensed drivers

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 550 words


Local officials getting tough on illegal immigrants have a new target: their
cars.

Communities in Alabama, California, Illinois and elsewhere are using laws that
punish drivers without licenses. Cities often tow cars immediately.

The laws don't single out illegal immigrants, but some officials say they sought
the penalties because more illegal immigrants are living and driving in their
towns. Most states do not issue licenses to illegal immigrants.

"We have had a substantial decline in our quality of life, our neighborhoods. We
believe there is a direct correlation with illegal immigration," says Sam Abed,
deputy mayor of Escondido, Calif., who is pushing an ordinance to limit
overnight parking on public streets.

Abed says illegal immigrants crowd into homes. "Every time there's a house for
sale, three or four families buy it. There are 10 cars out front," he says.
"Some people cannot park in front of their own homes."

The City Council voted in June to consider an ordinance that would allow each
household to park only one car on the street overnight.

Attempts to deal with illegal immigration at the local level have accelerated
since Congress failed this summer to overhaul the immigration system.

About 100 communities have proposed ordinances in the past year, most penalizing
landlords who rent to illegal immigrants and businesses that hire them, the
American Civil Liberties Union says. Forty have passed.

"There's been a long history of ordinances that don't say anything about
immigrants and nothing about national origin, but clearly are aimed at
particular groups," says John Trasvioa, president of the Mexican American Legal
Defense and Educational Fund. "They have uniformly been struck down."

A towing ordinance in Waukegan, Ill., is being challenged in federal court. It
requires police to impound a car and fine a driver without a license or
insurance $500.

Waukegan Mayor Richard Hyde says public-safety concerns motivated the ordinance.
Ramon Becerra, regional head of the Labor Council for Latin American
Advancement, says it promotes racial profiling. Most drivers whose cars are
towed are Hispanic, he says. Hyde says that was true at first but now they're
"predominantly white." Traffic accidents have declined, he adds.

The nearby city of Elgin, Ill., broadened its towing ordinance last month to
cover unlicensed drivers. Officials in Carpentersville, Ill., were scheduled to
discuss whether to adopt a similar ordinance Tuesday.

The Hispanic population in all three Illinois communities has more than doubled
since 1990.

A new towing ordinance in Athens, Ala.,  targets unlicensed drivers. Nearby
communities, including Huntsville, are weighing similar measures. Last year,
3,045 drivers in Huntsville were cited for driving without a license, up from
2,258 in 2005. Public Safety Director Rex Reynolds attributes the increase to
stepped-up enforcement and a growing population of illegal immigrant drivers.

The City Council will vote this month on a proposal to tow cars of drivers
without licenses, he says.

"While our ordinance does not in any way target illegal immigrants, the number
of Hispanic offenders we are seeing continues to increase," he says. "A large
percentage of them are traveling to and from work. From a law-enforcement
perspective ... we cannot allow that."

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              242 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           August 15, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Good reason to act

BYLINE: Randy Terrill

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 398 words


With Congress gridlocked over immigration issues, Oklahoma and a few other
states are leading the way on real reform -- and rightfully so.

After all, the tremendous economic burden created by illegal immigration is felt
most at the state and local level -- particularly when it comes to education,
health care, welfare and corrections. In Oklahoma alone, the direct cost of
illegal immigration is more than $200 million a year. The indirect cost is far
higher, and this is a relatively small state.

But even if you ignore the costs, states still have good reason to act. States
are separate sovereigns in our federal system. They have the inherent legal
right and a constitutional responsibility to provide internal domestic security,
as well as to protect our citizens from waste, fraud and abuse.

In Oklahoma, we have taken that responsibility seriously by enacting a carefully
calibrated, common-sense, real immigration reform measure that many have called
the toughest in the nation.

Our new law cracks down on identity theft (only legal residents can obtain a
state driver's license or ID card); terminates public assistance benefits for
illegal aliens (other than federally mandated emergency care); empowers state
and local law enforcement to detain illegal aliens for deportation (ending
dangerous catch-and-release practices); and requires businesses to verify
employment eligibility of workers or face serious legal and financial
consequences.

Not one of those reforms is cumbersome, irrational or racist. It doesn't matter
what your skin color is or if you speak with an accent. What does matter is
whether you are in this country legally or illegally. The only people who should
be concerned by Oklahoma's version of real immigration reform are those who
deliberately choose to break the law.

Oklahoma and other states simply cannot ignore the enormous and growing problem
of illegal immigration. Nor should those who favor a "comprehensive" approach --
meaning amnesty for illegal aliens -- expect us to agree just because the
federal government has failed to act.

In the 1990s, states blazed the trail on welfare reform, and the federal
government played catch-up. It looks as if history may be in the process of
repeating itself.

---

Randy Terrill, a Republican member of the Oklahoma House of Representatives, was
the author of the Oklahoma Taxpayer and Citizen Protection Act of 2007.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              243 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           August 29, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigrants become target for all of society's ills

BYLINE: Kirsten A. Powers

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 671 words


What Ronald Reagan once referred to as the "illegal-alien fuss"  has fulminated
into a frenzy of demonizing where behind every social ill lurks a brown-skinned
illegal immigrant.

Reagan famously provided amnesty to millions of illegal immigrants  in 1986,
appreciating America's historical role as a beacon of hope -- a "shining city
upon a hill" -- to people around the world. Contrast that with the
always-simmering anti-illegal immigrant fury among many who call Reagan their
godfather.

After the news of the murders in Newark,  where three college students were
gunned down execution-style, nearly a week passed with nary a peep from the "law
and order" crowd. Then it was divulged that Jose Carranza, one of the alleged
attackers, was an illegal alien.

The  posse piled on. Incredibly, former House speaker Newt Gingrich declared
that "the war here at home" against illegal immigrants is "even more deadly than
the war in Iraq and Afghanistan."

Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., presidential candidate and anti-immigration
demagogue,  dropped into Newark to exploit the murders to further his nativist
cause.

Many argue that Carranza -- who had been arrested twice in the past year,
including once on  aggravated sexual assault of a child -- should have been
deported to Peru, where presumably he could have preyed on kids there instead.

A systemic failure

The failure here is with our criminal justice system, and that is where the
outrage should be directed. If our system had been working, Carranza would have
been in prison at the time of the attack.  Considering the magnitude of the
charge of child rape, his bail should have been prohibitively high. The judge
declined that option, setting bail hundreds of thousands of dollars lower than
the indictment allowed.

Furthermore, had Carranza been deported, he very well could have returned to the
USA. A year-long Rocky Mountain News investigation published last year  found
that one in five Colorado inmates who had been deported returned to the USA to
commit the same crimes for which they were imprisoned.

But the nativists,  energized by their success in derailing immigration reform
legislation, will pounce on any anecdote that helps them vilify illegal
immigrants. Through local ordinances, they have worked to deny illegal
immigrants basic rights,  though a U.S. District Court found  a Pennsylvania
city's efforts to engage in immigration enforcement unconstitutional.

Home-grown

The illegal-immigrant scapegoaters seem unaware that Americans are more than
able to commit horrible crimes all on their own.  In the high-profile murder of
a Connecticut family last month, two of the alleged attackers, both U.S.
citizens, were on parole. In the widely covered assault in March of a
101-year-old woman in New York, the attacker also was a parole violator.  Rather
than demonizing illegal immigrants, we should  ask why violent offenders are
allowed back on the streets to commit more crimes.

The nativists' anecdotal warfare is an old tactic that does not match up with
reality.

During the 1990s, despite a steady stream of illegal immigrants,  the U.S. crime
rate plunged.   Mr. Law and Order, Rudy Giuliani, praised illegal immigrants
when he was mayor of New York and defended his sanctuary policies. It would be
hard to argue that Giuliani would have defended illegal immigrants if they posed
any criminal threat to the city he governed. According to a 2006 FBI report, New
York -- lambasted by nativists for harboring illegal immigrants -- remains the
safest large city.

Today's nativists claim that their only beef with illegal immigrants is that
they are "illegal." This claim rings hollow when one considers how similarly the
legal Irish and Italian immigrants were treated upon their arrival generations
ago.

There is also an amazingly simple way to deal with the fact that they are
illegal: Pass comprehensive immigration reform and provide them a path to
citizenship.

---

Kirsten A. Powers is a Fox News analyst who served in the Clinton administration
from 1993 to 1998.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              244 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 13, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigrant activism taking a bold turn;
Work stoppages, boycotts reflect risky tactics aimed at showing the impact of
illegals in the USA

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1902 words


Christian Ocampo makes about $200 a day selling nutritional supplements to
fellow Hispanics in Milwaukee. His income helps support his mother, who uses a
wheelchair, and his 21-year-old sister.

If Ocampo misses work, he doesn't get paid.

On Wednesday, though, Ocampo, 26, skipped work to become part of an increasingly
bold wave of activism by illegal immigrants and their supporters who are
frustrated by the treatment of immigrants across the USA. In what was billed as
a national day of protest, immigrants in Los Angeles, Chicago and other cities
took part in a range of activities, including a one-day work stoppage and
boycott of local businesses in Milwaukee.

The actions were the latest examples of how immigrants -- including illegal ones
such as Ocampo, who came here from Mexico six years ago -- are staying home from
work, boycotting businesses, marching on government offices and speaking out in
a controversial effort to spotlight the economic impact of the nation's
estimated 12 million illegal immigrants.

The in-your-face activism is in response to intensifying crackdowns on illegal
immigrants by local and federal authorities in recent months. Dozens of cities
and counties, frustrated by Congress' failure to pass a law to revamp the
overwhelmed immigration system, have adopted their own policies aimed at
discouraging illegal immigration. Most of the local measures have penalized
landlords who rent to illegal immigrants and businesses that hire them.

Meanwhile, federal officials have stepped up raids on workplaces.

Illegal immigrants, who for years have been largely silent and sometimes
off-the-books providers of labor in local economies, now increasingly are
standing up to be heard. Many figure that the risk of speaking out is outweighed
by fears they will lose their jobs or even be deported if they don't make their
case to the public.

"If we don't do something now to be heard, the consequences will be that many
people will lose their jobs and many families will go hungry," Ocampo says.
"It's worth losing one day's pay."

In Waukegan, Ill., immigrants kicked off a boycott on Independence Day. In
Oklahoma City and Atlanta, immigrants are holding prayer vigils this month and
next to protest what they call anti-immigrant legislation. In Prince William
County, Va., about 35 miles southwest of Washington, D.C., immigrants boycotted
businesses for a week and plan to stay home from work Oct. 9.

"Our people are very angry, especially here in Arizona," says Elias Bermudez,
founder of Immigrants Without Borders in Phoenix. His group organized a consumer
boycott last week and asked immigrants not to go to work. "This is an action of
last resort."

Ocampo says he doesn't mind engaging in the risky tactics even if it means
attracting the attention of police or immigration officials. "I am not afraid
because it is so important that our voice be heard," he says. "It's important
not just for my mother and my sister and myself, but for the many people who are
in a more difficult situation."

The impact of such actions on local businesses has been unclear, but the
publicity they have generated has fueled debate over illegal immigration in many
communities and led to criticism that the protests could undermine the cause by
alienating employers, lawmakers and even fellow immigrants.

"We are not going to support illegal aliens," says Desi Arnaiz, the son of Cuban
immigrants and owner of a computer services business in Manassas, Va. The Prince
William County boycott, organized in response to a county plan to deny some
government services to illegal immigrants, ended on Labor Day.

Arnaiz says the boycott frustrated business owners.

Illegal immigrants "wouldn't be here if some businesses didn't employ them," he
says. "Why annoy the businesspeople? Of all the stupid things to do."

Mark Krikorian of the Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates reduced
immigration, says the burst of activism signals desperation among immigrants
disappointed that a proposed congressional overhaul of the immigration system
collapsed in June. The plan would have created a process for some illegal
immigrants to earn legal status.

"Spokesmen for illegal immigrants are looking for whatever tactic is available,"
he says. "The normal legislative process hasn't worked for them so far."

'Doing it in solidarity'

Immigrant leaders say boycotts are effective because they prove that the economy
would suffer without immigrant workers.

"We're going to give the state of Arizona a little taste of what could happen
without the labor force of the Hispanic community and also of our purchasing
power," Bermudez said last week. "If the undocumented leave the United States,
the U.S. is going to suffer the most, not the undocumented people."

Under a law that takes effect Jan. 1, Arizona employers who knowingly hire
illegal immigrants can have their business licenses suspended or revoked.
Bermudez says the law could be disastrous for the economy because immigrants
work low-paying but critical jobs at dairies, farms, construction sites and
elsewhere.

Bermudez and other activists emphasize that all immigrants, not just those here
illegally, participate in the protests.

As local governments dabble in immigration enforcement and in some cases train
their police to be de facto immigration agents, some legal immigrants are
concerned they'll be targeted just as illegal immigrants are, says Mauricio
Vivero of Ayuda, a non-profit law firm for immigrants in Washington, D.C.

Some legal immigrants believe businesses will avoid hiring Hispanic workers
altogether or that police will engage in racial profiling, detaining people
based on appearance, he says.

"There's fear in the community. People are concerned they will be discriminated
against," he says. "For a poor immigrant who doesn't speak English but may be
perfectly legal, they're concerned they may be picked up."

Bill Hing, a law professor at the University of California, Davis, who
specializes in immigration, says legal immigrants are participating because some
of their loved ones are here illegally. "The community is made up of a lot of
mixed families," Hing says. "There might be 10-to-13 million undocumented
immigrants in the United States. You can multiply that five or six times to
determine the number of people it affects, because of relatives and employers
and co-workers and friends. There are a lot of people frustrated that nothing
was done" by Congress.

Yesenia Rivas' family is an example. Twelve of her relatives, legal and illegal
immigrants from El Salvador, participated in the Prince William boycott, she
says. The guidelines were simple: Spend money only at immigrant-owned businesses
or those displaying a "pro-immigrant" poster.

"Some family members are illegal but have been here most of their lives," she
says. "My father is here legally now, but he was here illegally for 20 years."

During the boycott, Rivas, 17, washed clothes at a laundry that displayed the
"pro-immigrant" sign. Her parents went to nearby Fairfax County for groceries
and gas. "We're doing it in solidarity," Rivas says. "We understand what they're
going through."

Boycotts can backfire

Do such boycotts work? That's debatable.

Hing says he hopes they have a noticeable impact but acknowledges that such
tactics don't always accomplish much. "If they are unified and have a very large
boycott, it can be felt. That will catch people's attention," he says.

Immigrants in Waukegan have had a boycott going since July 4. Organizers asked
businesses to display a poster opposing a program that trains local police to
enforce federal immigration laws. Businesses that do not display the sign are
supposed to be avoided.

Alderman Sam Cunningham, who opposed the police plan, says restaurant owners and
developers have complained about the boycott. "Every business that I've talked
to said, 'We've lost business,' or people aren't coming in."

Waukegan Mayor Richard Hyde believes the boycott there backfired. He says
Hispanic-owned businesses have taken the brunt of the economic losses because
shoppers who oppose illegal immigration have made a point of avoiding stores
that display the sign.

"It was disastrous for the Hispanic businesses. It reversed on them," Hyde says.
"The people who benefited were the white businesses."

The activism is not limited to boycotts. The National Coalition of Latino Clergy
and Christian Leaders will hold a prayer rally Sunday in Atlanta and one next
month in Oklahoma City to protest state immigration policies, says Miguel
Rivera, president of the coalition. Rivera says 38% of the coalition's church
members are here illegally.

Wednesday's protests were called by Elvira Arellano, a Mexican who took refuge
in a Chicago church last year rather than report for deportation. She left the
church in August to attend rallies in Los Angeles, where U.S. agents caught up
with her and deported her.

Fears of being profiled

In Prince William County, the immigrant population has ballooned alongside the
population of professionals seeking bigger, cheaper homes than those closer to
Washington. Day laborers mill in front of convenience stores, waiting for
contractors and homeowners to drive by and offer work. Shopping centers have
Mexican bakeries as well as McDonald's restaurants.

Immigrant activists have been particularly critical of a part of the local
resolution that requires police to check the immigration status of anyone they
detain if there is reason to believe the person is undocumented. Officials
haven't determined how they will do that.

"People are saying they feel targeted, afraid, persecuted," says Ricardo Juarez
of Mexicanos Sin Fronteras (Mexicans Without Borders), which organized the
boycott. His group is asking workers to stay home from work Oct. 9.

"The purpose of the boycott isn't to punish the residents and businesses in the
community," he says. "The purpose is to show that we contribute directly from
our pockets, no matter what our status."

Corey Stewart, chairman of the Prince William Board of County Supervisors, calls
the boycott "foolish."

"If the boycott was meant to engender sympathy or fear, what it has done is
create a whole lot of anger toward the illegal immigrant community and their
supporters," Stewart says. "There is no excuse for breaking the law."

He says illegal immigrants have crowded hospitals, schools and homes in the
county and contributed to a growing gang problem. One-fifth of the county jail
inmates are illegal immigrants, he says.

Angelica Fuentes counters that most illegal immigrants are hard-working people
who give more than they take. Fuentes, 25, came to the USA illegally from
Guatemala two years ago and participated in the Prince William boycott.

"We have to say something, because we are getting frustrated," she says. "Things
are getting worse for us. In the past, you could get a driver's license, you
could get an apartment, you could get a job. Now, you can't."

Fuentes has nine brothers and sisters in the USA, four of them here legally.
Some live in Los Angeles, some in Prince William. All of her Virginia relatives
joined the boycott, says Fuentes, who works at a printing shop six days a week.

Thinking about her future in the United States, she starts to cry.

"I am so depressed about the situation that I don't feel human, sometimes," she
says. "They are right that we are not legal. We are wrong. But we are stealing
nothing. We work so hard. They need us."

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Jay Westcott for USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Peter J. Zuzga for USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              245 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 9, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Feds use immigration charges to crack down on street gangs

BYLINE: Donna Leinwand

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 397 words


Federal agents are using immigration violations to arrest and deport scores of
gang members in cities across the USA.

In a three-month summertime push that began June 1, federal agents working with
local police agencies in 23 cities arrested 1,313 suspected gang members, their
associates and other illegal residents, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
(ICE) said.

Gang member arrests have increased 73% over 2006, from 2,294 people to 3,974,
ICE statistics show. ICE has arrested 7,655 people from more than 700 gangs on
immigration and criminal violations since the program began in 2005, ICE
spokesman Michael Keegan said.

A week-long operation in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area last month netted more
than 30 people from Mexico, Nicaragua, El Salvador and Somalia with ties to
street gangs, Keegan said. Five people are charged with state crimes, nine face
federal charges for re-entering the USA after previous deportations, and four
are U.S. permanent residents who have previous criminal convictions, he added.

Sgt. Kelly O'Rourke of the Metro Gang Strike Force in the Twin Cities calls the
immigration charges a "helpful tool" in controlling the growth of gangs, which
deal in guns and drugs there.

Even so, some communities say the raids go too far. On Long Island, Nassau
County officials said that ICE did not check its targets against the county's
own gang intelligence before its raids Sept. 24 and 26. Nassau County Executive
Thomas Suozzi in an Oct. 2 letter to Homeland Security Secretary Michael
Chertoff accused the agency of "misconduct and malfeasance" for "tactical
actions which cross the lines of legality and law enforcement best practices."

ICE failed to target gang members, finding just eight gang members among the 82
people arrested in the county, the letter states.

Keegan said most of the people arrested in raids in Nassau and neighboring
Suffolk County were gang members or people associated with the gangs.

The operation netted 190 arrests and 55 of those arrested had past criminal
histories, he said. Agents also arrested other illegal immigrants if they
happened across them, he said.

"At the end of the day, they are in violation of immigration law," Keegan said.
"If you look at the operation across the nation, I have not heard local agencies
complaining about the assistance we're providing in removing illegal immigrants
from their neighborhoods."

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Josh Reynolds, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              246 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 11, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Judge blocks immigrant crackdown

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 480 words


A federal judge on Wednesday temporarily blocked a government crackdown on
businesses that hire illegal immigrants, saying it could ensnare workers who are
legally free to work in the USA.

Extending an earlier injunction, U.S. District Judge Charles Breyer in San
Francisco criticized a government plan to punish businesses that don't fire
workers whose Social Security numbers don't match government records. He said
the records have so many errors that, with only a 90-day time frame, the
verification process would "result in the termination of employment to lawfully
employed workers."

At issue are "no match" letters from the Social Security Administration, which
are sent to large employers when workers' Social Security numbers don't match
government records.

Under the plan, which was supposed to take effect last month, businesses had 90
days to clear up discrepancies. Those that didn't comply risked stiff fines and
possibly criminal penalties.

"If allowed to proceed, the mailing of no-match letters ... would result in
irreparable harm to innocent workers and employers," Breyer ruled.

His order bars the government from imposing the plan until the court issues a
final decision, possibly after a trial, which could take months.

Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said that he is disappointed by the
ruling but that it won't stop his department from enforcing immigration law or
implementing other plans, such as requiring companies that do business with the
federal government to check employees' legal status via an online system.

"This is only one single measure in a whole bucket full of measures," Chertoff
said. "We're going to continue to turn the heat up on employers who knowingly
and systematically violate the law."

Homeland Security lawyers are reviewing the department's legal options,
including an appeal, he said.

Civil rights and labor groups sued because they said the Social Security
database is riddled with mistakes and could lead employers to fire legal
workers.

"No-match letters are based on error-filled Social Security records," said Lucas
Guttentag, director of the American Civil Liberties Union Immigrants Rights
Project, one of the lawyers in the case.

Business groups, too, are nervous.

Most agricultural workers are in the country illegally, said Craig Regelbrugge,
vice president for government relations of the American Nursery & Landscape
Association.

However, most employers complied with federal law when they hired the workers by
checking documentation "that appears genuine," such as Social Security cards,
Regelbrugge said. They can't help it if some provided fraudulent documents, he
said.

"This rule puts employers in an untenable position of either having to fire
trained and trusted workers who are on the books, or disregard the guidelines
and take enormous risk," Regelbrugge said.

He called the ruling "a bit of welcome relief."

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Tim Sloan, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              247 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 12, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Children of illegal immigrants suffer from parents' decisions

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 596 words


Children of illegal immigrants are not caught in the political crossfire over
immigration. They are caught in the aftermath of decisions their parents made
for them ("Children caught in the immigration crossfire," Cover story, News,
Monday).

No matter how heart-wrenching it might be, the U.S. government cannot protect
children from the bad decisions their parents make.

Fiorella Maza, the Miami teenager who is profiled in USA TODAY's story, has
parents who risked deportation by living illegally here in the USA. As every
year passed, their decision placed their daughter at greater risk. At age 19,
her parents' decision returned to haunt her, and she was forced to return to
Peru, a country she has never known. Fortunately, Maza will be fine. Her English
skills and knowledge of the United States will certainly allow her to flourish
in Peru.

In light of this story, I have many questions. How many future Mazas reside in
the USA? Is it more humane for the U.S. government to allow children of illegal
immigrants to live in fear or to deport them shortly after their illegal entry
into the USA?

The best possible solution is to not permit parents to place their children in
limbo. That is the most compassionate choice. It would be nice if the U.S.
government could show compassion to children like Maza, but how would this be
fair to those who choose go through the legal process to gain U.S. citizenship?

What remains unclear is how the U.S. government would handle children who arrive
illegally with their parents. The situation just gets more difficult and
complicated if they are allowed to stay for an extended amount of time.

If the U.S. government allows Maza to remain in this country, it will send a
message to millions of other parents around the world: It might be worth it to
follow in the footsteps of Maza's parents. Is this really the message the
government wants to send?

Edward Hoffman

Joliet, Ill.

Go through legal process

Should Americans feel sorry for children of people who come to the USA
illegally? They are using the natural resources and experiencing the freedoms
reserved for legal residents.

Their parents came to the USA illegally. If their parents robbed a bank, would
the children get to keep the money? If the children of illegal immigrants want
to become U.S. citizens, then they should go through the legal process.

Rob Harrell

Greenville, N.C.

Don't exploit

It is sad that the children of illegal immigrants are bearing the brunt of their
parents illegal activities. The parents are the ones to blame here.

USA TODAY profiled Miami teenager Fiorella Maza. Who paid the taxes for her
education? It is sad that she was deported, but her parents have had ample
opportunity to go through the legal system.

It sounds to me that they had taken advantage of all the great opportunities
America has to offer, but they didn't carry their weight.

D. Barton

Daytona Beach, Fla.

Land of immigrants

The Oct. 5 letters to the editor about immigration show exactly why Americans
are hated ("Time for U.S. government to enforce immigration laws," "Mexico's
share," "A lawless land").

I was born in Montevideo, Uruguay, but I came to New Jersey when I was 3 years
old.

I am a U.S citizen.

Is the United States not the land of opportunities? Isn't it a country built by
immigrants, or is this truth suddenly different because past immigrants were
Europeans and today's immigrants are from Mexico?

Bottom line: If not for immigrants, this country would not be what it is today.
Immigrants are the reason that the United States is strong in the world.

Gustavo Rachioppi

Nutley, N.J.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Ana Cecilia Gonzalez Vigil, WPN, for USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              248 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 24, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Senators consider opportunities for immigrants' children

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 448 words


WASHINGTON -- Senate Democratic leaders have scheduled a showdown vote today on
a bill that would give children brought to the USA by illegal immigrant parents
a chance to qualify for citizenship.

Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., the legislation's chief sponsor, said Tuesday that his
biggest challenge was ensuring that supporters, including five senators -- four
Democrats and one Republican -- running for president, make it to the Capitol
for the roll call.

Another question mark: Democratic Sens. Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer, who
are trying to return to California to review wildfire damage.

The bill, known as the DREAM (Development, Relief and Education for Alien
Minors) Act, would grant legal status to children and young adults who arrived
here before the age of 16 and who have lived in the USA at least five years --
if they complete two years of post-secondary education or two years of military
service.

"It's the right thing to do. This is talent we cannot afford to waste," said
Durbin, who appeared at a news conference with potential DREAM Act
beneficiaries.

The bill is the first piece of immigration legislation to come before the Senate
since the defeat in June of a sweeping measure to overhaul the immigration
system and legalize about 12 million illegal immigrants. The White House helped
negotiate a provision providing relief for illegal immigrant children in that
bill but was non-committal about the legislation now before the Senate.

"We will review the legislation, but I would note that the president has not
supported the DREAM Act as a stand-alone piece of legislation in the past,"
White House spokesman Scott Stanzel said.

The measure has attracted opposition from some of the same groups that brought
down the broader immigration bill this year. Bob Dane of the Federation for
American Immigration Reform called it "fundamentally unfair to those who came
here legally."

Durbin needs 60 votes to allow the bill to be debated.

Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., said the DREAM Act amounts to a "ratification of
illegality" and could provide an incentive for more illegal immigration.

Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., issued a news release calling for immigration
officials to arrest the three students who appeared with Durbin at his news
conference.

All three students have legal status. Manuel Bartsch, a college freshman from
Ohio, and Marie Gonzalez, a college junior from Missouri, both had deportation
orders postponed because of the intervention of members of Congress. Tam Tran, a
recent UCLA graduate, had her deportation stayed because Germany, the country
where she was born after her parents fled Vietnam, refused to accept the family
back.

Contributing: David Jackson

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              249 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 1, 2007 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Why N.Y. driver's license plan might make us safer

BYLINE: Clark Kent Ervin

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 683 words


There are many reasons why, years after 9/11, America remains less prepared than
it should be for another catastrophic attack. High among them is our tendency to
make homeland security policy, and to evaluate it, on the basis of emotion
rather than reason.

The latest example of this tendency is the virulent opposition from
anti-immigration activists to a proposal by New York Gov. Eliot Spitzer, who
wants to eliminate the requirement for driver's license applicants in that state
to have a Social Security card.

To be sure, those of us whose principal concern is security must concede that
the activists have a point. The ease with which people can illegally enter this
country is a loophole terrorists can exploit to pull off another 9/11. And, so,
whatever one's view of whether illegal immigration is a net economic benefit or
burden (put me in the "benefit" camp), it is  imperative that we finally get
serious about policing our borders.

In so doing, though, we have a choice to make. We can either ignore reality and
make policy that flies in its face, or we can acknowledge reality and make
policy that works around it. The reality is that the estimated 12  million
illegal immigrants already in this country will remain here, still more illegal
immigrants are likely to come, and those illegal immigrants who can and wish to
drive will do so.

Ways around rules

As far as Social Security cards are concerned, illegal immigrants in New York
will either apply for a license with fraudulent ones, or they will drive without
a license. If, God forbid, some of those illegal immigrants turn out to be
terrorists, we will be unable to identify them.

Those who supplied documentation will likely remain unknown because the
information they submitted will be bogus. And those who did not bother to apply
will remain completely in the shadows.

Because of the risk of being caught and deported, the number in the latter
category is likelier to be far higher than in that in the former.

One of the many lessons of 9/11 is that the more information we have on
terrorists, the better. Spitzer's plan would result in our gaining more
information because it would encourage illegal immigrants to apply for driver's
licenses, and to do so in their own names  with bona fide documentation.

Useful personal data

Further, the documentation required would be more useful for security than
Social Security numbers. Illegal immigrants would have to submit six kinds of
identification, including a foreign passport with photo identification that
would be verified by trained staff and state-of-the-art scanning machines. Photo
comparison technology would be used to ensure that applicants could not get
multiple licenses. Not incidentally, the license available to illegal aliens
could not be used to board a plane or cross a border.

Notably, the 9/11 Commission did not recommend that driver's licenses be issued
only to people who could prove that they were legally  in the USA. Four of the
five states that issued licenses to 9/11 hijackers had "immigration status"
requirements at the time, and those hijackers were able to prove that they were
here legally.

States' Department of Motor Vehicle databases, which contain names, addresses,
photographs and driving records, proved invaluable in identifying who the
hijackers were and connecting that information to other data that led to a more
complete profile of them. Even better than identifying terrorists after the
fact, such comprehensive information can even help to prevent attacks.

In short, there is a right way and a wrong way to crack down on illegal
immigration. The right way is to be guided by reason rather than emotion. It
might make  activists feel good to deny driver's licenses to those here
illegally. But such a policy will do little, if anything, to get unsafe illegal
immigrant drivers off the streets. And, it might make the already difficult job
of identifying terrorists even harder.

Clark Kent Ervin is director of the Homeland Security Program at The Aspen
Institute and the former inspector general of the U.S. Department of Homeland
Security.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              250 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 6, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Dream has died for many illegal immigrants' children

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 319 words


Some people come to the USA for a better future. They put all of their effort
into making a better life for their children. It's not fair for the U.S.
government to deport immigrants who already have made their lives here
("Lawmakers seek policy clarification," News, Oct. 25).

I think a great compromise could have been reached through the now defeated
Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors Act of 2007. The act would
have protected immigrants who came to the USA before age 16 and were in the USA
for five years, on the condition that they were admitted to a post-secondary
school or inducted into military service. They would not have been deported.

The USA would have benefited tremendously from this act because student
immigrants are among those who may be the next Albert Einsteins. Doesn't
everyone deserve a bright future in the land of freedom and opportunity?

Jay Decena, student

Chamberlain High School; Tampa

The least of these

I think the hysteria over the millions of poor people illegally coming into this
nation to take jobs they desperately need is unjust and arrogant.

Of course, who really thinks we are going to deport all of the millions of
undocumented workers? This would result in the collapse of agriculture in many
Western states. Apparently, some people think that the blessing of being born
into an already wealthy and powerful nation gives them the right to look down
upon all those who are less fortunate. Many of us were born in the USA; we
didn't build this country. How can we be justified in stigmatizing those who
were born into desperate circumstances? I really wonder what immigration
opponents would do if their families were faced with the very same circumstances
that the illegal immigrants are facing.

As the founder of my church once said in regard to how we treat strangers: "As
you did it to one of the least of my brethren, you did it to me."

Kris Sanders

Pittsburgh

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Bob Riha, Jr., USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              251 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 29, 2007 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

GOP candidates spar over immigration issue;
New poll puts Huckabee in 2nd in Florida

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 737 words


ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. -- Meeting for a debate in a state where Hispanic voters
are a growing and important voting bloc, eight Republican presidential
candidates clashed repeatedly over the issue of illegal immigration, attacking
each other in sometimes sharply personal terms.

The most withering exchanges were between the two who have led the GOP in the
polls for most of the year. Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts,
accused Rudy Giuliani of operating a "sanctuary city" for illegal immigrants
when he was mayor of New York City.

Giuliani denied the charge and turned the tables on Romney, charging him with
maintaining a "sanctuary mansion" -- a reference to reports that contractors
working on Romney's home employed illegal immigrants.

Immigration led off the debate in Florida, a state with one of the highest
percentages of foreign-born and Spanish-speaking residents in the nation.
According to the 2000 census, 17% of Florida residents were Hispanic or Latino.

Romney and Arizona Sen. John McCain tangled over the question of
"waterboarding." Romney's refusal to rule out the controversial interrogation
technique as torture prompted a sharp retort from McCain, who was tortured as a
prisoner of war in Vietnam. "Life is not 24 and Jack Bauer," McCain said,
referring to a Fox TV show about a federal agent in an anti-terror squad. "I'm
astonished ... anyone could believe it's not torture."

The CNN/YouTube debate, featuring voters asking questions on homemade videos via
YouTube's Internet posting service, came at a crucial political moment in a
crucial political state. "Several of the leading candidates have a need to do
something," said Sen. Mel Martinez, R-Fla., a former national GOP chairman.

Romney is ahead in the polls in Iowa and New Hampshire, the states where the
first of the presidential eliminations will be held in January. But polls show
him trailing Giuliani in Florida, which votes Jan. 29, the first of the nation's
most populous states to cast primary ballots.

And now Romney, who has been portraying himself as the conservative alternative
to Giuliani, is getting some competition on his right flank. An Insider
Advantage poll taken earlier this week showed Huckabee, a Baptist minister and
former governor of Arkansas, moving into second place in Florida, with 17% of
the vote to Giuliani's 26%. The poll put Romney at 12%.

On Tuesday, Huckabee won the endorsement of a key Florida conservative, state
Senate Majority Leader Daniel Webster.

Giuliani supporters aren't hiding their satisfaction at Huckabee's good fortune,
which serves to undercut the New Yorker's chief rival. "Everyone is impressed
with how Huckabee is coming on," said  Rep. Pete King, R-N.Y., here to support
Giuliani. "It will be interesting to see who gets after him tonight. I know Rudy
won't."

Other candidates vying for voters' attention at the debate: former senator Fred
Thompson of Tennessee, and congressmen Duncan Hunter of California, Tom Tancredo
of Colorado and Ron Paul of Texas.

Paul, an anti-war libertarian who doesn't even register in the latest Florida
polls, was so successful raising money from July through September -- raking in
$5.3 million -- that he rented a 1,000-seat hall in town for a viewing party.

The debate gives GOP candidates a chance to showcase their command of the issues
in one of the most diverse states in the union, said Florida Republican Party
Chairman Jim Greer.

Florida voters run the gamut from retired New Yorkers who thronged to the
state's southeast coast -- a key Giuliani stronghold -- to retired Midwesterners
on the Gulf Coast, to more traditional Southerners in the state's northern
Panhandle.

"What Floridians are thinking is what the nation is thinking," Greer said.

The setting for the debate emphasized Florida's diversity. On one side of the
Mahaffey Theater, where the candidates met, St. Petersburg's homeless set up an
encampment to protest what demonstrator James King said is the city's inadequate
number of shelters. "Jesus was homeless too," said the sign King carried.

On the other side of the theater, floor-to-ceiling windows overlooked the
tall-masted sailboats and roomy motorboats berthed at the St. Petersburg Yacht
Club.

Nearly 5,000 video questions were submitted for the GOP session, about 2,000
more than the Democratic debate. CNN had 60-70 videos ready, some that were
directed specifically to a candidate and others that were more general.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Hans Deryk, Reuters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              252 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 29, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Path to citizenship requires hard work -- and it's worth it

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 510 words


I immigrated to the USA legally and became employed as a law enforcer. When I
decided to find a better life by coming to this country, I did my homework. I
found out the requirements, completed the appropriate forms and went to the U.S.
Embassy, where my family and I were interviewed.

For all of my hard work, I received my visa for permanent residency. I never
would have considered becoming an illegal immigrant if the U.S. government had
refused to grant me a permanent residency visa.

As a law enforcer, I have met many illegal immigrants who have paid exorbitant
amounts of money to people to sneak them across the border.

My question: Why spend thousands of dollars and risk life and limb when
immigrants can spend a lot less to get a passport and apply for permanent
residency through legitimate channels?

Rod Campbell

Denver

System fails

As soon as a potential immigrant attempts to deal with immigration officials, he
or she will be able to understand why immigrants are willing to pay a "coyote"
to sneak them across the border.

My wife and I started the immigration process more than 14 months ago so she
could join me in the USA. Every step of the way, we have been stonewalled by an
unresponsive government, tolerated the abuse heaped upon us and paid the
exorbitant fees.

We have asked for assistance from our state's lawmakers, but I haven't received
any help. This experience has shown me that my elected officials don't really
care about immigration. Not one of them has taken the time to speak to me or
even to say that he or she knows that I or any problem exists.

To say that I am a little frustrated would be an understatement. The U.S.
government wants to fix immigration? Start by remembering that the government
serves the people -- and I am one of those people.

Jon Gaugler

St. Paul

Patience pays off

My husband and I once lived in Canada, but he got a job in the USA. He is an
engineer, and his skills were in high demand. When we moved here, I was unable
to work for approximately four years because my job wasn't in high demand. This
seemed ridiculous to me, considering I had previously worked in England, Germany
and Canada.

We have become citizens, and now I am employed here, but it did take time.

There are many illegal immigrants living and working in the USA, but that does
not make it right. They should have to file the proper paperwork and be willing
to wait.

Karin Toogood

Phoenix

Open up U.S. borders

As an immigration attorney, I believe that opening up U.S. borders is good for
this country. Employers of both large and small companies cannot find the
employees they need and sometimes are forced to close their businesses or move
to other countries. Families are being broken apart by deportation. This leaves
without parents many children, who are U.S. citizens because they were born
here. This must stop.

Also, it seems that those howling loudest against immigration appear to be the
people who claim to believe in the Bible. So how do they explain away the
Bible's call for believers to welcome strangers?

Aetna Thompson

Silver Spring, Md.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, John Zich for USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              253 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 30, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration is GOP hot button;
'Sanctuary' policies vary widely across USA

BYLINE: David Jackson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 582 words


WASHINGTON -- A long-running dispute between Republican presidential rivals Mitt
Romney and Rudy Giuliani centers on a term without a clear meaning: sanctuary
city.

Jeanne Batalova, a policy analyst with the Migration Policy Institute, said
there are fine distinctions over what the term means among the states and local
governments that have adopted complex policies on how to deal with illegal
immigrants.

"The term (sanctuary city) is used liberally," she said. "There is no one
consistent definition."

Romney charged again during Wednesday's GOP debate in Florida that Giuliani ran
a "sanctuary city" while mayor of New York City because he did not turn in to
federal authorities all of the illegal immigrants who used city services or
broke laws. Giuliani countered that Romney allowed six sanctuary cities while
governor of Massachusetts, and even ran a "sanctuary mansion" because he
employed illegal immigrants as landscapers.

A 2005 Congressional Research Service report described 32 cities or counties --
including New York -- that adopted sanctuary policies in which their employees
were not required to report illegal immigrants to federal authorities.

Giuliani said "a lot of criminals would have gone free" if not for information
that illegal immigrants provided police.

Giuliani said exceptions were made in New York so illegal immigrants could
receive emergency medical care and send their children to schools, both of which
are requirements of federal law.

The congressional report also said the cities of Orleans and Cambridge in
Massachusetts have "sanctuary policies." Giuliani spokeswoman Jennifer Mastin
produced a list Thursday of others with similar policies, including Somerville,
Brookline, Brewster and Lexington. Romney has not disputed there are sanctuary
cities in the Bay State.

On the point about Romney running a "sanctuary mansion," there is no governor's
mansion in Massachusetts. The Boston Globe reported last year that Romney
employed a landscaping company at his home in Belmont that used non-U.S.
citizens from Guatemala. Romney has said he did not know about the company's
hiring policies.

At the debate, Romney said it was "offensive" that Giuliani seemed to suggest
"if you hear someone with a funny accent, you, as a homeowner, are supposed to
go out there and say, 'I want to see your papers?'"

The sparring over illegal immigration between Romney and Giuliani comes at a
critical time in the campaign, just  about a month before voters start picking
presidential nominees. In Iowa, Romney is essentially tied with former Arkansas
governor Mike Huckabee in state polls. Giuliani is trying to make a major push
in New Hampshire, where Romney has the lead in state polls.

Romney also charged at Wednesday's debate that Huckabee proposed allowing
children of illegal immigrants to seek grants under an Arkansas scholarship
program. The proposal was not adopted by the Arkansas Legislature.

"We are a better country than to punish children for what their parents did,"
Huckabee said Wednesday

On Thursday, Huckabee told reporters that illegal immigration "comes up more
than the Iraq war. ... It's absolutely on fire everywhere" as an issue.

Daniel Kowalski, editor of a technical journal for lawyers called Bender's
Immigration Bulletin, said the illegal immigration disputes among the GOP
candidates may resonate with those voters passionate about security borders.

The candidates are "trying to puff themselves up as the toughest," he said.

Contributing: Susan Page

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Joe Raedle, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              254 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 10, 2007 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

GOP hopefuls draw the line on illegal immigration;
Spanish-translated debate stresses views on undocumented residents

BYLINE: David Jackson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 656 words


CORAL GABLES, Fla. -- Republican candidates pledged to crack down on illegal
immigration during a debate Sunday before a largely Hispanic audience, but
avoided confronting each other over who is tougher on the issue.

"We should end illegal immigration at the border," Rudy Giuliani said during the
debate, which was sponsored by Univision, the nation's leading Spanish-language
television network, and held at the University of Miami.

Mitt Romney, Giuliani's frequent sparring partner, said the nation's immigration
policy should emphasize "people who have been standing in line" legally. Mike
Huckabee said "nothing really matters" unless borders are secured.

Sen. John McCain, who supported the bipartisan comprehensive immigration plan
that failed in the Senate earlier this year, struck a somewhat different note,
saying occasional Republican "rhetoric" about illegal immigrants has alienated
some Hispanic voters. McCain also pledged to secure the border, but said illegal
immigrants who are already here need to be treated "with compassion and love."

Immigration was the strongest point of contention during the previous GOP debate
on Nov. 28.  Romney accused  Giuliani of running a "sanctuary city" as mayor of
New York because he did not turn in all illegal immigrants to federal
authorities. Giuliani countered by saying the ex-governor of Massachusetts ran
"a sanctuary mansion" because a landscaping company employed illegal immigrants
at his home. Romney last week fired the landscaping company.

Sunday's debate came at a time when Republicans appear to be losing support
among the fast-growing Hispanic population.

The Pew Hispanic Center reported last week that 57% registered Hispanic voters
consider themselves Democrats, while only 23% identify with Republicans. That
34-percentage point gap was a jump from summer 2006, when the gap in party
identification was 21 percentage points.

"A plurality of Hispanics view the Democratic Party rather than the Republican
Party as the one that shows more concern for Latinos and does a better job on
the issue of illegal immigration," the Pew report said.

During a weekend appearance in Miami, McCain said Republicans must be careful
not to appear anti-Hispanic. He said the GOP's message has not been delivered
"as well as it should be" and "part of it is we need to resolve this issue of
immigration."

McCain has been vocal among the GOP field for his support of a bipartisan
immigration bill that would include a crackdown on illegal border crossings,
programs for temporary workers and a path to citizenship for most of the
estimated 12 million undocumented immigrants already in the USA.

Critics, including Romney, have described the bill as amnesty for illegal
immigrants.

Like his opponents, McCain said his party can attract Hispanic voters by
stressing issues important to GOP voters such as lower taxes, less government,
less regulation and more assistance to small-business owners.

McCain was the only Republican candidate to accept Univision's invitation for a
debate in September. The network had to reschedule to attract more candidates.

One candidate boycotted Sunday's rescheduled event: Colorado Rep. Tom Tancredo,
one of the party's most vociferous critics of illegal immigration. Tancredo said
his opponents were "pandering" by participating in a debate in which their
answers, given in English, would be translated to Spanish.

Other participants included former Tennessee senator Fred Thompson, California
Rep. Duncan Hunter and Texas Rep. Ron Paul.

The Pew poll said Hispanics are a potential swing vote in four states that
President Bush carried by 5% or less in the 2004 election: Florida, Nevada,
Colorado and New Mexico.

Joe Garcia, of a Washington, D.C-based Democratic activist group called NDN,
said Republicans' tough talk on immigration is alienating many Hispanics. "In
the end, they're having a fight with demographics," he said. "That's never a
smart thing to do."

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Carlos Barria, Reuters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              255 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 10, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GOP hopefuls toe the line on illegal immigration;
Spanish-translated debate stresses views on undocumented residents

BYLINE: David Jackson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 649 words


CORAL GABLES, Fla. -- Republican candidates pledged to crack down on illegal
immigration during a debate Sunday before a largely Hispanic audience, but
avoided confronting each other over who is tougher on the issue.

"We should end illegal immigration at the border," Rudy Giuliani said. The
debate was sponsored by Univision, the nation's leading Spanish-language
television network, and held at the University of Miami.

Mitt Romney said the nation's immigration policy should emphasize "people who
have been standing in line" legally. Mike Huckabee said "nothing really matters"
unless borders are secured first.

Sen. John McCain, who supported an unsuccessful, bipartisan immigration plan
earlier this year, struck a somewhat different note. McCain also pledged to
secure the border, but said the immigration issue needs to be treated "with
compassion and love."

The immigration rhetoric was stronger during the previous GOP debate on Nov. 28.
Romney accused Giuliani of running a "sanctuary city" as mayor of New York
because he did not turn in all illegal immigrants to federal authorities.
Giuliani countered that the ex-governor of Massachusetts ran "a sanctuary
mansion" because a landscaping company employed illegal immigrants at his home.
Romney last week fired the company.

Sunday's debate came at a time when Republicans appear to be losing support
among the fast-growing Hispanic population.

The Pew Hispanic Center reported last week that 57% registered Hispanic voters
consider themselves Democrats, while only 23% identify with Republicans. That
34-percentage point gap was a jump from summer 2006, when the gap in party
identification was 21 percentage points.

McCain warned his rivals that the harshness of GOP immigration talk could take a
toll: "Some of the rhetoric that many Hispanics hear ... makes some of them
believe that we are not in favor nor seek the support of Hispanic citizens in
this country."

McCain has been vocal in supporting legislation that would include a crackdown
on illegal border crossings, programs for temporary workers and a path to
citizenship for most of the estimated 12 million undocumented immigrants already
in the USA.

Romney and Huckabee have described the bill as amnesty for illegal immigrants.

The GOP field also discussed their plans for education. Huckabee, who now leads
in Iowa polls, said his education plan included "weapons of mass instruction."

On foreign policy, the candidates condemned Venezuela's Hugo Chavez and Cuba's
Fidel Castro as dictators. The audience roundly booed Texas Rep. Ron Paul for
suggesting new talks with both countries. Miami is home to a large group of
Cuban exiles who are anti-Castro.

Former Tennessee senator Fred Thompson was cheered when he said the United
States should continue an economic embargo on Cuba and treat Castro's brother,
Raul, with "the same contempt." The younger Castro is leading Cuba while Fidel
is ailing.

McCain was the only GOP candidate to accept Univision's invitation for a
September debate. The network had to reschedule to attract more candidates.

California Rep. Duncan Hunter also participated Sunday.

Colorado Rep. Tom Tancredo, one of the party's strongest immigration critics,
boycotted the debate. He said his rivals were "pandering" by taking part in a
debate in which their remarks, given in English, were translated to Spanish.

The Pew poll said Hispanics are a potential swing vote in four states that
President Bush carried by 5% or less in the 2004 election: Florida, Nevada,
Colorado and New Mexico.

Luis Cortes, a minister and president of a network of U.S. churches called
Esperanza (or "Hope"), said the candidates "did a good job of nuancing" the
immigration issue, but that probably won't help them.

Cortes, who participated in a Democratic Party conference call last week but
described himself as an independent, said of the GOP: "They've been very hard on
our community."

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Carlos Barria, Reuters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              256 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 12, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

The Romney campaign

BYLINE: Mark Memmott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 306 words


Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney on Tuesday unveiled the first TV
ad in the campaign that can be labeled an "attack" or "contrast" ad aimed at a
competitor from the same party. It's a 30-second spot called Choice: The Record,
and it goes after Republican rival Mike Huckabee on the issue of immigration.
The ad, which is being broadcast in Iowa, can be seen at
blogs.usatoday.com/onpolitics/ads.

The script

Narrator: "Two former governors, two good family men.

"Both pro-life, both support a constitutional amendment protecting traditional
marriage. The difference?

"Mitt Romney stood up and vetoed in-state tuition for illegal aliens, opposed
driver's licenses for illegals.

"Mike Huckabee? Supported in-state tuition benefits for illegal immigrants.

"Huckabee even supported taxpayer-funded scholarships for illegal aliens.

"On immigration, the choice matters."

The analysis

Romney and Huckabee argued over this subject at the Nov. 28 CNN/YouTube
Republican presidential debate and have been sniping at each other about it ever
since. Both know that immigration is a hot-button issue.

Huckabee says Romney is distorting the facts. The Arkansas proposal, which never
became law, would have granted in-state tuition "to those children who had been
in our schools their entire school life," he says. The independent, non-partisan
FactCheck.org said Huckabee wasn't quite right on that point. Arkansas' plan
would have given in-state tuition after "only three years in an Arkansas high
school," according to FactCheck.

Romney is focusing on Huckabee because Huckabee has erased in recent weeks what
was Romney's solid lead in Iowa. In the most recent, and widely watched, Iowa
Poll from The Des Moines Register, Huckabee led Romney by 5 percentage points.
The Register and USA TODAY are both owned by Gannett.

By Mark Memmott, USA TODAY

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              257 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 28, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Activities intensify a week before caucuses;
Republicans reiterate their positions on immigration

BYLINE: David Jackson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 659 words


DES MOINES -- Republicans Mike Huckabee and Mitt Romney and their presidential
rivals enter the stretch drive before Thursday's caucuses stressing their
differences in style and approach to such thorny issues as immigration.

Huckabee, the former Arkansas governor who has ascended to the top of Iowa
polls, plans to emphasize his executive experience while condemning the
"negative" tactics of Romney and other opponents.

"Romney's thrown everything but the kitchen sink," Huckabee senior adviser
Charmaine Yoest said. "We expect the kitchen sink next week."

Romney, who is on a "Strong America" bus tour across Iowa this weekend, has said
he is only pointing out differences, such as Huckabee's past support of
scholarships for children of illegal immigrants. The former Massachusetts
governor, who recently lost his Iowa lead to Huckabee, also has criticized the
immigration views of John McCain and Rudy Giuliani.

Huckabee, McCain and Giuliani have advocated "sanctuary policies that led to
less secure borders and more illegal immigration," Romney spokesman Kevin Madden
said.

In response, the three Republican rivals have said they are just as committed as
Romney to protecting the nation's borders.

Former Tennessee senator Fred Thompson and Texas Rep. Ron Paul spent part of
Thursday talking to radio talk show hosts gathered here to highlight the
nation's illegal immigration problems, and McCain called in to speak to one of
the hosts. Thompson, who is on a bus tour of the state, said there's a
difference among the GOP candidates when it comes to their support for strong
border security. "Just about every one of them has had different positions in
the past than they have today -- except me," he said.

California Rep. Duncan Hunter also has made immigration the focus of his
campaign.

Huckabee flew from Florida to Iowa on Thursday. His weekend plans include an
interview Sunday on NBC's Meet the Press. Then the Baptist minister, who has
made his faith a major part of his appeal, will speak at Cornerstone Family
Church in Des Moines. About 40% of Iowa's Republican voters consider themselves
religious conservatives.

Giuliani, who hasn't campaigned much in Iowa, will do the most flying among the
Republicans. He starts today in Florida, where he counts on a primary victory
Jan. 29, then he will spend time in Iowa before returning to New Hampshire on
Sunday. The former New York City mayor, who leads most national polls, has
trailed in Iowa and New Hampshire surveys.

McCain leaves Iowa today for a weekend in New Hampshire, where polls show him
closing on Romney for the primary Jan. 8. The Arizona senator spent part of this
week in Iowa beating back Romney's criticism that he used the word "amnesty" in
2003 to suggest how illegal immigrants in the USA for a long time should be
treated.

"We need to sit down and understand that we have to secure the borders first,
but we also have to address the issue in a more civil way," McCain said this
week.

Asked whether that is being done in this campaign, he responded, "I'm afraid
not."

McCain supported President Bush's call for a comprehensive immigration overhaul,
including tighter borders and a program for more temporary workers. McCain said
once the borders are secure, the nation must find a humane way to address the
estimated 12million illegal immigrants in the USA.

Rep. Steve King, R-Iowa, who has endorsed Thompson, said the Bush
administration's immigration package has divided the Republican Party. He said
the party will continue to be divided unless it nominates a presidential
candidate who stands up for the "rule of law."

"If we don't," King said, "then we're in for another four to eight years of the
squabbling we've had."

Sharon George, a substitute teacher who attended a recent McCain event, said
immigration is not a partisan issue. "This is going to take work from everybody,
Republicans and Democrats," she said. "Congress has to get themselves working
instead of yapping."

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Christopher Gannon, The Des Moines Register

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              258 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 28, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Affirmative action may be on ballots;
Campaign in five states seeks end of preferences

BYLINE: Marisol Bello

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 441 words


A campaign is underway to ban affirmative action in five states already
embroiled in debates over illegal immigration.

Efforts are proceeding in Arizona, Colorado, Missouri, Nebraska and Oklahoma to
put initiatives on November ballots that would end programs to increase minority
and female participation in government and education.

The push is led by Ward Connerly, a California management consultant who
successfully ran similar campaigns in California, Washington and Michigan.

It is part of Connerly's effort to ban race-and gender-based policies
nationwide.

The initiatives will add to the racially charged atmosphere in state elections,
says Michael Kanner, a political science professor at the University of Colorado
at Boulder. All five states have had big increases in their Hispanic population
since 2000, leading to racial tensions and debates over illegal immigration.

Arizona, Colorado and Oklahoma have passed the nation's toughest laws against
illegal immigration. Among their provisions, they penalize employers of
undocumented workers. In Missouri, Gov. Matt Blunt is pushing for tougher
immigration laws and enforcement. In Nebraska, towns with large food processing
companies that employ Hispanic immigrants have been targeted by federal
immigration raids.

"It's about race in both issues," Kanner says. "Affirmative action, by its
nature, is associated with minorities. In Colorado, for example, the dominant
minorities are Hispanic, so it is inevitable that the two will be tied
together."

Connerly, founder of the American Civil Rights Institute, a group working to end
affirmative action, says, "We will deliberately try to stay away from the issue
of illegal immigration. It's a tangential issue that we cannot control."

He says, "It's a simple principle we are promoting: equal treatment for all
Americans."

Connerly says he believes in affirmative action if it is based on socioeconomic
conditions, not gender or race.

His campaign is in its first stage in Colorado, Arizona and Nebraska, gathering
signatures to qualify to be on the ballot.

It has turned in signatures in Oklahoma, but is stalled in Missouri in a court
dispute over language. Connerly's language says the state shall not discriminate
or grant preferences based on race, sex or ethnicity. The language substituted
by Secretary of State Robin Carnahan goes further and says the initiative would
end programs that provide equal opportunities for women and minorities.

Brenda Jones, executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union of
Eastern Missouri, says Connerly's language misleads voters.

"They are co-opting the language of Martin Luther King," she says.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              259 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 22, 2008 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Rising health care costs put focus on migrants;
Tension over uninsured sparks curbs on benefits

BYLINE: Richard Wolf

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2050 words


BENSON, N.C. -- Juan Perez had stomach pains for a month before deciding to
visit a health clinic here that is open Thursday nights so migrant farmworkers
don't miss a day working in the fields.

As an illegal, uninsured immigrant, Perez has had problems in the past -- not
only with his health, but with navigating the U.S. health care maze. In
Michigan, there was no interpreter at his local health clinic, the bills had to
be paid in installments, and co-workers warned that a visit to a doctor could
lead to deportation. In North Carolina, he has found a health care home at
Tiffany Revels' weekly clinic -- providing he can hitch a ride there.

"The biggest concern is getting sick, because you don't have anyone here," Perez
says after Revels, a family nurse practitioner at the federally funded clinic,
prescribes two antibiotics and Pepto-Bismol tablets for his bacterial gastritis.
"You are here by yourself."

As the debate over the residency status of the nation's estimated 12 million
illegal immigrants boils, another battle is simmering over what -- if any --
benefits they deserve while they're here. Some of the most heated arguments on
the issue focus on health care. So far, immigrants are losing:

*In Texas, where the state comptroller estimates illegal immigrants cost
hospitals $1.3billion in 2006, the University of Texas Medical Branch in
Galveston is considering denying cancer care to such immigrants.

*State legislatures across the country are seeking to limit the costs to
taxpayers of illegal immigration, including health care benefits. In May,
Oklahoma lawmakers restricted illegal immigrants from receiving most public
benefits; other states, such as Nebraska, are seeking to follow suit. A bill
introduced in Indiana this month would make hospitals report how much they spend
on illegal immigrants.

*On a national level, an effort to add legal immigrant children to the State
Children's Health Insurance Program was blocked in the Senate last year.
Instead, lawmakers added language to ensure that illegal immigrants were
excluded.

"The phrase 'illegal immigrant' is just radioactive at the moment," says
Leighton Ku, a health analyst at the liberal Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities. "Efforts to provide additional benefits for the undocumented would
be essentially perceived as adding fuel to the fire."

Illegal immigrants can get emergency care through Medicaid, the federal-state
program for the poor and people with disabilities. But they can't get
non-emergency care unless they pay. They are ineligible for most other public
benefits.

Data on health care costs for illegal immigrants are sketchy because hospitals
and community health centers don't ask about patients' legal status. In
California, a 2004 study by the Federation for American Immigration Reform put
the state's annual cost at $1.4 billion. Similar studies in Colorado and
Minnesota in 2005 came up with much smaller estimates: $31 million and $17
million, respectively.

One thing is clear: Undocumented immigrants are driving up the number of people
without health insurance. The Pew Hispanic Center estimates that 59% of the
nation's illegal immigrants are uninsured, compared with 25% of legal immigrants
and 14% of U.S. citizens. Illegal immigrants represent about 15% of the nation's
47 million uninsured people -- and about 30% of the increase since 1980.

"If you want to do something that will have a meaningful impact on the problem
of the uninsured, then you must talk about undocumented immigrants," says James
Smith, a senior economist at the RAND Corp.

Because most illegal immigrants are relatively young and healthy, they generally
don't need as much health care treatment as U.S. citizens, studies show. But
while they account for less than 2% of national medical spending, their growing
presence is a problem in places such as eastern North Carolina, one of the
nation's poorest areas.

Statewide, illegal immigrants accounted for one in four new residents from 1990
to 2004, according to a University of North Carolina study. The state ranks
ninth in the nation for illegal immigrants with more than 300,000, according to
the Pew Hispanic Center.

For hospitals, "the burden of the uninsured immigrant is huge," says Jeff Spade,
vice president of the North Carolina Hospital Association. "It's exploded the
amount of work that they have to do."

A potent political issue

Opponents of illegal immigration see health care as a benefit that illegal
immigrants don't deserve -- and that taxpayers can't afford.

In a special election to fill the seat of the late Rep. Paul Gillmor, R-Ohio,
last month, the National Republican Congressional Committee attacked Democrat
Robin Weirauch for backing universal health insurance because it could extend
taxpayer-funded health care to illegal immigrants. She lost the race.

Steven Camarota of the conservative Center for Immigration Studies says offering
non-emergency Medicaid to illegal immigrants would be more expensive than
leaving them uninsured and in need of occasional hospital care. In those cases,
hospitals lose money, and taxpayers pick up the tab.

"Either you enforce the law and don't have so many illegals, or you shut up
about the cost," he says.

While state governments, Congress, the Bush administration and presidential
candidates wrestle with how to provide health coverage to uninsured Americans,
illegal immigrants rely on a patchwork of federally funded community health
centers, which charge little for basic services and don't seek proof of
citizenship. For medicine, they often rely on free prescription samples or
over-the-counter drugs.

From 2001 to 2004, spending for emergency Medicaid for illegal immigrants rose
by 28% in North Carolina, said a March 2007 article in the Journal of the
American Medical Association. Researchers cited increases in childbirth and
prenatal care, as well as injuries and chronic disease complications.

At the state and local level, illegal immigrants already cost more in public
services such as education and health care than they pay in taxes, the
Congressional Budget Office reported recently. Illegal immigrants make up less
than 5% of the cost in most states, but closer to 10% in some California
counties. In 2000, counties along the Mexican border lost more than $800 million
in health care services for which they were not paid; about 25% of that went to
care for illegal immigrants, according to a report by the United States/Mexico
Border Counties Coalition.

Some states, including New York, Illinois and Washington, as well as several
California counties, cover illegal immigrant children with state tax dollars.
"Kids are the more sympathetic group, and they're less costly," says Sonal
Ambegaokar of the National Immigration Law Center, an advocacy group for
low-income immigrants.

Since 2003, California's San Mateo County has used local tax dollars as well as
money from hospitals and non-profit groups to provide health insurance to all
low-income children, regardless of immigration status. "These children are in
our schools. They're part of our community," says Beverly Thames, spokeswoman
for the county health department. "It's just important that they have access to
health care."

San Francisco goes further, adding adults at local expense. Some cities,
including New York, encourage illegal immigrants to use public services such as
health clinics without risking deportation.

Direct federal aid has been minimal, but in 2003, Congress appropriated $1
billion over four years for hospitals and other health care providers that serve
illegal immigrants. More than 15,000 providers have registered for payments,
according to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.

The sweeping overhauls of the nation's health care system proposed by Democrats
Hillary Rodham Clinton, Barack Obama and John Edwards would not provide coverage
for illegal immigrants. "Because the issue is so politically hot, people are
staying away from it," says Cecilia Munoz, senior vice president at the National
Council of La Raza, the nation's largest Hispanic advocacy group. Only Dennis
Kucinich of Ohio, a Democratic long shot, proposes covering them.

That's likely to mean little change in undocumented immigrants' health care
status, already the worst in the nation. Even among children, 53% are uninsured,
according to Jeffrey Passel of the Pew Hispanic Center. That compares with 9% of
U.S. citizens' children.

In North Carolina's rural Duplin County, more than one in four  people are
uninsured. The area's job growth is in low-wage agribusiness -- "plucking
chickens and gutting hogs," says Greg Bounds, chief executive officer of Goshen
Medical Center, the area's largest group of community health centers. Businesses
need the influx of illegal immigrants to take hard-to-fill jobs, but hospitals
lose money when the workers need emergency care.

Until recently, most illegal immigrants here had one health care strategy. "They
just weren't getting care before," Bounds says. "They were just suffering and
dying."

'Scared to see the doctors'

For many illegal immigrants, the fear of deportation outweighs the pain of
illness or injury, so they live with their afflictions rather than seeking help
until their health problems become critical. That makes things worse -- for
them, for hospitals that eventually treat them, and for taxpayers who ultimately
foot the bill.

"They're scared to see the doctors," says Genaro Diaz, a legal resident who, at
59, is a father figure to many of the mostly male farmworkers here. "They think
they'll send them back to Mexico."

Now, at least some are coming to community health centers, part of a national
matrix of more than 4,000 federally funded health centers that have sprung up
throughout the country during the past 40 years. In 2006, those centers served 6
million uninsured patients, a 50% increase since 2001.

At Goshen Medical Center, nursing assistant Jessica Roberts recalls a woman who
arrived more than eight months pregnant with her eighth child -- for her first
prenatal visit. "A lot of Hispanic patients are scared of coming to the doctor's
office because of who they're going to meet," she says, referring to their fear
of deportation.

At Duplin General Hospital, the challenge is staying afloat. Because so many
patients are seniors on Medicare, low-income residents on Medicaid or uninsured
people who can't pay their bills, it's difficult to turn a profit. "We're living
off reserves," CEO Harvey Case says.

The University of North Carolina's four hospitals are seeing an increase in the
number of undocumented immigrants who need care for major illnesses or injuries.
Because they only qualify for Medicaid on an emergency basis, their funding
often runs out before they're able to leave. Hospital officials sometimes work
with the Mexican Consulate to arrange transportation back to their native
countries. If that can't be arranged, the patients remain in the hospital for
weeks or months.

"It's a real Catch-22," says Sharon Coulter James, senior vice president at the
University of North Carolina Hospitals. "We would never put that patient out on
the street in an unsafe environment. But there are patients who need those
beds."

In an effort to help local health officials better understand the immigrants who
are inundating their area, the University of North Carolina's Center for
International Understanding sponsors week-long immersion programs in Mexico.
Janet Hadar, director of clinical care management for UNC Hospitals, recently
returned from a trip that exposed her to residents' unsanitary living
conditions. "It made me much more sympathetic to this population," she says.

Revels went on the same trip. Now, she's back treating ailments large and small:
skin rashes and hypertension, infections and nosebleeds. Most patients pay $6
per visit and $6 per prescription.

Slowly, she's building a steady clientele. Ignacio Hernandez complained recently
of recurrent eye pain after being struck by a sweet potato in the fields.
Guadalupe Cortez came for his monthly diabetes check and emerged with a bag of
insulin samples. Without the clinic, "I don't know what I'd do," he says.

On some nights in 2006, "we would only see eight patients," Revels says between
treating farmworkers' ailments. More recently, "I have not had one slow night."


LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Jeffrey A. Camarati for USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Jeffrey A. Camarati for USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              260 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 11, 2008 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Fingerprinting tested to stem illegal traffic;
Swift background checks at sea help U.S. Coast Guard monitor borders

BYLINE: Thomas Frank

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 641 words


WASHINGTON -- The Coast Guard is using a new weapon to fight illegal
immigration: electronic fingerprinting.

A test program in which Coast Guard sailors take digital fingerprints from
people picked up on boats headed to Puerto Rico from the Dominican Republic has
led to more than 100 prosecutions in the past year.

The fingerprints are e-mailed to the U.S. mainland by satellite and are checked
against a government database that shows deportation orders and criminal
records.

Those prosecuted were charged with attempted illegal entry into the USA, Coast
Guard data show.

The Coast Guard says the prosecutions are deterring other potential illegal
migrants, who in the past were not identified and typically rode back to the
Dominican Republic on Coast Guard boats.

"Before, it was pretty much a ferry service to repatriate them," said Coast
Guard researcher Tom Amerson, who came up with the idea for the fingerprinting
program. "But now there's a consequence that they can serve jail time."

The Coast Guard says the program's success is seen in a drop in the number of
Dominicans picked up at sea from 3,011 in 2006 -- the year before fingerprinting
began -- to 1,469 last year. Interdictions are even lower so far this year.

Those results have prompted the Coast Guard to expand its use of fingerprints to
boats patrolling around South Florida.

That concerns the American Civil Liberties Union, which warns that the
government's increasing use of digital fingerprint databases can help
authorities snoop into innocent people's backgrounds.

"Lots of fingerprints are being collected from lots of people, including U.S.
citizens who are perfectly innocent," said Barry Steinhardt, the ACLU's
technology program director.

The initial program in the Mona Passage -- an 80-mile strait between the
Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico -- is the Coast Guard's first effort to
collect and check fingerprints of illegal migrants.

Fingerprints are taken on handheld devices and e-mailed from sea to a Homeland
Security database. Within 20 minutes, the background check is sent back to the
cutter at sea.

So far, 118 people have been charged with attempted illegal entry. Most of those
charged are under deportation orders. Some have criminal records. The
prosecutions have led to 106 convictions, with 12 cases dismissed or pending.

The Coast Guard program is the latest federal effort to use fingerprints to keep
track of people ranging from legal visitors arriving at U.S. airports to
combatants in Iraq, convicted or wanted criminals, illegal migrants and
deportees.

The Homeland Security database contains 90 million sets of fingerprints.

The Border Patrol, which apprehended 877,000 illegal migrants last year compared
with the Coast Guard's 6,300, has been taking fingerprints since 2002.
Fingerprints collected by the Coast Guard are added to the Homeland Security
database along with each person's name, an identifying number and information
about where he or she was interdicted.

"If they keep attempting to come across, we can show they've made multiple
attempts," Amerson said.

People are typically charged with attempted illegal entry after their third try,
Amerson said. Earlier attempts result in repatriation.

Most of those caught are taken to the Dominican Republic.

Those prosecuted are typically charged with trying to enter the USA after having
been deported.

Joan Friedland, an immigrant advocate at the National Immigration Law Center,
questioned whether the reduction resulted from fingerprinting as opposed to
other factors, such as the slowing U.S. economy and reduced job opportunities.

The Coast Guard said it studied factors such as economic conditions in Puerto
Rico and the Dominican Republic, political stability and weather.

The fingerprinting "appears to be the only significantly altered factor," Coast
Guard spokeswoman Natalie Granger said.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, USA TODAY (Map)
PHOTOS, B/W, Coast Guard photos (2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              261 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            March 19, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Testing bonds of love 'Under Same Moon'

BYLINE: Claudia Puig

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 420 words


Though it appears to be about the travails of illegal immigrants, Under the Same
Moon (La Misma Luna) (*** out of four) is a powerful and evocative account of
the efforts undertaken to forge a perilous mother-and-child reunion. Told in
Spanish with English subtitles, it is a moving tale of yearning, as well as
unflagging courage and determination.

Rosario (Kate Del Castillo), a young single mother, has left her home in rural
Mexico and settled in Los Angeles, where she works as a domestic to earn enough
money to improve the lives of her young son and elderly mother, back in their
hometown. She is gone for four years, and her son, Carlitos (Adrian Alonso), now
9, misses her terribly.

When his grandmother dies, he undertakes a dangerous border-crossing journey,
traveling to the USA hoping to find his mother. He has a series of adventures
along the way, some harrowing, others eye-opening, a few even comical. We become
deeply invested in Carlitos' odyssey, feeling for this spirited and optimistic
little boy who needs his mother more than anything else.

This is not a retread of Gregory Nava's seminal 1984 film on immigration, El
Norte, in which two Guatemalan siblings face huge odds crossing the border and
finding employment in the USA. Moon covers similar turf, but it does so from a
markedly different perspective.

Under the Same Moon approaches this controversial and fraught issue from a
compelling emotional angle, one that hasn't been covered in recent films. It
raises a specific and probing question: Is Carlitos better off living in
poverty, with his loving mother at home to care for him, or separated from her
but in greater comfort with more possibilities for a better future?

The dilemma is brought into vivid focus in an emotionally affecting scene in
which a poorer schoolmate covets Carlitos' spiffy new tennis shoes, sent by his
mother.

This straightforward story of a boy and his mother wisely avoids
oversimplification of a complex social question. It is poignant, even
unabashedly sentimental, without being overwrought or sugary sweet.

And the acting is honest and understated, particularly the engaging portrayal by
young Alonso, as well as strong performances by del Castillo and comedian
Eugenio Derbez, both big stars in Latin America.

Under the Same Moon is a heartfelt story of unquenchable hope, with the plight
of illegal immigrants serving as an intriguing and timely backdrop. (Rated PG-13
for mature thematic elements. Running time: 1 hour, 49 minutes. Opens today in
select cities.)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Fox Searchlight Pictures

DOCUMENT-TYPE: MOVIE REVIEW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              262 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 24, 2008 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

After deportation, migrants determined to return;
U.S. crackdown to secure borders pitted against strong desire to flee poverty,
crime

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2176 words


SANTA TECLA, El Salvador -- When Oscar Ordooez, 56, pleaded guilty to attempted
theft in Colorado, he didn't realize he could lose his right to live in the USA.
Now he sits on his sister's balcony overlooking the green Salvadoran hills,
dreaming of the life he left behind and plotting his illegal return.

Estella Lemus, 27, cries as she describes the hunger, danger and injuries of her
illegal border crossing and says she won't do it again.

The seamstress, who earns up to $5 a day in her poor neighborhood north of San
Salvador, worries about how she will repay the $3,000 that her family borrowed
for her trip.

Nearby, Pedro Berrios, 25, reads to his 5-year-old son in their cinder-block
home next to the filthy Tomayate River. Berrios will keep trying to enter the
USA illegally, he says, because "I don't see another way out of here."

The lives of Ordooez, Lemus and Berrios converged on Feb. 28 when they boarded a
plane in Texas with 116 other men and women. They were being deported to El
Salvador, targets of the U.S. government's crackdown on illegal immigrants.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) has been raiding job sites, renewing
its efforts to track down illegal immigrants with criminal records and stepping
up deportations. Last year, a record 282,548 illegal immigrants were sent home,
more than double the number in 2001.

The government limits legal immigration to roughly 1 million people each year,
giving preference to relatives of U.S. citizens. On top of that, it admits
800,000 or more people on temporary work visas. Those limits mean immigrants
such as Ordooez, Lemus and Berrios take their chances and try to cross
illegally, sometimes again and again.

The government ramped up deportations after 9/11 as part of a broad effort to
secure U.S. borders. Yet, as the Salvadorans' stories show, the policy is up
against the economic reality of life in developing countries. The three say they
went to the USA to escape poverty and crime. Now that the deportation flight has
left them back in their homeland, they say the same things may spur them to try
again.

"I don't want to stay here," Ordooez says. "In the U.S., you have a chance to
work and buy whatever you need."

Charles Kuck, president-elect of the American Immigration Lawyers Association,
says illegal immigrants such as Ordooez won't stay in their homelands.

"They have no reason to stay," he says. "Regardless of how hard it is to make it
here as an immigrant, it is still better than being back home."

Kuck says Congress should allow more people to enter legally.

Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff, who oversees ICE, advocates
expanding temporary worker programs.

"Many of these people would be happy to work and go home again," he says. "It
would satisfy our economic needs and be humane and law-abiding."

But for now, Chertoff says, his department has no choice.

"When we find somebody who's here illegally, we deport them," he says. "To fail
to do that essentially would be turning a blind eye to a violation of the law."

Chertoff says he knows most people who enter the country illegally come to work
and many are fleeing difficult circumstances. "But I can't condone their
violation of the law," he says. "However heart-wrenching the motive is, it is
still a violation of the law to sneak in."

72,000 deported by plane

ICE deports illegal immigrants by land and air. Most Mexican deportees are bused
across the border. Others are sent home on commercial flights or government
charters. Last year, nearly 72,000 illegal immigrants were deported by plane.

"For many of them, it's the first time they've ever been on an airplane," says
Michael Pitts, chief of the ICE Flight Operations Unit.

Flying its nine planes will cost ICE $135 million this year, up from about $100
million last year.

"We're really serious about enforcing immigration laws and securing our
borders," ICE spokeswoman Kelly Nantel says.

On the last Thursday morning of February, three buses roll up to a Boeing 737 in
Harlingen, Texas.

One by one, 38 women and 81 men step off the buses, hands behind their heads,
laces removed from their shoes and belts from their pants so they can't be used
as weapons. ICE officials frisk them and check their shoes and mouths for drugs
and weapons.

Although one of ICE's highest priorities is deporting people with felony
records, most of these people had no criminal convictions. Most were caught in
Texas trying to enter illegally and 23 had been in the USA before, Nantel says.

The flight, less than three hours, is quiet. The passengers eat sandwiches and
get up, with supervision, for bathroom breaks.

The plane lands at the San Salvador airport at about 11 a.m. One man steps into
the tropical air, throws his arms out wide and yells "Home!" in English.

Economic, public safety effects

The deportees are funneled into a processing center at the airport, offered
tetanus shots and given a traditional Salvadoran meal of pupusas, stuffed corn
tortillas. After being interviewed, photographed and fingerprinted, they're
given up to $6 for bus fare and are free to go.

The rising flow of people deported from the USA has had a dramatic effect on the
economy and public safety of this Central American country of about 7 million
people. Nearly 20,000 Salvadorans were sent home last year, up from about 11,500
in 2006.

"The capacity of the United States to catch people who are undocumented in the
country or who have committed crimes has increased," says Rene Leon, El
Salvador's ambassador to the USA.

There are about 2 million Salvadorans in the USA, he says. Three-quarters are in
the country legally, he estimates.

Last year, Salvadorans working abroad, most in the USA, sent $3.69billion home,
equal to about 18% of El Salvador's gross domestic product, the central bank
reported.

Rising deportations "will affect employment here," immigration official Balbino
Velasquez says. "It will affect the economy." Salvadorans who no longer receive
monthly wires of money from relatives in the USA have less to spend, and
returning immigrants have trouble finding jobs, he says.

The tide of deportees also affects public safety. Nearly one quarter of the
immigrants deported to El Salvador last year had criminal records in the USA,
from theft and drug possession to violent crime. Leon says there's a "positive,
clear-cut correlation" between the rise in criminal deportees and a rise in
crime in El Salvador. Of particular concern are gangs and organized crime
networks, he says.

Bob Dane, spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which
advocates more border security and less immigration, applauds the aggressive
deportation of immigrants with criminal records.

"Countries can't expect to export their criminals without us sending them back,"
he says. "America can't be a sanctuary for the world's bad guys."

Jose Castaneda, 34, was sent back to El Salvador last April after getting out of
jail. He had joined his mother in Los Angeles when he was 13. He became a legal
permanent resident but lost that status after he was convicted of possessing
crystal meth. "When I got here last year, I was lost," he says. "I'm from here,
but I was raised in the USA."

Castaneda lives with his aunt in the picturesque town of Ataco and earns $3 a
day unloading trucks. He left behind four children and a girlfriend in Las
Vegas. "I'm going to have to go back," he says. "That's where my family is."

'I don't have a choice'

About half of Salvadoran deportees lived in the USA more than five years, says
Jesus Aguilar, head of CARECEN International in El Salvador, which advocates for
migrants.

Aguilar believes most deportees try to return to the USA because jobs at home
are scarce and many left family behind. But the stakes are high. An illegal
immigrant who has been deported before risks a felony conviction and up to 20
years in prison if caught.

Ordooez, who lived in the USA more than 18 years, isn't giving up. "My life is
not here," he says of El Salvador. "My life is there."

Ordooez finished the sixth grade and started working at age 12. In his early
30s, he went to the USA for the first time and was caught three days later,
kicking off a cycle of illegal entries and run-ins with the Border Patrol. He
says he was sent home 18 times, but government records show he was officially
deported just once.

What tenacity couldn't do for him, marriage did. Ordooez met Jean Gibson, an
American who helped Salvadorans fleeing civil war. When he returned to El
Salvador in 1987, she followed and they married. He got a waiver to immigrate
the next year and became a legal permanent resident.

His immigration troubles began not when the couple divorced in 1994 but when he
was convicted of a felony in Colorado.

Ordooez was working as a janitor at a Cripple Creek casino. In 1996, his
landlords accused him of stealing two rings and other items. He says he didn't
steal the jewelry but that his landlady gave it to him to sell. Acting on what
he says was bad advice from a public defender who didn't advise him of the
consequences to his immigration status, Ordooez pleaded guilty in 2002 to
attempted theft.

An attorney helped Ordooez get the case dismissed and the felony erased from his
record in 2005, but it was too late. He lost his legal status and returned to El
Salvador to live with his sister in Santa Tecla.

He didn't stay long. Last year, he was caught twice trying to cross the border.
He spent four months in jail. Despite the threat of a longer sentence if he's
caught again, he says he'll return. He wants to earn money for his family in
Santa Tecla.

"I don't have a choice," Ordooez says. "Right now, I don't have a life in this
country."

A family's dream

Desperate circumstances prompted Lemus to head for the USA. Her father, Jorge
Hernandez, 50, needs a $1,200 operation to remove a tumor from his groin. Her
mother, Maria Reyna Lemus, 48, has diabetes and needs insulin.

At 14, Lemus began working as a seamstress in her parents' home in Apopa, which
has no running water and at times is a haven for roosters. On good days, she
says, she earned $5. She wanted to stay in school, she says, but didn't have the
money for books and supplies.

Her younger brother, 24, went to the USA two years ago to escape neighborhood
gang violence that once took 11 lives in two months, she says.

Lemus' decision to strike out alone on Jan. 25 was part of her family's dream.
She planned to find work, send money home regularly and return after a few
years.

"Some Salvadoran families see the United States as their only option for
survival," her father says. "Once Estella made it to the other side, everybody
was going to be better off."

Lemus crossed through Guatemala and Mexico on foot, by bus and by hitching
rides. Just south of the U.S. border, she found a smuggler taking a group of
migrants to Houston. She paid him $4,000: $1,000 from her boyfriend, and $3,000
her family borrowed on their house at 20% interest.

She recounts a harrowing trip: She walked for days without food. She slept in
temperatures so cold her hair froze. She drank from cow troughs. She has scars
from horsefly bites, thorns and wire fences. A woman in the group nearly drowned
crossing the Rio Grande.

The Border Patrol caught her near Falfurrias, Texas, on Feb. 8.

Lemus says it all soured her on going to the USA illegally. "I don't want to
take my chances again on the trip, but I might change my mind down the road
because of this mortgage," she says through a translator. "If they take away the
house, where will we live?"

Motivation remains strong

Berrios, Lemus' neighbor, says he has mounting debts. Because visas are too
difficult to get, he says, he'll keep trying to sneak into the USA.

A construction worker who was on the same deportation flight, Berrios can make
$20 a day, but sometimes he goes months without work.

"Look at the reality of our house and how we live," he says of his
crime-infested neighborhood and unfinished home, which overlooks a river whose
polluted water runs purple, red and brown. When family members go to the
grocery, he says, they run to minimize chances of being robbed.

For now, the home's windows are boarded with plywood, and the walls and floors
are bare, but Berrios says he dreams of making it a beautiful sanctuary for his
family: girlfriend Luz Cardenas, 31; her daughters Stefany, 12, and Katherine,
9; and their son, Anthony, 5.

In January, his mother took a $7,000 mortgage on her house to finance his trip
to join four brothers and a sister in the San Francisco Bay Area. He was caught
in Texas. "I'll try again because I have no other way to pay back the money," he
says through a translator.

Berrios says he doesn't want to stay in the USA. He wants to earn money for his
family and return to El Salvador to open a business. He's unapologetic about his
plans. He says people like him just want to give their families a chance to rise
out of poverty.

As he surveys his threadbare home, Berrios says he's missing a key ingredient
for happiness: "I have love and health, but I'm missing money. ... That's what's
motivating me to try to cross again."

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Adrienne Lewis, USA TODAY, Source: Immigration and
Customs Enforcement (Bar graph)
PHOTO, Color, Eileen Blass, USA TODAY
PHOTOS, B/W, Eileen Blass, USA TODAY (2)
PHOTO, B/W, Saul Loeb, AFP/Getty Images

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              263 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 23, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Illegal immigrants add to states' economies

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 599 words


Oklahoma Rep. Randy Terrill's claim that it's "indisputable" that illegal
immigration imposes a "net financial drain" on states ignores some recent and
important research regarding the financial impact of illegal immigrants
("Oklahoma is doing its job," Opposing view, Illegal immigrants debate, April
16).

A 2006 study conducted by Texas' then  comptroller, Carole Keeton Strayhorn,
found that illegal immigrants represented a $420 million net gain to the state
in 2005.

Overall, Hispanic immigrants add to the economy. A study on North Carolina's
Hispanic population, published by the Frank Hawkins Kenan Institute of Private
Enterprise at the University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill, found that in 2006,
the Hispanic population imposed a cost of $61 million on the state government
but contributed more than $9 billion to the state economy.

Of course, this research does not prove that illegal immigrants impose no costs
on state governments or on populations, but it does show that assertions such as
Terrill's are baseless scare tactics that only fuel anti-immigration sentiment.

Billy Hankins

Auburn, Ala.

Don't exploit workers

Last year, the Oklahoma Legislature passed House Bill 1804, which made it
illegal to knowingly hire an illegal immigrant. This new law has given me peace
of mind. I do not want to provide employment to individuals who are living and
working illegally in the USA.

Often, I hire workers from small companies to do repair jobs around my house.
But I want to know that the individuals providing the labor are receiving
mandated benefits such as workers' compensation and unemployment insurance from
the company employing them. Lax enforcement adversely affects legal workers.

Now I feel more comfortable that the person providing the service is legally
entitled to work and is receiving the benefits due to him or her. Immigration
enforcement is good for the citizens and legal residents who are the
hard-working men and women of Oklahoma.

Cathryn Kane

Tulsa

Help Mexico foster jobs

The most interesting and important part of USA TODAY's article on Mexico's young
people was really not about the clash among the country's "urban tribes"
("Subculture clash among Mexico's youth," News, April 15).

The most important part is that the "proliferation of youth cultures" is
actually making Mexico's economy stronger. Those in the USA who complain about
illegal immigration and oppose  the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA)
should heed this story.

The primary reason people migrate to the USA illegally is to try to better
themselves and their families by gaining more financial opportunities. They
really do not want to venture into this country for any other reason.

The only real way that the United States can stop mass illegal migration is to
help Mexico and other countries build up their economies. NAFTA is one good
solution.

Harry Camp

Leadville, Colo.

Fence isn't the solution

Something needs to be done to control illegal immigration and the issues that
can be related to it. But there has to be a better way to establish peaceful
immigration between the USA and Mexico than building an expensive fence.

For the U.S. government to finance a fence is not the best use of our resources
-- especially during a time in which the U.S. economy already is struggling
because of high gas prices, a war and home foreclosures. As an alternative, I
would like to see the U.S. government help Mexico with its economy more. That
way, many illegal immigrants who come to the USA to work and then send revenue
back to Mexico would be able to find good jobs in Mexico.

Jonelle Wallace

Denver

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, David McNew, Getty Images/AFP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              264 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 1, 2008 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

North American trade deal has not helped Mexico's poor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 734 words


The spirited defense of the North American Free Trade Agreement by President
Bush and his Mexican counterpart in New Orleans recently ignored an inconvenient
fact -- the annual number of undocumented immigrants arriving in the USA from
Mexico has risen dramatically since that trade agreement's inception ("Bush
defends free-trade policy," USATODAY.com, April 21).

NAFTA's boosters promised that it would create enough jobs to prevent Mexicans
from seeking work across the border, but more Mexicans live in poverty now than
did in 1994. As opportunities have faded at home, many have followed the
dictates of the free market and sought work in America's construction,
agriculture and food services industries.

It's past time to renegotiate NAFTA to protect Mexico's most vulnerable
communities, including the hundreds of thousands of small farmers who have lost
their livelihoods in the past decade.

Investing in Mexico's communities will not only provide opportunities for more
Mexicans to stay at home but also will provide the only sustainable way to
reduce the current pressures on the U.S. immigration system.

Ted Lewis

Mexico program director

Global Exchange

San Francisco

Duty to assimilate

In his letter to the editor, Harry Camp states that illegal immigrants "really
do not want to venture into this country for any other reason" than to "better
themselves ... by gaining more financial opportunities" ("Help Mexico foster
jobs, April 23).

In his attempt to defend illegal immigrants, he inadvertently presents quite the
opposite argument.

The fact that many illegal immigrants take advantage of our economic system,
send their earnings back over the border and don't learn English is exactly why
the current wave of immigrants is so problematic. I'd speculate that if they did
have other reasons for coming here, such as for U.S. citizenship and proficiency
in English, they would be seen in a much more positive light, as have other
immigrant groups in our past.

Wesley Ross

Augusta, Ga.

Enforce laws

I support the immigration position of Oklahoma Republican Rep. Randy Terrill. He
wrote: "The federal government's failure to police our nation's borders has
functionally turned every state into a border state and indirectly imposed a tax
on each and every citizen -- especially in the areas of health care, education,
welfare and corrections. From a state perspective, it is indisputable that
illegal immigration is a net financial drain." ("Oklahoma is doing its job,"
Opposing view, Illegal immigrants debate, April 16).

Illegal immigration is about a whole lot more than economics, including values,
respect for rule of law, state and national sovereignty, and enforcing the law.
I do not know how any person in his or her right mind could disagree.

Communities that enforce immigration laws should not be criticized for doing
their jobs.

The United States is a land of immigrants, but there is a difference between
legal and illegal immigration. When we truly separate the two, perhaps then we
can find some common ground in this heated battle and eventually make peace.

Larry Petrie

Leicester, N.C.

Learn English

Reader Sam Osborne thinks laws requiring everyone who lives in the USA to speak
English is a bad idea because the language "is not static" ("English-only laws
would hinder the USA," Letters, April 17).

The growth, change and adaptation of a language occurs even without the
influence of other languages. All languages develop slang, for example. So I
don't buy his argument.

Also, I am frustrated when I hear people talk about illegal immigrants being
exploited. Yes, they aren't paid well, and it's wrong for U.S. employers to hire
them. But an illegal immigrant is exploiting the country he or she is living in
by ignoring laws.

I am a second-generation descendant of legal immigrants to this country. My
relatives spoke their native language at home but expected their children to
learn English. They expected their children to maintain good grades and achieve
a higher level of education than they had. Unfamiliarity with English was not
allowed as an excuse for poor progress.

They recognized that education was the key to a better life in any country. They
did not expect an entire country to change for their convenience or to make
things easier for them. Mastering English will go a long way toward helping
immigrants have greater opportunities and freedom in our country.

A.M. King

San Antonio

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Saul Loeb, AFP/Getty Images

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              265 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                               May 9, 2008 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Many immigrants are motivated to learn English

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 322 words


In his letter to the editor, USA TODAY reader Wesley Ross wrote: "The fact that
many illegal immigrants take advantage of our economic system, send their
earnings back over the border and don't learn English is exactly why the current
wave of immigrants is so problematic" ("Duty to assimilate," May 1).

I think the idea that immigrants don't learn English is a mistaken notion among
many Americans. In my experience, it is simply not true. I have volunteered at a
school with many immigrant students. Even those who don't know a word of English
when they arrive do learn to communicate in an amazingly short period of time.

Some Spanish-written signs in public places might even be received as special
treatment for immigrants. Have immigrants "demanded" any of these
Spanish-language signs? I think not. Most of the time, the inclusion of
information in Spanish is the result of local governments' attempts to run
things more efficiently or of businesses that want Spanish-speaking people as
customers.

Edwin F. Meyer

Sarasota, Fla.

A common language

I do not believe that anyone should be forced to give up his culture or his
language. Part of what makes the USA a great nation is that people can share
cultures.

Nonetheless, every country needs a common language. People within a community
need to communicate with one another.

Accommodating non-English speakers is costing taxpayers money because so many
things have to be printed in multiple languages.

I have spoken to first-generation, legal immigrants from Germany, Yugoslavia,
Poland, the Philippines, Africa, Mexico, China, Japan, Greece, the Ukraine,
Vietnam, Iran and Italy. Each person I spoke to learned English as currently
required by the United States' citizenship laws.

Without a common language, people wouldn't be able to communicate effectively
because there would be too many languages to learn.

I shudder to think of the chaos that would ensue.

Tamara Martfeld

Sacramento

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Kurt Hegre, The Fresno Bee, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              266 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 19, 2008 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'Worst kind of public waste'

BYLINE: Michael M. Hethmon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 383 words


North Carolina public officials understand that it is wasteful, unlawful and
corrupt to admit illegal aliens to public colleges and universities. It makes no
sense to invest taxpayer funds to educate illegal foreigners for college-level
jobs when it is unlawful for any employer to hire them. Employers of skilled
white collar workers don't risk hiring illegal aliens under the table.

Apologists for cheap labor claim that illegal aliens only take "jobs that
Americans won't do." But today, a college-level job remains a distant dream for
far too many young and often disadvantaged Americans. Favoring "deserving"
illegal aliens over these "ordinary" Americans in higher education and workforce
development policy is the worst kind of public waste.

The law is clearly on North Carolina's side. In 1996, Congress passed the
Welfare Reform and Illegal Immigration Reform acts, which declared that the
United States has a "compelling government interest" in removing postsecondary
education benefits as an "incentive for illegal immigration."

Congress gave states authority to deny enrollment, barred states from using
public funds to educate illegals without first enacting an explicit state
loophole law, and outlawed less favorable treatment for American students from
other states.

But the power of greed can never be underestimated: Ten states with strong
cheap-labor lobbies have defied these laws, calculating that the federal
government is too paralyzed to stop them.

It is hardly compassionate to favor illegal aliens over young Americans who
aspire to higher education. Unless you are wealthy and cosmopolitan, U.S.
citizenship is probably your most valuable asset. So connect the dots. Have
America's elites agreed to give up their children's places at Harvard and Notre
Dame to "deserving" illegal aliens? No way.

It's easier to be "compassionate" when someone else has to pay the price. In
higher education, like other areas impacted by immigration, America faces hard
choices: a humane and sustainable policy of attrition through enforcement, or a
ruinous race to the bottom, fueled by amnesty.

Michael M. Hethmon is general counsel of the Immigration Reform Law Institute, a
Washington-based organization that says it works to protect U.S. citizens from
damages caused by unlawful immigration.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              267 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 7, 2008 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigrants face tuition 'threat';
Some colleges barred to undocumented students

BYLINE: Mary Beth Marklein

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 349 words


Some states are making it harder for illegal immigrants to attend college by
denying in-state tuition benefits or banning undocumented students.

In the past two years, Arizona, Colorado, Georgia and Oklahoma have refused
in-state tuition benefits to students who entered the USA illegally with their
parents but grew up and went to school in the state. That represents a reversal
from earlier this decade, when 10 states passed laws allowing in-state rates for
such students.

This summer, South Carolina became the first state to bar undocumented students
from all public colleges and universities.

North Carolina's community colleges in May ordered its 58 campuses to stop
enrolling undocumented students after the state attorney general said admitting
them may violate federal law.

"The new trend is to kick illegal aliens out of college altogether," says
William Gheen of Americans for Legal Immigration Political Action Committee,
which opposes taxpayer subsidies for undocumented immigrants.

Josh Bernstein of the National Immigration Law Center, an advocate for illegal
immigrants, says sweeping anti-immigration bills are "a very serious threat" to
the overall illegal population.

Georgia, which barred undocumented students from in-state tuition rates in 2006,
enacted laws in May preventing them from receiving state scholarships and
certain student loans.

This fall, the University of Arkansas will require students to submit Social
Security numbers and proof of residency. In May, Arkansas Department of Higher
Education Director Jim Purcell warned that students without documentation "will
not be considered as legally enrolled students" when determining an
institution's state funding.

Opponents say students shouldn't be penalized for their parents' actions.
Helping them is "the right thing to do even if it's unpopular," says North
Carolina state Rep. Pricey Harrison, a Democrat who introduced a bill that would
prevent state institutions from asking about students' immigration status.

Contributing: Abbott Koloff of the Daily Record, Morris County, N.J.; Andrew
Seaman,

Katharine Lackey

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              268 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 31, 2008 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Study: Illegal residents decline;
Some observers fault methodology

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 388 words


The number of illegal immigrants in the USA has fallen sharply as state and
federal officials intensify a crackdown on undocumented migrants and jobs grow
scarce in the faltering economy, according to a report Wednesday by a group that
advocates reduced immigration.

Using Census data, the Center for Immigration Studies (CIS) estimates that the
population of illegal immigrants dropped by 10% to 11.2million from August 2007
through May.

"Illegal immigrants are responding to changing conditions and leaving the
country in significant numbers," says Steven Camarota, director of research at
CIS.

His study found that the number of legal immigrants rose from 26.6million to
27.6million over the same period.

"It doesn't seem like America is more unpleasant for immigrants," he says. "It
seems more unpleasant for illegal immigrants."

Camarota acknowledges that the study has limitations. The Census may undercount
immigrants, he says, and his estimate of illegal immigrants calculates that 80%
of those people counted by the Census as foreign-born Hispanics ages 18 through
40 with a high school education or less are in the USA illegally.

Jeffrey Passel, a demographer at the Pew Hispanic Center, uses the same Census
data in his work. Camarota's analysis "makes a lot of assumptions from what he's
actually measuring to what he's concluding," Passel says. "I don't know if it's
right or not."

The study says stepped-up enforcement is the primary reason for the exodus.

Pat Reilly, spokeswoman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, cites her
agency's workplace raids, deportations and efforts to track down illegal
immigrants with criminal records. Tougher enforcement "has made entering and
staying in the United States illegally less attractive as the probability of
being arrested and detained is greater than ever before," she says.

Groups that advocate for immigrants dispute the study's findings.

Angela Kelley, director of the Immigration Policy Center in Washington, D.C.,
says the illegal immigrant population is "nearly impossible" to measure. She
faults the study as ignoring non-Hispanics.

She questions whether immigrants are leaving the USA or just moving from one
place to another within the country to find work.

"Once folks have their roots here, it's very difficult to just go all the way
back to their country," she says.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              269 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 8, 2008 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

What are ICE raids accomplishing?

BYLINE: Raul Reyes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 393 words


Residents of Postville, Iowa, recently described to a congressional delegation
the scars that the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) raid on
Agriprocessors' meat plant had left on their community. In the wake of the May
incident, they say, the town is  economically and socially unstable.

ICE raids are, in essence, government-sanctioned racial profiling. Typically,
ICE descends upon a workplace with armed agents to  determine who is legal and
who is not.

Rep. John Conyers, D-Mich., has asked the right question about the raids: "When
dealing with Anglo identity theft suspects, is federal law enforcement going to
start cordoning off white neighborhoods or workplaces, handcuffing and detaining
everyone, and only then sorting out the accused?"

The U.S. has every right to deport illegal aliens, of course. But the government
has been charging them with identity theft and sentencing them to serve jail
time first. While those workers are here illegally, their violation is a far cry
from robbing someone of their money or property by stealing their identity. The
incarceration is costly and unnecessarily punitive.

Erik Camayd-Freixas, a veteran federal interpreter at the Postville raid,
described a sad procession of men and women, shackled at the wrist, waist and
ankles, being denied due process. The U.S. attorney's office says the workers'
rights were not compromised.

Sure, the raids ensnare  a negligible number of  undocumented workers, but what
do they really  accomplish? The Des Moines Register reported that Postville  has
lost one-third of its population, and that Agriprocessors has begun importing
homeless people from Texas to work, leading to a rise in crime, public
drunkenness and a run on food banks.

True, the raid exposed a range of possible workplace violations, including child
labor and  safety issues. But investigators were already looking into these
abuses, independent of ICE. Illegal immigrants will clam up in this new climate
of fear.  The best way to halt these abuses is with comprehensive reform.

Barack Obama and John McCain have criticized the raids and remain committed to
immigration reform. In the meantime, Congress should hold hearings on ICE
itself. In the USA, all people deserve to be treated humanely -- and with
justice.

Raul Reyes is an attorney in New York and a member of USA TODAY's board of
contributors.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              270 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           August 13, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S. to plug border gap: Open seas;
Amid tightened land controls, smugglers turn to Gulf, Pacific

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 452 words


Immigration officials are beefing up patrols, buying more boats and preparing
for a surge in illegal water crossings as immigrants and drug smugglers are
likely to chart new routes into the USA through the Gulf of Mexico and Pacific
Ocean.

Heavier enforcement on the U.S.-Mexican land border, in the form of staffing,
fencing, cameras and other detection technology, will force smugglers and
migrants to look for easier entry spots, says Lloyd Easterling, assistant chief
of the Border Patrol.

There are about 17,000 Border Patrol agents nationwide, compared with 12,000 two
years ago. The Department of Homeland Security intends to complete 670 miles of
fence by year's end.

"What we're doing ... has been effective. Now they're having to go try different
things," Easterling says.

In Southern California, the San Diego Marine Task Force seized 10 human- and
drug-smuggling boats last year. With nearly two months to go in this fiscal
year, there have been 22 boat seizures, more than double last year's total, says
Lauren Mack, spokeswoman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) in San
Diego.

"Clearly, San Diego has seen an upturn in smuggling by sea," says James Spero of
ICE. "It's likely the next loophole could be the Gulf."

Easterling says officials are increasing water patrols and adding boats, jet
skis and helicopters. He did not provide details, citing security.

Illegal immigrants found new paths after a crackdown at the Southern California
border in 1994, says Doris Meissner, then commissioner of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. She is a senior fellow at the Migration Policy
Institute, a non-partisan think tank in Washington.

As a result of that earlier crackdown, illegal crossers started taking more
dangerous routes through remote deserts and mountains, she says. "It has
consistently been the experience that strengthening in one place leads to new
places becoming pressure points," she says.

Fernando Garcia of the Border Network for Human Rights in El Paso says
smugglers, who charge thousands of dollars to guide people across, will charge
more, and more migrants will die navigating dangerous waters.

Capt. Thomas Farris, commander of the Coast Guard's San Diego sector, says his
team is installing more sensors on land and at sea to detect movement and is
closely coordinating efforts with the Border Patrol.

Wayne Cornelius, director of the Center for Comparative Immigration Studies at
the University of California-San Diego, says dozens of smugglers' boats have
been captured or found abandoned in the past year.

"The increase in maritime people smuggling is already with us," he says. Extra
border fortification "is only deflecting migrant traffic into other modes of
entry."

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, U.S. Coast Guard via Reuters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              271 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 22, 2008 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

... and how immigrants enrich U.S.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 373 words


Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses -- and your future Olympians.

America has always been an immigrant nation, and for all the angst over the
current wave of illegal immigration, the Beijing Olympics are proving to be the
perfect symbol for the benefits the USA derives from an infusion of new blood.

Among those participating in this year's Games are Lopez Lomong, a Sudanese
refugee and distance runner chosen by teammates to carry the flag during the
opening ceremonies. He joined Bernard Lagat (Kenya) and Leonel Manzano (Mexico)
to form an all-immigrant U.S. contingent in the men's 1,500-meter run.

The immigrant list also includes gymnast Nastia Liukin, who came from Russia as
a child, and gymnastics instructors Marta Karolyi, originally of Romania, now
the women's team coordinator, and Liang Chow, Shawn Johnson's Beijing-born
personal coach.

U.S. women's indoor volleyball coach, Jenny Lang Ping, is also from China and
remains an iconic figure there. As a player for that country, she won a gold
medal in the Los Angeles Games in 1984. On Saturday, she hopes to complete the
symmetry by winning gold for Team USA in Beijing.

All these are in the U.S. perfectly legally, as is Henry Cejudo, the gold
medalist wrestler whose status has  garnered the most attention. Cejudo is a
U.S. citizen by birth, but his parents were illegal immigrants when he was born.
After winning his medal Tuesday, he wrapped himself in the Stars and Stripes and
declared the USA "the best country in the world."

His story does not argue for being any less vigilant in trying to stem the flow
of illegal immigration. But it does underscore the practical fact that even
illegal immigrants make enormous positive contributions to the American economy
and society.

While the nation haggles over how best to secure its borders, it's worth
remembering that America is a stronger, better country because of the people it
attracts. They come here offering their hard work, their ingenuity, their
dreams. They have settled the frontier, worked in factories and done great
things in science, commerce and medicine. They have helped the United States
better understand the world, and vice versa.

And some of them, along the way, have even brought home gold.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              272 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 28, 2008 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Tensions grip Minnesota city;
Views on illegal immigration divide community looking for answers

BYLINE: Judy Keen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 905 words


AUSTIN, Minn. -- The men watching a friendly game of Clubs at Jerry's Card Room
say they welcome Hispanic immigrants -- as long as the newcomers are in the USA
legally.

"If they're not, ship them out," says John Leachman, 82, a retired Hormel Foods
meatpacking plant worker.

"I agree with deporting the illegals. I agree with that 100%," says owner Jerry
Salisbury, 68, who grew up here and moved back after retiring from the Navy.

Their views are not unusual in this city of about 23,000, where an influx of
Hispanics has made illegal immigration a topic of heated debate. A plane flew
over the Mower County Fair this month towing a banner reading "Keep America
great -- deport illegals." At a forum last week that drew 150 people, almost all
of them Anglo, Ruthie Hendrycks of Minnesotans Seeking Immigration Reform said
that if immigration laws aren't enforced, "anarchy is going to come. ... How
many of us can commit a crime and get away with it?"

There are 14 Hispanic-owned businesses, including restaurants and stores that
help make Main Street more lively than it's been in years. Last year, 17.9% of
the city's 4,232 public school students were Hispanic. Some Hispanics are buying
homes.

Like other Midwest cities that until recently had few minorities, Austin is
struggling to adapt to big changes. The result is tension between two mostly
separate communities, says Vicki Trimble, 55.

Growing migrant population

Acceptance "will come slowly," says Trimble, owner of a flower shop, but those
who think immigrants will move away are unrealistic. "It's happening all over
the United States, so why would you think they're going to leave Austin?" she
says.

Gary Green, a professor of rural sociology at the University of
Wisconsin-Madison, says many historically white towns in the region are
grappling with similar issues. "There's no doubt that it's a threat to national
identity," he says, but studies suggest that immigration "has a net positive
economic impact on these towns, and probably socially as well."

The immigrant population here is growing. The 1990 Census counted fewer than 200
Hispanics. Today, Mayor Tom Stiehm says, there are as many as 5,000 -- at least
three-fourths of them here illegally. Many immigrants work for Austin's biggest
employers, Hormel Foods and Quality Pork Processors.

"All we want is to do what's right," says Linnea Burtch, an Austin resident who
helped organize last week's meeting and believes illegal immigrants can be
forced to leave. "It's not a race issue. It's a legal issue."

Residents are torn, says Jim Stiles, 52, owner of Super Fresh Produce. "It's
obvious that we need these workers and the majority of them are hardworking
people with families," he says. "You want to welcome them."

Still, Stiles says, "there's a lot of resentment." Some people complain when
Hispanics move next door and object to the social services they receive. "We
need to keep talking about it. It's just knocking down those barriers," he says.

Jose and Margarita Rodriguez hope so. They moved from Austin to Nebraska four
years ago and returned eight months ago to open Novedades Cristal, a clothing
store on Main Street. Jose Rodriguez, 32, is hurt by the lack of acceptance, but
says, "The only thing is to ignore those people."

No easy answers

Some people are less patient. Victor Contreras, a U.S. citizen who runs Centro
Campesino, a workers' rights group, says immigrants are "terrorized by waves of
hate." Some residents assume every immigrant is illegal, he says, and city and
company officials should do more to acknowledge newcomers' contributions.

Walter Schwartz, an immigrant who is a U.S. citizen, works as an interpreter. He
says tension is rooted in a "big shadow community" of illegal immigrants who pay
$900 to $1,200 for documents that allow them to work.

Early arrivals included young Hispanics who angered residents by living in large
groups and partying, Schwartz says, but that's changing as more families settle
here. "As they integrate into the community," he says, "fear and anger and
miscommunication will go away."

Police Chief Paul Philipp says immigrants are arrested more often for driving
offenses and not having driver's licenses.

Mower County Sheriff Terese Amazi says there have been increases in driving
offenses and assaults with knives. "We're having to build a new jail for a
reason," she says. In the past few years, the percentage of Hispanics in the
jail grew to 30% from 6%-7%, she says.

Paul Westrum, founder of the Minnesota Coalition for Immigration Reduction, says
he won't rest until Austin is free of illegal immigrants. "You take all their
freebies away from them and go after the people that hired them, and they're
going to go back home on their own," he says.

Stiehm isn't sure that would be good for Austin. "Businesses are going to move
to town because we've solved the immigration problem," he says, "not because
we're battling them and throwing them out of town."

Those opposing views leave Austin divided, says Ruth Snyder, a Roman Catholic
nun who works with immigrants. "There is a group who are very anti-immigration
and very resistant to change. There are other people who are very understanding
and want collaboration."

Austin stats

The Hispanic population of Austin, Minn., is growing:

Total  population

1990 21,907

2000 23,314

2007 22,947

Hispanic  population

1990 135

2000 1,426

2008 3,500-5,000{+1}

1 -- Estimate

Sources: Census Bureau and the city of Austin

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, USA TODAY (Map)
PHOTOS, B/W, Bill Alkofer, USA TODAY (4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              273 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 10, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Polls: Latinos favor Obama in 3 key states

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 480 words


WASHINGTON -- New data released at the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute's
annual meeting Tuesday show that the Latino vote could be "crucial" for Barack
Obama to win this fall, pollster Sergio Bendixen said.

In three of four battleground states where Hispanics make up at least 10% of the
voting population, Obama had a distinct advantage over Republican John McCain
among Hispanic voters, according to polls Bendixen took for NDN, a Democratic
think tank. In the fourth state, Florida, a poll showed the two candidates were
tied, he said.

NDN President Simon Rosenberg said the findings are significant because in 2004
"the key to George Bush's victory was his success with Latinos." Rosenberg said
he believes last year's immigration debate "fundamentally altered" Hispanic
support for Republican candidates.

McCain was an architect of a bipartisan immigration bill that would have
increased border security, stepped up enforcement against employers who hire
illegal immigrants and given the estimated 12 million people now living
illegally in the USA a chance at citizenship.

The bill collapsed under criticism from Republicans, such as Sen. Jim DeMint of
South Carolina, who opposed the citizenship offer. McCain has since said he
would insist on securing U.S. borders before implementing other aspects of the
plan.

Even so, McCain remains popular with some Hispanics. Without their support in
Florida, for example, McCain would have lost a crucial primary to Mitt Romney,
said Arturo Vargas, executive director of the National Association of Latino
Elected and Appointed Officials.

Bendixen's polls also revealed sharp differences in presidential preferences
between Hispanics and non-Hispanics in the four states.

*Nevada: Obama led McCain 62% to 20% among Hispanic voters. Among the state's
non-Hispanic voters, McCain was favored 46% to 37%.

* New Mexico: Obama led McCain 56% to 23% among Hispanic voters, while McCain
had a 50% to 34% edge among non-Hispanic voters.

* Colorado: Obama topped McCain 56% to 26% among Hispanic voters. Among
non-Hispanic voters, Obama's narrow 45% to 41% support was  within the poll's
margin of error, Bendixen said.

* Florida: In the state that decided the 2000 presidential race, the poll found
McCain and Obama tied among Hispanic voters at 42% each and among non-Hispanic
voters at 43%.

In 2004, President Bush bested Democrat John Kerry by 12 percentage points among
Florida's Hispanic voters, Bendixen said.

Hessy Fernandez, a spokeswoman for the McCain campaign, dismissed the poll as
having been compiled by "a Democratic group." Fernandez noted that McCain won
70% of the Latino vote in his last Senate race. "Latinos know John McCain," she
said.

Matt Barreto, a University of Washington political scientist, predicts  a
record-breaking turnout of more than 9 million Hispanic voters this year. That
compares with 7.6 million in 2004.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Max Whittaker, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              274 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 1, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Search for illegal immigrants goes far from border;
Patrol's transport checks increase

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 371 words


Border Patrol agents are stepping up surprise inspections on domestic trains,
buses and ferries, nabbing illegal immigrants far from the border.

In Vermont, Washington, Louisiana, New York and elsewhere, the agents, who have
the authority to search any mode of transportation within 100 miles of the
border, are working routes that don't cross into Canada or Mexico. Most checks
are at bus and train stations and ferry terminals.

"The first line of defense is on the immediate border," says Joe Giuliano,
deputy chief in the Border Patrol's Blaine, Wash., sector, which includes Alaska
and Oregon. "We have to have a second line of defense."

In February, agents began checking passengers taking the ferry between
Washington's San Juan Islands and the terminal in Anacortes, Wash. So far,
Giuliano says, they have caught 59 illegal immigrants, two with criminal
records, and eight U.S. citizens, most on drug violations.

The patrol started ferry checks after hiring more agents, he says. "To be
honest, it's something we should have done for a long time," he says. "We were
so short on resources."

Immigrant and civil liberties advocates argue that the agents focus more on
certain passengers based on skin color and accent.

"They will see a white person and ask, 'Where were you born?' Then they will see
a person of color and ask, 'Do you have ID?'" says Caroline Kim of the
Detainment Task Force in Syracuse, which provides bail for some detained
immigrants and helps them through the legal process.

The Border Patrol says it does not engage in racial profiling.

Giuliano says the inspections deter illegal immigrants and may be scaring off
potential terrorists. "They never know when we're going to show up and what form
we're going to take," he says.

In the agency's Buffalo sector, which has about 400 miles of border, agents had
arrested 1,786 illegal immigrants through transportation checks by the end of
August, 11 months into the fiscal year, compared with 1,299 in all of last year,
spokesman A.J. Price says.

Agents in the New Orleans sector, which covers seven states, have arrested 1,754
illegal immigrants on buses through Sept. 18. That's a 32% increase over all of
the last fiscal year, Assistant Chief Ronny Kastner says.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Adrienne Lewis, USA TODAY, Source: Border Patrol (Line
graph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              275 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 9, 2008 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Border agents watch behavior

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 372 words


I disagree with some of the comments made by Caroline Kim of the Detainment Task
Force in the article "Search for illegal immigrants goes far from border" (News,
Oct. 1).

I am an Australian who has been a resident in the U.S. for 20 years, yet I have
not seen as obvious an example of racial profiling as Kim described.

I have passed through many  Southern checkpoints.  In the two decades I have
been here, I have been waived through an immigration check only once. Every
other time, I have been asked for either an ID or immigration papers.

During a discussion with a Border Patrol agent recently, I was told that body
language is a major factor in asking for proof of status and that I was probably
questioned  because I  appeared to be reaching for something, possibly to hide
it.

If skin color is grounds for  questioning, as some people suggested in USA
TODAY's story, then why have I and other white people regularly experienced the
same problems with showing proof of status?

Bob Maddern

Tucson

Keep oil in USA

When the Alaska pipeline was built in the '70s, the justification was that it
would prevent oil shortages in the U.S.  Later, we were told the companies that
owned the oil had sold it elsewhere.  Companies owned the oil? Why didn't the
U.S. own the oil?

Now we are being told that offshore drilling will fix our need for oil.

But who is going to own the oil? Will it just be sold on the market? I could
support offshore drilling, but not unless clear cut legislation guarantees that
the oil found will help the United States, not just make a few fat cats fatter.

Thomas L. Isenhour

Norfolk, Va.

Tax killed incentives

USA TODAY reader Gina Sanders chided  another reader who blamed Democrats for
the oil crisis and said that Democrats and President Carter tried to solve our
problem in the '70s but were ignored after Ronald Reagan became president
("Learn about oil crisis," Letters, Oct. 2).

How soon we forget history. Carter forced a windfall profits tax on the oil
industry, which killed the incentive for oil exploration for many years.

There is no sympathy here in Texas for you guys in gas lines in the Eastern
states. Maybe the next time someone wants to build a refinery, you will welcome
them.

Hugh Corrigan

Midland, Texas

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              276 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 10, 2008 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ICE raids on gangs truly makes U.S. safer

BYLINE: Raul Reyes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 416 words


The Immigration and Customs Enforcement  agency did something right. There. I
said it. I've been a vocal critic of the tactics of ICE, which has raided plants
trawling for illegal immigrants. Un-American, I've argued. But this past summer,
it made neighborhoods across the USA safer by focusing on the right thing:
dangerous criminals.

Last week, the agency announced that it had arrested more than 1,700 gang
members through Operation Community Shield, a four-month effort in 53 cities
across 28 states to dismantle violent street gangs. In these sweeps, ICE
captured many illegal immigrants who are a true threat to society, such as  Juan
Carlos "Trigger" Chavez, a career criminal whose rap sheet includes firearms and
battery charges, carjacking and possession of narcotics.

The anti-gang operation comes as  illegal immigration has slowed. According to a
new study by the Pew Hispanic Center, the flow of illegal immigrants now trails
that of legal immigrants, reversing a trend started a decade ago. The sinking
economy is most certainly the reason.  A separate Pew study found widespread
pessimism among Hispanics, no doubt shared by our non-Hispanic compatriots. The
distinction, however, is with the perception Latinos have that their ethnicity
hurts their chances of keeping a job -- or their homes. Add to that the fact
that about one in 10 reported  being stopped by authorities and questioned about
their immigration status, and you can better understand the deep roots of such
pessimism.

That's why Operation Community Shield is particularly laudable. At a time when
illegal immigration is contracting, ICE wisely shifted at least some of its
focus to  violent criminal elements in our society,  not solely on those whose
status renders them illegal.   ICE did not seek to create a new class of
criminals based on dubious identity-theft charges, as in the raid on  a
slaughterhouse in Postville, Iowa, earlier this year. The raid upset the
children and families of those who were swept up, while damaging this
community.

Enforcement alone, including in the workplace, won't solve the problem. Until we
have an administration that is willing to tackle comprehensive reform and that
recognizes this is an economic, not just political, problem, the best role for
ICE is to target criminal elements who truly don't belong here, or in any
civilized society. Community Shield is a step in that direction.

Raul Reyes is an attorney in New York and a member of USA TODAY's board of
contributors.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W

DOCUMENT-TYPE: THE FORUM

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              277 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 24, 2008 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration still a 'political hot potato' in Ariz.;
Presidential candidates have been silent on issue

BYLINE: Dennis Wagner

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 847 words


PHOENIX -- While some of Arizona's key political races this year are dominated
by illegal immigration, the issue has virtually disappeared from the
presidential campaigns and debates.

Republican Sen. John McCain, who championed a comprehensive immigration overhaul
bill three years ago, has barely addressed the topic even though it remains a
hot-button controversy in his home state. Democratic Sen. Barack Obama, who also
supports an overhaul, has been nearly as mum.

During three presidential debates, the word "immigration" was uttered only once,
according to a check of transcripts posted online by the Commission on
Presidential Debates. In that one instance, McCain accused Obama of
misrepresenting McCain's position on the topic. There was no further discussion.

Brooks Jackson, director at Annenberg Political Fact Check, chuckles when asked
about the lack of discourse about national illegal immigration. "It has not been
an issue aimed at the larger electorate," he says. Both candidates, he says,
have run Spanish-language ads targeting Hispanic voters on the topic.

'Why is it off the radar?'

By contrast, Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio seeks re-election in the Phoenix
metro area based largely on his effort to round up and deport illegal immigrants
-- an enforcement program condemned by Hispanic leaders and Mayor Phil Gordon as
"racial profiling."

Arpaio is the top law officer in a county that, at 9,200 square miles, is bigger
than New Jersey, and has more people, 3.8 million, than half of the states.

The sheriff mocks both presidential candidates for dodging the issue: "Where did
it go? Why is it off the radar?" he says. "I'm not an expert on politics, but I
think it has to do with (getting) the Hispanic vote."

When asked for comment on the sheriff's programs, Obama's Arizona campaign
spokesman, David Cieslak, provided a campaign statement that said local
immigration enforcement "can lead to unintentional discrimination against
Latinos," and illegal alien roundups are "divisive."

McCain's campaign did not respond to questions about the sheriff's programs.
Bruce Merrill, a pollster at Arizona State University, says the caution is
understandable: Immigration is the hottest issue in Arizona next to America's
economic meltdown, and about seven in 10 registered voters strongly support
Arpaio.

"It's a political hot potato," says Elias Bermudez, founder and chairman of a
Phoenix-based advocacy group called Immigrants Without Borders. "They don't want
to touch it because it will alienate their base in both parties."

The most recent statewide poll, the Cronkite-Eight Poll from Arizona State
University conducted Sept. 25-28, showed McCain leading Obama 45% to 38%. In
2004, President Bush defeated Democrat John Kerry 55% to 44%. In 2000, Bush beat
Gore 51% to 45%.

The last Democrat to win in Arizona was President Clinton, who defeated GOP Sen.
Bob Dole in 1996 for a second term. Clinton got 47% to Dole's 44%.

Sheriff, McCain at odds

Bermudez, a McCain supporter, notes that both candidates have endorsed a
potential pathway to citizenship for the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants
in the USA, a program reviled as "amnesty" by conservatives.

Obama might lose undecided voters if he speaks out against Arpaio, Bermudez
says, and McCain would lose staunch conservatives; so the strategy is silent
disapproval.

"I have spoken to him (McCain) personally about Arpaio," Bermudez says, "and I
believe him when he says he is totally opposed to what the sheriff is doing. ...
But I don't want McCain to get involved with something like that because I want
him to win the presidency. Then I know he'll deliver on his promise."

McCain, who endorsed Arpaio's opponent in the last sheriff's election, knows the
sheriff's political wrath. Arpaio campaigned for Mitt Romney in the Republican
presidential primary, and trashed McCain in his new book, Joe's Law: America's
Toughest Sheriff Takes on Illegal Immigration, Drugs, and Everything Else That
Threatens America.

Other Arizona Republicans also blast McCain on illegal immigration. State Rep.
Russell Pearce of Mesa, said he felt "betrayed and brokenhearted" when the
senator promoted an amnesty plan. "It's rewarding people who have broken the
law," he said.

Russell Schmunk, 85, of Cave Creek, Ariz., says he loves "Sheriff Joe's"
immigration policy. "We don't need ... pansies, guys who slap your wrist,"
Schmunk says. "I hope he sweeps it clean, sweeps everybody out."

James Lopez, 46, a Phoenix UPS driver who supports Obama, says Arpaio's roundups
are ineffective but showy: "I think he's more of a media hound," he says.

Gordon, the Phoenix mayor, asked the Justice Department to investigate because
motorists in Arizona are being arrested for "driving while brown."

Arpaio denies racial profiling and notes that his deputies are certified by the
federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency. He says he'll vote for
McCain but has a message for both candidates: "It (illegal immigration) is a
violation of law. When they come across the border, you put 'em in jail."

Wagner reports for The Arizona Republic

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Carlos Roig and Dave Merrill, USA TODAY, Sources: Census
Bureau (2007)
USA TODAY research
Almanac of American Politics (Chart)
PHOTO, B/W, David Wallace, The Arizona Republic
PHOTO, B/W, Jack Kurtz, The Arizona Republic

DOCUMENT-TYPE: POLITICS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              278 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 14, 2005 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Billboard's Arab images spark accusation of racism;
Group: Ad is about terrorism, security, not immigration

BYLINE: Donna Leinwand

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 616 words


An anti-terrorism campaign by a group that wants tighter restrictions on
driver's licenses has angered Arab-Americans who say that an image on a planned
billboard -- an Arab man holding both a grenade and a license -- is racist.

The billboard is the work of the New York-based Coalition for a Secure Driver's
License, which plans to post an ad with the controversial image this month near
North Carolina's state Capitol building in Raleigh. A second billboard is
scheduled to be installed in late December or early January in Albuquerque, says
coalition President Amanda Bowman.

She says the group is putting billboards in states it believes have particularly
lax policies for scrutinizing applicants for driver's licenses.

The campaign comes about seven months after Congress passed the Real ID Act,
which calls for states to adopt a uniform way of authenticating documents that
people use to obtain driver's licenses. The measure was aimed at closing gaps in
state driver's licensing systems that have made it easy for illegal immigrants
and others to get licenses by presenting fake IDs and fraudulent documents.

"I think it's an important message to get out to North Carolinians that they
have a driver's license that is vulnerable to getting into the wrong hands,"
Bowman says. "A driver's license functions as the internal passport in the U.S."

However, James Zogby, president of the Washington-based Arab American Institute,
says the billboard planned by Bowman's group is "bigoted."

The billboard shows a man wearing a traditional Arab head scarf called a
kaffiyeh and holding a grenade and a driver's license. The image planned for the
Raleigh billboard is imposed over a North Carolina landscape with the slogan
"Don't License Terrorists" above it. The Coalition for a Secure Driver's License
is spending about $50,000 each in North Carolina and New Mexico to lease the
billboards, spokesman Bill O'Reilly says.

"I think the motivation is anti-immigrant," Zogby says. "They are creating fear
... over Arabs. The message is very clear: 'Arabs are dangerous, Arabs should
not get driver's licenses.'"

The coalition says it is targeting terrorism, not Muslims or Arab-Americans. The
images adapted for the billboards came from Internet websites that sympathize
with terrorist groups such as Hezbollah and Hamas, says Bowman, who notes that
North Carolina authorities broke up a cigarette smuggling ring that had alleged
ties with Hezbollah. "The people who have objected to these billboards have
attacked us at a very mean-spirited level," Bowman says. "It's an attempt to
bully."

Tuesday, the coalition removed Arabic writing from a draft version of the
billboard after receiving what Bowman describes as "thoughtful letters that say
the writing could be construed as inflammatory."

"For us, the issue is terrorism. It's certainly not about racism," says Colleen
Gilbert, the coalition's executive director. "We're trying to highlight the fact
that the 9/11 hijackers had 60-plus driver's licenses. It's not about
immigration for us. It's about security."

North Carolina did not issue any of the licenses that were obtained by the 19
hijackers in various states, and it has tightened up its licensing process
during the past three years, says state Department of Transportation spokesman
Ernie Seneca. He says the state now requires applicants to provide multiple
forms of identification.

Seneca says his department objects to the billboard and has received complaints
from people who find it offensive.

"It's misleading, totally inaccurate and offensive," Seneca says. "They're
entitled to their freedom of speech, but North Carolina is not the right place
for its campaign. They ought to look elsewhere."

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Coalition for a Secure Driver's License

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              279 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2005 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

House bill's highlights, omissions

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 131 words


Highlights of the House immigration bill:

*Would make living in the USA illegally a criminal offense, which could result
in a one-year jail term.

*Would require all people caught crossing the U.S. border illegally to be
detained.

*Would require employers to check the Social Security numbers of any new hires
against a federal database.

*Would increase penalties for those convicted of smuggling people across the
border.

*Would permit the deportation of non-citizens who belong to street gangs or have
multiple drunken-driving convictions.

What's not in the bill:

*The guest-worker program President Bush favors, which would permit foreigners
to enter the USA to work.

*A program that would allow the estimated 11 million people now living illegally
in the USA to gain legal status.

By Kathy Kiely

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: WASHINGTON

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              280 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2005 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Airlines see potential in travel by immigrants;
As numbers grow, carriers change their strategies to capitalize

BYLINE: Barbara De Lollis

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1685 words


Marylander Roxana Polio, 24, visited her grandparents in El Salvador last month
as if it involved nothing more than a drive to a neighboring state.

"We travel at least twice a year to El Salvador, and it's a tradition for our
family to go during the Thanksgiving holiday," Polio says.

Airlines operating in the USA are awakening to the huge potential of immigrant
families like the Polios, who run a successful cleaning business in Herndon, Va.
Immigrant travelers who regularly return to their native country to celebrate,
mourn, volunteer, look for spouses or conduct business offer a huge and
fast-growing source of airline revenue.

U.S. airlines once took immigrant travel largely for granted, seeing it as a
modest revenue generator but not one that required special attention. But that's
changing as immigrants' numbers swell, their standard of living improves and
modern communication tightens the bonds to friends and family left behind.

"There is a whole category of passenger demand that's booming ..., and it's
testing airlines' traditional assumptions and strategies," says market tracker
Craig Jenks of Airline/Aircraft Projects.

Immigrant travelers represent a market distinct from the business-travel and
vacation markets. Like the Polio family, many Latinos, Caribbean islanders and
Indians routinely travel with scores of gifts for extended family to meet
cultural obligations. As a result, they often exceed luggage limits, forcing
airlines to adjust their cargo assumptions.

They tend to favor airlines with native-speaking cabin crews and familiar
cuisine, movies and music. They often buy tickets at ethnic travel agencies or
airport ticket counters, preferring to pay with cash, debit cards or on layaway
-- practices not permitted with a Web purchase.

The potential of the ethnic market for struggling U.S. airlines is huge, Jenks
says. A recent analysis by the non-profit Center for Immigration Studies shows
that the USA's immigrant population hit a record 35.2 million in March, more
than double the number at the height of the last big immigration wave of 1910.
Immigrants now make up 12% of the U.S. population.

Emotional ties mean that little deters their trips to their home country -- not
terrorism concerns or higher fares, consultant Jenks says. "Grandmother expects
you back," he says.

Changing service

Yet, the market remains difficult to quantify. Airlines don't ask passengers to
describe their ethnic background or their reason for flying, so they can't
officially track a route's mix by ethnicity.

But it's clear that routes on many airlines serving the USA are flourishing
because of immigrant demand. Mexicana Airlines, for example, started daily
flights this month from Portland, Ore., to Guadalajara, because of high demand
from Mexicans working in Oregon.

Cathay Pacific, the Hong Kong-based carrier that flies from three U.S. cities,
credits growing demand from Chinese, Filipinos, Indians and Vietnamese living in
the USA with its 28% revenue growth this year. And Houston airports director
Rick Vacar says Houston's growing Pakistani immigrant community was behind
Pakistan International Airlines' decision to launch service more than a year
ago.

"It's truly amazing how (service has) changed," Vacar says.

Richard Pasciuto, an Air France executive, says ethnic travelers are fueling Air
France's explosive growth on routes between the USA and Warsaw and Mumbai.

Global trend-spotter Trendwatching.com calls the recent phenomenon of flying
back and forth between native and adopted countries "home trotting."

The idea is that e-mail, cheap telephone service, satellite television and
sending money home from America foster deeper long-distance relationships today
than in the past. And global expansion of air service makes it feasible to
periodically cultivate those relationships in person.

Louis DeSipio, social sciences professor at University of California, Irvine,
says that a hundred years ago, Italian and Polish immigrants wrote home and six
weeks later got a letter back. "But now it can be a daily kind of communication.
If you're part of people's daily lives, it's less of a stretch to attend
Auntie's birthday or somebody's retirement."

In terms of fares, immigrant travel tends to fit in between the high-fare world
of business travel and the rock-bottom prices demanded by vacationers. But even
coach-class fliers still pay more than $1,000 round trip per person to fly to
remote countries such as Vietnam, Nigeria and Lebanon. Flights to many of these
countries cost more per mile than, say, flights to Europe, Jenks says.

First-generation Filipino-Americans snapped up $1,900 round-trip tickets for
Christmas travel this month on Northwest, Korean Air and Cathay Pacific, up from
about $1,200 a year ago, says Vid Figueras, whose Jersey City company, Garden
State, sells tickets to ethnic Filipino agencies in the Northeast.

"The airlines are taking advantage of it," he says.

Travel agencies key

The gateway to the immigrant travel market are the travel agencies that dot
ethnic neighborhoods in Chicago, New York, San Francisco and elsewhere.

American Airlines for years has cultivated relationships with ethnic agencies
throughout the New York boroughs who handle business for Puerto Ricans,
Dominicans, Brazilians and other Latino and Caribbean groups. The New York-area
sales office has hired several native speakers to nurture their business, says
John Lisiewski, American's sales manager in New York for the Atlantic, Caribbean
and Latin America.

In Westminster, a Los Angeles suburb that's home to the largest
Vietnamese-American community in the USA, the Little Saigon Ticket Center is
seeing ticket sales for Vietnam grow by about 10% annually, manager Cung Pham
says. Nearly all of his clients are Vietnamese-Americans.

Business has been so solid at New York-based Delgado Travel, that the agency
expanded even after 9/11, when mainstream agencies were folding. The Delgado
family runs 36 agencies in New York, New Jersey and Illinois, six of which
opened in the past three years, says Linda Delgado, vice president of the
agency. Her father, Hector, started the business in 1973 by selling tickets to
fellow Ecuadorians at Queens soccer matches.

Some of the chain's sales success reflects the huge growth of newcomers from
South and Central America. But it also reflects a marketing strategy that speaks
to Latinos'  sense of community, values and needs, Delgado says.

At the Delgado agency in Jackson Heights, Queens, customers find vivid red
walls, lush plants and big-screen TVs that alternate between Spanish music
videos, soccer matches and soap operas in Spanish. Neon signs advertise services
for wiring money home to family.

"A lot of newly migrated don't know how to read or write. They want to feel
comfortable," Delgado says. "They don't trust the Internet. Sometimes they ask
agents 15 questions."

U.S. airlines step up to plate

Traditionally, foreign airlines have held an advantage over U.S. airlines in
bidding for the ethnic market in the USA. They fly places that U.S. carriers
don't operate. They share a common cuisine, language and culture with their
potential customer.

Now, U.S. airlines are stepping up the competition as they attempt to expand
globally. United, American and Continental, for instance, in the past year have
launched routes from the USA to Vietnam, China and India. What initially
attracted U.S. airlines to these routes was a burgeoning economy and high demand
from U.S. corporations, but they rely on immigrant travelers to fill their coach
cabins.

Fueling the explosion in ethnic travel are people such as Vietnam native Thang
Hoang, who, at 29, has been rediscovering the country of his birth.

As a young adult, the entrepreneur from Fountain Valley, Calif., had flown to
Vietnam every two years to visit cousins in Ho Chi Minh City. Now, he makes
frequent business trips and sets aside time to explore.

"I feel bad for not knowing some parts of the country," says Hoang, who left
Vietnam at 12.

Vietnam opened the country to foreign travel about 20 years ago and now openly
embraces the return of the "Viet kieu," or overseas Vietnamese. Of the
1.2million Vietnamese living in the USA, about 250,000 fly to Vietnam each year.
Seeing the opportunity, United launched service to Ho Chi Minh City a year ago,
becoming the first U.S. carrier to launch service to Vietnam, and the first U.S.
carrier to land there in three decades.

Contributing: Roger Yu
Perks lure passengers

How some airlines are catering to immigrants and their families:

Continental

*Houston-based Continental Airlines last summer adapted its long-standing
"Latinization" formula to non-stop flights from Newark, N.J., to Beijing. Just
as it's been doing for Spanish-speaking customers, Continental hired bilingual
flight crews and airport agents, and installed Chinese language signs at Newark
airport.

*The USA's No.6 airline is also using small jets to fly non-stop to smaller
Mexican cities such as Morelia. To court more immigrants, Continental in 2004
began letting customers who lack credit cards pay cash at Western Union for a
$15 per-ticket fee. "A lot of people who have immigrated into the United States
don't necessarily have bank accounts," says Frank Garcia, a Continental
executive.

Lufthansa

*The German airline created a special website, WeFlyHome.com, earlier this year
to target non-native U.S. residents. The site lets people search flights by
country, and view itineraries with six-month stay options. Bookings for the
original five destinations on the site exceeded expectations, prompting
Lufthansa to add 15 countries, including Bulgaria, Kazakhstan and United Arab
Emirates.

JetBlue

*When the discounter launched service to the Dominican Republic last year, it
found that many Dominicans prefer paying with cash or debit cards, which can't
be used for a Web purchase. To improve sales, the carrier opened its first-ever
ticket office in the Dominican city of Santiago.

Cathay Pacific Airways

*The Hong Kong-based carrier is marketing to Indian entrepreneurs in Silicon
Valley and in ethnic neighborhoods of Los Angeles, such as Little Thailand.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Frank Pompa, USA TODAY, Source: Global Insight (Line
graph)
PHOTO, Color, Eileen Blass, USA TODAY
PHOTO, Color, Bob Riha Jr., USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Eileen Blass, USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              281 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             January 6, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

USA losing its advantage drawing foreign students;
Rising tuition, post-9/11 issues among factors; Bush outlines steps to reverse
the decline

BYLINE: Mary Beth Marklein and Barbara Slavin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 816 words


BERLIN -- Alexander Galkin could have left Russia to study for his doctorate in
neuroscience in the USA. But instead he's at Humboldt and Free universities in
Germany's capital, because, "I had better scientific opportunities."

Rising U.S. tuitions, increased tension between much of the world and the United
States and post-9/11-related immigration issues have all fed a decline in
foreign student enrollment. So, too, has heightened competition from the rest of
the developed world.

Although there are more than 500,000 foreign students in U.S. universities,
enrollment has dropped more than 3% since the 2001-02 academic year. The
consequences are serious enough to lead President Bush to call Thursday for more
federal spending on language training, the recruitment of foreign language
experts to teach in the USA and a streamlining of immigration regulations to
allow more students to study here. "We want young kids from around the world
coming to our universities," Bush told a State Department-sponsored summit of
more than 120 university presidents Thursday.

The Institute of International Education (IIE), a New York-based non-profit
group that tracks the data, expects the declines to level off. Nevertheless, its
report released in November noted lingering concerns among foreign students
about "difficulties in obtaining student visas," especially in scientific
fields.

While some of the visa backlogs have been cleared, the changing nature of higher
education is a bigger challenge for many U.S. universities, says Peggy
Blumenthal, executive vice president of IIE. Developing nations such as China
and India have kept many of their best students at home. Other nations, such as
Australia, have developed strong distance-learning programs via the Internet.

Without foreign students, many science programs suffer, says Richard Wheeler,
dean of the graduate college at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.
Foreign students tend to concentrate in the sciences and perform crucial
laboratory work for their professors, he says. "They bring the brain power that
moves our science forward.

"We took a lot for granted when we were the whole show," Wheeler says. "We're
not the whole show anymore."

Britain, for example, has nearly 300,000 foreign students out of a total
university student population of 2 million; Germany is next with nearly 250,000
students and Australia has nearly 200,000 students according to the IIE.

On Thursday, Bush called for more money to teach U.S. students in critical
languages, such as Arabic, and easing the way for teachers of those languages to
travel here.

The federal government also should pay for more U.S. students and professors to
go overseas and build relationships with foreign universities, says Jay Gogue,
president of the University of Houston, where 8% of the students are foreigners.
"Higher education is a word-of-mouth business," Gogue says.

That may not be enough, says Terry Hartle, a senior vice president at the
American Council on Education, a non-profit umbrella group for higher education.

"Public policy has largely ignored these issues for a generation, and it takes
awhile to undo that level of neglect," Hartle says, adding that budget problems
limit actions.

Meanwhile, he says, "the rest of the world is catching up."

Germany, for example, has compensated for its shortage of science and technology
students by aggressively recruiting those from overseas. From 2000 to 2002,
Germany's international student population grew 23%, almost three times the
growth of its German student population, IIE data show.

On an even grander scale, 45 nations in Europe and western Asia are midway
through a plan to coordinate their higher education systems to build a regional
powerhouse that will attract even more of the world's brightest students.

By 2010, the nations want to create the European Higher Education Area, in which
degree programs would be streamlined and accredited, more classes in English
would be taught and credits would be transferable across borders.

The idea is not only to attract talented students to European schools. It also
aims to stop the brain drain by making it easier for students to earn a degree
anywhere in Europe -- and to create a uniform value for those degrees across the
continent.

"Europe must be interested in (making better use of) its own sources of
innovation and intellectual resources," says Peter Gaehtgens, chairman of the
Berlin-based German Rectors' Conference, one of many groups involved in the
streamlining process in Germany.

For the USA, attracting foreign students is also crucial at a time when public
opinion polls show that many abroad intensely dislike U.S. foreign policies.

Bush said it helps to work with foreign leaders who have studied in the USA.
"It makes it so much easier to conduct foreign policy and diplomacy when you've
got that common ground."

Slavin reported from Washington

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Sean Gallup, Getty Images, for USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              282 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 31, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration fuels housing battles;
Communities crack down on overcrowded homes

BYLINE: Charisse Jones

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 441 words


Overcrowded housing is emerging as a battleground in the national debate over
immigration as towns and counties crack down on landlords who permit many
unrelated people to occupy single-family homes.

Local officials in New York, Virginia, Massachusetts and Georgia have evicted
residents, threatened landlords with fines or jail time or legally narrowed the
definition of family to combat a problem they say disrupts neighborhoods.

"Our focus is on health and safety," says T. Dana Kauffman, a Democratic member
of the board of supervisors in Fairfax County, Va., a suburb of Washington.
"I've seen crawl spaces turned into bedrooms. ... We've had people tap into gas
lines."

The board is asking the Virginia Legislature to allow it to punish landlords
with up to a year in jail for violating local rules barring more than four
unrelated people from living in a single-family home.

Some activists say measures limiting the number of unrelated people or extended
family members in a home target immigrants, particularly Hispanics, who often
need to share a home to afford the rent.

"We ... view it as an anti-immigrant issue," says Shanna Smith, president of the
Washington-based National Fair Housing Alliance. "You can't have a deed
restriction saying, 'No Latinos.' But they're trying to have local ordinances
that say immediate families (only). ... Are they going back to the white
families to see if a cousin is living there? The answer is no. It truly is
directed at the new Latino immigrant population."

The dispute comes at a time when states and Congress are debating whether to
impose new restrictions on people who entered the USA illegally. The nation has
an estimated 11 million illegal immigrants, according to the Pew Hispanic
Center.
Among the hot spots

*In Cobb County, Ga., in suburban Atlanta, commissioners are considering
lowering from six to four the maximum number of unrelated people who can live in
a single-family home. An influx of immigrants has helped increase the Latino
population there from 2.1% in 1990 to 10% in 2004. "We're talking about a small
house," Rob Hosack, Cobb County's community development director, says of
neighborhood complaints about crowding. "And there's no way to mask the cars
with five unrelated people living there."

*In Farmingville, N.Y., about 200 tenants, mostly immigrants, were evicted when
local officials closed 11 homes last summer.

*The City Council in Manassas, Va., last month barred extended family members,
such as nieces and nephews, from living together. The council decided to rescind
the ordinance after an outcry by civil liberties groups such as the American
Civil Liberties Union.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Ed Betz, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              283 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 31, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Crowded houses gaining attention in suburbs;
As population of immigrants rises, so do measures to limit occupancy

BYLINE: Charisse Jones

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 1036 words


Tensions in the community of Farmingville, N.Y., finally erupted.

Police locked up 11 houses they said were dangerously overcrowded. About 200
tenants, all Latino and many of them day laborers, were evicted. The displaced
residents and their advocates marched in protest, filed a lawsuit and set up a
tent city behind one of the houses.

The Long Island community where rancor spilled into the streets last summer is
just one of several places where anger over immigration is playing out through
the issue of overcrowded housing.

Police crackdowns and ordinances limiting the number of unrelated people or
extended family members living in a home also have cropped up in the suburbs of
Atlanta, Boston and Washington, D.C.

The actions often are prompted by complaints from neighbors that their property
values are being jeopardized by multiple cars parked in front of houses, trash,
unsanitary conditions and fire hazards. Some public officials and policy
analysts say crowded housing poses safety hazards and squeezes schools and other
services.

Tensions between newcomers and some of their neighbors is a byproduct of a the
nation's porous federal immigration policy, says Steven Camarota, research
director for the Center for Immigration Studies, a think tank that favors
tighter border controls.

"People who are concerned about this are not necessarily motivated by racial or
ethnic animus but a sense the place is going downhill," Camarota says. "When you
get a big concentration of folks, you not only get a lot of traffic on streets,
you might also see a real strain on social services."

Civil liberties groups say overcrowding measures are increasingly being used by
communities to keep out Latino immigrants, many of them day laborers.

"These are places with growing Latino populations," says Kent Willis, executive
director of the Virginia ACLU. "They are people who in many instances speak a
different language, whose shade of coloring may be different from people who
have lived there for many years. It's xenophobic and discriminatory."

Shanna Smith, president of the National Fair Housing Alliance, a Washington,
D.C.-based group that fights housing discrimination, says occupancy limits have
been used in a biased way in the past.

"This is not unlike what happened in the 1920s, when we had a huge European
population coming in from Hungary and Poland and Germany, where families and
extended families would live together," she says.

"I remember in the '60s these types of things happening against
African-Americans. ... Now you see, with this new wave of Latino immigrants ...
more of these ordinances happening," Smith says.

Complaints up sharply

In Fairfax County, Va., a Washington suburb, complaints about overcrowded
housing rose to 600 in 2005 from roughly 360 in 2002, says T. Dana Kauffman, a
Democratic county supervisor who says the issue has replaced transportation as
residents' primary complaint. "Now folks are more concerned about the house next
door than their commute," he says.

About half the complaints are unfounded and some are rooted in bias, he says.
"But in many cases, I've personally visited these properties." Often, he adds,
"these are dangerous conditions. You can't be concerned about being politically
correct when people's lives are at risk."

Cobb County, Ga., last year enacted a rule requiring 50 square feet of sleeping
space per occupant, excluding bathrooms, closets, hallways and garages.

Sometimes, "you get some flat-out ignorant people who call up because someone
different lives next door to them," says Rob Hosack, the county's community
development director. The houses targeted by complaints often are large enough
to accommodate extra residents or the occupants are related, meaning no
violations are occurring, he says.

The Boston suburb of Milford has seen the problem of overcrowded housing
escalate with the arrival of immigrant workers from Latin America, town health
officer Paul Mazzuchelli says. In October, the town proposed requiring an
official to determine the maximum occupancy rate for rental houses and
apartments. Under the measure, which needs final approval by the state attorney
general, landlords could be fined up to $300 a day if they ignore the limits.

A delicate balance

As the issues of overcrowded housing and immigration become intertwined, local
officials must walk a fine line, says Tom Suozzi, the executive for Nassau
County on Long Island.

"Long-term residents have a legitimate concern that illegal housing is dangerous
and devalues their neighborhoods," says Suozzi, the son of an Italian immigrant.
"But day laborers and immigrant activists have a legitimate concern, also, that
this issue cannot be used as an excuse for racism. So finding that balance is
one of the tough challenges that exist."

In June, when a home in North Hempstead, N.Y., was found to violate the local
housing code, Nassau County officials helped the tenants find alternative
housing. That reaction contrasted with actions in nearby Suffolk County, where
town officials locked tenants out of houses they said were dangerously
overcrowded in Farmingville.

"There are about 40,000 illegal immigrants in the county, and many will live in
grossly substandard conditions in part because they are hoarding as much money
as they can to send back home," Suffolk County Executive Steve Levy says. "These
are gross firetraps and health hazards. ... The concerns have nothing to do with
race and everything to do with quality of life and zoning patterns."

Advocacy groups for immigrants disagree. "There's a lot of housing out in Long
Island that's not in good shape, that may be overcrowded," says Foster Maer,
legal director of the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund, which sued
on behalf of the tenants. "And yet the town wasn't going after any housing
except that occupied by Latino day laborers."

High housing costs in areas where many entry-level jobs are filled by recent
immigrants add to the problem. "Long Island is one of the places where it's most
expensive to live," says Irma Solis, an organizer for The Workplace Project, a
group that works with day laborers. "Unless there is alternative housing, people
are going to be forced to rent wherever they can."

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, USA TODAY (map)
PHOTO, B/W, Brookhaven Town via Newsday
PHOTO, B/W, Ed Betz, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              284 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 31, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration fuels housing battles;
Communities crack down on overcrowded homes

BYLINE: Charisse Jones

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 290 words


Overcrowded housing is emerging as a battleground in the national debate over
immigration as towns and counties crack down on landlords who permit many
unrelated people to occupy single-family homes.

Local officials in New York, Virginia, Massachusetts and Georgia have evicted
residents, threatened landlords with fines or jail time or legally narrowed the
definition of family to combat a problem they say disrupts neighborhoods.

"Our focus is on health and safety," says T. Dana Kauffman, a Democratic member
of the board of supervisors in Fairfax County, Va., a suburb of Washington.
"I've seen crawl spaces turned into bedrooms. ... We've had people tap into gas
lines."

The board is asking the Virginia Legislature to allow it to punish landlords
with up to a year in jail for violating local rules barring more than four
unrelated people from living in a single-family home.

Some activists say measures limiting the number of unrelated people or extended
family members in a home target immigrants, particularly Hispanics, who often
need to share a home to afford the rent.

"We ... view it as an anti-immigrant issue," says Shanna Smith, president of the
Washington-based National Fair Housing Alliance. "You can't have a deed
restriction saying, 'No Latinos.' But they're trying to have local ordinances
that say immediate families (only). ... Are they going back to the white
families to see if a cousin is living there? The answer is no. It truly is
directed at the new Latino immigrant population."

The dispute comes at a time when states and Congress are debating whether to
impose new restrictions on people who entered the USA illegally. The nation has
an estimated 11 million illegal immigrants, according to the Pew Hispanic
Center.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              285 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Few highly skilled workers allowed in;
Immigrants no threat to professionals in USA

BYLINE: David J. Lynch

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 426 words


Imagine what the immigration debate would look like if American doctors and
lawyers had to compete for jobs with foreigners the way factory workers do.

While the least educated and least skilled Americans battle a constant stream of
immigrants willing and able to do their jobs, the country's educated classes are
insulated from such threats.

If foreign lawyers, doctors and accountants were free to work in the USA,
consumers could save up to $270 billion a year, the Center for Economic and
Policy Research says.

Foreign professionals have a much harder time getting into the USA  than foreign
products. The only significant influx of talent from abroad has been for the
technology industry, which can bring 65,000 skilled workers on H-1B visas.

Even at these low numbers, the affected American professionals sound a lot like
factory workers who have been elbowed aside by low-wage immigrants. David Huber,
a Chicago-based networking engineer who once earned a salary in the high six
figures, blames the H-1B program for keeping him unemployed most of the past
three years. "All these American citizens have lost tech jobs and the slots are
filled up with H-1Bs," he complains.

High-tech companies, however, say they could use tens of thousands more foreign
specialists each year because of a shortage of skilled computer pros. The March
unemployment rate for workers with at least a college degree was just 2.2% vs.
7% for high-school dropouts, the Labor Department says.

James Goodnight, chief executive of privately held software firm SAS, says
current immigration policy is cockeyed. The United States effectively allows in
an unlimited number of unskilled people every year, worsening a surplus of such
workers and driving down their wages. At the same time, Congress prevents tech
companies from hiring as much of the world's best talent as they need.

"I want to hire the best and the brightest people," Goodnight says. "The current
policies of the administration are to prevent that from happening."

SAS, based in Cary, N.C.,  has about 60 workers on H-1B visas. Among them is
Sergiy Peredriy, 30, a Ukrainian who speaks four languages and is working on a
Ph.D. in economics at the University of North Carolina. He works on projects to
help retailers set product prices to maximize profits.

"What makes America strong is the constant influx of skilled smart people," he
says. "As long as you keep that going, America is going to thrive. ... If the
borders are closed, I think it will be very bad for this country."
---
Michelle Kessler contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              286 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration rallies flood cities small and large

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 1383 words


Protesters gathered in farm towns in the Midwest and in the skyscraper canyons

of Manhattan. They demonstrated outside offices of political leaders and held
vigils in city parks. Hundreds of thousands of people demanding citizenship for
illegal immigrants rallied in some of the largest marches since immigrants began
staging protests in the past month.

Atlanta

Demonstrators recall

civil rights marches

In the hometown of Martin Luther King Jr., several of the thousands who marched
in support of immigrant rights compared their cause to the non-violent civil
rights protests from the 1950s and 1960s.

Alfonso Carrasco, 24, a senior at the University of Georgia and a permanent
resident of the USA, said he traveled last summer to Memphis and Selma, Ala.,
for a course on the rhetoric of the civil rights movement. "When I was walking
up and looking at this crowd, it was like, man, it's the same thing," Carrasco
said. "I see a lot of similarities between what happened with African-Americans
and the Hispanic community."

Carrasco, who is Mexican, said he came to Monday's rally to show solidarity with
immigrants who are here illegally. "I was able to get all my paperwork," he
said. "But what about children who do everything they're supposed to do
academically, and when they finish high school, they can't have a better life?
All that's waiting for them is a job in construction or a job as a maid."

He said he favors a three-year work visa for immigrants.

The Georgia rally carried two objectives:  for national immigration reform and
against state legislation awaiting Republican Gov. Sonny Perdue's signature that
would require adults seeking some state benefits to prove they're in the USA
legally.

One rally speaker, state Sen. Vincent Ford, an African-American, pledged
solidarity between blacks and Hispanics. "You are not alone," he said. "We know
what it is to be a stranger in a strange land."

Schaumburg, Ill.

Message makes its way

to politician's office

Tears seeped from Maria Mata's eyes as soon as she was asked why she joined a
rally outside the suburban Chicago office of a Democratic congresswoman.

"I just want freedom for all," said the 14-year-old from nearby Round Lake
Beach, who came to the USA from Mexico with her parents a decade ago. "We just
want to work. We are not bad people."

The protest outside the office of U.S. Rep. Melissa Bean, D-Ill., drew about 60
people upset by Bean's vote for a House bill that would make illegal immigration
a felony. Bean issued a statement saying she stands by her vote.

"We are millions. Count us," the protesters chanted. They carried U.S. and
Mexican flags and orange placards reading: "We are all taxpayers." Another sign
said, "Pilgrims had no visas."

Some motorists on Meacham Road honked their horns and yelled their support.

Kenneth Ortega, 45, a lay minister at a Catholic church and a fifth-generation
American, said he was representing the Polish immigrants of his parish. "It's
only when protests happen that politicians pay attention," he said. "Everybody
has a right to be in this country."

Denver

Illegal immigrants add

voices to rally's cry

Sandra Briseoo came to the USA from Mexico five years ago on a visa and stayed
long after her permit ran out. With forged papers, she has since made a low-key
life here as a food-service worker, wife and mother of a 3-year-old son,
Leonardo.

Briseoo, 36, emerged from the shadows Monday to join an impromptu rally
downtown.

"I needed to be here," she said about giving up a day's pay. "We need to make
noise to get a good answer in two weeks" when Congress returns to grapple again
with immigration reform.

"I know I'm breaking the law," Briseoo said of the fake documents that allowed
her to find work, "but this is the only way I can get money to survive. We just
want to work, to get a better life that we cannot get in our own country. We are
hard workers."

The main event here was to be a candlelight vigil to remember illegal immigrants
who died trying to enter the USA. But word-of-mouth about the vigil prompted the
midday march, which attracted several thousand people.

Washington

National Mall is site

of international plea

From her grassy spot on the National Mall, Rosa Asitimbay, 30, pointed at the
U.S. Capitol. "I hope they notice," she said.

Although Congress is out of town, on a two-week recess, Asitimbay and her two
sisters say it will be hard for politicians to overlook the tens of thousands of
people who rallied near the Capitol for immigration legislation.

Asitimbay, born in Ecuador, has lived in the USA for 17 years. Her father waited
years for citizenship. And she remembers vividly the day 10 years ago when she
became a citizen.

"It's an important thing. It's exciting. I can vote," she said. She wants the
same thing for her cousins who she says came to the USA illegally. "They are not
criminals. They are not terrorists. They need rights. We are all human."

Los Angeles

Different faces, stories

color downtown scene

In a downtown plaza on the spot where 45 colonists from Mexico founded this city
in 1781, Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa and Cardinal Roger Mahony joined thousands
demonstrating for immigration reform.

Unlike a much larger demonstration here March 25, few Mexican flags were
visible. U.S. flags predominated.

Though most demonstrators were Hispanic, organizers sought to emphasize that not
all of Los Angeles' undocumented immigrants are Hispanic. Asians, who haven't
been prominent at previous demonstrations here, took a leading role.

Buses brought several hundred Korean, Chinese and Filipino immigrants from the
Koreatown district. A Korean-language cable TV network covered the event live.

Eun Sook Lee, executive director of the National Korean American Service &
Education Consortium, said that immigrants from Asia who illegally cross U.S.
borders or overstay visas get less attention than Hispanics. The two groups of
immigrants "are similar," she said. "They work hard, and they're looking for a
better life."

New York

Some find hope for

the future on Broadway

Elizabeth Jacome wasn't exactly thrilled to see so many American flags, at least
one nearly as wide as the street itself, hoisted high above Broadway as
thousands packed into Lower Manhattan.

Jacome carried two other flags, one Ecuadorian, one Mexican. "I guess they want
to feel a part of this country," said Jacome, 20, a junior at Columbia
University. "I'm against this country."

Her parents are Ecuadorian, she was born here and lives in the Bronx -- yet
Jacome considers herself Mexican, because that's the community and culture she
grew up around. She works in the office of a bakery alongside many Mexicans.
"America? I don't know what America is. I'm an individual."

Still, the throngs that inched down Broadway to City Hall seemed to move as a
massive unit to the beat of drums, trumpets and the occasional sax, with the
Stars and Stripes the common denominator. Chris Calderone bent over a police
barricade to purchase a Peruvian flag. He was already clutching a much smaller
U.S. flag. "Both of them are important," said Calderone, 16, who skipped school
to attend the rally.

Dual identities were celebrated all along the route. "We are Irish, but we want
to be a part of America," explained Valerie Tangney, 26, who, with her
employer's support, took off the afternoon from her nanny job to attend. "It's
very hopeful when you see such a turnout, and so many nationalities."

Phoenix

Opposing viewpoints,

same peaceful route

Steve Campbell stood in the path of demonstrators in downtown Phoenix, holding a
cardboard sign that read, "Close the border."

Next to him, another man held a sign saying, "No amnesty."

But as the throng of marchers neared, Campbell willingly moved to a spot only
yards away, and they passed by peacefully, shouting, "USA!" and "Si se puede!"
("Yes, we can!")

All along the 2 1/4-mile route from the Arizona State Fairgrounds to the state
Capitol, police reported no problems with protesters rallying in support of
legalization for undocumented immigrants.

Phoenix Mayor Phil Gordon credited "a lot of good planning."

Police and city officials estimated the crowd at more than 100,000 people. No
arrests had been made by late Monday afternoon.

When one protester taunted a counterdemonstrator with a Mexican flag, an elderly
woman stepped out from the crowd.

"Just walk," she said.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Michael Conroy, AP
PHOTO, B/W, J. Pat Carter, AP
PHOTO, B/W, Ric Francis, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              287 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Students join immigration debate -- and get muzzled

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 495 words


The demonstrations and debates about immigration that continued Monday across
the USA have provided what educators like to call "a teachable moment" in the
nation's schools. Unfortunately, some school administrators are applying the
wrong lesson plan.

Instead of channeling anxiety about immigration -- or anxiety about potential
expulsion of illegal immigrants -- into constructive discussion, they've taught
their students about government's power to trample free speech.

School districts in at least three states -- California, Colorado and Arizona --
banned the wearing or carrying of flags, including the American flag, on school
grounds. They say the flags are provocative and could incite violence.  In most
cases, the evidence has seemed thin at best.

Perhaps the educators needed to do a little more legal homework before they
acted.

In 1969, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that neither students nor teachers "shed
their constitutional rights to freedom of speech or expression at the
schoolhouse gate." The issue then was three students in Des Moines who had been
suspended for wearing black armbands to peacefully protest U.S. involvement in
Vietnam. The school argued that concern over possible conflict and disruption
should give administrators power to muzzle even unspoken political comment. The
court wisely set a higher standard, that mere anxiety about the possibility of
disturbance "is not enough to overcome the right to freedom of expression."

Principals, focused on the difficult task of maintaining order, can easily miss
that message, and too often, they do.

In recent years:

*Students in a Texas school were suspended for simply wearing black armbands to
mourn the victims of the school shootings in Columbine, Colo., and to quietly
protest what they viewed as their school's authoritarian overreaction.

*An honor-roll student in a Louisiana high school had to go to court to enforce
her right to wear a similar armband to protest the school's mandatory uniform
policy.

*A middle school student in Kansas was suspended for privately doodling a
Confederate flag during class.

*An Alaska high school suspended a student for displaying a sarcastic sign about
drug use at a public event off campus.

Most of these students have won when they've gone to court, and that reality
already appears to be inspiring a retreat from the bans on flags in California,
Colorado and Arizona.

Rather than ban flags, schools should be looking for ways to make the most of a
rare public-policy issue that has ignited student interest and passions. The
subject matter -- immigration and free speech -- is tailor-made for history
classes, which too often do a poor job of educating students about American
values. And wouldn't students be drawn to assemblies where speakers discussed
immigration's effect on the community?

One lesson: Maintaining order cannot become a facile excuse for trampling the
freedoms that make so many immigrants eager to come to the USA in the first
place.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Richard M. Hackett, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              288 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Sending money back has vital role;
Payments are big part of economy in some nations

BYLINE: Barbara Hagenbaugh

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 493 words


WASHINGTON -- Immigrants don't just affect the economies of their adopted
countries; they have a big impact at home as well.

Immigrants in the USA sent $40billion to their relatives and friends in Latin
America and the Caribbean in 2005, according to the Inter-American Development
Bank (IADB). Worldwide, immigrants sent $232 billion abroad in remittances in
2005, according to the World Bank. That's about equal to the size of the Greek
economy.

Remittances have a big impact on local economies where they are spent. In at
least 20 countries, such payments make up at least 10% of gross domestic
product, according to the World Bank. In El Salvador and Honduras, remittances
account for more than 15% of GDP.

"Remittances are widely recognized as critical to the survival of millions of
individual families and the health of many national economies," IADB researchers
said in a recently issued report. They estimate 125 million migrant workers
worldwide regularly send money to 500 million people in their home countries.

Miami-based consulting firm Bendixen & Associates estimates that one out of
every five people in Mexico regularly receives a payment from abroad. Based on
surveys, the firm estimates the average migrant worker who sends money home
sends an average $240 a month, money that goes a lot further in their home
countries than in the USA.

"It makes up a very big part of the income," says Scott Gardner, research
coordinator at Bendixen & Associates. "If it stopped ... there would be a big
impact on the economy" of those countries, he says.

And although the USA imports far more than it exports, the health of other
countries is still important to the U.S. economy. For example, U.S. companies
exported $120 billion of goods to Mexico last year, accounting for more than 13%
of total sales abroad. A decline in the Mexican economy could  dampen demand
there for U.S. goods.

It has gotten easier and cheaper for immigrants, even those without bank
accounts, to ship money home. Transaction costs have fallen 50% in the last five
years because of new competition and greater use of technology, according to the
IADB.

Based on a 2001 agreement between the USA and Mexico, the Federal Reserve has
partnered with Mexico's central bank to allow electronic transfers between banks
in the two countries. Seventy-five U.S. banks are now enrolled in the program,
which began in February 2004. It has gotten increased interest since the number
of days it takes to transfer money was cut from two to one last year, says
coordinator Elizabeth McQuerry of the Atlanta Fed.

The Fed charges banks 67 cents per transaction through the program. Banks are
charging their customers $2.50 to $5 per transaction. That's far lower than the
fees charged by money transfer offices, such as Western Union, which handle the
majority of remittances in the country. For example, a $250 transfer from New
York City to Mexico would cost $10 for next-day delivery by Western Union.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              289 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 13, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Leaders lacking on immigration -- again

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 644 words


Notwithstanding the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission, the preferences of
the American people and common sense, members of Congress opted to go home for a
two-week vacation rather than deal with the difficult, immediate threat of
illegal immigration to the USA. The president and congressional leaders could
have stepped in and stopped them, but they didn't ("Historic rallies voice a
'dream'," News, Tuesday).

This country's immigration debate is not exactly a problem that sneaked up on
us. It has been building for decades -- in both Democratic and Republican
administrations -- so there is more than enough egg to cover all faces,
including those of ordinary Americans like us, who wink at the all-too-obvious
signs of this dilemma. Shame on us!

We must:

*Make it more difficult -- a lot more difficult -- for people, regardless of
their origin or intention, to unlawfully invade the USA.

*Reduce the economic incentive for those who would risk the journey in search of
better work, and increase the danger for those with more nefarious motives.

*Provide a more realistic and secure means of lawfully "on-shoring" immigrant
workers, in numbers that correspond both with our needs and our ability to
absorb such persons.

Bill Catlette

Collierville, Tenn.

Show more forgiveness

All of this hard talk about not rewarding immigrants who came here illegally but
who have stayed and worked for many years, paid taxes, obeyed the law, maybe
even married and invested in a home or business should be tempered with a
generous dose of forgiveness and even appreciation ("Public divided over how to
treat illegals," Cover story, News, Tuesday).

Martin Luther King Jr. and his followers acted illegally when they violated laws
they considered unjust. Thank goodness. For too long, we have fallen behind and
remained behind in our immigration laws. They have not kept up with reality.

Let's accept responsibility and provide an abbreviated path to citizenship for
these good, long-term, law-abiding residents whom we'd be honored to have as
fellow citizens and neighbors. They're the ancestors of our future leaders.

Ronald Williams

Charlotte

Send lawbreakers home

It is hard to believe the so-called debate on illegal immigrants in this
country. There is no debate. They have broken the law and entered our country as
criminals.

The solution is really simple: Give all illegal immigrants three months to
leave. Anyone who remains should be forced to return to his or her own country.

James Jones

Johnson City, Tenn.

Go after employers

It appears that rhetoric and emotion, mixed with the usual scummy positions from
politicians, have clouded much of the debate on our immigration and illegal
alien situation.

The first logical question should be: What is the reason most of these people
enter our nation? Naturally, the answer is that they are mostly decent,
hard-working people who simply want a better life for their families.

So, who is hiring and taking advantage of these poor souls? That seems to be the
elephant sitting in the living room that Congress and our inept president refuse
to admit or address.

Let's research exactly how many of the eager employers of the millions of
illegal immigrants have ever been arrested, imprisoned or even slapped on the
wrist.

And therein lies both the problem and the solution:

It should not be the job of the U.S. government to provide cheap and illegal
labor for any business or industry.

Ed Creamean

Danville, Va.

Nation of laws?

Many of the advocates for illegal immigration say it is acceptable to break the
immigration laws to illegally enter our country; yet, these same advocates
consistently espouse the mantra on social issues that "we are a nation of laws."

I'd like these advocates to tell me which federal laws the rest of us may choose
to ignore because we don't agree with them.

Equal opportunity? Civil rights laws?

Larry Zini

Huntsville, Utah

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Mick Cochran, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              290 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 21, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Why blacks, Latinos need each other

BYLINE: Mary-Frances Winters

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 402 words


I recently attended a town hall meeting hosted by Tavis Smiley, who is traveling
the country promoting his Covenant with Black America book and campaign to spur
conversations in the African-American community for social change. A man in the
audience was complaining that immigrants are taking jobs from blacks.

While some people have compared the recent protests of proposed changes in the
immigration law with the '60s civil rights movement, many blacks see immigrants
as a growing economic threat. A Pew Research Center poll in March found that
one-third of blacks surveyed said  immigrants take jobs from Americans. More
than half of black respondents said that immigrants are a burden on the country.

Perhaps that is why only nine of the 43 members of the Congressional Black
Caucus have taken positions more sympathetic to the immigrant cause.

Opposition to immigrants is an example of an issue that can drive a wedge
between the country's two largest communities of color -- blacks and Hispanics.

In the long term, however, it would be beneficial for both groups to work
together rather than waste energy playing blame and victim games. The economic
and social problems affecting the black and Latino communities in recent years
are more parallel than not:

*Only about half of blacks and Hispanics graduate from high school, compared
with 75% of whites.

*Although minority homeownership increased substantially between 1990 and 2000,
fewer than half of Hispanics and blacks own homes, compared with more than 70%
of whites.

*The median net worth of black families from 1999 to 2002, the most recent year
for which figures are available, fell 32% to $5,988; Hispanic households dropped
24% to $7,932, and whites rose 3% to $88,651, according to the Pew Hispanic
Center.

*In March, the unemployment rate among blacks was 9.3%, among Hispanics was 5.4%
and among whites was  4%.

Instead of blacks blaming Hispanics for their economic problems, the two groups
would do well to acknowledge their shared challenges, come together to seek
solutions to very complex issues and use their combined voting clout to demand
that action be taken. The united voices of the two largest minority groups would
be a powerful force to reckon with.

Mary-Frances Winters, president and CEO of The Winters Group, a diversity and
organizational development consulting firm in the Washington, D.C., area, is
author of Inclusion Starts with I.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              291 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 24, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration takes toll on Mexico, too

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 624 words


Amid the immigration debate, has no one considered the plight of Mexico?

Mexico shares more than a border with the USA. The USA attracts its young
people, placing an extreme strain on its fragile economy by draining it of
much-needed laborers. Additional economic suffering results from less property
ownership, decreased entrepreneurial ventures and job creation, less taxable
income, uncompetitive wages and dismal local investment.

We also cannot ignore the cultural effects. Many families are split and often
irreparably damaged; children are left fatherless and the women pursue new
romances in their husbands' absence.

The trek to seek treasure in the great USA is a rite of passage. It isn't so
much considered an option, as an eventuality that must be faced. Entire
generations are almost completely missing from Mexico; the young and able-bodied
are venturing to a distant land in search of anonymity and fortune.

Education in Mexico, too, is considered of less value, and the entire nation
suffers. When did you last hear of a well-known Mexican inventor, scientist or
philosopher? This cycle ensures the continual struggling, third-world status of
our southern neighbor.

Improved enforcement of our existing immigration laws would allow our two
countries to develop independently. Our diplomatic relationship can be improved
as we each develop our economies and diminish our mutual dependence.

Adam Kirk Pruden

Sunrise, Fla.

Resource drain

The recent marches by illegal aliens are not a demonstration but an invasion.

President Bush has said we need illegal aliens and a guest-worker program to do
the jobs that Americans will not do. Balderdash! He fails to understand that
Americans will not work for starvation wages. The president is protecting his
buddies in business who are making millions on the backs of illegal aliens and
their cheap labor while lowering our standard of living.

Illegal aliens are flooding our medical system and getting free medical
treatment. They overcrowd our schools and demand bilingual teachers, they demand
and get food stamps, they drive without insurance and when they have a wreck we
all pay for it through increased insurance premiums. Middle-income taxpayers are
paying for all of this while Congress and our president fiddle.

I do not believe we need to demonstrate as a quid pro quo, but we must show this
do-nothing Congress that we will not take this lying down. We must reject every
incumbent next November. This will send a message to those remaining that they
must pay attention to those who vote. Illegal aliens do not vote.

Joseph R. Lyman

Mesa, Ariz.

A way to draw taxes

During the current debate on illegal immigration, I have read and listened to
many opinions expressing outrage at illegal immigrants and the economic burden
on society they bring. Schooling for their kids, medical care, social services,
etc. Many of their advocates say this isn't true; they are all hard-working and
pay taxes. This might be true for some who work at large companies that withhold
the taxes from their paychecks. But what about the millions working in homes as
nannies, maids and gardeners and the millions of day laborers standing on street
corners or in Home Depot parking lots? They are paid in cash and pay no income
taxes or Social Security taxes.

The obvious answer is to make sure such immigrants pay their fair share. The
only way to do this is with a consumption tax on everything that is purchased.
From food to cars to clothing to money orders that are sent back to Mexico or
any other country. The consumption tax would replace the income tax. It has been
suggested for years but never implemented. Perhaps now is the time to do so as
part of real immigration reform.

Bob Greenspan

Mission Viejo, Calif.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Jack Dempsey, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              292 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 27, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Religious communities at odds on immigration;
Congregations are conflicted as leaders express support

BYLINE: G. Jeffrey MacDonald

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 9D

LENGTH: 966 words


With bishops speaking out, clergy marching in the streets and parishes
frequently acting as local organizing headquarters, the immigrant rights
movement appears to have the full support of the USA's Christian communities.

But appearances can be deceiving. And in this case, they are.

Although Roman Catholic and mainline Protestant leaders are voicing strong
support for undocumented immigrants, recent survey data suggest that their
flocks are increasingly uneasy about immigration trends. And evangelicals are
proving to be divided along ethnic lines.

"That Bush coalition of religious conservatives has some qualms" about
establishing pathways to citizenship because they want stiff punishments for
lawbreakers, says Luis Lugo, director of the nonpartisan Pew Forum on Religion
and Public Life  in Washington, D.C. "But these folks are also being
cross-pressured. There is in all of these religious traditions strong emphasis
on care of the immigrant. ... That's why people are conflicted."

In a March survey by Pew:

*64% of white evangelicals agreed with the statement "Immigrants today are a
burden on our country because they take our jobs, housing and health care."
That's up from 49% in December 2004.

*56% of white Catholics agreed with the same statement, up from 44% in December
2004.

*51% of white mainline Protestants agreed that "The growing number of newcomers
from other countries threatens traditional American customs and values." In
December 2004, 41% agreed.

Some prominent religious conservatives have stayed silent on immigration this
year. Lobbying groups with clout in Washington, such as Focus on the Family and
the Family Research Council, have said the issue lies beyond the scope of their
agendas.

Those who have weighed in, such as Richard Land of the Southern Baptist
Convention, take a less charitable view toward immigrants who came to work than
those who fled political or religious persecution.

"Romans 13 says that God ordained the civil magistrate to punish those who do
wrong and to reward those who do that which is right," Land says. To let border
crossing and other violations go unpunished "subverts the reason that God gave
us government in the first place."

Land says he told President Bush at a meeting in March that he and other
Baptists would support a guest-worker program, along with a legalization process
that includes penalties, only if the federal government first "commits the
resources necessary to control and secure our borders."

Meanwhile, the leader of a group serving the nation's approximately 15 million
Hispanic evangelicals says he's "perplexed" by white evangelicals' lack of
solidarity.

The Rev. Sam Rodriguez, president of the National Hispanic Christian Leadership
Conference, notes that Hispanics provide key support for such favorite
evangelical causes as defending traditional marriage and opposing abortion. Now
Hispanics expect reciprocation, he says.

At stake in immigration policy, Rodriguez says, are the fates of about 12
million families whose undocumented relatives migrated so they could survive.

"What if you have no means of feeding your family?" he asks. "How long do you
wait (to immigrate legally)? Do you wait until after your second child dies? How
violated do we have to be" to justify crossing borders without papers?

Roman Catholic clergy has trumpeted the immigrants' cause as a moral mission.
From pulpits and in Catholic media, pastors have expanded on the message of
Cardinal Roger Mahony of Los Angeles, who vowed to disobey a House-passed bill
that would make it a crime to feed, clothe or otherwise aid an undocumented
person.

The clout of Catholic leaders has given the movement legitimacy, according to
Ali Noorani, executive director of the Massachusetts Immigrant & Refugee
Advocacy Coalition.

Mahony's stand "showed the immigrant community the Catholic Church would stand
up for them," Noorani said. "It's one thing (for politicians) to go after the
immigrants. But to go after the Catholic Church -- that's a different dynamic."

Catholics were prominently visible at Boston's recent rally, as they have been
at protests across the country. In Boston, for example, parishioners from two
Catholic parishes in suburban Framingham marched with banner-carrying supporters
from Catholic Charities of Massachusetts and Temple de Dios, a Pentecostal
church in Waltham. Priests in collars cheered as the march morphed into a rally
in front of Trinity Church in the City of Boston, an Episcopal church. There
Roman Catholic Cardinal Sean O'Malley encouraged the fight for "dignity and
justice."

"The church is an essential way of disseminating information," says Brazilian
immigrant Ilma Paixao.  "It's where people go for information they can trust.
For immigrants, that's the first community."

Under pressure from both their Roman Catholic and Hispanic evangelical allies,
other evangelicals are shading  their positions. Land, for instance, said this
month that he would resist House efforts to criminalize charity toward
undocumented residents and to charge them with a felony.

Land's position is significant. The 16-million-member Southern Baptist
Convention  was virtually all white 35 years ago, and now it counts ethnic
minorities as 20% of its members.

In light of such trends, evangelicals may be calculating whether they can afford
to alienate millions of Christians who tend to share their concerns for
traditional values, says Manuel Vasquez, associate professor of religion at the
University of Florida and an expert on religion and immigration.

"In many ways, conservatives see immigrants from Latin America bringing values
that they would like to regain: values of family, gender roles that are very
well-defined, an ethic of hard work," Vasquez says. "So they see a kind of an
ally in this kind of immigration."

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Mick Cochran, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              293 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 28, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Real test awaits 'invisible'immigrants

BYLINE: Julianne Malveaux

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 422 words


When Douglas Turner Ward wrote the play A Day of Absence in 1965, he wrote it as
an act of high satire. Black folks in whiteface lamented the absence of black
folk in a small southern town. Because the "real" black folks were gone,  the
extent to which the small, fictional, white community had come to depend on
invisible blacks was satirized and highlighted in the play.

Imagine my glee, then, when Latino activists held up signs that said, "We are
not invisible," at rallies that brought hundreds of thousands to the streets in
cities across the country. Imagine my  delight at the audacity that those who
thronged to the streets, many here illegally, showed when they stepped up for
their cause.

Of course, Congress made it easy. Suggesting that as many as 12 million people
who are illegally here should be declared felons is incendiary, especially when
those people cut our grass, clean our homes, pick our crops, and maintain our
offices. What would happen if those 12 million people disappeared?

Very possibly, their absence would hit us where it hurts, just like the absence
of black folks did in Ward's play. We'd find longer lines in restaurants where
immigrants do the cooking, larger piles of dishes in the homes where immigrants
do the cleaning, more debris on the construction sites where immigrants do the
hauling. Maybe we will find out exactly what the economic impact of the
immigrant presence is on our society if immigrants heed the call to absent
themselves from work, school and shopping on Monday.

The Latino population spends more than $2 billion a day. If Latinos disappear
Monday,   will it make a point about their economic presence? Or will it
generate a backlash to immigration reform? The Montgomery Bus Boycott was met
with legal challenges, but the people prevailed. Are Latinos prepared to meet
similar legal or economic challenges if they come up?

The recent  rallies made the point that immigrants will no longer be treated as
invisible.  They put Congress and citizens on alert that they are mobilized and
motivated. Will this be the case in the face of a storm?

Latinos might reflect on the African-American experience. Black labor was
invisible, essential and disrespected. Even the implicit threat in Ward's Day of
Absence did not substantially change that condition. Absenting themselves from
markets Monday  might trigger a wake-up call or a backlash, depending on the
strength of this movement.

Julianne Malveaux co-edited The Paradox of Loyalty: An African American Response
to the War on Terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              294 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                               May 1, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Silicon Valley entrepreneur sees a different kind of crisis

BYLINE: Edward Iwata

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 484 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- Rajen Jaswa, a 53-year-old high-tech entrepreneur, is the
classic immigrant success story in Silicon Valley.

After arriving in the USA three decades ago, Jaswa worked odd jobs and earned an
MBA in night school. Now he and his wife live in affluent Saratoga, Calif., and
their two sons attend Harvard University and the University of California,
Berkeley.

Jaswa still recalls those rough early years. "You come into this country with
nothing in your pocket," he says, "and you never forget that feeling."

A graduate of the elite Indian Institute of Technology, Jaswa caught the first
big wave of the U.S. technology boom. Through the 1980s, he worked on early,
clunky mobile phones at the Harris Corporation and designed computer chips at
Intel, the semiconductor giant.

Then entrepreneurial fever hit him in the late 1980s. He raised millions of
dollars in venture capital and co-founded two successful technology startups:
Opti, a computer chip firm, and Selectica, a software company.

Jaswa needed immigrants to build his global startups, so more than half of his
employees were high-tech engineers and managers from India and Taiwan. "We had a
fabulous pool of trained talent," he says. "We were Asian and American
creations."

Many of Jaswa's workers had H-1B visas and other temporary work permits for
professionals, who are in high demand in the U.S. economy. Competition was
fierce for those employees because there are limits on such  visas.

Now Jaswa runs a consulting firm, Jaswa & Company, and is president of The Indus
Entrepreneurs (TIE), a global network of Indian entrepreneurs whose members have
launched 300 businesses with $350 billion in revenue.

Speaking for himself and not TIE, a non-partisan group, Jaswa sympathizes with
illegal immigrants who have long been in the USA.

"If somebody has been an illegal immigrant for more than a few years," he says,
"and has been integrated into the economy and American society, we should find a
way by which they can become citizens of this country."

At the same time, Jaswa says businesses clearly need to monitor their workforces
to ensure new immigrant hires are here legally. He says his companies have never
hired undocumented workers.

Jaswa says the dramatic influx of immigrants since the 1960s has helped the U.S.
economy become the world's strongest. Now the high-tech industry's shortage of
well-trained computer scientists and engineers makes it critical for Congress to
increase the number of visas available and open the borders more, he contends.

The annual quota for H-1B work visas is capped at 65,000 and fills up quickly.
For years, technology, retail, health care and other companies have urged
Congress to increase the numbers of visas for professionals and unskilled
laborers.

"If we want to continue to prosper," Jaswa says, "we need to make it as easy as
possible for talent to flow into the United States."

By Edward Iwata

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Jack Gruber, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              295 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                               May 1, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

In Chicago, clinics treat with 'respect'

BYLINE: Judy Keen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 493 words


CHICAGO -- Carmen Velasquez knows how difficult it is to be an outsider in
America.

Her father was a Mexican immigrant who harvested beets in South Dakota. When her
mother, the daughter of Mexican immigrants, started school in Iowa, her name was
changed to Shirley because her real name, Soledad, was considered too hard to
pronounce.

So almost two decades ago, when Velasquez, then a bilingual education
specialist, discovered the lack of health services for Chicago's immigrants, she
began collecting files about health care access in a Corona beer box in her car
trunk.

She got angry, then she did something about it. Velasquez applied for a grant
and in 1989 opened the first of three branches of the Alivio Medical Center.

The non-profit clinics now serve about 17,000 patients a year. Most of them,
Velasquez says, are newcomers from Mexico who are in the USA illegally, hold
several jobs, have little cash, speak no English and wait too long to seek
medical care. Most of them are afraid.

When they arrive at the clinics, they are never asked about their legal status.
Everyone they deal with directly, including receptionists, nurses and doctors,
speaks Spanish. They pay what they can afford based on a sliding scale. They
come to the clinics for prenatal care, nutrition counseling, parenting courses
and medical attention.

"Patients find respect and a comfort level here," says Velasquez, 66, the
clinics' executive director. "The majority of people who come here really
struggle with just life. Imagine what it's like to be tense all the time ...
worrying about everything constantly."

Velasquez, who was born in the USA and is a citizen of this country and Mexico,
says the marches and protests across the country mark a turning point in the
debate over immigration.

'We are God's children'

"We're not here to have an uproar," she says. "We're here with a simple message:
I live and work here. I'm a human being. I take care of your kids, I clean your
bedrooms, I work in your restaurants. The food you eat, I make it with my hands.
Sometimes we go to the same church. We come from the same source. We are God's
children."

Finding a way to grant citizenship to Mexicans already in the USA is the only
solution, she says. "It's like they want to get a blackboard and erase us, and
we're not going away. This country has to deal with it. The change must come."

Velasquez believes that this is a pivotal moment in American history and
compares the resentment toward immigrants to the bias against blacks that led to
the civil rights movement. "African-Americans knew that it was unacceptable to
sit in the back of the bus, unacceptable for someone to tell them they couldn't
come into a restaurant," she says. "It's unacceptable for someone to tell me
that I am a criminal because I am supporting services for immigrants."

Velasquez sounds angry, but she's also hopeful: "We are willing to take the
risks, whatever they are, to stand up and be counted."

By Judy Keen

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, John Zich, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              296 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 2, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Most turn deaf ear to Spanish U.S. anthem

BYLINE: Bill Nichols

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 239 words


WASHINGTON -- More than two out of three Americans say the national anthem
should be sung only in English, according to a USA TODAY/Gallup Poll.

The finding comes after the release last week of a Spanish-language version of
the anthem called Nuestro Himno or Our Anthem.

The poll, taken Friday through Sunday, found that 69% believe it is only
appropriate for the anthem to be sung in English, while 29% say it is OK to sing
it in Spanish. The poll's margin of error is +/{ndash}3 percentage points.

The new recording of the national anthem is part of an album called Somos
Americanos (We Are Americans), set for release May 16. Part of the CD's $10
price will go to pro-immigration organizations.

Producer Adam Kidron has said he wanted the new recording of the anthem to honor
America's immigrants. However, the release has generated strong opposition,
including from President Bush, who was asked about it last week and said,
"People who want to be a citizen of this country ought to learn English, and
they ought to learn to sing the national anthem in English."

Poll respondents largely agreed with Bush on the anthem, but they were not in
sync with his policies on immigration.

Nearly two-thirds -- 64% -- disapproved of Bush's immigration policy; 26%
approved. Bush wants tougher border enforcement, an expanded "guest worker"
program and a way, yet to be specified, to allow illegal immigrants already in
the USA to become citizens.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              297 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 3, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Loaded rhetoric harms immigration movement

BYLINE: Bridget Johnson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 623 words


"Unless you've lived under a rock for the last 15 years, you should make a note
of this: The southwest is already Chicana/o-Latina/o!" proclaims the website of
the California State University, Sacramento, chapter of MEChA.

MEChA -- an acronym for  Chicano Student Movement of Aztlan in Spanish -- has
been one of myriad Latino-rights, pro-immigration or social justice groups that
have plunged into the immigration debate. Just as a sea of fluttering Mexican
flags at the rallies, the Nuestro Himno Spanish-language take on the national
anthem, and Monday's "Day Without Immigrants" boycotts  have generated anger and
suspicion  among many Americans, some forces within the immigration-rights
movement are doing their part to tarnish efforts of  more moderate activists.
MEChA is  such a group.

There are an estimated 400 loosely organized MEChA branches on college and high
school campuses across the country. Established in 1969, the group has pressured
institutions to establish Chicano studies programs, protested Columbus Day and
held Chicano graduation ceremonies.  The MEChA logo boasts a bird with a lit
stick of dynamite in one claw and maquahuitl -- an Aztec weapon -- in the other.
"Through a philosophy of Chicana/o Nationalism, MEChA has not wavered from its
original goal of Chicana/o control at the University," states the University of
California-Berkeley's MEChA site.

MEChA has been in the thick of the latest immigration protests, from San Diego
State University members trying to avert arrests of marching high school
students, to "mechistas" organizing a rally at an Albuquerque high school at
which signs bore the now-familiar refrain: "We didn't cross the border. The
border crossed us."

The group's constitution requires that its chapters read "El Plan de Aztlan." A
line in its introduction translates into "for the race, everything; for those
outside the race, nothing." MEChA's belief in the "liberation" of Aztlan --
Southwest territory acquired by the United States after the Mexican-American War
in the mid-1800s  -- andethno-exclusive views continue to disturb. "Aztlan
belongs to those who plant the seeds, water the fields, and gather the crops and
not to the foreign Europeans," reads El Plan de Aztlan.

At a time when immigrant-rights groups should be trying to present a persuasive,
less-strident case to the American people, several groups  have instead taken to
in-your-face activism against tighter immigration laws:

*The Mexican American Political Association, which mapped out its demands in a
flier for Monday's  boycott: "Immediate legalization without conditions, no
border walls, no criminalization." MAPA President Nativo Lopez has stated his
desire for Spanish to be California's primary language.  MAPA also called for a
campaign of non-cooperation with Los Angeles County law enforcement  when the
sheriff's department flirted with a Department of Homeland Security partnership
to better identify criminal aliens in county jails.

*Carlos Montes, a co-founder of the original Brown Berets  in 1960s Los Angeles,
is helping put together an August demonstration -- sponsored by MAPA and others
-- against a border fence, the Minutemen, and even the Iraq war.  He lauds
Venezuela and Cuba as "examples of the possibilities for humankind."

The involvement of separatist or militant groups in a movement for illegal
immigration can only backfire. By building the issue into "them vs. us," by
painting tolerant Americans as racists, by sowing separatist seeds among youth
in the name of cultural identity, these activists will alienate Americans who
might have sympathized with the plight of immigrants but find few moderate
voices left to back.

Bridget Johnson is a columnist at the Los Angeles Daily News.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Lucy Nicholson, Reuters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              298 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 4, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigrants want land of opportunity

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 971 words


I am an American citizen of Hispanic descent. I was born in the greatest country
in the world. I was born in a poor neighborhood, and I lived in the projects
until age 15. My mother, a naturalized citizen, is from Mexico. I have, by
birthright, what she struggled so hard to achieve: an opportunity to work hard
and obtain everything I want.

I am living the American Dream.

My mom instilled in me and my sister good morals, a healthy work ethic and the
desire for the best life has to offer. These were the forces that motivated her
to accept all of the challenges of being an immigrant.

My sister graduated from New York University's School of Law and became an
attorney. I started my business, with very little money, and now I am
responsible for six families who pay taxes and contribute to our economy every
day.

My success helps me to understand the attraction others have for America's land
of opportunity. I am just as American as my blue-eyed, blond-haired neighbors. I
was blessed with limitless opportunities.

During this time of heightened attention to immigration, let's keep in mind the
sacrifices made to afford a better life. Immigrants leave their wives, children,
mothers and fathers. They risk their lives for a small taste of what we have --
and it truly is a "small" taste.

Could we live in a place where every day we feared that our daily routine might
be disrupted at any time? Could we live where the only work opportunities open
to us are jobs most don't want?

Immigrants don't come to the USA to abuse the benefits this country has to
offer. No, they are willing to endure abuse and substandard treatment for a
small taste of the American Dream. They also would gladly pay taxes and
contribute their small salaries for the opportunity to work and improve living
standards for their families.

Is it so difficult to embrace immigrants? Or is it just easier to use them to
make our lives more comfortable?

We want God's grace, but we refuse to help our brother. Let us all look into our
past before passing judgment on today's immigration situation.

Jesse Valdez

Houston

Wrong side of debate

It is wrong to put the national anthem in Spanish. It is wrong to say you want
to be an American while also flying the flag of the country you came from.

It is also wrong to hold rallies in order to persuade American politicians to
vote on laws that will give you amnesty while you file paperwork to allow you to
remain in this country.

It is wrong for employers to hire people they know are not legally in this
country. It is wrong for employers to pay illegal immigrants sub-par wages
because they know illegal immigrants won't complain.

It is wrong that American politicians are more concerned about getting
re-elected than about what is best for America and Americans.

It is wrong that the Mexican government supports the Mexican immigrants in their
quest to become semi-legal residents in this country. If that happens, then
those people are no longer an issue to the Mexican government.

I harbor no ill feelings concerning anyone who comes to the USA through proper
channels, but I think it's wrong to enter any country illegally and then expect
to be admitted because you have been an illegal immigrant for several years.
Such an attempt is a slap in the face to the many immigrants who obey laws.

Paul Uhlman

Miamisburg, Ohio

Consider complexities

I am a German citizen and have been living in the USA since 1999. I came here
for an internship, was offered a permanent position and decided to stay.

My fiancee followed, and we married in 2000 and moved to the suburbs. My wife
and I now have two beautiful children. Both of our kids are dual citizens.

I am here on an H1-B visa, a temporary "license" to live and work in the USA,
granted for a maximum of six years. I persuaded my employer to file an
application for permanent residence -- getting a green card -- which starts with
labor certification. That application was submitted two years ago, and we have
not heard anything yet.

Even after certification is granted, it will take at least another year or two
to receive my green card.

Immigration is a lot more complex than Mexicans crossing illegally at the Texas
border. There are a lot of people in this country, here legally, who hold
foreign passports. I speak the language like a native, and I hold a master's
degree from a local university. I love the American culture and the way of life.
I pay taxes and volunteer in the Civil Air Patrol.

I do not understand why I have to wait years to establish permanent residence
after having lived in the USA legally for a long time, while Congress debates
granting amnesty and permanent residence to illegal immigrants.

A temporary guest-worker program for laborers and a permanent residence program
that rewards a qualified person's desirable attributes, such as education, job
and language skills, can be a solution.

Markus Decker

Keller, Texas

The American way, please

America is for Americans.

America doesn't care about one's nationality. First, become a legal citizen.
Learn our language, which is English. Learn our customs. Learn our laws, which
every American must follow.

The government is to blame for the current state of the country. If our
governing officials had done their jobs and enforced our immigration laws on the
books, this likely would be a non-issue .

To the government: Fix the problem now instead of dragging this debate out.

To illegal immigrants: Become legalized or leave.

To legalized immigrants: Learn the American way.

Our way has been working fine for many decades. We don't need to change our way
of life.

We also don't need a Spanish version of the national anthem. Americans are fond
of the English version we have.

To be called an American is something special, and we like America the way it
has always been -- for Americans.

Paul Touranjoe

Syracuse, N.Y.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, John Zich, USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              299 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                               May 5, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigrants welcome -- if they are legal

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 1210 words


I don't believe there are any more generous-spirited people than the people of
the USA. What has made our country great and unique is the rich ethnic makeup of
citizens and how we have welcomed the masses.

But virtually all immigrants who arrived here before 1960 did so under our laws.
One of the first things those immigrants did was to embrace our language and
culture and to strive to become citizens of our great country. They wanted to
give to this nation.

The general impression given by the recent demonstrators, however, is that
English is the last thing on their list of priorities, and that they feel we
should blindly open our borders. Does anyone remember 9/11? It also seems that
we're expected to open our wallets to support anyone who enters -- even
illegally ("More than million rally for rights," News, Tuesday).

I welcome anyone from another country who wishes to become a good, tax-paying
U.S. citizen and who enters via the legal routes. But don't try to intimidate me
by pulling a work stoppage or demonstration. Don't sing our national anthem in a
foreign language to "strengthen your cause."

I find it arrogant that those who have entered illegally have the gall to demand
that we change our laws. If you don't want to become part of our culture and
language and give back to our nation, or to obey our laws -- including
immigration laws -- then don't come in.

William E. Walker

Centerville, Ohio

Consider contributions

I am traveling on business in the Midwest. While I was having breakfast, I heard
another patron say the most hurtful words:  "Illegal immigrants: What part of
'get out of our country' do you not understand?" I abandoned my breakfast intact
and left in a hurry, trying to see through my tears.

I am married to an illegal immigrant, but I must have forgotten that fact while
we paid our taxes and he woke up every morning to do a job that not one American
citizen wants to do.

Don't get me wrong: He is a small-business owner and makes a lot more money than
I do, even though I am an American citizen. But his job is a lot harder than
mine, and I have yet to see an American do what he does.

Nearly everything we touch on a daily basis, whether it's food or clothes, is
likely there because of illegal immigrants' work. They left their families and
place of origin to look for financial opportunity -- but in the end, they
benefit all of us.

Let's say that illegal immigrants left for good. Are you going to leave your job
and go to the fields to pick the tomatoes or work in the factories? Maybe you
would, but how much would you want to get paid?

Can we all afford an increase in the price of food and textiles?

I do believe that illegal immigrants who get in trouble with the law should be
deported, as should those few who choose not to work. But most illegal
immigrants are not in this wonderful country to take anyone's job or request any
financial benefits from the government. They are here to do those jobs that
nobody wants, for a price none of us can afford to be paid. At the end, this
benefits you and me, with lower prices at our table and less labor on our backs.

Yamil Fuentes

Homestead, Fla.

Angry aftermath

Well, the illegal alien marches are over and America is still standing -- a bit
angrier. Angry over a group of lawbreakers and their misguided supporters with
the audacity to protest in our streets. Angry at seeing the fruit of this and
other administrations' inaction over the past 30 years, which has allowed the
number of illegals to swell to millions. Angry at seeing our tax dollars fund
the education of children of illegals and pay for their medical care, while U.S.
citizens are denied. Angry at how they thumb their noses at our laws, crossing
our borders  and evading our limited border patrol, then setting up their homes
and businesses, taking over various areas of the USA. Angry with the felons and
gang members among them, spreading violence and drugs and the unscreened sick.
All this, while Homeland Security worries about Code Yellow.

Yes, the march is over, but the lawlessness continues. Fake driver's licenses,
fake green cards, fake Social Security cards -- fake citizens, fake patriotism.
Some exploit the sympathy of well-meaning and religious Americans who take in
the poor and weary.

Meanwhile, the righteous immigrants who went through proper channels, diligently
waiting and working to gain acceptance  are befuddled. American citizens are
befuddled in general. Where are the immigration agents? Where are the police?
Who is enforcing the laws? Did they take a vacation? The answer is: Yes, a paid
vacation.

Douglas Roy

Lexington, Ky.

Reflect on history

While growing up in Green Bay, Wis., I spent my early teenage summers working at
the Door County fruit farms, owned by my two uncles.

That was more than 45 years ago. Then, as now, the fruit (cherries, apples and
strawberries) was picked, sorted, packed and trucked by Mexican migrant workers.
It was backbreaking work. And it is very safe to say that mine was the only
blue-eyed, blond-haired face in the orchard.

I have only fond memories of those days. While the migrants spoke very little
English, we were always able to communicate. They were wonderful, hard-working
people. They were honest, friendly and always helpful. During their short stay
near Baileys Harbor, they patronized local businesses and attended local
churches.

My grandfather started those farms 40 years earlier. So, from the 1920s until
the advent of mechanized harvesting, Door County depended upon Mexican migrant
workers. Were they undocumented? Probably.

Today, the xenophobes would have us believe Mexican workers pose an imminent
danger. Nonsense and shame on them. Are we so shortsighted that we are ignorant
of our own history?

Paul Bartlett

Eagan, Minn.

Facts, not emotions

The media are having another field day with the immigration demonstrations. Many
journalists encourage their audience to express their views as to whether they
have sympathy or resentment toward the protesters.

Sympathy? These people do not want sympathy; they want fair solutions.
Resentment? Against whom? Twelve million people who take the low-paying jobs
that we Americans are too proud to do? Resentment, if any, should be directed
toward those U.S. employers who break the law, with impunity, and encourage
these people to cross our borders for what is, in essence, poverty-inducing
wages.

This is not an emotional problem. It is close to a national crisis, and the news
media should focus on the facts:

*We have up to 12 million people already in this country, whose workers make up
nearly 5% of our workforce, providing us with cheap food and janitorial
services.

While we presently enjoy these low costs, the ultimate costs are already
beginning to show up in our educational, medical and welfare taxes.  Ultimate
costs are impossible to even estimate.

*Our economy could not survive if, as some are proposing, we deport this labor
force.

We need to face the economic reality of what we have created over the years and
find a way to legalize those who are truly productive. We need to get them into
our legal and tax system because the vast majority of these people have been
law-abiding and indicate they wish to participate in more than just our labor
needs.

Jack Wood

Fort Wayne, Ind.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Morry Gash, AP
PHOTO, B/W, Tim Dillon, USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              300 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                               May 5, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Passing revamp of immigration may be easy part;
Big challenges lie in making overhaul work

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 651 words


WASHINGTON -- Congress is having a difficult time reaching an agreement on how
to overhaul the nation's immigration and border security systems. Finding the
money, manpower and technology to make a fix work may be even more difficult.

An immigration enforcement bill the House of Representatives passed in December
would cost $1.9 billion by 2010, according to the Congressional Budget Office.
That does not include a proposed 700-mile fence along the U.S.-Mexican border.
The CBO is still trying to compute the cost.

There are no cost estimates yet for Senate proposals. There is evidence that the
plans for keeping tabs on U.S. visitors and securing the nation's borders will
be challenging:

*Securing the borders. In 2004, President Bush signed a law doubling the size of
the Border Patrol, but his administration and Congress have not met the goal of
adding 2,000 agents a year. Funding was available for 1,500 new agents this
year; Bush has requested funds for another 1,500 starting Oct. 1.

More agents add costs. Last month, the Senate approved nearly $2 billion in
emergency funding to meet unforeseen needs created by the new hires.

"We found ... that the infrastructure to support these people wasn't there,"
said Senate Budget Chairman Judd Gregg, R-N.H.

*Verifying workers. The House would require the nation's approximately 5.6
million employers to check whether people on their payrolls can legally work in
the USA. A pilot program used by about 2,300 employers is running into problems
because of data entry delays, a 2005 Government Accountability Office audit
found. Providing counterfeit-proof Social Security cards to make employee
verification easier could cost billions, the GAO said.

*Adding guest workers. The Senate is considering measures that would more than
triple the number of foreign temporary workers permitted in the USA to more than
500,000. The existing program, which admitted about 143,000 guest workers in
2004, is plagued with delays. "It has been common for employers to wait three,
four and five weeks to get the workers they need," says Craig Regelbrugge of the
American Nursery and Landscape Association.

There is also no system to ensure temporary workers leave the USA when their
visas expire. Congress ordered such a program to be in place by the end of last
year, but the Department of Homeland Security is still trying to decide the best
way to track exits.

"I don't have a timeline on when we'll make the final call," DHS spokesman
Jarrod Agen said.

*Employer penalties. Lawmakers and experts on all sides of the immigration
debate agree the best way to discourage illegal immigration is to make it harder
for employers to hire people who cannot legally work in the USA. "Border
enforcement by itself cannot effectively stem the flow of illegal immigrants,"
Barry Chiswick, a University of Illinois economist, told the Senate Judiciary
Committee.

The total number of citations issued against employers for hiring undocumented
workers in 2004: three. Richard Stana, who audits immigration programs for the
GAO, says that is the main reason a landmark 1986 bill to end illegal
immigration flopped. "They never fully funded enforcement," he says.

*Legal immigration. The Senate Judiciary Committee's immigration bill calls for
increasing the number of people who can legally immigrate by at least 700,000
annually. But the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service is having trouble
keeping up with the current number of legal applicants. Spokesman Chris Bentley
says the agency is trying to eliminate a backlog of 647,000 applications for
permanent residency by the year's end.

Advocates of revamping immigration laws say it's impossible to estimate the
price tag, but it will be worth it to curb the number of people who come to the
USA illegally.

"There are huge unknowns in the new legislation," says James Holt, an
agricultural economist who consults on immigration issues.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W
PHOTO, B/W

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              301 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                               May 8, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Europe widens playing field;
Financial markets get bigger role amid tougher U.S. regulations

BYLINE: Jeffrey Stinson

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 918 words


LONDON -- Move over New York. London and Europe are elbowing in on Wall Street
and its dominance as a global financial center.

Tougher U.S. regulations following the collapse of Enron are making New York
less attractive to foreign and domestic companies seeking capital. And tighter
immigration rules following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks make New York less
welcoming to financial firms and their clients and staff.

At the same time, London and Europe are close to some emerging markets and are
enjoying lower interest rates. The relaxation of economic and immigration
borders in the European Union has stimulated foreign mergers and acquisitions,
and made London, Amsterdam and Brussels more attractive to a highly skilled
financial workforce.

A less-stringent regulatory atmosphere across the Atlantic is attracting capital
and emerging companies that seek it.

Last year, for instance, London and European exchanges offered more initial
public stock offerings in both the number of issuances and in dollar amounts
than did U.S. exchanges.

"In London and Europe, the equity culture is high and doing well," says Joseph
Quinlan, chief market strategist for Bank of America's global wealth and
investment management division. "All the talk about Europe turning its back on
globalization is wrong."

U.S. firms look overseas

New York has taken notice.

Nasdaq last month bought 15% of the London Stock Exchange after dropping a bid
to take it over. Last week, it announced it is raising its stake to 18.7%. The
New York Stock Exchange has shown interest in Euronext, Europe's biggest
exchange, or other of the 14 exchanges in Europe.

"There is a wave of large U.S. banks and senior U.S. executives moving to
London," says a study out this month by IBM's Institute for Business Value,
which examines trends it sees in global capital markets in the next decade.

U.S. companies looking for capital are looking across the Atlantic, too.

One of them is Medafor, a Minneapolis-based firm that has patented a process for
accelerating blood clotting during surgery and is awaiting approval by the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration.

Medafor is seeking capital to market its process in the USA after FDA approval,
and it's not looking to Nasdaq, says board member and financial consultant
Gerald Van Eeckhout, CEO of Evergreen Enterprises in Evergreen, Colo.

Instead, he says, the company is looking at the London Stock Exchange's AIM
market for small and growing companies.

The reason Medafor is looking to AIM rather than Nasdaq is the onerous cost of
complying with the Sarbanes-Oxley accounting and reporting regulations that
Congress passed in response to Enron's collapse.

"We don't want to pay $500,000 to $1 million a year to satisfy the congressmen,"
Van Eeckhout says.

Van Eeckhout, who sits on the board of four other companies, says Medafor is not
alone among emerging U.S. companies.

PricewaterhouseCoopers' latest report on initial public offerings in Europe
found that five U.S. firms turned to London's AIM exchange for their IPOS in the
first quarter of this year.

The costs tied to Sarbanes-Oxley are "a tipping factor" for many firms to look
to London or European markets instead of staying home, Van Eeckhout says.

Many reasons for shift

But they aren't the sole reason that London and Europe are thriving as financial
centers and attracting foreign capital.

Richard Weaver, a partner in PricewaterhouseCoopers' London capital markets
group, says London and Europe's proximity to the developing economies of Eastern
Europe, Russia and former Soviet republics makes them the logical capital
markets to turn to.

The liberalizing economic climate across borders in the European Union has
prompted more cross-border mergers and acquisitions. Interest rates in Britain
and Europe are lower and have remained stable. Britain's benchmark short-term
rate is 4.5%.

The European Central Bank's rate is at 2.5%. In the USA, the Federal Reserve's
target for short-term interest rates is 4.75%.

Economic activity in London, especially, is attracting traders, bankers, brokers
and accountants. "There is also an influx of skilled workers, such as
mathematicians and others with complex financial and actuarial skills, as the
demand for these skills soars from the growing number of London-based hedge
funds," the IBM report says. With immigration across Europe relaxed, it's easier
for skilled workers to get to the financial centers.

Again, New York is paying attention, and U.S. financial houses are coming over,
too.

"U.S. firms have a very good market share in London," says Paul Barry in IBM's
financial markets sector in London. "This is a hot area to work in. They're also
doing well in Europe, but not as well as in the UK."

That doesn't mean that the lights will be turned off on Wall Street any time
soon. New York is home to the world's biggest banks and world's leading finance
firms. Its exchanges list some of the world's biggest companies.

Nobody says that London and Europe are threatening to overtake New York as the
world's top financial center -- nor that its exchanges will overtake New York's
quickly. "I shouldn't think so," IBM's Barry says. "Not yet."

If London and Europe should cool, as U.S. markets did after the dot-com bust,
many Americans here now will be buying return tickets.

"I always see more Americans in London when times are good," says American
Eleanor Hope-Bell, 31, at Barclays Global Investors, who has worked here the
last seven years. "When it turns, then they all go and pack in a matter of
minutes."

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Adrienne Lewis, USA TODAY, Source:
PricewaterhouseCoopers, IPO Watch Europe (BAR GRAPH)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              302 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 17, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Mexicans see insult, danger in border plan

BYLINE: Monica Campbell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 562 words


MEXICO CITY -- The border-security plan President Bush announced Monday as part
of his immigration agenda has made him few friends here.

Alfredo Martinez, 56, a tomato seller at an open-air market, shook his head when
asked about Bush's plan to send 6,000 National Guard troops to help police the
2,000-mile-long U.S.-Mexico border.

His 22-year-old son crossed the border illegally last year and now sends money
home every month from his job in a New York City deli. "I don't think he'll be
able to come back and visit for a while," Martinez said. "It's a shame. There
should be a way to recognize the work we do up north, a way to see us as
laborers and not delinquents."

His complaint was echoed by many Tuesday on the streets of Mexico's capital
city.

"I don't understand why the United States must take such a repressive attitude
toward us," said Agustin Melgar, 45, who works in the same open-air market as
Martinez near Chapultepec Park in the city center. "It's insulting. We all know
there's a mutual demand: The gringos need our cheap labor, and we want better
pay."

Ruben Aguilar, a spokesman for Mexican President Vicente Fox, said Monday that a
security-first policy at the border would not solve the problems created by
illegal immigration. Fox has said he prefers a plan that would offer some form
of legal status for all undocumented Mexicans now in the USA.

Rafael Fernandez de Castro, an international relations expert at the Autonomous
Technological Institute of Mexico, characterized the Mexican government's
response as muted. "The government here does not want to portray this as a big
setback for Mexico," he said. "But it clearly is. Mexico has been given the
stick, while the U.S. Congress gets the carrot."

The government began to change its message on Tuesday. Foreign Secretary Luis
Ernesto Derbez warned that the United States might face lawsuits if the
increased troop presence on the border resulted in human rights abuses. "If  we
see the National Guard starting to directly participate in detaining people ...
we would immediately start filing lawsuits through our consulates," he told
Radio Red, a Mexico City radio station.

Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, a former Mexico City mayor who is running for
president in July elections, said Tuesday that Fox's government  is "mostly
responsible. ... There are no jobs in Mexico, so people need to emigrate."

Felipe de Jesus Calderon Hinojosa, the presidential candidate of Fox's party,
said Monday that he understands the U.S. government's desire to protect its
borders, but adding troops there will only "increase the social and human costs
for immigrants."

He was referring to the possibility that hardening the border will force
migrants to try to cross at more remote and dangerous points, especially the
vast deserts of Arizona and New Mexico. In 2005, 463 migrants died crossing the
U.S.-Mexico border, according to the Latin America Working Group, a human rights
organization based in Washington.

"We realize that the discussion over how to manage the border has now turned
into a win-lose game between the Republicans and Democrats," said Humberto
Garza, an expert on Mexican foreign relations at the College of Mexico. "But
it's an insult to Mexicans. This discussion clearly lacks foresight. It ignores
the fact that no matter how tight you make the border, people will still find a
way to cross."

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              303 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 18, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Adding Guard troops to borders is 'right action'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 484 words


President Bush is taking the right action by calling for National Guard troops
along our borders.

I am from New Mexico, and I have a great admiration for immigrants, but the
security of our country comes first ("Bush plan calls for thousands of Guard
troops along border," News, Tuesday).

Given the immigration situation in this country, potential terrorists could
infiltrate our borders and attack from within -- and we don't want, nor can we
afford, another 9/11.

Let's do whatever it takes to secure our borders and to make the USA a safer
place to live.

Kim Voigt

Cincinnati, Iowa

Go after employers

I think the president's desire to address this country's immigration problems is
good. But I don't think the solution should be sending our National Guard
personnel to man our borders. Instead, we should be going after unscrupulous
employers who pay peanuts to hard-working immigrants and offer no benefits.

How could this have gone on for so long in the USA?

In addition to addressing the way businesses aggravate the country's immigration
woes, we should work with the Mexican government to rid it of corruption and
raise that country's standard of living.

Pam Demmitt

Mishawaka, Ind.

American sellout

I think it's a sad day for this country when we realize that our president and
every member of Congress have sold out the American people.

I have supported this president through thick and thin, but Monday night's
address convinced me that he, like every other politician in Washington, is
concerned only about grabbing votes and not backing a plan that will really
work.

The Democrats are no better. They complain about every issue, not offering any
type of constructive plan of their own. We need leadership that provides
policies that will secure the USA for the long term and stop all this lip
service. Both parties need to stop catering to the vocal minority and get back
to doing what's right.

If we upset Mexico or any other country by doing what is right for our country,
so be it. Freedom is not free, and if we do not stand firm and protect what is
good for the American people first and foremost, then the America that we have
known will exist no more.

David Barton

Daytona Beach, Fla.

Correction long overdue

I watched the president's address Monday night on immigration reform. He laid
out an interesting proposal -- a plan that I believe is somewhat middle ground
and fair.

This is an issue that requires the courage to do what is right for the country
as a whole, to be fair to people who have come here legally and to preserve our
way of life.

As President Bush said, we need to secure our borders and enforce the law.
People who come have to learn English and adapt to our culture.

I doubt there is any other country on earth that would allow immigration
problems to escalate as we have in the USA. So again, it is high time Washington
does something to correct the situation.

David Searles

Brownsburg, Ind.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Victor Calzada, El Paso Times, via AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              304 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 18, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

L.A. confronts Asian family abuse;
7 deaths in Korean community prompt calls to end 'huge social stigma' for men
seeking help

BYLINE: Martin Kasindorf

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 1019 words


LOS ANGELES -- Seven deaths within one week in spasms of family violence have
plunged this city's Koreatown into questioning its immigrant culture of
stoically bearing the stresses of adjusting to American life.

Three Korean-born men allegedly killed spouses or children, and in two cases
killed themselves, police reports say. The killings April 2-9 echo
murder-suicides in recent years among immigrant Chinese and Filipinos in
California and among Laotian Hmong refugees in California, Minnesota and
Wisconsin.

Mental health professionals are searching for explanations. Many say that
traditional Asian values of patriarchy and reticence may make these immigrant
families more vulnerable to murder and suicide when they encounter setbacks than
groups from other countries.

Among fathers emigrating from Asia, "there's a mentality of, 'If I'm a failure,
I make my whole family look bad, and we're all in this together, for better or
for worse,'" says Helen Hsu, a psychologist with Asian Community Mental Health
Services in Oakland. "And there's a huge social stigma in a man seeking help,
telling people he's having family problems or he's depressed."

In most Asian cultures, "people try to deal with problems ourselves or within
the family," says Alice Lai-Bitker, a Chinese-American and a member of the
Alameda County, Calif., Board of Supervisors. "If you're an immigrant, you have
added stress. Some of the populations come from war-torn countries. Cambodians,
Laotians, Hmong had tremendous trauma before they got here."

Family violence has been a problem in Asian-American immigrant neighborhoods for
years, says Howard Kim, director of Korean Community Services here. Still, the
bloodshed last month "came as a great shock to all Korean families," he says.
"It just gave us this chilled feeling."

According to the 2000 Census, 78% of the 1.2 million Korean-Americans counted
that year were immigrants. Korean-born fathers struggle silently to meet social
expectations that "they'll work hard to get rich in business and their kids will
succeed," says David Cha, 30, a youth pastor at Oriental Mission Church here.

'Shame and guilt'

"If things don't fall into place in that magic formula, there's a lot of shame
and guilt," Cha says. "The culture says the parents must provide for their kids.
Suicidally, they may think, 'I'm not going to be a fit parent. No one will be
left to care for the kids, so I'm going to take them with me.'"

The April incidents:

*Prosecutors allege Dae Kwon Yun, 54, was distraught after his
garment-manufacturing business failed and his wife filed for divorce. He
allegedly locked himself, daughter Ashley, 11, and son Alexander, 10, in his SUV
and set it afire. Yun stumbled out. The children died. Yun, still hospitalized
with burns, has been charged with murder.

*Bong Joo Lee, 40, shot and killed his 5-year-old daughter, Iris, then killed
himself, says Sgt. Bill Megenney of the Fontana, Calif., police. Lee had been
unemployed and owed a $200,000 gambling debt, Megenney says.

*Sang In Kim, 55, fatally shot his wife, Young Ok, 50, and their son, Matthew,
8, and wounded their 16-year-old daughter before killing himself. Police haven't
disclosed a motive.

In reaction, the Korean American Family Service Center started a telephone
hotline that is getting "two or three calls a day from families asking about
some help and prevention," executive director Peter Chang says. At a news
conference, Los Angeles County Supervisor Yvonne Burke advised immigrants that
by dialing 211 they can get foreign-language referrals to social services.
(Dialing 211 for referrals is available in six California counties, parts of 37
other states and Washington, D.C.)

In churchgoing Koreatown, some social service providers are criticizing pastors
for ignoring domestic violence. "One of our problems is that the church wants to
take care of the church stuff, not the community stuff," Chang says.

Role-reversal

Violence isn't the pastors' fault, Kim says. "By long custom in Korea, there is
a lack of opening yourself up to other people," he says.

Other Asian-American groups have worked to shore up community mental-health
services after incidents like these:

*Charles Loo, 50, a wealthy businessman who had emigrated in 1995 from
Singapore, died in May 2005 while on life support after he tried to hang himself
in the San Mateo County, Calif., jail. Loo was awaiting trial on a charge of
fatally stabbing his 17-year-old son before stabbing himself. Loo's mother told
the Oakland Tribune he had never learned English, had no friends and felt
"isolated."

*Four Filipinos were found dead in a San Francisco murder-suicide in 1999.
Lorenzo Silva, 62, shot three neighbors he was friends with, police say. Silva
had been diagnosed with cancer and his wife had returned to the Philippines,
police say. Two murder-suicides in Seattle during the 1990s involved Filipino
couples.

*Police records show at least nine Hmong murder-suicides involving spouses or
children since 1998. In Oshkosh, Wis., on April 5, Yang Pao Lo, 37, fatally shot
his wife, Zia Yang, 36, who wanted a divorce. During an 11-hour standoff with
SWAT teams, the man killed himself, police say. The couple had seven children,
ages 4 to 17. In St. Paul in February, Kou Khang, 30, fatally stabbed his wife,
Joane, 25, and himself.

In Hmong communities, spousal violence is "this ongoing, rampant issue that
people just don't want to deal with," says Doua Thor, who is Hmong and executive
director of the Washington-based Southeast Asia Action Resource Center. "There
needs to be more community discussion on violence."

Role-reversal and loss of status for men are frequent problems as women quickly
learn English and take over family finances, Lai-Bitker says. "It seems to be
easier for females to adjust, to get jobs."

A Ford Foundation study in 2002 blamed the Hmong killings on "the changed
economic status of some Hmong women and the violent backlash by men who feel
they have 'lost control' of their women. ... Men use suicide killings as a
weapon to keep their wives in line by ... threatening: 'If you don't behave, the
whole family will die.'"

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, KNBC-TV
PHOTO, B/W, 2001 USA TODAY photo
PHOTO, B/W, Eun H. Lee
PHOTO, B/W

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              305 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 1, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

In defense of familia;
As immigrant-bashers turn to vile tactics and even violence, a backlash in the
Hispanic- American community will follow. In fact, I'm already seeing it.

BYLINE: Ruben Navarrette

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 790 words


As a Mexican-American, I'm hearing from a lot of U.S-born Hispanics who are
convinced that the immigration debate is a proxy for an assault on them, their
language and their culture. The Senate fed that perception last month when it
voted to declare English the "national language," and turned the debate over
immigration into a debate over language.

Correction: This was always a debate about language -- and culture and
ethnicity. The Senate just made it official.

For many Americans, the problem isn't just that people are coming into the
country illegally. It's that once they get here, these folks change their
surroundings, maintain their Spanish and transform Main Street into Little
Mexico. Those changes terrify many Americans, who complain about feeling like
visitors in their native land.

And how do they respond? A recent report by the Southern Poverty Law Center
found that tension over illegal immigration has contributed to a spike in hate
groups and hate crimes. In fact, says a spokesman for the center, the
immigration issue is a recruitment tool for racists and reactionaries.

Heated reactions

I could have told them that. As one of the few Hispanic syndicated columnists,
I'm treated like a pioata. There was the reader who accused me of supporting
"the Mexican invasion because you're Mexican" and the gentleman who suggested
that by supporting comprehensive reform, I was probably "protecting some
relatives."

There was even a woman who called to complain about a column I had written and
ended up screaming into the phone about how "you people never understand" the
immigration issue.

I understand this much: As the national mood on immigration reform turns vile
and even in some cases violent, there is the very real possibility of a backlash
by assimilated, U.S.-born Hispanics.

It makes sense. There is so much bad out there -- from death threats received by
California Lt. Gov. Cruz Bustamante and Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa,
to the deliberate burning of a Mexican restaurant near San Diego, to the beating
and sodomizing of a Hispanic youth in Houston by two young thugs who, according
to police, yelled racial slurs -- that it is bound to repel the good-hearted.

Recently, my cousin called me in a rage after stumbling on to a video game in
which players shoot Mexican immigrants crossing the border. The game refers to
some Mexicans as "breeders" and splatters blood when players hit their target.
Even as an assimilated Mexican-American with limited exposure to Mexico, my
cousin said, the ugliness of it made him want to defend Mexican immigrants just
as he would a member of his immediate family.

Other Mexican-Americans tell me the same thing. A lot of them use the same word:
defend. They want to defend immigrants.

Granted, 40 million Hispanics aren't monolithic. Note the emergence of You Don't
Speak for Me, a group of Hispanics who oppose illegal immigration. Also note
that in a poll last year by the Pew Hispanic Center, U.S-born Hispanics were
divided. Fifty-five percent said illegal immigrants help the economy by
providing low-cost labor, while 34% said they hurt the economy by driving down
wages.

Shifting attitudes

Here's the deal. The U.S-born Hispanic community is no different from the
American community. There are the extremes, but the majority of folks are in the
sensible center. Whenever someone does something dumb or hurtful, they recoil.
When protesters waved the Mexican flag, some folks in the middle moved to the
right. But now that they've read about hate crimes and racist video games and
English being declared the national language, some are likely to move to the
left and toward a greater identification with immigrants.

That's what I saw at a taping in Los Angeles of the 2006 ALMA awards, which
honor Hispanics in entertainment. In a 90-minute ceremony to be aired on ABC on
Monday, there were at least a dozen references to immigration and many
references by presenters to Mexican immigrants as familia (family). Actor Jimmy
Smits noted the irony of playing, on NBC's The West Wing, a Hispanic who gets
elected president while, as he put it, "out in the streets, my people were
yelling si se puede (yes, we can)."

I got stuck on the "my people." Smits isn't Mexican-American. His father was
born in the Dutch Suriname, in South America, and his mother is Puerto Rican. No
matter. In this fight, he identifies with Mexican immigrants.

Something significant is happening in the Hispanic community. People say the
immigration issue woke the Sleeping Giant. But mark my words: It's not just the
giant whom immigrant-bashers should worry about. It's his familia.

Ruben Navarrette is a member of the editorial board of The San Diego
Union-Tribune and a nationally syndicated columnist.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Sam Ward, USA TODAY (Illustration)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              306 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 6, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Witness to the American dream

BYLINE: Patrick Welsh

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 975 words


As a teacher in a diverse Virginia school system, I see the realities of
immigration each day in the classroom. What I see are students who are
motivated, reflecting the strong work ethic of their families. What I don't see
is a reason for America to fear their presence.

Until the early '80s, the central issue at T.C. Williams High School, where I
teach, was always this: How do we teach relatively well-off whites and
relatively poor blacks together without shortchanging or alienating either
group?

But while T.C. and the rest of the Alexandria, Va., school system wrestled with
the black-white issue, another challenge surfaced. A steady influx of Hispanic
students, many of them destitute Central Americans illiterate in their own
language, gradually transformed the complexion of the community.

With all the recent talk of immigration reform, one thing has become clear to
me: While Congress still must thrash out its differences on policy, I can put
real faces on this issue. Each day, I teach students who are immigrants,
probably legal and illegal, and I can tell you that when I look into the eyes of
these kids, I do not feel the sort of fear or loathing that some Americans have
voiced. Instead, I see on their part a yearning to learn and a motivation to
succeed that I don't always see in my American-born students.

Certainly, we cannot open the door to every immigrant who wants to make this
country home. But for those already here, I hope they will be given the
opportunity to stay. These students not only enrich our society, but they also
bring parts of the world closer together.

Magnet for immigrants

Since the early '70s, Alexandria, right across the river from Washington, D.C.,
has been a magnet for immigrants from trouble spots all over the world. At T.C.,
Alexandria's only high school, I have taught kids from such places as Korea,
Iran, Vietnam, Afghanistan and Ethiopia. Getting to know these kids has given
teachers and students a sense of being connected to the larger world. Though
many Americans had no idea where Afghanistan was prior to the 9/11 terrorist
attacks, it was very familiar to me. For years, I had been teaching students
whose parents had escaped from the cities of Kabul and Kandahar after the
Russian invasion in 1979.

But I'd be less than honest if I didn't say that as a teacher I am well aware of
the enormous social problems many immigrant families have. In some cases,
parents come here alone before sending for their children. When the kids finally
do arrive, often as teenagers, they hardly know their parents and are
rebellious. More common is that both parents work two jobs to survive; as a
result, the kids are often left on their own. Some students are lured into
gangs. Then there is the high rate of teen pregnancy, which leads many girls to
drop out of school and become a burden on social services.

In the past two decades, the Hispanic population has been the only one in the
school system to grow: from 5.3% in 1983 to 26.7% today. One section of the city
is now called Chirilagua, after a province in El Salvador.

Alexandria, which is known for its liberal politics, reacted to this growth with
disbelief, shock and anger. Many residents blamed city officials for allowing
immigrant families, many of them illegal, to overcrowd apartments. Blacks
primarily saw Hispanics as cutting into their jobs and benefits.

Still, what I've witnessed are the virtues of the majority of these immigrant
families. Many of them have family values and a work ethic that would shame many
American families. While my middle-class students work for luxuries -- to pay
for the tanning salon or the latest cellphone or hot accessory for their car --
most Hispanic kids I see work to support their families here or those who were
left back in their native country. While middle-class neighborhoods are still
dormant at 5 a.m., Chirilagua is bustling as men go out to work construction
throughout the area.

Successful transitions

Many immigrant families have successfully assimilated into society over
generations. I recently read in our local newspaper the name of Ilryong Moon, a
Harvard graduate who is chairman of the Fairfax County, Va., school board. I
remembered him in my class as a 16-year-old, fresh from Korea and fiercely
determined to master English.

Victor Ignacio is a highly respected Alexandria police detective. His father
left the Dominican Republic to settle in America, and five years later sent for
Victor, then 12 years old, and the rest of the family.

Many of our school history books are filled with success stories of immigrants
who have made significant contributions to America. But there are still more
stories to be written. Take T.C. Williams senior Jeff Hernandez. He knows how
different his life would have been had his mother not left war-torn El Salvador
20 years ago and made the dangerous journey through Mexico to the California
border, where she slipped into the USA illegally. Eventually, she ended up as a
housekeeper and was sponsored for citizenship by her employers.

On the two trips he took to El Salvador, Jeff, who was born in the United
States, saw poverty that stunned him. That made him all the more determined to
live his mother's American dream. The captain of T.C. Williams' Virginia state
champion 4x400 relay team, Jeff will enter Virginia Commonwealth University in
the fall, the first member of his family to attend college.

The transformation that has taken place in Alexandria merely represents a
microcosm of what is going on across America today. As a teacher on one of the
frontlines where immigration is most visible, I can assure you we have nothing
to fear, and much to hope for, from these students and their families.

Patrick Welsh is an English teacher at T.C. Williams High School in Alexandria,
Va., and a member of USA TODAY's board of contributors.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Keith Simmons, USA TODAY (Illustration)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              307 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 8, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Reflections of a retired justice;
Sandra Day O'Connor says judicial independence is imperiled and electing judges
is not wise. The immigration debate? Spanish was her grandmother's first
language.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 1015 words


Sandra Day O'Connor retired from the U.S. Supreme Court in January after a
quarter-century  on the bench, where she was viewed in many cases as the pivotal
vote. In the ensuing months, the court has added two justices, judicial
independence has come under attack and critics have questioned the wisdom of
citing foreign court decisions in U.S. rulings. In the meantime, the immigration
debate has ignited legal challenges, protests and a political firestorm.
O'Connor, a border state native, discussed these and other issues with members
of USA TODAY's editorial board. Her comments were edited for length and clarity.

Q: The issue of judicial independence has been much in the news. How serious a
threat is such "court bashing" in the country today?

A: It's very serious. There were "Impeach Earl Warren" signs  in the western
United States when he was chief justice,  but it never amounted to anything
truly threatening.  But the concerns today are not only at the national but at
state levels. Have you watched what's happening in a proposal in South Dakota?
They're looking to remove all judicial immunity from judges for their judicial
decision-making and want to subject them to civil and criminal lawsuits for
their actions on the bench.  The sponsors want to take it elsewhere.

Q: What might be the effect of such a proposal?

A: That would be a remarkable change in direction from what the framers of our
Constitution intended. They  went to enormous effort  to set up three separate
branches of government -- each with power to affect the other two but providing
for independence of each of the branches, in effect letting them do their jobs.

Q: Do you see other instances today in which the separation of powers has been
breached?

A: Some leaders in Congress have expressed concerns about the service of the
search warrant in the office of a member of Congress (Rep. William Jefferson,
D-La.) as being a breach. Similarly, the notion of cutting budgets of courts,
impeaching a judge who would cite a foreign judgment in an opinion, stripping
federal courts of jurisdiction over whole categories of cases because of
concerns about individual decisions. These are not the types of actions the
framers would have envisioned as consistent with judicial independence.

Q: Do you think money has polluted the process in some states in which judges
are elected?

A: In some states, very much. I came from Arizona, which provided for the
election of all judges. I did not think that was a good system because when
judges ran they had to spend money for advertising and campaigning to win the
nomination and then the election. Where did that money come from? It came from
lawyers. And what lawyers? The lawyers most likely to appear before them. I
think that's a lousy system.

Q: Did you do anything to change that system?

A: I served in the Legislature, and I tried to get the Legislature to amend
Arizona's constitution to put before the people a system of merit selection of
judges. I could not get that out of the House of Representatives. I could get it
out of the Senate. So I helped organize an initiative drive to get voters'
signatures to put it on the ballot. We got enough signatures, we put it on the
ballot, and I had decided that I was going to try to be a judge, and I ran for
office as a trial judge in the same election the same year that that ballot went
before the people. And it passed by a very narrow margin.

Q: Should  U.S. courts pay attention to what courts around the world are
deciding?

A: We share a common law system developed originally in Great Britain, so it
might be of some interest to know how British courts are dealing with the same
issues that we're addressing. Does it govern what we do? No. Do their decisions
speak authoritatively to the meaning of our Constitution? No. Might they say
something sometimes in an opinion that we say, "Oh, well that's an interesting
argument"? Now, if you read it in a judicial opinion of another country, is it
somehow off limits to look at it? I don't think so.

Q: The confirmation process for the court is  extremely contentious. How did it
get that way?

A: There is an intersection of the political process with the judicial. And the
selection process the framers installed makes the political process involved at
the selection stage. That was a choice the framers made. The thing that's
different today is television coverage of the hearings. That is why it is so
contentious today. Without that gavel-to-gavel coverage, believe me, it probably
would be a different scene.

Q: Do you think it would be a good idea to have cameras in the courtroom?

A: You can (already) listen to the arguments. And every word is written down, so
you can read it. I think (cameras are) going to be slow in coming. Courts don't
like to make changes very rapidly, and that would be a massive change for how
the courts operate.

Q: Having grown up in El Paso and lived in Arizona,  how do you view the current
debate on immigration and the influence of Hispanics today?

A: In my part of the country, the Hispanic influence is enormous. I remember in
El Paso we would go across the border to Juarez all the time. My grandmother
grew up in northern Mexico because her father ran a freight service to the
mines. She spoke Spanish before she spoke English.  And we had lessons in
Spanish from kindergarten on. So in Arizona, I arranged to have each of our
children live for a short time during the summer with a Mexican family and work
on their Spanish and then bring the children of that family back to us for a
time so they could work on their English. This was a pattern of life.

Q: Do you agree with the  concern that immigrants are retaining too much of the
language and culture of their original country?

A: I do think it's helpful if people can learn the language effectively if
they're going to come live here. If I went to live in France, believe me, I'd
want to learn to speak French fluently. And I hope people coming to live here
want to learn to speak English fluently.

Q: How is retirement suiting you?

A: I need to retire from retirement. I'm too busy!

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, H. Darr Beiser, USA TODAY (3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              308 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 15, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

E pluribus pluribus?

BYLINE: Gary Bauer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 649 words


"Any man who says he is an American, but something else also, isn't an American
at all."

-- Theodore Roosevelt

While much of the immigration debate focuses on financial issues -- whether
illegal immigrants hurt or help the economy -- the missing link to understanding
Americans' anxiety over the issue is the reality that we are failing to build a
citizenry that loves America first. The unasked question is whether we are
building allegiance to anything other than the almighty dollar.

For much of our history, immigrants took their first steps onto American soil
understanding  that coming to this country meant pledging allegiance to one
nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. They were
enthusiastic about learning our language, our history, our laws and our
traditions. They recognized what it meant to become an American.

Today, hyphenated Americans put other countries and affiliations first, and they
drive a wedge into the heart of "one nation." A recent poll of Hispanics in
America by Investor's Business Daily shows that 64%  consider themselves "mostly
Hispanic," but that only 15% see themselves as "mostly American." The survey
further reveals that 31% speak "only Spanish" in the home, while just 6% speak
"only English." Finally, 69% of respondents said they lived in predominantly
Hispanic neighborhoods.

Even more distressing

While these data are troubling, they become downright distressing when one
considers that 27% of the survey sample had lived in the USA for more than 25
years, while only 15% lived here fewer than six years.

Whatever your opinion of amnesty and "guest worker" programs, the truth is that
for many Hispanics residing in the USA, the great metaphor of America as a
"melting pot"  has ceded to the notion of America as a "salad bowl" of mutually
exclusive groups.

If many immigrants are not assimilating, part of the blame lies with America's
academic and political elites. We live in an era where the Pledge of Allegiance
is under attack in many schools. Several schools banned the flying of U.S.
flags.

Today, multiculturalism is considered a civic virtue -- in which accepting
foreign traditions, values, laws and languages is put ahead of promoting
immigrants' integration into our society. When Hispanics can do so much of their
business in Spanish, vote in Spanish, take a driver's license exam in Spanish
and send their kids to bilingual public schools, what reason do they have to
learn English?

Our shared respect

The United States stands proudly as a nation of legal immigrants. This is not a
chance collection of separate peoples united merely by geography or economic
opportunity. Rather, this is a nation of citizens united in our shared respect
for the inviolable freedoms and rights found in our great documents. As Teddy
Roosevelt said, "We have room for but one flag ... but one language ... but one
sole loyalty and that is a loyalty to the American people."

A recent news report identified four U.S. servicemen who had died that day in
Iraq. Three of the four men had Hispanic surnames. By making the ultimate
sacrifice for their country, they represented the true embodiments of the
American ideal.

The unmentioned undercurrent in the immigration debate is the lack of
Americanization of those who come here unwilling to pledge allegiance to a new
flag, and the lack of effort by those in leadership to make one people out of
many -- E pluribus unum.

The term "earned citizenship" has been employed to describe proposals requiring
illegal immigrants to pay fines and back taxes before applying for legal status.
But if "earned citizenship" means anything, it surely means a commitment to
assimilating into the American way of life. It must mean joining together under
one flag, not just one currency.

Former presidential candidate Gary Bauer is president of American Values and
chairman of Campaign for Working Families.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Pool photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              309 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 15, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A tip of the cap to pro baseball

BYLINE: Tim Wendel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 976 words


Junior Noboa  stands in the shade of the first-base dugout and surveys his
baseball kingdom. The former second baseman for the Montreal Expos operates one
of the 30 or so baseball academies now in the Dominican Republic.

Establishments such as Noboa's are modeled, in large part, after Days Inns or
Holiday Inns.  The effect can be jarring. Dirt roads in the jungle dead-end at
vast complexes with emerald-green fields and residence hotels that would be at
home off any U.S. interstate.

"We try to make it as close as we can to what they'd find in America," Noboa
says. "If we don't, the odds of them making it aren't too high."

In the back-and-forth debate over immigration reform, one footnote likely to be
overlooked is the fact that Major League Baseball (MLB) has its own type of a
guest-worker program. Despite decades of frustration and failure, the national
pastime learned that an effective policy for immigrant labor not only made
business sense, it was good citizenship, too. The approach has allowed the sport
to foster young stars and a new fan base.

Often, baseball seems antiquated compared with the rest of popular culture.
American kids won't play the game because it isn't as high-paced as video games
or as cool as the sport du jour, basketball. But when it comes to demographics,
MLB surprisingly is cutting-edge.

This season, more than one quarter of the players on U.S. major-league teams are
foreign-born. At the minor-league level, overseas players make up 45% of the
roster openings, with the majority coming from the Dominican Republic, which is
the top exporter of baseball talent. Fans who might object to day laborers have
little problem cheering on immigrant stars. After all, MLB's attendance reached
an all-time high last season.

'A great boon'

"Without the influx of Latin players, we certainly wouldn't have 30 major-league
teams," Chicago White Sox executive Roland Hemond told The Kansas City Star. "So
they've been a great boon for our game, its growth in franchises as well as in
quality of play."

Almost sixty years ago, Jackie Robinson broke the color barrier in U.S. sports.
While the MLB didn't volunteer for the role, it did show the rest of the country
that black and white could not just get along, but could also work hand-in-hand
on the same team. A similar evolution continues today between white and brown.

But assimilation in baseball hasn't been easy. Soon after Robinson, Orestes
"Minnie" Minoso arrived from Cuba to play for the Chicago White Sox. Early on,
he faced many of the same biases and insults that plagued Robinson.

"When I played, I sometimes had to play the clown," he once told me. "I had to
listen and laugh, even if I was crying inside. But never did I let them see that
it bothered me."

In the early '60s, San Francisco Giants manager Alvin Dark declared that only
English would be spoken in the clubhouse and dugout. His edict very well might
have kept a team filled with Latino stars -- Orlando Cepeda, Juan Marichal, the
Alou brothers  -- from ever winning a World Series. In the hypercompetitive
world of professional sports, such division in a locker room is poison for team
chemistry.

Though that was four decades ago, today's immigration debate echoes similar
themes. Throughout this country's history, immigrants -- legal or not -- have
faced resentment for economic and cultural reasons.

"They take our jobs."

"They don't speak the language."

"They're changing our communities."

In fact, the Senate recently passed immigration legislation that declared
English to be the national language of the United States. Another measure
deemed it the "common unifying language." It can be, if used as a tool to bring
people together rather than a wedge to drive people apart. Unifying? Just ask
the Giants team of the early '60s.

Lessons for the rest

But baseball's own model of assimilation can provide good lessons for the nation
as a whole, even if they can't be duplicated on such a massive scale.

Major leaguers are afforded the same work permits reserved for internationally
recognized artists and entertainers. Today, many teams have bilingual coaches,
trainers and front office personnel from rookie ball on up to the majors. The
Cleveland Indians and New York Mets not only teach their top prospects English,
but they've also begun to send them to school in the Dominican Republic so the
prospects receive a high school education while they're playing for their
organizations.

"Even if they fail as ballplayers, they are given tools that enable them to go
on with life," says Alan Klein, author of Growing the Game: The Globalization of
Major League Baseball. "This isn't the case in other (U.S.) industries making
use of temporary workers."

So in today's game, these players fold into U.S. society -- whether they become
U.S. citizens or not. David "Big Papi" Ortiz  from the Dominican Republic has
become a folk hero in Boston. Another Dominican, Vladimir Guerrero, is a crowd
favorite in Southern California. In New York, Omar Minaya, the first Latino
general manager at the major-league level, has created "Los Mets," with Pedro
Martinez,  Carlos Beltran,  Carlos Delgado and Julio Franco.

Major League Baseball makes America accessible to these players, thus making
these players accessible to American fans.

If other industries dependent on immigrant labor -- in the agriculture and
construction trades, for instance -- would make even slight efforts to help
their workers assimilate, the benefits would flow through American society.

And then perhaps instead of two sides screaming at each other across a divide,
we could have a civilized debate about immigration reform -- regardless of what
language we're speaking.

Tim Wendel is a member of USA TODAY's board of contributors. His books include
The New Face of Baseball: The One-Hundred-Year Rise and Triumph of Latinos in
America's Favorite Sport.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Web Bryant, USA TODAY (Illustration)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              310 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 20, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigrants from India spread business success to homeland;
Nations' financial links on rise, merging 'cultures and creativity'

BYLINE: Edward Iwata

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1816 words


SANTA CLARA, Calif. -- When Silicon Valley entrepreneur Sabeer Bhatia was a kid
growing up in Bangalore, India, in the 1980s, his native country seemed eons
from evolving into an economic power.

Bhatia and his parents, a banker and a government bureaucrat, waited 10 years
before their house got a telephone line. Because of auto shortages, they waited
two years to buy a tiny Suzuki car. They shopped at small family stores with
limited goods.

Today, when Bhatia flies to India, he jets over an ancient land undergoing a
vast transformation. Some 100 million consumers carry cellphones. Automakers
sell everything from Ford Fusions to Rolls-Royce Phantoms. And shopping malls
are sprouting everywhere.

"Imagine, it used to be cause for celebration to get a phone line," said Bhatia,
a Stanford University graduate who co-founded the Hotmail e-mail service and
sold it to Microsoft for $400 million in 1997. "All of that is finally changing.
People are seeing the benefits of an open economy and consumerism."

Bhatia and many thousands of Indian immigrants with strong ties to the USA and
India are storming back to their ancestral homeland to cultivate business and
cut deals. With 1 billion people, a rising wave of consumers and annual economic
growth of 8% since 2004, India is the world's most promising economy after
China.

Indian engineers, executives and investors are launching start-ups in business
services, telecommunications, computers and software, manufacturing and other
sectors. They're paving the way for research and development centers. They're
encouraging foreign investment and pressing the Indian government  to continue
opening their markets to the world.

"Brick by brick, we are building an 8,000-mile bridge between the U.S. and
India," says Navneet Chugh, an attorney and founder of the Chugh Firm in Los
Angeles. He has strong business and charity ties to India.

The business growth between the two countries is gratifying to Chugh, who
immigrated to Los Angeles 25 years ago and earned an MBA from the University of
Southern California before starting his law firm.

Chugh grew up in a middle-class neighborhood of Nagpur, India, where his
parents' home overlooked a huge, smoke-covered shantytown. The shantytown had no
gas or electricity, and its 100,000 people lived in dwellings made of rusty tin
and dried cow dung.

If India's economy grows 10% a year for several years, Chugh says, it will
strengthen trade and investments between India and the USA while lifting
millions of Indians out of poverty. Chugh also is a trustee of the American
India Foundation, which donates millions of dollars a year to charities in
India.

"India is booming with cross-cultural development," says Chugh, who lives in the
Los Angeles suburb of Cerritos with his wife and two kids. "Indians and white
business people are bringing their cultures and creativity together."

The stronger U.S.-India business connection is also evident in venture capital.
When high-tech banker Ash Lilani took U.S. investors on their first trip to
Bangalore in 2003, barely a handful of U.S. venture firms were funding Indian
start-ups. Many investors held stereotypes of India as a home for cheap labor,
outsourcing and call centers.

Once on the ground, though, the U.S. investors realized that India was a
business gold mine. The country boasted top engineering and managerial talent,
an English-speaking workforce and a British-style legal and regulatory system.

Few differences

The investors found that doing business in a Bangalore office was no different
than in the USA, says Lilani, the head of SVB Global, the international
consulting arm of SVB Financial Group in Santa Clara, Calif.

Today, nearly every venture firm in Silicon Valley is funding young companies in
India. "The floodgates have opened," Lilani says.

Corporate India has been a sleeping economic giant for decades, but the pace of
U.S.-India business has especially quickened the past two or three years. Trade,
hotels, construction, transportation and financial and business services saw 10%
to 13% growth in the year ended March 31, India's Finance Ministry reports.

Trailing only China, India is the No. 2 most preferred country for foreign
investment, according to consulting firm A.T. Kearney, which surveys executives.
Last year, companies worldwide invested $5 billion into the former British
colony.

India's economic climate is heating up in:

*High-tech investments. Venture capital firms and private investors last year
poured $2.2 billion into 146 start-ups in India -- compared with $1.7 billion
invested in 71 deals in 2004, reports TSJ Media's Venture Intelligence India
Roundup. Not to be outdone, U.S. tech giants -- Texas Instruments, IBM, Intel,
Dell, Cisco Systems and others -- are investing billions of dollars in
start-ups, research and development centers and manufacturing sites across
India.

The most ambitious project may be "Nano City," a $10 billion, environmentally
sustainable development unveiled in April by entrepreneur Bhatia and the Haryana
state government in northern India. Modeled after Silicon Valley, Nano City will
feature R&D and educational centers and corporate offices for technology,
biosciences and other "knowledge industries."

"My goal is to build a model city of the future for the whole world," says
Bhatia, who hopes Nano City will be completed in 10 years.

*Mergers and acquisitions. India-based companies signed off on $15 billion in
mergers in 2005, according to consulting firm Grant Thornton, which predicts an
M&A boom in the next three years.

More midsize and small deals are being struck between U.S. and Indian firms. At
least a dozen mergers, mostly private, were signed the past year, says Chugh,
whose law firm worked on several of the deals.

In a public deal last April, Helios & Matheson Information Technology, a health
care software firm in India, bought a $9 million controlling stake in TACT, a
business outsourcing firm in New York that's traded on Nasdaq.

"Thousands of Indians have gone back to India armed with the ways of capitalism
and the stock market," Chugh says, "and they're finding fertile ground to make
deals."

*Manufacturing. As labor costs rise in China, more global corporations based in
the USA, Asia and Europe -- General Motors, Dell, Nokia, Hyundai, Limited Brands
and others -- are also turning to India as a manufacturing base.

India's manufacturing sector is growing at a 9% annual clip, says India's
Finance Ministry.

Industry in India is getting government help from 70 "special economic zones"
that give tax breaks to manufacturers. The economic zones are similar to some
used successfully in China to boost business and trade two decades ago.

"Over the long term, India has a strong opportunity to overtake China on many
economic fronts," says Ng Buck-Seng, an analyst at IDC's Manufacturing Insights.

What's feeding the business and investment boom in India?

Since the early 1990s, economic reform and the lowering of trade barriers has
gradually led to more foreign investment and trade. India also is becoming a
society of middle-class consumers with more spending power than ever before.
Each year, the country's engineering and business schools -- including the elite
Indian Institute of Technology, known as the "MIT of India" -- churn out several
hundred thousand graduates who help lift India's economy.

Plus, the global network of Indian engineers and entrepreneurs here and in India
keeps getting stronger.  A business group called The Indus Entrepreneurs (TIE)
claims some 8,000 members, among them people who have launched 300 U.S. and
India-based firms that do business in both countries.

At a recent TIE conference in Silicon Valley, both Republican California Gov.
Arnold Schwarzenegger and Democratic National Committee Chairman Howard Dean
found time to speak to the several thousand in attendance.

In Silicon Valley, nearly 10% of the 4,000 high-tech firms launched from 1995 to
2000 were by Indians, says AnnaLee Saxenian, a UC Berkeley dean and author of
The New Argonauts, a book on Indian and Chinese entrepreneurs. Saxenian says the
number of Indian-run start-ups has risen since 2000.

Saxenian says Indian managers and engineers started their own firms a decade ago
because U.S. investors "treated them as outsiders" who lacked leadership skills
to run companies. Not anymore, she says. Today, every U.S. venture capital firm
is seeking Indians to run start-ups and to make business contacts in India.

Infrastructure woes still an issue

Economic nirvana hasn't arrived yet, though. India's biggest problem: an
infrastructure of clogged two-lane highways, crumbling sewers, rundown railways
and old airports and seaports.

Many regions -- including the hillside city of Bangalore, home to several
thousand tech and business-service firms -- suffer power blackouts and
horrendous traffic jams.

Last year, the government spent $24 billion upgrading India's infrastructure --
a long way from the $100 billion needed to sustain economic growth of 8% to 9%
in 2010,  according to Morgan Stanley.

Moreover, in a few years there may not be enough college-educated workers to
fill jobs in India's fast-growing economy. The McKinsey consulting firm and
technology trade group Nasscom project a shortfall of 500,000 by 2010.

Political uncertainty and government bureaucracy also could slow growth. While
India is a democracy, its economic reforms have sputtered through the years, and
foreigners are barred from or limited when investing in several industries,
including retail, textiles and telecom.

Meanwhile, some investors fear that India's Sensex stock market index, which has
hit record highs in recent months, is starting to look like the U.S. markets in
the late 1990s before the dot-com crash. Indian investment bankers reply that
India's companies -- unlike many failed U.S. Internet firms -- have real
revenues and earnings.

Beyond the uncertainties, India stands at the cusp of a surging global economy
-- "the forces of convergence that have led the world to one village, one
market, one audience," says United Nations Undersecretary General Shashi Tharoor
at the TIE conference.

Veteran Indian entrepreneurs are bullish on their homeland. Look at  Krishnam
Ganesh, who has launched several successful tech-related companies in India,
including TutorVista, an online tutoring service that uses India-based tutors
for U.S. students, from 6-year-old kids to business people.

TutorVista recently received $2 million from Sequoia Capital, a venture-capital
firm in Menlo Park, Calif., and Ganesh hopes to raise another $10 million to $15
million in the next year.

"India's economy is a launching pad for the U.S. and global markets," says
Ganesh, former CEO of Bharti British Telecom, a joint venture between British
Telecom and computer maker HCL. "It is possible now for many success stories to
be spawned in India. Business entrepreneurship is here to stay."

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Dan MacMedan, USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, WpN World Picture News

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              311 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 5, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A NATION OF 300 MILLION;
USA nears milestone as immigration, births and longevity swell the number of
Americans

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2118 words


The USA is closing in on a milestone that seemed unthinkable 25 years ago.
Sometime in mid-October, we will become a nation of 300 million Americans.

We will then embark on a relatively quick journey to 400 million. Target date:
around 2040.

How did this young country get so big so quickly? Immigration, longevity, a
relatively high birthrate and economic stability all have propelled the
phenomenal growth. The nation has added 100 million people since 1967 to become
the world's third-most-populous country, after China and India. It's growing
faster than any other industrialized nation.

The biggest driver of growth is immigration -- legal and illegal. About 53% of
the 100 million extra Americans are recent immigrants or their descendants,
according to Jeffrey Passel, demographer at the Pew Hispanic Center. Without
them, the USA would have about 250 million people today.

The newcomers have transformed an overwhelmingly white population of largely
European descent into a multicultural society that reflects every continent on
the globe. Some arrived as war refugees. Most came in search of better
opportunities in a country that has strong civil rights and a stable economy.
Once here, they had babies, which helped the nation maintain a birthrate that is
higher than that of Europe and Japan.

For a country that has equated growth with prosperity throughout much of its
history, 300 million is prompting soul-searching about everything from the
consumption of natural resources and sprawl to border control and traffic jams.
The Census Bureau's population clock will hit the momentous number barely a
month before midterm elections in which illegal immigration is a volatile issue.

Growth is visible

Half of Americans say their communities have grown a lot in the past five years,
but more than three-fourths say growth is a minor problem or no problem where
they live, according to a USA TODAY/Gallup Poll taken in early June. Yet more
than half say it will be a major problem for the country as a whole. Almost half
attribute population growth to immigrants.

Lee Atkinson, 57, lives in Chesapeake, a city in Virginia's fast-growing
Tidewater area near Norfolk and Virginia Beach. "The increase in people is
creating an employment problem and increased demand for social services, and I'm
not sure that the financial support is there," says Atkinson, owner of an
occupational safety consulting company.

He worries that services and infrastructure are not keeping pace with population
growth. "Nobody wants to build new highways. Nobody wants to maintain the ones
we've got. We don't want to spend any money on it. More people are going to
place more demands."

Oddly, most Americans don't have a clue how many people actually live in the USA
or how many are expected to. Twenty-nine percent guessed the population at 200
million or less, and 19% put it at 1 billion or more. Twelve percent came within
50 million of guessing correctly.

There might be more awareness by year's end. Hoopla is mounting around the 300
million event. Some baby-food marketers plan to use it in their marketing
campaigns. The Census Bureau and leading demographers are fielding calls from
media worldwide.

"The world is watching," says William Frey, demographer at the Brookings
Institution. He has gotten calls from British broadcasters asking which hospital
the 300 millionth American will be born in and from parenting magazines trying
to pinpoint the exact day of the event (Frey's estimate is Oct. 17).

Several publications want to know what race and ethnicity No. 300 million is
likely to be. There is no way to pinpoint that person because the number is an
estimate, not an exact accounting of the population. It could be a newborn. It
could be an immigrant entering the country.

Carl Haub, senior demographer at the non-profit Population Reference Bureau,
says a baby born in October probably will be white and not Hispanic because
births from non-Hispanic white women still account for the majority. Frey
disagrees. The elusive 300 millionth American is more likely to be Hispanic, he
says, because Hispanics accounted for almost half the population gains in the
past four years. "Eighteen percent of the gains are Anglos; the other 82% are
something else," he says.

On the brink of decline

The USA is alone among industrialized nations in its relatively rapid population
increase. The populations in Japan and Russia are expected to shrink almost
one-fourth by 2050. Germany, Italy and most European nations are not making
enough babies to keep their populations from sliding.

"There's a fertility malaise in (other) industrialized countries," Haub says.
"Europe and Japan and South Korea and Taiwan are getting desperate."

Women have to give birth to an average 2.1 babies to offset deaths and keep the
population even. The birthrate in Western Europe is 1.6. It's even lower -- 1.4
-- in Italy, Spain and other southern European countries.

Germany, where leaving children in day care is not socially embraced, is
proposing a family allowance that would pay mothers 67% of their partner's net
income up to 1,800 euros ($2,304) a month for up to a year after childbirth.

The USA would hardly grow in the next 50 years except for Hispanic immigrants,
who have a higher birthrate than non-Hispanic whites. White women, who give
birth to 56% of the children born here, have an average 1.85 babies. Blacks
average about two, Asians 1.9 and Hispanics 2.8. The overall birthrate is
slightly above two.

When the U.S. population was at 200 million in 1967, women had an average of
three children, and the government expected the population to hit 300 million as
early as 1990. By the 1980s, the birthrate had tumbled, and government estimates
projected that the country wouldn't get there until the 2020s. The flow of
immigrants turned those projections on their heads.

Why would a country want more babies? For industrialized nations, numbers mean
economic and cultural power. To remain globally competitive, countries need
workers. In addition to injecting innovation in the workplace, the young help
meet the needs of the elderly through the taxes they pay, Haub says.

The nation is getting older as the oldest boomers turn 60 this year. People also
are living longer. Since 1970, life expectancy at birth jumped about seven years
to a record 77.9 years. The share of the population age 65 or older grew from
9.9% to 12.4%. The median age is up from 28.1 to 36.2 years.

Some experts argue that more people cause more problems. Brian Dixon, director
of government relations for Population Connection, a grass-roots advocacy group
formerly called Zero Population Growth, says the challenges for nations facing
little growth or actual declines aren't as difficult as those confronting the
USA.

"Figuring out a pension system has to be easier than dealing with the health
crisis of polluted air or how we're going to address increases in childhood
asthma," he says. "Is there going to be enough open space, enough parkland,
enough housing, enough jobs? What does it mean for our quality of life?"

Immigration should not be viewed as a domestic issue, Dixon says. "Immigration
is really foreign policy," he says. "What can the U.S. do to ease problems in
the developing world that drive people to leave?" The goal, he says, should be
to keep people in their native lands.

The United States all but shut its door to immigrants in the 1920s after a
record wave of immigration that lasted about 30 years. The Depression and World
War II followed. Then baby boomers were born from 1946 to 1964, arriving in a
mostly white country that had very few recent immigrants.

Everything changed when President Lyndon Johnson signed the Immigration and
Naturalization Act of 1965. The policy opened U.S. shores to the Third World.
"That was probably the single most important demographic event of the last 50
years," Haub says.

The act had less to do with attracting more immigrants than keeping immigration
laws in line with the civil rights movement. The Civil Rights Act of 1964 and
the Voting Rights Act of 1965 were designed to stop racial and ethnic
discrimination -- inherent in past immigration laws, which set quotas based on
national origins. After 1965, race, religion, color and national origin were
disregarded.

The end of the Vietnam War brought Asian refugees. In 1964, the United States
ended the bracero program, which had allowed Mexican farmworkers to come to this
nation to work and return home. By 1970, the Mexican economy had nosedived and
more Mexicans came to stay -- many illegally. Without the influx, Passel says,
diversity would never have reached current levels: 15% Hispanic and 5% Asian
compared with 5% Hispanic and 1% Asian in 1970.

"Our growth, were it not for that, would be barely enough to keep population
constant," says Joel Darmstadter, senior fellow at Resources for the Future, a
non-partisan research group that specializes in natural resources. His research
shows that prosperity puts more pressure on natural resources than sheer
population growth.

"It's not immigrants who are going to buy those expensive houses in Phoenix or
Tucson," Darmstadter says. "To view immigration as the heavy in the problems of
water use or energy use is a copout."

Plenty of space

It's difficult to imagine the country running out of space when there is open
desert as far as the eye can see 30 minutes south or west of Phoenix.

The town of Maricopa, Ariz., is a dot in the breathtaking expanse of the Sonoran
Desert. Not long ago, farmer Kelly Anderson, its first mayor, could rumble down
state Highway 347 in his tractor, meet a buddy and hang out in the middle of the
two-lane road for a chat and a beer without disrupting traffic.

Now, growth is galloping toward it across hundreds of square miles of arid soil,
cotton fields and cattle feed lots. Maricopa's population has quadrupled since
2000 to more than 17,000. It's expected to reach 116,000 -- Phoenix was that
size in the early 1950s -- by 2010 and top 300,000 by 2025.

Non-native palm trees appear on the horizon in every direction, a telltale sign
of approaching subdivisions. Tanker trucks douse construction sites with water
to dampen dust stirred up by bulldozers, a reminder of the natural resources
gobbled up by growth.

What's happening in once-remote Maricopa is replicated across the country. The
USA is getting more crowded -- 83 persons per square mile in 2004 vs. 70.3 in
1990 -- but it's far less dense than other nations such as France (287), China
(361), Germany (609) and Japan (835). Arizona is getting denser: 50.5 in 2004
vs. 32.3 in 1990. That's still far less than other parts of the country,
including California (230), Pennsylvania (277) and New Jersey (1,173).

Some regions haven't been touched by the nation's population surge. Parts of
states in the Great Plains have suffered population losses and bemoan the exodus
of their young. Nebraska's density (22.7) and North Dakota's (9.2) have barely
budged this decade.

"We're still using a fraction of the national space," says Robert Lang, director
of the Metropolitan Institute at Virginia Tech. "By 2050, the settled space will
be more developed. A lot of places are literally out of land. ... They're having
to go up rather than out, but there'll still be the Great Plains and vast
stretches of the Intermountain West."

Fueled by a sunny climate, plentiful land and cheaper housing, fast and furious
growth has been a fact of life around Phoenix for decades.

Maricopa, Casa Grande, Goodyear, Buckeye and other small towns on the edge of
the metro area are going through the same kind of boom that transformed
closer-in suburbs such as Chandler and Glendale from specks on the map in 1970
to cities whose populations top 200,000 today.

"I've lived in northeast Pennsylvania, and declining growth is worse than rapid
growth," says Jack Tomasik, planning director for the Central Arizona
Association of Governments. "But rapid growth definitely has its drawbacks."

The boomtowns hope to create the infrastructure needed to sustain growth,
something they've seen some bigger neighbors struggle with.

That's why Buckeye, Goodyear, Litchfield Park and Avondale joined forces and put
up money to speed the widening of I-10, the first time Arizona communities have
done such a thing, Buckeye Mayor Bobby Bryant says. They're drafting plans to
lure jobs and businesses, not just housing.

"You need to accept growth," Casa Grande Mayor Charles Walton says. "It's coming
whether you want it or not."

Yet a future of whirlwind growth nags at him. He worries that it ultimately will
harm the quality of life of future generations.

"I think I can tolerate it in my lifetime," he says, "but I feel very sorry for
my grandchildren."

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Frank Pompa, USA TODAY, Source: Census Bureau
USA TODAY research (Line graph)
GRAPHIC, Color, Frank Pompa, USA TODAY, Reported by Paul Overberg and Melanie
Eversley
coordinated by Chris Fruitrich, Source: Census Bureau
Population Reference Bureau and World Book (Maps, bar graphs, pie chart)
GRAPHIC, Color, Frank Pompa, USA TODAY, Source: USA TODAY/Gallup Poll of 1,002
people nationwide, June 9-11 (Bar graph)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              312 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 7, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

These tours explore harsher side of reality

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 5D

LENGTH: 542 words


Ever wonder what it's  like for illegal immigrants crossing the border from
Mexico? Now you can see for yourself on a Global Exchange "reality tour" of the
region, one of a growing number of offerings from human rights groups that hope
to show a more troubling side of globalization. Four "delegations," as the
non-profit trips usually are called, and the groups that offer them:

Mexico: Beyond Borders: Health, Labor and Environment

Length: Four days

Organizer: Global Exchange

Details: The non-profit human rights group takes participants on a tour of the
U.S.-Mexican border around Tijuana,  showing working conditions and evidence of
environmental degradation. Stops include a foreign-owned  maquiladora assembly
factory on the Mexico side of the border to see working conditions  and a
meeting with women's rights groups to learn about  abuses. Global Exchange's
Reality Tour division offers similar trips to more than two dozen other troubled
areas, including Afghanistan, Guatemala and Iran.

Departs: Sept. 1

Cost: $750

Information: 800-497-1994, ext. 242; realitytours.org

U.S. Policy in Colombia:

Drugs, Military Aid and Human Rights

Length: 11 days

Organizer: Witness for Peace

Details: The faith-based non-profit organization aims to show  the brutal
effects of four decades of turmoil in Colombia driven by conflict between
leftist guerillas, right-wing paramilitary forces and the national army. The
tour will include visits to  communities affected by U.S. military aid and
counter-narcotics efforts, along with meetings with  U.S. and Colombian
government officials. Witness for Peace also offers trips to Nicaragua,
Venezuela and Mexico with a goal of providing U.S. citizens with the tools they
need to create positive social, political and economic change through
non-violent advocacy and action.

Departs: Aug. 15

Cost: $1,275

Information: 202-547-6112; witnessforpeace.org

Sexual Rights and Social Justice in South America

Length: 7 days

Organizer: MADRE

Details: The women's human rights organization visits Buenos Aires during the
Gay Pride celebration to examine the successes and challenges of South America's
burgeoning sexual rights movement. Participants will meet with lesbian, gay,
faith-based and community activists, and explore the relationship of sexual
rights to other social movements gaining momentum throughout South America.
MADRE, which works with women's community-based groups worldwide, also offers
Voyages with a Vision trips to Guatemala, Mexico, Nicaragua, Peru and Kenya.
They are designed as an opportunity  to learn about women's human rights
struggles.

Departs: Nov. 2 (tentative)

Cost: $2,900 (estimated), including airfare from New York.

Information: 212-627-0444; madre.org

Building Peaceful Resistance to the "Other War": A Human Rights Delegation to
Colombia

Length: 15 days

Organizer: Fellowship of Reconciliation

Details: The non-profit human rights group offers trips to examine the ongoing
drug war, U.S. military intervention and the growing peaceful resistance
movement. Meet with indigenous, Afro-Colombian, youth and women's organizations,
as well as Colombian and U.S. government officials, and travel to the Peace
Community of San Jose de Apartado.

Departs: Aug. 6

Cost: $1,300

Information: 415-495-6334; forusa.org.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, 2004 photo by Dario Lopez-Mills, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              313 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 13, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Spanish DJs take lead role in politics

BYLINE: Martin Kasindorf

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 391 words


LOS ANGELES -- A band of Spanish-language radio disc jockeys got much of the
credit when 500,000 demonstrators rallied at City Hall on March 25 over
immigration proposals in Congress.

DJs "are a huge way of communicating to the masses," says Mike Garcia, president
of Service Employees International Union Local 877 here. "They have access to so
many more people than we can get," says Stephanie Kotin of the Los Angeles-based
Central American Resource Center. "People came from Chicago, Arizona, all over
California."

Best-known of the radio personalities who have taken a lead role in immigration
politics is Renan Almendarez Coello, 51, who is syndicated in 13 cities from Los
Angeles to Greenville, S.C. He calls himself El Cucuy, the Boogeyman. His
frequent, on-air calls for listeners to jump into politics are echoed on rival
stations by other disc jockeys, who have nicknames such as El Piolin
(Tweetybird) and El Mandril (the Baboon).

Almendarez Coello has built an influence akin to Oprah's on a Howard Stern-style
format of racy jokes. His daily show, top-rated in the Hispanic market here, is
the second-highest-rated of all programs.

Almendarez Coello, born in Honduras, says he entered the USA illegally in 1984.
"I was a mojado, a wetback," he says. A radio station later arranged a work
permit. He became a citizen in 1992 and has three U.S.-born daughters. "Now I'm
still a wetback, but the wetness is sweat," he jokes.

His El Cucuy Foundation, which has raised money for Mexican earthquake victims,
is part of the We Are America Alliance that is seeking 1 million new voters and
citizens among immigrants. California's Latino Legislative Caucus in Sacramento
is trying to raise $700,000 for El Cucuy's non-partisan voter registration
efforts, says state Assembly Speaker Fabian Nuoez,  a Democrat.

Almendarez Coello says he'll take his luxury bus with built-in broadcast studio
around California and Texas to talk up the cause.

"I don't put ideas in people's heads or emotions in their hearts," he says. "The
only thing I tell them is, 'Let's vote,' and 'Study the laws well.'"

Listeners are receptive, he says, because what they perceive as attacks on
immigrants by some members of Congress are scaring them into taking action.
These potential new voters are "like pigeons," Almendarez Coello says. "If you
don't shoot, they don't fly."

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              314 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 13, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

4 races that Hispanics are watching

BYLINE: Martin Kasindorf

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 326 words


Some congressional races in which Hispanic voters could make a difference this
year:

*Rep. David Dreier, R-Calif., who voted for the House immigration bill and whose
district has become more Hispanic, was re-elected with only a 52% majority in
2004. "His name keeps coming up," says Angelica Salas, executive director of the
Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles. Amy Walter, who analyzes
House races for The Cook Political Report, says Dreier's close call last time
was because he had alienated conservatives. Now "he has no significant opponent,
has a lot of money and has mended fences with conservatives," Walter says.

*Rep. Jim Kolbe, R-Ariz., is stepping down. His district in the Tucson suburbs
has 15% Hispanic population. A front-runner in the September GOP primary is
Randy Graf, a conservative who is strongly anti-illegal-immigration. "I could
see Latinos getting up off their chairs" to oppose Graf, says Larry Sabato,
director of the University of Virginia's Center for Politics.

*Sen. Jon Kyl, R-Ariz., seeking a third term, takes a harder line on immigration
than Democratic challenger Jim Pederson. Hispanics are 28% of Arizona's
population, 13% of voters. Raising the Hispanic vote by 5% since Kyl last ran in
2000 "could turn a leaning-Republican seat into a race that could go to the
wire," says Sergio Bendixen, a Miami-based Democratic pollster who specializes
in surveying Hispanics.

*Rep. John Salazar, D-Colo., won with a scant 50.6% in 2004 in a
Republican-leaning district. In voting for the House bill, Salazar "did not vote
in favor of immigrants," Salas says. Hispanics are 19% of the voting-age
population in his district. Salazar says he has "mixed feelings" about the House
bill and voted for it "to move the debate along" although he opposes its
provisions to make illegal immigration a felony and to build a 700-mile border
fence. His younger brother, Ken, is in the U.S. Senate and supports the
president's plan.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Reuters
PHOTO, B/W, AP
PHOTO, B/W
PHOTO, B/W, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              315 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 13, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigrant groups' aim: Turn marchers to voters;
Hispanics, Koreans, others hope to steer the recent debate by flooding polls

BYLINE: Martin Kasindorf

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1824 words


LOS ANGELES -- The promise was splashed across signs that hundreds of thousands
of immigrants carried in marches this spring: Hoy marchamos, maoana votamos.

The message in Spanish to Congress that "today we march, tomorrow we vote" was
as American as balloons popping at a political convention.

For organizers of those nationwide demonstrations over changes to immigration
law, maoana dawns with the Nov. 7 elections. Whatever action Congress may take,
activists are pledging to mobilize 1 million new voters from newcomers to the
USA: Hispanics, mostly, but also Koreans in Los Angeles, Hmong in Minnesota,
Irish in New York City.

The "democracy summer" drive started July 1 by the We Are America Alliance
offers voting and citizenship services to immigrants.

The alliance estimates that the nation's immigrant population represents an
untapped resource of 12.4 million potential new voters. According to a report
prepared from U.S. government statistics and released last month by the
alliance, they include: 9.4 million foreign-born residents eligible to become
citizens; 1.9 million children of immigrants, ages 18-24, who have not yet
registered to vote, and another 1.1 million children of immigrants who will
become old enough to vote by the 2008 presidential election.

Applications for citizenship, up nearly 20% over last year, are a sign of
immigrants' growing determination to counter anti-immigrant legislation and
rhetoric, organizers of the drive say.

"Our community will turn out when they are angry. And our community is very
angry," says Cristina Lopez, deputy executive director of the Center for
Community Change.

"The marches made us visible," says Renan Almendarez Coello, 51, a Spanish radio
disc jockey known as El Cucuy (the Boogeyman), who is broadcasting appeals to
register and vote. "Now, with the vote, we make ourselves present."

We Are America -- an alliance of immigrant-rights groups, labor unions, Catholic
bishops and DJs such as El Cucuy -- helped organize rallies in many cities in
March, April and May that drew tens of thousands of people. On May 1, more than
a half-million people marched in Los Angeles and 400,000 in Chicago.

For decades, established organizations such as the Southwest Voter Registration
Education Project have been initiating immigrant and native-born Hispanics into
the democratic process. The political impact of these registration drives has
been hard to discern because Hispanics have not voted as a bloc.

Now, as immigration stands front and center as a contentious national issue, We
Are America is adding a new dimension: a drive to unite diverse ethnic groups to
play a greater political role. Also new is the involvement of charities that
have little experience in politics and usually focus on helping immigrants with
legal advice or housing.

The immigrant-rights coalition opposes a House bill passed in December that
would make illegal immigration a felony and would require a 700-mile fence along
the U.S.-Mexican border. We Are America favors a Senate bill, passed in May,
that combines tougher controls on borders and employers with a "guest worker"
program and a path to citizenship for most of the estimated 12 million
immigrants illegally in the USA.

The two houses of Congress must reconcile their differences before passing a
bill that the president would sign into law. Negotiating a final bill could be
delayed until after Election Day in November.

Hispanics 'are energized now'

How much impact We Are America will have in November is a subject of
disagreement.

For Hispanics, turning out to vote has nothing to do with the specific bill
Congress may eventually pass, says Sergio Bendixen, a Miami-based Democratic
pollster. "This is about whether Hispanics are welcome, accepted and respected.
They hear talk of ... whether the Hispanic culture is ruining the United States.
They are energized now."

Rep. Henry Bonilla, R-Texas, who voted for the House bill and whose district
already has 44% Hispanic voter registration, says he's not worried about a surge
of new registrants punishing him for his vote. "Every other year there's someone
that comes up with some threat or scare tactic," he says. "I've been through
seven elections. You listen to these things, and usually within a month they
fade away."

Rep. Tom Tancredo, a Colorado Republican who is vocal about cracking down on
illegal immigration, says a display of immigrant voting clout could backfire.
"It could be a rallying cry used by people on our side to show why every
American who believes it's important to secure the border should look at what
the other side is doing, and get out and vote."

At least 30 states this year have taken steps to crack down on illegal
immigrants. Colorado, in a special legislative session that ended Monday,
adopted a package of bills supported by the governor that would force a million
people receiving state or federal aid to verify citizenship. Georgia enacted a
law in April that will require contractors doing business with state or local
governments to prove new workers are citizens.

California saw what can happen when foreign-born voters feel under attack. In
1994, Californians approved Proposition 187, endorsed by Republican Gov. Pete
Wilson and later overturned in court, which would have denied a variety of state
benefits to illegal immigrants.

In reaction to Proposition 187, California State Assembly Speaker Fabian Nuoez
says, naturalizations of Mexican-born California residents surged more than
tenfold from 14,824 in 1994 to 151,959 in 1996. Nationally, "the big Prop 187
surge" resulted in 1.1 million more Hispanic registered voters in 1996 than in
1994, says Antonio Gonzalez of the Southwest Voter Registration Education
Project.

"People decided after '94 they were going to lose Social Security, Medicare,
maybe even be asked to leave the country, if they didn't become citizens,"
Bendixen says. About 90% of the new Hispanic voters in California registered as
Democrats and made California "a bluer state" to this day, he says.

Nuoez credits that upheaval for elevating him and other Hispanic Democrats,
including Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa. "Now we can take this
California experiment and move it across the country," Nuoez says.

Cecilia Muooz, vice president of the National Council of La Raza, says: "The
potential for impact is greater now because Latinos are now a bigger presence
across the country. It's not just a few states anymore. ... People understand
this debate isn't going away until there is some immigration reform. If I were a
member of Congress, I would be very anxious about approaching the voters
empty-handed."

Gonzalez says the sponsor of the House bill, Rep. F. James Sensenbrenner,
R-Wis., "is the new Pete Wilson" and will inspire at least 500,000 more
Hispanics to go to the polls in November.

"What Republicans are looking at is a national (Proposition) 187 moment," says
Eliseo Medina, vice president of the 1.8-million-member Service Employees
International Union (SEIU). "The question is, did they learn anything from
California? Or are they going to repeat the lessons of the past?"

Why drive may fall short

The impact of new immigrant voters this fall could fall short for several
reasons:

*Legal restrictions. Labor unions, such as the SEIU, can be partisan, but
hundreds of other groups in We Are America are non-profits that could lose
tax-exempt status by endorsing or openly opposing candidates. The groups,
plunging into elections for the first time, are expecting extra scrutiny, says
Angelica Salas, executive director of the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights
of Los Angeles.

*Money. We Are America has opened centers in churches, union halls and community
centers, mostly in California, New York, Texas, Illinois and Arizona, says
Deepak Bhargava of the Center for Community Change.

Immigrants who are citizens can register at the centers to vote in the November
elections. People who have been legal residents for five years can fill out
forms to start the citizenship process with hopes of voting in 2008, says Eun
Sook Lee, executive director of the National Korean American Service and
Education Consortium.

The alliance needs to raise $20 million to register and mobilize 1million new
voters, Gonzalez says. It's "a tall order" but can be done if unions and
Spanish-language TV networks ante up, he says.

*Resistant audiences. Whether native- or foreign-born, Hispanics and
Asian-Americans have low turnout at the polls. In 2004, 67% of voting-age white
citizens and 60% of voting-eligible African-Americans voted, but only 47% of
Hispanics and 44% of Asian-Americans did.

*Few targets. "There are very few congressional seats where the member takes an
anti-immigrant stand and they have a large Latino immigrant constituency," says
Matt Barreto, a University of Washington political scientist. Sensenbrenner's
House district, for example, is only 2.2% Hispanic.

The "overwhelming majority" of the nation's 9.3 million Hispanic registered
voters "don't have anybody to backlash against," Barreto says. "If you're mad at
Sensenbrenner, what do you do -- move into his district?"

Tancredo says he is feeling no heat in his suburban Denver district, which is
5.7% Hispanic. "I'm sure there are some of my colleagues who feel more insecure
in that regard," he says. "To those who are getting a little weak-kneed about
this, I counsel that Hispanics do not vote monolithically."

Tancredo points out that Arizona's Proposition 200, which passed in 2004 and
denied state benefits to illegal immigrants, got 47% of the Hispanic vote.

Republicans have a successful record of competing for Hispanic votes. The Bush
and Kerry campaigns in 2004 battled over a potential Hispanic swing vote in
Arizona, New Mexico, Nevada and Florida. Bush won all four states.

Larry Sabato, director of the University of Virginia's Center for Politics, is
skeptical of We Are America. "Even if they registered a million voters and could
get them to the polls, most of these voters are going to be in places where they
will have no impact whatever," Sabato says. "There will be a tiny number in a
handful of places where it could make a difference."

Still, the SEIU's Medina says, "There are 10 or 15 districts where there are
enough Latino voters where you can make a difference."

Medina says the big impact of registering new voters won't be felt until 2008.
We Are America wants "a big impact nationally" in 2008, not just in California,
Texas and Florida, but in emerging "big immigrant states," including North
Carolina and Georgia, he says.

The long-term battle isn't merely about immigration, Medina says. "We know we're
not going to have a success with health access issues or wages or workers'
rights unless we can change the electorate.

"Just winning an immigration reform (law) is not a solution, because there are
millions of Americans living in poverty. The real solution is a living wage,
affording a home. That's the American dream."

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Bob Riha Jr., USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Bob Riha Jr., USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              316 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 21, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Is the Catholic Church pro-immigrant? You bet.;
Its stance is in line with the history and tradition of the faith

BYLINE: Paulette Chu Miniter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 1276 words


The Catholic Church -- an unrelenting opponent of abortion and homosexuality and
troubled by its own priest-abuse scandals -- has been called many things, but
fashionable isn't often among them. Yet fashion is why some critics now
speculate the church has involved itself in today's third rail of politics:
immigration reform. The chorus has been steady and building. A sampling:

*Rep. Pete King, R-N.Y.,  a Roman Catholic and chairman of the House of
Representatives' Homeland Security Committee, told Fox's Bill O'Reilly earlier
this year,  "This has become the politically correct tune. ... Too many people
in the Catholic Church have signed onto this. It's fashionable."

*Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., a leading opponent of illegal immigration, has
blamed the church's stance on "left-leaning religious activists."

*CNN's Lou Dobbs has accused the church of avidly looking south of the border
just "to add a few folks to those pews."

Where does the church stand on the current debate? While the Vatican has
articulated a broad vision of immigration through the years, it has largely
deferred to the bishops' conferences in each country on specific public policy
efforts. In the USA, the church favors the Senate's more moderate legislation
over the House's heavy-handed enforcement-only approach. Both bills are stalled,
but immigration is expected to be a prominent issue once Congress returns from
its summer recess.

And by 2020, the church projects that more than half of its members will have
Spanish surnames.

While Tancredo Republicans and Dobbs protectionists speculate that the church
wants immigration reform simply because it is  fashionable politics or is a way
to put more people in the pews, there is a much larger and longer standing
Catholic case for migration. The U.S. Catholic Church was founded by and for
immigrants, and it sees today's nativist grumblings as the same that confronted
the American church in its earliest years.

"We are relearning what it means to be an immigrant church," says Mark Franken,
head of migration and refugee services for the U.S. Conference of Catholic
Bishops (USCCB). "There are just a lot of people unaware of both the theological
dimension for migration, and also our history in this country."

Brought to America by Spanish and French explorers, Catholicism accounted for 1%
of the population in the 13 colonies in 1776, according to the Archdiocese of
St. Louis. By the end of the 19th century, the Catholic population had swelled,
and anti-immigrant sentiment had emerged as Irish and other newcomers had
dramatically changed the church's face. In 1920, three of four U.S. Catholics
were immigrants, and it is for these immigrants that the church created its vast
network of schools, charities and hospitals.

Today, the Catholic Church is America's largest with 69 million members, roughly
four times the size of the second-largest, the Southern Baptist Convention. It
credits the vast majority of its growth in the USA over the past four decades to
this nation's ever-increasing Hispanic population.

For the church, the migrant's plight is a universal one tracing back to the Holy
Family. Pope Pius XII, in 1952, declared the Holy Family of Jesus, Mary and
Joseph to be the archetype of every refugee family. He based this on their
flight into Egypt, calling them "the models and protectors of every migrant,
alien and refugee of whatever kind who, whether compelled by fear of persecution
or by want, is forced to leave his native land, his beloved parents and
relatives, his close friends, and to seek a foreign soil."

The church has emphasized the duty of Christians to "welcome the stranger,"
citing the commandment in the book of Leviticus  that "you shall treat the
stranger no differently than the natives born among you." The church also points
to Jesus' description of the final judgment, when those who welcomed him in the
form of a stranger inherit the kingdom of heaven.

"The biblical tradition puts the migrant and exile at the very center of
concern. Therefore, we, as believers and followers of Jesus, can do no less,"
the USCCB's Franken told a Lutheran gathering in 2004.

Even the church's language is rooted in migration. The word "parishioner," for
instance, is related to the Greek word paroikos, which means "wayfarer" or
"sojourner." A parish, then, is a community of migrants, and migration itself is
a metaphor for humanity, as all people pass through life on the way to their
final destination back to God.

Consistent advocacy

The bishops' call for "just and humane" immigration reform is no different from
what the church's leaders have advocated: from Pope John XXIII -- who said,
"Every human being has the right to freedom of movement" -- to Pope John Paul
II, who in an annual message for World Migration Day in 1995 said, "The illegal
migrant comes before us like that 'stranger' in whom Jesus asks to be
recognized," and Catholics must help these strangers "whatever their legal
status with regard to state law."

If the Catholic Church has wound up on the politically correct side of today's
debate, it certainly took a more principled and traditional route than its
skeptics avow.

Paulette Chu Miniter lives in New York and is a fellow at the Phillips
Foundation, a non-profit public affairs organization.
Immigration, Catholicism and America

1600s: In original English colonies, Roman Catholics are persecuted for their
beliefs.

1632: King Charles I issues a charter to Cecilius Calvert, baron of Baltimore,
to settle Maryland. Calvert encourages religious toleration for all Christians,
permitting Catholics to practice freely.

1704: Anti-Catholic legislation is enacted in Maryland with the aim of
restricting the work of Jesuits.

1776: Catholics make up only 1% of the colonial population.

1820-1920: 4.3 million largely Irish Catholic immigrants settle in the USA. More
than 1.5 million German Catholics immigrate to the country.

1832: U.S. Congress chooses Catholic priest as its chaplain.

1845: Irish immigration surges amid Ireland's potato blight.

1880-1920: Millions of Italians -- nearly all Catholic -- immigrate to the USA.

1880-1930: More than 2 million Polish immigrants, the majority Catholic, enter
the USA.

1906: Catholics, 17% of the U.S. population, are the country's largest religious
denomination.

1910: Start of Mexican Revolution prompts more than 680,000 Mexicans to enter
the USA over decades.

1928: Alfred E. Smith becomes the first Catholic presidential candidate.

1940-60: More than 545,000 Puerto Ricans move to the U.S. mainland.

1952: Pope Pius XII issues Exsul Familia (Families in Exile), the "Magna Carta
for Migrants." In it, the pope says: "The emigre Holy Family of Nazareth,
fleeing into Egypt, is the archetype of every refugee family."

1960: John F. Kennedy is elected as the first Catholic U.S. president.

1970s:  Hispanics from war-torn Central American nations seek haven in the USA.
Exodus continues into the '90s.

1972: U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops (USCCB) sponsors the I Encuentro
Nacional Hispano de Pastoral, a nationwide gathering designed to help Hispanics
share ideas to help their communities.

1999: USCCB reports that since 1960, the Catholic Church has grown by 71%,
largely because of Hispanic influx.

2003: Census reports Hispanic Americans have overtaken African-Americans as the
nation's largest minority community.

2005: U.S. bishops launch national campaign to expand and strengthen immigrant
rights.

2006: The Catholic Church lends a voice to the immigration  debate. Priests and
parishioners advocate legalization for illegal immigrants. Catholics make up 23%
of U.S. population, according to USCCB.

USA TODAY research by Victoria Shapiro

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Web Bryant, USA TODAY (Illustration)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              317 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 29, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Making sense of immigration politics;
Why are the House and Senate bills worlds apart? It's as simple as one
(constituencies), two (term lengths), three (influence of minority parties).

BYLINE: Ross K. Baker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 928 words


We have become accustomed to seeing the big political battles fought between
partisan or ideological trench lines. Name an issue -- abortion, flag
desecration, same-sex marriage,  the Iraq war -- and you will see the vast bulk
of Democrats on one side and a pretty solid GOP phalanx on the other. This fits
nicely with the neat red-blue division of states so beloved by the people who do
TV election coverage graphics.

But on immigration reform, a chasm of another kind has eclipsed this. It is
between the House and the Senate, and while partisanship has an indirect
influence, its impact is almost strictly within Republican ranks, between GOP
House members on the south side of the Capitol and Republican senators on the
north.

The House-Senate split has produced rival immigration bills that are starkly
different. There are three reasons for this disparity: the very different
constituencies represented by the 100 senators and the 435 House members, the
varying terms of senators and House members, and the greater influence the
minority party enjoys in the Senate.

House districts, with about 700,000 residents, can be remarkably homogeneous
political entities, especially when it comes to what proportion of those
residents are Democrats and what percentage are Republicans. Here we encounter
the most naked act of legal political manipulation in U.S. politics: the
gerrymander.

Stacking the cards

Drawing the electoral maps of states for the advantage of one party or the other
-- depending on which party controls the state legislature and the governorship
-- is a hallowed practice that takes place every 10 years as a consequence of
the Census. Recently, the U.S. Supreme Court gave its benediction to conducting
this remapping even more frequently. However frequently the congressional
district lines are redrawn, the effect in most states is to make it a cinch that
one party will always prevail.

Partisanship often serves as a surrogate for any number of social
characteristics. Accordingly, you often find solidly Republican districts in the
distant suburbs of large cities, in rural areas, or in places of great
affluence. These districts usually have few minority residents.

In contrast, the district in which it is a cinch that a Democrat will win will
be urban and have lots of minority and low-income people. A Republican
representing a typical GOP House district, even in the areas where the influx of
Latino immigrants has been greatest, might have very few Latino voters.
Non-citizens do not vote, and members of Congress respond with greatest alacrity
to the demands of those who do.

Senators represent more diverse constituencies. Few states are as unbalanced in
partisan terms as is the typical congressional district.

So while Massachusetts is the archetypal "blue" state, it has a Republican
governor. "Red" Georgia numbers six Democrats in its congressional delegation.
Many senators, moreover, Republicans and Democrats alike, have sizable numbers
of Latino voters and immigrants of many origins. States are diverse; House
districts can be remarkably homogeneous, and the very homogeneity of some House
districts represented by Republicans has led them to favor an immigration bill
that places almost its entire emphasis on border security and enforcement. The
Senate bill, subject to the influence of a greater diversity of voices, offers
legalization and a path to citizenship for illegal aliens that House Republicans
deride as "amnesty."

The second factor that influences House-Senate differences on issues of great
controversy such as illegal immigration is the fact that House members, with
their two-year terms, are connected to the voters by a shorter tether than the
one that connects senators with their constituents. Because of the partisan
advantages conferred by gerrymandering and the ability of House members to use
their incumbency to build personal loyalty among voters, few House officeholders
suffer defeat. But on an issue that generates such strong emotions as
immigration, a wrong move by a House member, especially one in a strongly
conservative GOP district, will be fresh in the minds of voters on Election Day.
Senators, except the one-third of the body up for election that year, are cut a
bit more slack. A vote for a liberalized immigration policy in 2006 might not be
remembered in 2010.

When the minority has a voice

Finally, the rules of the Senate confer on a minority party a much greater
ability to influence legislation than is enjoyed by Democrats in the House. A
party with the barest majority in the House, if it is cohesive, can get pretty
much what it wants. But in the Senate, each senator is armed with the
filibuster,  which can halt or at least impede the will of the majority.
Democrats, notably Sen. Edward Kennedy of Massachusetts, were deeply involved in
fashioning the Senate bill. On the House side, the imperious Judiciary Committee
chairman, James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., had things pretty much his way.

If the Framers of the Constitution were to walk among us, they would understand
completely this institutional clash. While they foresaw no role for political
parties, they anticipated that the great issues would be resolved in a tug of
war between the House and Senate.

Institutional checks and balances that are the safeguards of our freedom are
usually eclipsed by partisan strife, but it is reassuring to see them, even on
isolated issues, displaying their vitality.

Ross K. Baker is a political science professor at Rutgers University. He also is
a member of USA TODAY's board of contributors.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC,b/w, Adrienne Lewis, USA TODAY(Illustration)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              318 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 15, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigrants turn Utah into mini-melting pot;
Frustrations are starting to grow for some as one of the USA's least diverse
states undergoes a transformation

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1772 words


SALT LAKE CITY -- In the shadow of the Mormon faith's majestic headquarters, the
fountain at the center of the Gateway Plaza outdoor mall is a popular backdrop
for weddings. On a scorching day, Hispanic and Anglo children run side by side
through the pulsating sprays of water.

Marriage and kids: They're the pillars of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints (LDS), which dominates many facets of life in Utah. But
diversity?

Immigration is changing the complexion of communities across the USA. As it
sweeps through Utah, traditionally one of the least diverse and most
conservative states in the nation, its impact is particularly dramatic. About
98% white until 1970, Utah is becoming a mini-melting pot.

While conservative Republicans in the U.S. House of Representatives are pushing
to tighten borders and make illegal immigrants felons, factors unique to Utah
are attracting Hispanics to this reddest of red states. Among them: the Mormon
Church's philosophy of outreach and its embrace of large families.

These influences have helped give the state a reputation of being warm and
welcoming to immigrants. Utah allows the undocumented to drive legally with a
"driving privilege card." They can attend public colleges and universities and
pay in-state tuition. Minorities -- mostly Hispanics -- make up 16.5% of the
population, up from 8.8% in 1990. They could reach 20% by 2010. Hispanics are
driving the growth among minorities here. The state's black and Asian
populations also are growing but more slowly.

The changes are visible -- and audible. Sounds of up to 70 languages reverberate
in school hallways, cantinas are sprouting in the suburbs, and Spanish-speaking
religious congregations are multiplying -- scenes that are more Los Angeles and
Miami than Salt Lake City.

"Word has gotten out that it's a place where immigrants are welcome," five-term
Utah Republican Rep. Chris Cannon says.

Utahans in 2004 gave President Bush his biggest margin over Democrat John Kerry
in any state -- 72% to 26%. How can one of America's most conservative places be
so receptive to immigrants?

"The LDS faith believes you can be conservative and yet be compassionate," says
Marco Diaz, past chairman of the Utah Republican Hispanic Assembly, which tries
to attract more Hispanics to the party. "Help thy neighbor and love thy neighbor
and still try to be fiscal conservatives."

How long Utah will embrace this philosophy remains to be seen. Frustrations are
mounting over rising dropout rates and classrooms crammed with non-English
speakers. Pressure to cut benefits to undocumented residents and crack down on
employers who hire them is growing. About 100,000 of Utah's foreign-born
residents -- about half -- are here illegally, says Pamela Perlich, senior
research economist at the University of Utah.

Diaz says time may be running out on the state's welcome mat.

"Never have we seen so much uproar on immigration," Diaz says. "A lot of Utahans
want some change. ... There's a feeling from constituents that something needs
to be done."

Worldwide mission

Utah has been overwhelmingly Mormon since Brigham Young and thousands of
followers settled in the Great Salt Lake Valley in the mid-1800s after fleeing
persecution 1,300 miles away in Illinois. Utah remains mostly Mormon -- about
62% -- but that share of the population is declining.

The state ranks 34th in population at 2.5 million. It's insular, yet
cosmopolitan.

Utah boasts one of the highest rates of adult residents who have passports and
speak more than one language. Brigham Young University teaches more advanced
foreign-language courses than any other U.S. university. About 85% of its
seniors speak a second language.

That's the Mormon influence.

"This is a missionizing church," says Jan Shipps, a scholar of Mormonism at
Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis. At age 18 or 19, Mormons
"receive a call to go on a mission and spend two years at their own expense
making converts." They learn a foreign language and go abroad. "They experience
another culture," she says. "That tends to make Utah ... a very cosmopolitan
place."

Two forces at play are causing some tension in Utah and within the church, says
Kathryn Daynes, a BYU assistant professor of history. "Latter-day Saints ...
want to reach out on an individual level, but politically, they're very
conservative."

Family values and the church's worldwide proselytizing and mission work in Latin
America have attracted immigrants and potential converts to Utah. The church
offers English classes throughout the state. It has held dinners for Hispanic
leaders and has 114 Spanish-speaking congregations in Utah.

Church leaders generally have avoided commenting on the immigration debate and
declined to be interviewed for this story.

They reacted in May, however, to comments by CNN commentator Lou Dobbs, an
outspoken advocate of strict enforcement of immigration laws, on the eve of
Mexico President Vicente Fox's visit to Utah and other states.

Dobbs said the Mormon church "has a vigorous enthusiasm for as many of Mexico's
citizens as they possibly could attract to the state of Utah, irrespective of
the cost to taxpayers."

The church's website called Dobbs' statement unfounded. It said the church has
more than 1 million members in Mexico and owns nearly 1,000 buildings there but
"does not encourage them to move to Utah or anywhere else."

Immigration has struck a nerve this year in Utah. When up to 25,000 people
marched in a pro-immigration rally here in April, "I think it frightened
people," says Maria Garciaz, executive director of Salt Lake Neighborhood
Housing Services, a non-profit group that finances and builds affordable housing
on the increasingly diverse west side of Salt Lake City.

Incumbent congressman Cannon, who narrowly won the Republican primary in June,
says, "The whole race was about immigration." His opponent was political
newcomer and millionaire real estate developer John Jacob, who favored sending
illegal immigrants home before giving them a chance at citizenship and punishing
employers who hire them.

Cannon is far from liberal on the issue. He voted for a bill that would make
helping illegal immigrants a crime and illegal residency a felony. But he
supports President Bush's proposed guest-worker program. Cannon and Jacob are
Mormon.

"It's better for America to be proud of America and not take harsh views of the
world," Cannon says. "I hope Utah is one of these places where we dampen the
harshness."

Frustration is rising, however. The Utah Minuteman Project, whose mission is "to
secure our homeland" from immigrants here illegally, is pushing to repeal
driving privilege cards and in-state tuition for undocumented immigrants.

"Schools are an issue, highway crowding is an issue and the crime rate has gone
way up," says Alexander Segura, Utah Minuteman board chairman. "It's issues like
that that people are just fed up with."

A new baby boom

Immigrants didn't flock here until the late 1990s as the state began preparing
to host the 2002 Winter Olympics. Through much of the 1990s, non-agricultural
jobs in Utah grew twice as fast as in the nation as a whole. A housing boom
feeds the surge. Construction jobs grew 12.4% in 2005 and are expected to jump
15.3% this year.

About two-thirds of Utah's new immigrants came from abroad and the rest from
other states, mainly California. The state's Hispanic population soared to about
270,000 in 2005, up 33.1% since 2000. Hispanics contributed about a quarter of
the state's growth in the 1990s.

Utah has long had unusual demographics. It has the highest share of married
households of any state, the youngest marrying age, the highest birth rate, the
largest average household size and the youngest median age. The state is on its
third post-World War II baby boom and is bracing for another one because of
immigrants.

Hispanic fertility rates in Utah not only exceed those of non-Hispanic whites
here but also those of Hispanics nationally and even of women in Mexico, says
Perlich, the University of Utah demographer.

Many Utah immigrants are recent arrivals who come from rural Latin America where
birth-control education is non-existent. They're now in a state where large
families are the norm and birth control is not part of the public discussion.

Immigrants come first for jobs. Many are lured by the lifestyle.

Rosalia Gutierrez, 32, came from Mexico 15 years ago. She is not a Mormon but
enjoys the serenity the family-friendly church instills across the state. "It's
a nice place," says Gutierrez, a mother of three who works for a container
manufacturer. "It's calm and peaceful."

Immigration has created new challenges for the state, from multilingual
classrooms to more unwed teenage mothers.

Public school enrollment increased by 30,000 in the 1990s and another 30,000 in
the past two years, says state demographer Robert Spendlove. "We're projecting
increases of 150,000 in school-age population in the next 10 years."

Minorities account for about 75% of the school enrollment growth since 2000 and
Hispanics for 58%.

The Utah State Office of Education has formed an English-language learning task
force. The first "newcomer school" will open in Ogden this year to help children
adapt while they learn English.

"It gives the child a fighting chance to do well," says Patti Harrington, state
superintendent of public instruction. She says there's no political support to
fund programs to help immigrants, such as teaching non-English speakers.

Centro de la Familia, a 30-year-old agency here, changed its focus from mental
health and runaway youths to education to help counter high Hispanic dropout
rates.

Immigration also is reshaping Midvale, a working-class Salt Lake City suburb
with downtown signs in Spanish from the Tortas and Tacos stand to Comunidades
Unidas, a community center.

Inside, men, women and children mill about brightly decorated rooms. They're
here for prenatal care, diabetes education and other health and social services.
The volunteers are friends and neighbors. Peer education works best when up to
80% of the people the center serves are undocumented, says Sabrina Morales,
executive director and a native of Guatemala.

Claudia Gonzalez, mother of two, came to Utah in 1999 from San Diego. She
cleaned houses, got referrals from the center and eventually volunteered. Now,
she's the program director.

Midvale Mayor JoAnn Seghini created the Community Building Community program
that brings volunteers and local agencies together to help immigrants.
"Immigration is always going to be part of America," Seghini says. "Once they're
here, they're us. And once they're us, we're in it together."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Robert W. Ahrens, USA TODAY, Sources: Census Bureau
National Vital Statistics Report
Pamela Perlich, senior research economist with the Bureau of Business and
Economic Research at the University of Utah (Bar graph)
PHOTO, Color, Jeffrey D. Allred for USA TODAY
PHOTO, Color, Douglas C. Pizac, AP
PHOTO, B/W, Jeffrey D. Allred for USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              319 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 5, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Buchanan's favorite tactic: Immigration fear-mongering

BYLINE: Ruben Navarrette

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 738 words


When Pat Buchanan left the Republican Party in 2000 to run for president under
the banner of the Reform Party, Sen. John McCain of Arizona sent him off with
the lyrics of an old country song: "Thank God and Greyhound you're gone."

Well, Buchanan's back -- and talking about some of his favorite topics:
immigration, race and national identity. He's even hawking a new book, State of
Emergency: The Third World Invasion and Conquest of America.

According to Buchanan, immigration from Latin America, Asia and the Third World
is destroying the USA. And it's not just illegal immigration that bothers him.
He wants a "time-out" on legal immigration as well, especially from Mexico.

He preferred America in 1950, when 90% of its population was "of European
stock."

In his new book, Buchanan again broods over the question of what the "face of
America" will look like in 2050, when demographers predict that a quarter of the
USA will be Hispanic. He trembles at the thought that "the America our
grandchildren will live in will be another country, a nation unrecognizable to
our parents."

Just a few examples

What is recognizable is Buchanan's fear-mongering. Examples in U.S. history:

*In the mid-18th century, Benjamin Franklin worried about German immigrants who
will  "be so numerous as to Germanize us instead of our Anglifying them, and
will never adopt our Language or Customs, any more than they can acquire our
Complexion."

*In the mid-19th century, the popular view in the West was that Chinese
immigrants were "unassimilable." The hysteria led to the Chinese Exclusion Act
of 1882. In 1943, the act was repealed, and the Chinese were assigned an annual
quota of 105 immigrants.

*In the early 20th century, amid worries that southern Europeans (Italians) were
predisposed to criminality and practiced a superstitious religion (Roman
Catholicism), Congress set quotas and reduced the number of immigrants from each
country in proportion to their percentage of the U.S. population in 1890 -- when
most immigrants came from northern and western Europe.

Now Buchanan wants to stop immigration from Mexico -- legal and illegal --
because he claims that Mexicans aren't assimilating and that the Mexican
government has an elaborate scheme to launch a "reconquista" of the American
Southwest.

That's loco. Mexico doesn't want to reclaim the Southwest. Why own, when you can
lease to another party? Mexican workers in the USA send home almost $16 billion
annually in remittances. Why mess with a good thing?

Hispanic assimilation

Besides, there's no need to worry. Assimilation happens. Immigrants change
America, but America changes the immigrants right back. Latino immigrants and
their children stand a much better chance of losing Spanish than of not learning
English.

So says a study published last month in the journal Population and Development
Review. Sociologists Ruben Rumbaut and Frank Bean, from the University of
California, Irvine, and Douglas Massey, from Princeton University's Woodrow
Wilson School, found that while immigrants and their children had no trouble
maintaining some fluency in Spanish, the language was doomed in the long run. In
the third generation, only 17% of descendants of Mexican immigrants still speak
Spanish fluently. And in the fourth generation, it's 5%.

And what about those who claim otherwise, including a certain Scots-Irish
blowhard? "It's fear," Rumbaut said. "And fear doesn't listen to facts."

Respondents who said they spoke Spanish "not very well" and spoke mostly English
at home were categorized as "linguistically dead" in terms of native language.

Hey, that's me. As a Mexican-American, I grew up listening to my grandmothers
speaking in Spanish and answering them in English. As a teenager, I knew that I
spoke Spanish badly, and four years of high school Spanish didn't change that.

Now, my wife is determined that our daughter know Spanish because it's a given
she'll master English. We decided one parent would speak to her in English and
the other in Spanish. Guess which assignment I got.

So I'm not sure where Buchanan gets his information. Or what good it does to
poison the immigration debate with racism and nativism. Or how people can
substitute fear for facts and speak so authoritatively about things they don't
understand.

Say, what time does the next Greyhound leave?

---

Ruben Navarrette is an editorial writer for The San Diego Union-Tribune and a
nationally syndicated columnist.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              320 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             October 9, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Efforts to make English 'official' language heat up

BYLINE: Wendy Koch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 434 words


Rising concern over immigration has prompted a wave of cities and states this
year to try to make English the official language.

A ballot measure is pending in Arizona. Related bills have passed houses of
representatives in Pennsylvania, Delaware and Michigan; the state senates have
not taken them up. At least five cities and towns have approved ordinances;
eight are considering them. The U.S. Senate included a provision in a pending
immigration bill. Gubernatorial candidates in Kansas, Iowa, Oklahoma, Arizona
and Idaho have debated the idea.

"This is the most action we've seen in about 10 years," says Rob Toonkel of U.S.
English, a group promoting English as the official language. "People are split
on immigration. But on matters of assimilation, they agree immigrants should be
on the road to learning English." If immigrants don't learn the language soon
after arrival, he says, many never will.

"We make it easy for people to come (to the USA) and never speak English," says
Louis Barletta, mayor of Hazleton, Pa., which passed an English-only ordinance
last month. "We think we're helping them, but we're not."

Barletta says the measures are not anti-immigrant. Critics disagree. "They're a
way of putting immigrants in their place," says Ruben Rumbaut, a sociology
professor at the University of California, Irvine. He co-wrote a study that
found third-generation Americans of any ethnicity are rarely fluent in their
ancestors' native tongue. What's threatened isn't English, he says, but Spanish.

Proposals vary but generally say government business must be conducted in
English, with exceptions for emergency services. Federal law requires that
election information be available in other languages.

"People know the key to getting ahead in this country is learning English," says
John Trasvioa, interim president of the Mexican American Legal Defense and
Educational Fund, which opposes the official-English measures. He says they
deprive people of the right to information about things such as prenatal classes
and patient billing records in a language they understand.

Such proposals have been rejected in Kennewick, Wash.; Arcadia, Wis.; Avon Park,
Fla.; and Clarksville, Tenn. Some measures have been challenged in court. Last
month, an English referendum sought by Mayor Steve Lonegan of Bogota, N.J., died
after the Bergen County clerk said Bogota had no authority to set an official
language and the state Supreme Court declined to intervene.

Twenty-seven states have laws making English their official language. According
to the Census Bureau, eight in 10 U.S. residents speak only English.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              321 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             October 9, 2006 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Push for 'official' English heats up;
Legislation reacts to immigration

BYLINE: Wendy Koch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 499 words


Rising concern over immigration has prompted a wave of cities and states this
year to try to make English the official language.

A ballot measure is pending in Arizona. Related bills have passed houses of
representatives in Pennsylvania, Delaware and Michigan; the state senates have
not taken them up. At least five cities and towns have approved ordinances; nine
are considering them. The U.S. Senate included a provision in a pending
immigration bill. Gubernatorial candidates in Kansas, Iowa, Oklahoma, Arizona
and Idaho have debated the idea.

"This is the most action we've seen in about 10 years," says Rob Toonkel of U.S.
English, a group promoting English as the official language. "People are split
on immigration. But on matters of assimilation, they agree immigrants should be
on the road to learning English." If immigrants don't learn the language soon
after arrival, he says, many never will.

"We make it easy for people to come (to the USA) and never speak English," says
Louis Barletta, mayor of Hazleton, Pa., which passed an English-only ordinance
last month. "We think we're helping them, but we're not."

Barletta says the measures are not anti-immigrant. Critics disagree. "They're a
way of putting immigrants in their place," says Ruben Rumbaut, a sociology
professor at the University of California, Irvine. He co-wrote a study that
found third-generation Americans of any ethnicity are rarely fluent in their
ancestors' native tongue. What's threatened isn't English, he says, but Spanish.

Proposals vary but generally say government business must be conducted in
English, with exceptions for emergency services. Federal law requires that
election information be available in other languages.

"People know the key to getting ahead in this country is learning English," says
John Trasvioa, interim president of the Mexican American Legal Defense and
Educational Fund, which opposes the official-English measures. He says they
deprive people of the right to information about things such as prenatal classes
and patient billing records in a language they understand.

Such proposals have been rejected in Kennewick, Wash.; Arcadia, Wis.; Avon Park,
Fla.; and Clarksville, Tenn.

Some measures, several of which also set penalties for people who hire or rent
to undocumented immigrants, have been challenged in court. Last month, an
English referendum sought by Mayor Steve Lonegan of Bogota, N.J., died after the
Bergen County clerk said Bogota had no authority to set an official language and
the state Supreme Court declined to intervene.

Twenty-seven states already have laws making English their official language.
According to the Census Bureau, eight in 10 U.S. residents speak only English.

Ordinances

English proposals have passed this year in:

Hazleton, Pa.

Hazle Township, Pa.

Shenandoah, Pa.

Valley Park, Mo

Landis, N.C.

Measures pending in:

Nashville

Newton, N.J.

Mint Hill, N.C.

Bridgeport, Pa.

Taneytown, Md.

Farmer's Branch,

Texas

Carpentersville, Ill.

Escondido, Calif.

Cape Coral, Fla.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Alejandro Gonzalez, USA TODAY, Source: U.S. Census
Bureau American Community Surveys (Line graph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              322 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 16, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Population tops 300 million. Where's the celebration?

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 531 words


When the USA reached a population of 100 million in 1915, it was seen as a sign
of the nation's  economic and geopolitical clout. When the 200 millionth
American arrived in 1967, President Johnson marked the occasion with an
exuberant speech interrupted by hardy applause. But when the 300-million marker
is passed on Tuesday, don't expect to hear many popping champagne corks. As of
Sunday, President Bush had nothing on his schedule to mark the occasion.

The reason: Population growth, now driven by immigration as much as by births,
is a political hot potato.  Rather than seeing a vibrant, growing nation, a
variety of anti-immigration  groups see one that is growing too fast, getting
too crowded or speaking too much Spanish. This growth, they argue, is leading to
a decline in the quality of life as schools and roads become overcrowded and
once close-knit communities change their complexion almost overnight.
Environmental groups echo some of those concerns and add others as more and more
open space is paved over.

To all this we say lighten up. Yes, the growing population does present
problems, ranging from overburdened school systems to suburban sprawl. And yes,
the country can do a better job stemming illegal immigration. But there's far
more reason for celebration than for hand-wringing.

For some context, look abroad, where stagnant populations pose daunting
problems. The economies of Western Europe, for example, face retirement crises
much more severe than ours because there are fewer young workers to support
retirees. What's more, part of the reason that they are not growing as fast
through immigration is that they are not creating as many jobs.

The USA is alone among advanced nations in its population growth. It grew by 13%
during the 1990s, according to the Census Bureau. That is five times the average
of other industrialized countries. This growth, however, is not evidence of
overcrowding. With an average of about 80 people per square mile -- one-eighth
that of the United Kingdom -- the USA does not have a population problem. What
it has is a population distribution problem.

The 6 million who live in the Dallas-Fort Worth area, for instance, are nearly
double the entire population of the nearby state of Oklahoma. Large swaths of
the country, meanwhile, struggle to keep their population.

The solution to such problems lies not in quashing economic growth but in
stimulating it with better transportation and land-use policies, combined with
technologies that allow people to telecommute  from more pastoral settings.

As for immigration, the portion of the population born abroad is only now
nearing historic peaks, which at those time also spawned anxiety followed by
tighter controls -- a pattern that seems to be repeating.

Few people argue that illegal immigration doesn't need to be reduced. The main
point of contention is how to deal with the 11 million illegals already here.
That's a manageable problem. The country has absorbed  immigrant waves before
and has been enriched.

So here's to the arrival of the 300 millionth American. There's every reason to
believe the nation will be more delighted than dismayed when it reaches the next
milestone.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Keith Simmons, USA TODAY, Source: Population Reference
Bureau, 2005 World Population Data Sheet (CHART)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              323 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 16, 2006 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                                 FINAL EDITION

Baby boomers, immigrants change commuting patterns

BYLINE: Larry Copeland

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 270 words


Aging baby boomers and a growing immigrant population are the biggest
demographic factors shaping Americans' commuting habits, according to a major
study being released today. The findings are contained in Commuting in America
III, an analysis of Census data from 1990-2004 by transportation expert Alan
Pisarski.

The first of the nation's 79 million baby boomers -- born from 1946 to 1964 --
turn 60 this year. As older workers age, they generally drive to work alone less
often, carpool more and shift to walking and working at home, the report says.

Immigrants also are affecting traffic patterns, the research says. More than 80%
of immigrants who arrived between 1995 and 2000 were between 16 and 64. Most
quickly joined the workforce, swelling the ranks of commuters, the report says.

Immigrants represent only about 14% of the nation's labor force but make up 20%
of two-person carpools and more than 40% of large carpools. Immigrants also
increase the numbers of commuters using public transit and those who bicycle or
walk to work.

"This is consistent with transit's historical role of introducing immigrant
workers into the workforce and the nation's economic mainstream," the report
says.

The study, citing research by the Texas Transportation Institute at Texas A&M
University, also reports that congestion is rising not only in big cities and
suburbs but smaller metropolitan areas.

Another finding: Extremely long commutes are increasing. In 1990, New York was
the only state where more than 10% of workers traveled more than 60 minutes to
work. In 2000, New Jersey, Maryland and Illinois earned that distinction.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: October 18, 2006



CORRECTION: One of the nation's worst highway bottlenecks is the intersection of
Interstates 75 and 85 in Atlanta. A map accompanying a story Monday on commuting
patterns listed an incorrect location.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Alejandro Gonzalez, USA TODAY, Sources: Commuting in
America III by Alan Pisarski, American Highway Users Alliance and Census Bureau
(Map, bar graph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              324 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 16, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

No cause for celebration

BYLINE: Dan Stein

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 389 words


Overcrowded schools, congested highways, environmental stresses: We are a nation
paving over its wildernesses while depending on our enemies for vital resources.

Why?

Because Americans have been blindsided by a government-mandated mass immigration
program that's fueling this nation's runaway population growth. This growth was
neither planned nor expected, but we feel the consequences every day.

The population of the USA will reach 300million this week on a relentless march
to half a billion before 2050. That's because about 80% of the current
population growth in the USA is due to immigration policies -- immigrants
legally admitted, illegal immigrants, and births to immigrants after entering.
Only a dramatic rollback in overall immigration can reverse these trends. The
time to act is now.

Thirty years ago, the Rockefeller Commission could find no benefit from further
increases in the size of the U.S. population. In 2006, it is hard to see how the
massive government-mandated population growth of the past 30 years has improved
life for most Americans. The addition of a staggering 100million people since
the late 1960s has accelerated virtually every environmental problem,
exacerbated resource depletion, contributed to sprawl and congestion, and
strained nearly all public services.

Many of our nation's opinion elite now seem intent on further acceleration. The
Senate recently approved an illegal alien amnesty and immigration increase that
would have resulted in at least 66 million new immigrants arriving in the USA in
the next 20 years -- and we'd hit a billion people before 2100. This is insane,
and only a massive public outcry and strong opposition in the House prevented
this from occurring.

Our population future is entirely within our power to determine. Just as the
government has mandated soaring overcrowding and congestion in the past several
decades, it has the power to slow population growth by curtailing immigration
and enforcing laws against illegal immigration.

It's time to talk about the purposes of immigration and its role in our national
future. As responsible stewards for future generations, there is an urgency to
consider how our decisions today will affect the nation they will inherit --
before it's too late.

---

Dan Stein is president of the Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR).


LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              325 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 19, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S. has right to secure its borders

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 640 words


What's really "loco" about articles defending people sneaking into the USA is
their reassurances that "there's no need to worry." Commentary writer Ruben
Navarrette's claim that in three generations all will be well is little
consolation for the distress and expense this immigrant invasion subjects us to
("Buchanan's favorite tactic: Immigration fear-mongering," The Forum, Oct.5).

Navarrette conveniently ignores the fact that illegal immigrants  sneak in --
bringing with them an attitude to disregard rules and helping themselves to
American benefits without regard to laws, licenses, insurance or parental
responsibilities. Most lack a desire to learn English or become U.S. citizens.

So Pat Buchanan gets more negative press for his reasonable and patriotic demand
for a secure border. Who would be against that? Mexicans, that's who. Socialist
Hispanic leaders have failed in every aspect to provide for their populations,
so now those populations come here, making this place more like the places those
people wanted to leave.

Buchanan isn't "fear mongering."  He is demanding a nation's right to
sovereignty, and he has my support.

Angelo J. Anello

Land O'Lakes, Fla.

Enter USA the legal way

My grandfather was born in Ireland; I have an uncle who was born in Poland; one
of my daughters was born in Korea; and my son-in-law was born in Turkey.
Immigration affects me.

I am very much in favor of immigration if it is controlled and designed to
benefit this country. All of my immigrant family members came here legally and
went through the required paperwork and waiting periods. To see millions of
illegal immigrants legalized through an act of amnesty would make all my family
members' efforts to come here legally  a fraud, a waste.

There are millions of poor Americans who would like a piece of the American
dream -- black, white and Hispanic. Yet many Americans are not getting their
piece of the American dream because illegal aliens are standing between many of
them and their opportunities.

Robert Klahn

Sylvania, Ohio

School a success story

If you would like to see an example of how immigrants have been successful in
this country, drive to Falls Church, Va., and visit Pimmit Hills High School.

Ninety-five percent of our students are immigrants who have been in this country
from one to three years. All are seeking to complete the requirements for a
Virginia high school diploma. The majority are doing well while raising families
and working full-time. Pimmit Hills' students performed well on state Standards
of Learning tests and reached annual progress goals  two years in a row. Pimmit
Hills is completely certified and the only alternative high school in the county
to record such an achievement.

So often, we read and hear what immigrants need to do or can't do. The Pimmit
Hills story is one of unqualified success. Our motto, "Knowing we could and
showing we can," says it all. Please come and visit us. You will like what you
see.

Bud Mayo, administrator

Pimmit Hills High School

Falls Church, Va.

Back guest worker program

Most undocumented Mexicans I know are hard-working, honest, good people. They
care for their children and homes. Sure, some of their homes don't look as good
as most of ours -- but the ones I have visited are very clean. Kids are well fed
and cared for in a loving environment.

That's more than I can say for a lot of Americans.

We hear a lot of hype about how people are up in arms about undocumented
immigrants taking away jobs. Give me a break.

Mexicans perform labor that most  Americans find "too hard." Mexicans take pride
in what they do and will respond very well to positive feedback for a job well
done.

My fellow Americans: We need a guest worker program with a path to citizenship
now. Deport all the criminals and shore up the borders -- but leave these decent
people alone.

Larry Smith

Newnan, Ga.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              326 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 8, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Frustration builds along citizenship path

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 926 words


I've come to a breaking point with my immigration case. I am an American and my
husband is British.

We have applied for the petition that starts the green card process but also
applied for a K-3 visa. I encourage you to look up the K-3 and LIFE Act on the
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) website. The K-3 is supposed
to be a "benefit" for citizens awaiting approval of their spouse's green card
petition. It's intended to allow spouses like us to live together, and for my
husband to apply for work while we wait for approval.

I, very naively, assumed this would be a quick process, maybe six weeks. After
all, who would think that anyone would ask me to live apart from my husband --
whom I married in the USA -- for months at a time? I was wrong.

My husband must enter America as a visitor on a 90-day visa free permit while we
wait. We've been waiting almost two months, which I know is not long for
immigration, and recently we learned that our application was sent to the wrong
office because our request was read incorrectly.  We will be forced to wait even
longer because of the government's mistake.

We now know that this process can take at least six months, and that the
government is currently processing applications received last April!

This is supposed to be a benefit, a temporary visa until my husband's green card
is approved. I am infuriated by this process. We have always complied with the
laws, and we are trying to be patient, but our patience is wearing thin. What
blows my mind is that someone finds it acceptable for me to live apart and in
limbo with my husband for more than half a year while we wait for approval of a
temporary visa. I also don't understand why he can't remain in the country with
me while we wait for the approved visa to come back.

Forget about illegal immigration; someone needs to focus on the rights of U.S.
citizens who are working for legal immigration of immediate relatives. The
departments of State and Homeland Security need to stop wasting so much time on
those who don't have birth rights to this country; let them wait!

S. Brooks

Grantham, N.H.

Many confused by process

I agree with David Merson's letter "Legal system is broken" (Letters, Oct. 30).

What hurts the most is realizing that even some members of Congress don't fully
know how the process works when applying for permanent residency.

What also hurts is the fact that although we are here legally and pay full
taxes, our daughter in college has to pay the out-of-state tuition and has no
rights to work or get scholarships. And when she becomes 21 in three years time,
she will be on her own because we haven't reached the USCIS process for the
green card. The big backlog is at the Department of Labor, where officials don't
know how many illegal immigrant workers an employer is hiding.

Betty Innemee

Livingston, N.J.

Proud Mexican-Americans

I am half Mexican, born and raised in the USA. My grandparents immigrated here
from Mexico. They love America, and when they moved here they tried everything
they could to learn English and to work hard to make a good living to raise a
family. They also encouraged their children to work hard and to be proud to be
Americans.

I am proud of what my grandparents have accomplished and what they have been
through. They are, however, very discouraged at what they see going on today. I
am disappointed, too.

They went through the immigration process the right way:

*They got their papers.

*They got their visas.

*They immigrated here legally.

They find it so unfortunate that people are coming here by breaking the law and
making a bad name for Mexicans. I feel the same way. Immigration is a wonderful
thing. It is what makes our country special. But those who come here illegally
are not immigrants. They are illegal aliens.

Jasmine Talbot

Orem, Utah

We're a society of laws

Our society is first and foremost a society of laws. The government's first job
is to protect its citizens. Therefore, if we grant amnesty to those whose first
act on our soil was to break the laws regarding immigration, we set a bad
precedent that the law does not matter. This, I believe, would lead to anarchy.

We need a secure border, which obviously requires a wall or fence because
millions have demonstrated that asking them nicely to use our border crossing
procedures is not working.

Let's penalize businesses that knowingly hire illegal immigrants. We need to
deport all illegal immigrants we happen upon through local and state law
enforcement.

We need identification cards. Social Security cards would work if they become at
least as forger-proof as our money is counterfeit-proof.

James A. Watkins

Orlando

We live in a different world

The USA is a melting pot. The vast majority of Americans are descendants of
immigrants. I certainly favor legal immigration, but I strongly oppose the push
to grant citizenship to thousands of illegal immigrants.

I favor strong border security. We are fighting a war on terror in the Middle
East against enemies who use stealth terrorist tactics, and it would seem that
we are leaving the back door wide open and even rolling out a red carpet for
them.

Throughout all its history, the USA has been a haven for those looking for a
better life, and the Statue of Liberty has been a beacon to people to come. But
the world today is very different from the world of the 1950s and before.

We must never become a closed society. Nonetheless, those who intend to come
here and do us harm or seek to change our culture rather than melt into it
should not be welcome.

Darrell R. Price

Massillon, Ohio

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              327 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 9, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Va. case highlights fraudulent marriages;
Government cracks down on fast track to green card

BYLINE: Wendy Koch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 493 words


A Virginia man's guilty plea Wednesday to arranging sham marriages between U.S.
citizens and Ghanaian immigrants reflects the government's increased focus on
marriage fraud.

Eric Amoah, 42, a pharmacy technician from Ghana, was one of 22 people charged
in the Washington, D.C., area two months ago with participating in a marriage
and immigration fraud scheme. His sentence is pending.

Similar busts have occurred in the past year in California, New York and Utah.
An investigation is underway in Gwinnett County, Ga., where two men are charged
with bigamy for marrying at least 13 African women.

"We're definitely seeing more organizations" involved in marriage fraud, says
James Spero, head of the Identity and Benefits Fraud Unit at U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement (ICE). "We're stepping up our efforts."

Sham marriages for immigrants seeking citizenship have long been a problem. A
marriage license can be the quickest way to gain the temporary legal status
conferred by a green card, the title of a 1990 movie about two people who enter
into such a marriage of convenience only to -- surprise -- fall in love.

Since 9/11, marriage fraud has taken on more serious implications. Half of 36
foreign-born suspected terrorists who were in the USA from the early 1990s to
2004 gained legal status by marrying Americans -- 10 of them through sham
marriages -- according to the Center for Immigration Studies, which promotes
tighter immigration controls.

Janice Kephart, former counsel to the 9/11 Commission, which produced the
center's research, says the government is not doing enough to crack down on
marriage fraud.

"They simply don't have the resources," Kephart says. She says U.S. officials go
after ringleaders of schemes more than the immigrants who marry.

Alfred Robertson, the attorney representing Amoah, agrees that immigration laws
need better enforcement. He says immigration officials lack funding to hire
enough agents to investigate applications for legal status.

Spero says ICE is working with other agencies in 11 new task forces and has
increased the number of identity and benefit fraud cases it is investigating,
from 2,300 in fiscal 2004 to 3,434 in fiscal 2006, including about 700 involving
marriage fraud.

Spero says some U.S. citizens are duped into marrying an immigrant who simply
wants a green card. Others, he says, commit a felony, punishable by jail time
and a $250,000 fine, by knowingly entering into a sham marriage.

He says organizations typically charge $2,500 to $6,000 to arrange a marriage.
Amassing evidence that a couple has taken the next steps toward permanent
residency or citizenship, such as living together, costs more. On the West
Coast, he says, one full-service scheme charged $60,000.

Robertson says Amoah, who married a U.S. citizen himself, helped arranged 75 to
300 marriages, most of which were fraudulent. "He knew what he was doing was
wrong," Robertson says, adding that Amoah faces possible deportation.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              328 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 10, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Republicans lose ground among Hispanic voters;
Democrats perceived as being on 'right side' of immigration issue

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 709 words


WASHINGTON -- Republican gains among Hispanic voters evaporated in Tuesday's
election, and some party leaders are blaming harsh rhetoric on immigration for
the reversal.

Cutting into the Democrats' traditional advantage among Hispanic voters was a
key to both of President Bush's election victories. In 2004, when the president
was at the top of the ticket, 44% of Hispanics surveyed after they cast their
ballots said they voted Republican.

This year, the figure dropped to 29%.

The decline is significant because Hispanics are fast becoming a crucial voting
bloc. Census figures show Hispanics make up at least 10% of the population in 11
of the 28 U.S. House  districts that switched from Republican to Democratic
hands on Tuesday.

Strategists from both parties say the vocal opposition of some Republicans to a
proposed immigration bill that would give an estimated 12 million illegal
immigrants a chance at citizenship drove Hispanics back to the Democratic camp.

"This time there is no doubt they felt Democrats were on the right side of the
immigration issue," says Lionel Sosa, a Hispanic ad executive who has advised
Republicans. One of the Democratic Party's top-ranking Hispanics, New Mexico
Gov. Bill Richardson, agrees. He says Bush's decision to bow to conservative
pressure and sign legislation authorizing construction of a 700-mile fence along
the U.S.-Mexican border "sent a terrible signal."

Bush backs citizenship for many of the people who are here illegally, as do a
number of potential 2008 GOP presidential candidates, including Sens. John
McCain of Arizona and Sam Brownback of Kansas. But House Republican leaders
blocked a path to citizenship in the immigration bill and GOP conservatives such
as Indiana's John Hostettler made their opposition a campaign issue. Some
members of the party believe that backfired.

"There has been too much of an anti-immigrant tone," says Rep. Lincoln
Diaz-Balart, R-Fla., a Cuban immigrant. He argues that Hispanics are "a natural"
Republican constituency because they are entrepreneurial and socially
conservative. But Diaz-Balart adds, "When people start to perceive that
immigrants are being put in the same category as a threat to national security,
it's hard to get your message across."

In Hostettler's close race,  the six-term congressman appeared with
representatives of the Minutemen, a controversial citizens group that has been
patrolling the border, and ran ads  touting his opposition to "the nightmare of
amnesty." In Arizona, Republican Randy Graf ran an advertisement showing a
blonde-haired child walking toward a slowly opening door as a voiceover
delivered statistics about crime and other problems caused by the nation's "open
door" border.

Both Hostettler and Graf lost, a point likely made by House Democratic leader
Nancy Pelosi when she talked to Bush Thursday. She asked for his help in passing
a bipartisan immigration bill when she and fellow Democrats start running
Congress in January. "Those candidates who ran largely on immigration did not
succeed," she says.

Gabrielle Giffords, the Democrat who defeated Graf, also carried Cochise County,
Ariz., along the U.S.-Mexican border where frustration with immigration is
highest. Gifford says she believes voters there preferred her because "people
want solutions, not slogans."

Immigration could be key in a House race still to be decided. In Texas, GOP
incumbent  Henry Bonilla is in a runoff with Democrat Ciro Rodriguez, a former
lawmaker, in a district where more than half the population is Hispanic.

Bonilla is one of only two Hispanic lawmakers who backed a controversial House
bill that would make it a crime to assist illegal immigrants. He says he's
taking a get-tough approach to protect his border constituents from crime and
illegal drug trafficking.

But Sosa, who lives in the district and describes himself as Bonilla's friend,
worries that some Hispanic residents may misinterpret his stand. "I have told
him that in my opinion he should soften his position," Sosa says.

He says the election results don't mean the GOP has lost the Hispanic vote. "It
means Republicans need to have a much higher sensitivity about how Latinos feel
about their worth and the worth of immigrants," he says.

Contributing: Jill Lawrence

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Karl Gelles, USA TODAY, Source: Voter News Service, Voter
Research and Surveys, Edison/Mitofsky (Bar graph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              329 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 16, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

No more hollow solutions

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 487 words


For some of the most hard-core, anti-immigrant Republican candidates, who
thought they had a surefire political winner, a funny thing happened on the way
to the elections.

They lost.

In states from Indiana to Arizona, immigrant bashing didn't play well. In a
nationwide exit poll Nov. 7, 57% of voters said most illegal immigrants in the
USA should be offered a path to legal status, and just 38% favored deportation.

The hard-liners' defeat clears the way for a more balanced reform of the
immigration system that wasn't possible just nine days ago and that the nation
desperately needs.

At his post-election news conference, President Bush allowed that he might well
"find some common ground" with Democrats on this issue. In another sign of the
shifting political climate, a moderate on immigration, Cuban-born Sen. Mel
Martinez of Florida, was named as the new chairman of the Republican National
Committee.

Since last year, it has been clear that Bush and many Democrats agree on the
outlines of a program to enforce the law, create some kind of guest-worker
program and provide a path to legalization for millions of illegal immigrants
already in the USA.

Yet history shows that it's one thing to pass an immigration law and quite
another to do anything meaningful about the problem.

In the past two decades, Congress has approved supposedly sweeping new
immigration measures every 10 years. Both turned out to be charades.

The number of illegal aliens in the USA -- about 12 million today, nearly five
times as many as in 1989 -- attests to the emptiness of those efforts. Each
time, the government failed to establish a guest-worker program or to provide
the money and means to enforce the law.

The bulk of funds was poured into border enforcement instead of deterrents to
illegal employment, the magnet that draws migrants to the USA. When, in 1998,
the Clinton administration cracked down effectively on employers who were hiring
illegal workers, the businesses and their allies in Congress, as well as
immigration advocates and unions, squawked so much that the program was
scrapped.

For this time to be any different, lawmakers will have to withstand pressure to
create a system so weak that it pleases the majority and accomplishes nothing.
Political victories are fleeting. Another failure would only ignite a new
backlash with a draconian result.

Further, if there is to be a path to legalization for millions of undocumented
people already here, the system must work far better than Citizenship and
Immigration Services does now. Just look at our letters to the editor today, and
you'll get a sense of the frustrating, expensive, bureaucratic morass that
confronts people who seek to obey U.S. immigration laws.

Last week's elections provide Bush and the Democratic-controlled Congress with
an opportunity to pass a historic immigration reform. But they'll have to buck a
long history of pretend solutions to do it right.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              330 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 16, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Nev. town to fine for foreign flags

BYLINE: William M. Welch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 353 words


The Nevada town of Pahrump is taking a stand not just against illegal immigrants
but flags they may bring with them.

The elected town board in the remote Mojave Desert community voted 3-2 on
Tuesday to enact an ordinance making it illegal to fly a foreign nation's flag
by itself.

Flying another country's flag, whether it is a British Union Jack or the flag of
Mexico, is punishable by a $50 fine and 30 hours' community service, unless it
is flown below an American flag.

"Old Glory is sovereign," says Paul Willis, a retired carpenter and board
member. "You can't fly any other nation's flag higher than the American flag."

The American Civil Liberties Union says the flag restriction violates the First
Amendment's guarantee of free speech.

"There's no doubt about it," says Lisa Rasmussen, a board member of the Nevada
ACLU. "People have a right, as much as we don't like it, to fly ... any flag
they wish."

Pahrump is a rural fast-growing town of 33,000 about 60 miles west of Las Vegas.
It is part of sprawling Nye County, home of the closest legal brothels to Las
Vegas.

The law passed as part of a package of measures that also declared English the
official language of Pahrump and denies town benefits to illegal immigrants.

"We don't have any" benefits, town manager David Richards says. "If we ever have
any, they'll be denied to illegal immigrants."

Supporters say the law is a stand on principle and doubts anyone will be
arrested for violating it.

"I can't conceive of there being anyone cited for it," said board Chairman
Richard Billman, who voted against the ordinance.

The ordinance's sponsor, Michael Miraglia, a retired Illinois state worker, said
the flag restriction was a reaction to nationwide demonstrations in May against
a crackdown on illegal immigration. He said he didn't like seeing protesters
waving Mexican flags and demanding immigrants not go to work that day.

"In Pahrump, we had Mexican restaurants closed that day," he complained. "Only
one restaurant stayed open."

Rasmussen said the ACLU would probably take legal action against the town.

"People are nuts out there," she says. "Totally nuts."

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              331 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 16, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

29 immigrants arrested for visa fraud;
Allegedly posed as religious workers

BYLINE: Donna Leinwand

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 427 words


Federal agents on Wednesday arrested 29 people, mostly Pakistanis, who allegedly
posed as Muslim religious workers to obtain special visas to enter the USA.

The immigrants, arrested in Boston; New York City; Buffalo; Hartford, Conn.;
Atlanta; St. Paul; Newark, N.J.; Philadelphia; Washington, D.C., and Harrisburg,
Va., face civil immigration charges and could be deported if they are found to
have violated federal law, said Marc Raimondi, spokesman for Immigration and
Customs Enforcement (ICE). Agents involved in the investigation also arrested
eight people on other immigration charges, he said.

The arrests were part of a probe into several organizations that posed as
legitimate religious groups and filed false visa applications for the immigrants
under the religious worker program, ICE spokesman Dean Boyd said.

The immigrants paid fees, sometimes several thousand dollars, for the fraudulent
paperwork, Boyd said. He said he could not release the groups' names because the
investigation was continuing.

The religious worker program allows churches, synagogues, mosques, temples and
other religious organizations in the USA to sponsor visa applications for
immigrants with specific religious training and experience. The visas allow a
legal visitor to work only in a religion-related job for a limited time,
generally no more than three years.

The immigrants arrested Wednesday worked at non-religious jobs, Raimondi said.
Among them: gas station attendant, truck driver and factory worker.

"If these allegations are true, it is sad to see people misuse the
religious-worker visa program in an attempt to gain fraudulent immigration
status in the United States," said Arsalan Iftikhar, national legal director for
the Council on American-Islamic Relations. "In a time where increased dialogue
is needed between people of all faiths, it is imperative that initiatives like
the religious-worker visa program continue to bring credible religious workers
of all faiths to America."

As Congress has wrestled with immigration policy since the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks, ICE has increased enforcement efforts against document fraud,
fugitive aliens convicted of violent crimes and workplaces that employ illegal
workers.

In a report released in July, the U.S. Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration
Services said the religious-worker classification was "historically considered
to have a high fraud rate."

The agency said it examined a sample of religious-worker immigration petitions
submitted over a six-month period and found fraud in one-third of the cases.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              332 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 17, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

English as official language gains support at local levels;
Backers say laws help immigrants to communicate, avoid self-segregation

BYLINE: Oren Dorell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 536 words


Voters and town boards in several states recently passed laws making English the
official language, garnering Hispanic support in one case for what many say was
a message to Washington.

Arizona voters last week approved Proposition 103, a constitutional amendment
making English the official language of the state. Passing similar laws were the
city councils of Taneytown, Md.; Farmers Branch, Texas, and the town board of
Pahrump, Nev.

"The voters in Arizona are sick and tired of the federal government doing
nothing on immigration," said Arizona State Rep. Kyrsten Sinema of Phoenix, in
explaining why she thought the measure passed in Arizona. She was an opponent of
the proposition.

While English-only proposals in the U.S. Congress have gone nowhere, the Arizona
measure passed by a 3-to-1 ratio, with 48% of Hispanics supporting it, according
to an Associated Press exit poll.

Hispanic support is a sign that "the majority of Hispanics believe that the key
to success in America is to learn the language of the land, learn English," says
Jose Esparza, vice chairman of the Arizona Latino Republican Association.

Lydia Guzman, chairwoman of the Coalition for Latino Political Action in
Phoenix, opposed the bill. She said she is worried it will be misused by
anti-immigrant extremists.

Guzman was not surprised that nearly half of Hispanic voters supported the
measure. She says the Hispanic community includes people who have been here for
generations, who don't speak Spanish and haven't experienced the "immigrant
struggle."

In Taneytown, where only 1.5% of the population is Hispanic according to the
2000 census, Councilman Paul Chamberlain says the official-English law will make
"no practical change" because Taneytown does not provide services in Spanish.

"We will be helping immigrants learn the English language and not segregate into
different communities," he says.

Political scientist and pollster Fred Solop of Northern Arizona University says
Arizona voters, including Hispanics, have made clear that the issue of illegal
immigration is their number one concern.

"There were four immigration proposals on the ballot, if there were six, they
would have all passed," he says.

Among the ballot initiatives that accompanied the official-English proposition
were three others that targeted illegal immigrants.

Arizona State Rep. Russell Pearce of Mesa calls official English "part of us
doing our job to help (immigrants) learn to communicate.

"Government has an obligation to promote and enhance English," he says, "to help
people assimilate."

Sinema derides that sentiment as "so cute," pointing out that one of the
propositions that passed denies illegal immigrants state benefits, including
state-funded English classes.

"To punish people by taking away funding to learn English, and at the same time
demand people learn English, makes no sense at all," Sinema says.

Esparza, who supported the official-English ballot initiative, also sees "an
irony" in the voters' decision to deny state funding for English education. He
said conflicting measures passed "because the public, including Hispanics, is
frustrated that illegal immigration continues to be a problem and they want the
federal government to take action."

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Adrienne Lewis, USA TODAY, Source
U.S. English, Inc. (Map)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              333 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 28, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Encourage Latin American governments

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 1374 words


I am a naturalized citizen through my parents. My family fled by boat from
Latvia across to Sweden as World War II was coming to a close. After a few
years, through my father's hard work, our life was comfortable there, but my
father still feared the Soviet Union so he applied to immigrate to the USA in
1952.

Because we were not desperately poor, we could wait and go the legal way, unlike
the poor people who are called "illegals" today. I get upset with those
immigrants whose main complaint is lengthy waits or a lot of red tape. At least
they have a chance, and most are not extremely poor. In any case, a poor,
uneducated person from, say, Oaxaca, Mexico, isn't likely to be an acceptable
candidate for immigration anyway.

I now live in New Orleans. When we returned to our home after Hurricane Katrina,
there were many Hispanic workers all over the city. They worked very hard;
without them, New Orleans would not have recovered as soon as it did. I saw them
in the dark on the streets -- some with suitcases with no place to stay. Our
house was fixed by Latinos, and I do not know whether they were legal or
illegal. They were polite and hardworking. I read about cases where contractors
ran off without paying such workers for their hard labor. Many worked in moldy
houses without any face masks. Eventually, officials rounded these workers up at
places where they congregated for work. I heard of an entire group of
bricklayers getting picked up by the immigration officers at their work site.
Now I don't see as many of them; yet, people are complaining that there are not
enough workers.

I deplore the viciousness raging through talk radio and the country as a whole
toward these people. I have read some histories of Mexico and Central America,
and I believe that the United States has varying degrees of responsibility for
the situation of the poor in Latin America.

Since the Monroe Doctrine, the United States has acted as if it owns Latin
America. It is inhumane to snuff out hope for change for the poor of Mexico,
Central America or other Latin American countries while also slamming the door
on them. Considering how much control the United States has over Latin American
affairs, directly or covertly, these people might as well be U.S. subjects and
be eligible for citizenship.

The United States should let its good side emerge and encourage Latin American
governments to try to bring relief and hope to their poor citizens. If that had
happened 50 years ago, people wouldn't be dying in the desert or in locked box
cars just to get work here.

Ilze Choi

New Orleans

Debate shows racism

While millions of migrant workers live in the USA today, often working in
low-paying jobs, discussion of immigration reform has generally ignored the
socioeconomic and political roots of the issue.

The question on Americans' minds is what to do about the influx of migrants,
particularly those who are "illegal." Migrants' decision to leave their homes
and families is not easy, and the journey is dangerous, with many dying in the
attempt to cross the border. Why do migrants attempt to cross the border if the
journey is so difficult and potentially unrewarding? The answer is that their
survival, and the survival of their loved ones back home, depends on it.

The neo-liberal economic policies of the United States, such as the North
American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), are often directly to blame for
deteriorating economic conditions south of the border. If people had viable
alternatives, they would not risk their lives attempting to cross the border.

NAFTA was supposed to provide employment, but the average real salary of many
Mexican workers has decreased. Consider, for example, its  impact on corn
farmers.  Roughly 18 million people depend on corn production for both food and
income. When NAFTA forced Mexico to lower protective tariffs, the Mexican
economy was subsequently inundated with cheap corn from the north. This caused
the price of corn to drop;  many Mexican farmers went out of business and ended
up in jobs paying poverty wages.

It is important to realize that migrant workers are not taking "our" jobs, but
that Americans are taking theirs. They migrate to the USA because that is where
the capital has gone.

Moreover, the vast majority of Mexican and South- and Central-American migrants
are hard-working, law-abiding human beings. Arguing that migrants are a security
threat or "spread crime" isunscientific because people making such claims never
seem to make comparisons between crime rates among migrants and other social
groups. The claims that migrant workers are responsible for crime, or are
"taking our jobs," are reminiscent of the Ku Klux Klan's racist attacks on
immigration in the early 20th century.

Migrants work hard without receiving a proportional percentage of public
services, and in spite of this, they live under threat of being deported.

The deportation of migrant workers has the catastrophic effect of ruining
families. Elvira Arellano is a mother seeking refuge in the sanctuary of a
Chicago church, trying to avoid being deported, which would separate her from
her child (who is a U.S. citizen).  Given the role of U.S. policies in creating
the conditions for migration, while also considering the cultural and economic
contributions of migrant workers to U.S. society, it is time that Americans do
what is right.

Comprehensive reform means ending racist deportations and promoting policies
that would offer more attractive options than migration.

Nick Altieri

Bloomington, Ind.

Return to law and order

I have nothing against immigration. Besides my Cherokee blood, I am a descendant
of many people from various European countries. I think immigration is a very
healthy way for the country to add new blood and talent. Nonetheless, it must be
done legally to benefit the country and be fair to other immigrants.

No one wants to stand in any line and then see some people squeeze in at the
front. Even the cheapest hotel makes you register; you don't just crawl in the
window and pretend you belong there.

This country's illegal immigration situation has become a madhouse. My wife was
in a car accident in which the other driver pulled right in front of her. The
driver spoke no English, had no valid insurance and had no license of any kind.
He shouldn't have been on the road.

Customs laws are ignored, and then there's the disregard for our other laws.
Soon we will have a lawless country -- something we can't allow to happen.

Orin Black

Newark, Del.

For some, much longer waits

The recent letter from S. Brooks about her frustrations with U.S. immigration
provides nothing more than babbling and whining. I wish I could have had her
problems in reuniting with my spouse ("Frustration builds along citizenship
path," Letters, Nov. 8).

I applied to bring my wife from the Philippines using a K1 visa for fiance(e)s.
The application process should have taken about 90 days. It took us nearly two
years! Others I know have had even longer waits.  Wait times for family visas,
those involving parents and siblings, from the Philippines are in the 15- to
18-year range from time of application to approval.

And the 90-day, visa-free permit to visit the USA while waiting? Pretty much
forget it. It seems almost impossible for a Filipino to obtain, especially if he
or she has a K1 or K3 visa application in process or pending. I waited more than
two years, took four trips to the Philippines to visit her and the family and
hugged pictures every night just as she did in Manila until we could be
reunited.

To S. Brooks: Count your blessings, kiss your hubby while he is here on his
visitor's permit and stop crying. If it's meant to be, a few months of waiting
are nothing when compared with a lifetime with your soul mate.

Ken Sanders

Tucson

Stop the excuses

There is no rationalization that can compare the "invasion" of immigrants now
with past waves of immigration.  Pro-illegals have nothing to offer but amnesty
and open borders. There is nothing from their side about illegal immigrants
breaking our laws.

All you hear from them is that they need jobs. They don't address the law.
Instead, they feel they are following the same paths as past immigrants. There
are many lame excuses.

Randy Hamilton

Mesa, Ariz.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Jack Kurtz, The Arizona Republic

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              334 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 1, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

New citizen exam is Democracy 101;
Questions now stress core beliefs of U.S. system

BYLINE: Wendy Koch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 795 words


A new U.S. citizenship exam that will be tried out in 10 cities early next year
asks applicants less about historical facts and more about the meaning of
democracy.

The 144 new questions were previewed Thursday by U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services.

Instead of asking how many stripes are on the flag, the new test asks why there
are 13 stripes (one for each colony). Instead of asking who was Martin Luther
King Jr., it asks what his dream was (equality for all). Instead of having to
name the branches of government, an applicant is asked why there are three (so
no single branch is too powerful).

To become a naturalized U.S. citizen, an immigrant takes a three-part test. The
first part consists of civics questions like those, asked and answered orally.
The second tests the ability to read and write English sentences. The third asks
the applicant to answer other questions in spoken English.

Only the civics questions for the first part were revealed Thursday. Revisions
of the other parts are still underway.

"The goal is to make it more meaningful," says Emilio Gonzalez, director of
Citizenship and Immigration Services. He says the current test relies too much
on memorization. Immigrants who study and pass the new one, he says, will gain a
better "understanding and respect" for U.S. values.

"You really ought to know what you're swearing allegiance to," he says.

English-language experts, government and history scholars and immigrant groups
were consulted in developing the new test.

"The questions certainly needed to be revised. Our main concern is the level of
difficulty," says Paul Tsao, policy director of the Illinois Coalition of
Immigrant and Refugee Rights.

Tsao's group has led an effort by more than 220 immigrant and labor
organizations to ensure that the new test is fair to less-educated immigrants.

He says it covers a lot of material, including geography, that will require more
work on the study materials given to applicants. He says some questions seem
odd, such as which World War II general became president (Dwight Eisenhower).

'Stuff they should know'

A class of high school sophomores at Washington-Lee High School in Arlington,
Va., a suburb of Washington, D.C., answered 10 questions from the old civics
test and 10 from the new one at USA TODAY's request.

The mock examination followed the same procedure as the real one: A test taker
is asked 10 questions from 100 available. At least six must be answered
correctly to pass. The 144 questions on the new exam will be pared to 100 before
it is adopted.

The 23 government students scored higher on the new test: 22 passed it, and 18
passed the current one. Fifteen answered at least eight of the new questions
correctly. Only four did as well on the current test.

The students had not seen the study materials. Half said the new test might be
harder for immigrants with limited English, but most thought it was a better
test.

"It's stuff they should know," Andrew McDaniel says.

Classmate Lisa Hines says the new test requires more thinking about U.S.
government, which could be a tough challenge for immigrants. "We've had a longer
time to think about what it means," she says.

Ahmad Helmy, an immigrant from Saudi Arabia, says the new test will better
prepare applicants for citizenship, but it is more demanding and requires longer
answers. Both versions, he says, ask "too much."

Exam intimidates some

"We don't want to make the test harder," says Alfonso Aguilar, director of the
citizenship office. He says that if some questions prove too difficult, they'll
be removed. The current test has an 85% pass rate.

Aguilar says changes to the test's English-language segments will help
standardize them. Those segments now vary in difficulty from one city to the
next. For the new test, applicants will get a standard vocabulary list in their
study materials, and the questions will use those words.

Tsao says only a small fraction of eligible immigrants take the citizenship test
because many are intimidated by it. He says he's concerned about two other
things that may dissuade applicants: the agency's plan to require that
applications be filed electronically, with an extra fee and longer forms, and
the rising charge for the test, which has increased from $95 in 1994 to $400
today.

Gonzalez says his agency plans to propose an increase next year, but he declined
to say how much. He says immigrants can seek a waiver based on financial need.

The new test will be given to immigrants who volunteer for it next year in
Albany, N.Y.; Boston; Charleston, S.C.; Denver; El Paso; Kansas City, Mo.;
Miami; San Antonio; Tucson; and Yakima, Wash. Someone who fails the new test can
take the current one without paying again.

The citizenship office plans to replace the current test in spring 2008.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              335 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 14, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Raids at Swift raise questions about employers' ability to check status

BYLINE: Sue Kirchhoff

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 469 words


WASHINGTON -- The federal raids on six Swift meatpacking plants point out the
difficulty employers have in determining who is or is not a legal worker.

Concerns are particularly acute in such industries as construction, agriculture
and meatpacking, which depend on a large number of immigrant workers to fill
physically taxing or dangerous jobs.

"This enforcement, going out and targeting company by company, or sector by
sector, is having a real strain on business," says Robert Guenther, senior vice
president for United Fresh Produce, a coalition of growers, shippers and
retailers.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers temporarily closed Swift operations
Tuesday and arrested more than 1,200 people, saying they suspected hundreds of
employees had obtained jobs using stolen Social Security numbers or other forms
of identification. About 65 now face criminal charges.

Swift CEO Sam Rovit, in a statement decrying the raids, noted that his firm was
using a federal program under which employee identity documents were checked
against a database. It is one of a small number of firms using the system.

Swift officials told a U.S. House subcommittee in June that the database was
plagued with flaws, including the inability to detect identity theft. Swift also
said the federal government had fined it $2.5 million in 2002 for allegedly
pushing too hard to verify the immigration status of workers. The case was
settled for $200,000.

The company made several recommendations to fix the problem, including proposing
a national ID card or protection from liability for companies using the
verification system.

"There are no 'undocumented' workers: Everybody has documents," Guenther says.
"If you push too far, then you're subject to potential lawsuits. ... It's a
Catch-22."

Angelo Amador, director of immigration policy for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,
says the government has been promoting the program Swift was using as the "be
all and do all." While the chamber backs comprehensive reform, Amador says it's
crucial to get a better verification system.

"Swift was in a position to be able to be cutting edge. ... Small businesses
can't afford to do this kind of thing," says Jerry Howard, CEO of the National
Association of Home Builders.

Many home builders hire immigrants and check their legal status by looking at
common documents such as Social Security cards or driver's licenses. Some
smaller builders don't even have the computer savvy to tap into more high-tech
systems, Howard says.

Still, in an April USA TODAY/Gallup poll, 84% of respondents backed tough
penalties for businesses that hire illegal immigrants.

A union official said the shock-troop-like raid went too far, terrorizing
workers and separating families.

"It was an over reach," says Mark Lauritsen of the United Food and Commercial
Workers.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Ahmad Terry, Rocky Mountain News via AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              336 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 22, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Southern growth leads USA;
Aside from La., region's population is booming

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 441 words


The South is rising again, this time as a population magnet for immigrants who
come for the same reasons that pull Americans there from other states: the warm
climate, jobs and cheaper housing, according to an analysis of Census estimates
out today.

More than half of the population growth in the USA in the past year occurred in
southern states. The July 1 estimates also are the first to reflect Hurricane
Katrina's devastation: Louisiana suffered a staggering net loss of 219,563
people, the largest annual decline in any state's population since troops were
deployed during World War II.

If people don't return, Louisiana will lose a seat in the House of
Representatives, according to an analysis by Election Data Services, a
consulting firm. Seats will be reapportioned after the 2010 Census.

The South now attracts as many people from other countries as the West, partly
because California's appeal is waning.

"Immigrants are finally catching up to the fact that the South is a magnet for
jobs and quality of life," says William Frey, a demographer at the Brookings
Institution. "They are tag-along migrants, taking jobs created by people who
come from other parts of the U.S."

For the first time since the early 1990s, when California was in a severe
recession, the influx of immigrants to the USA's most populous state did not
offset the loss of people to other states. The state grew only because births
outnumbered deaths.

North Carolina became the fourth Southern state among the 10 most populous,
bumping New Jersey from 10th place. Texas remained second, Florida fourth and
Georgia ninth.

Nevada, the fastest-growing state for 19 consecutive years, dropped behind
Arizona, which saw a 3.6% increase. Arizona's gains are accelerating because it
is attracting not just retirees but also young residents who help boost birth
rates. Many come to escape high costs in other states. "Arizona is drawing from
everywhere -- immigrants from Mexico, middle-class families from California and
old folks from everywhere," Frey says.

Estimates also show that the Midwest is growing faster than the Northeast.
Indiana attracted twice as many residents from other countries as it did from
other states. "The Midwest is being pumped up by international migration," says
Robert Lang, co-director of the Metropolitan Institute at Virginia Tech.

:

Political impact

States that would gain or lose seats in the House of Representatives if 2006
population trends continue through 2010:

Gain two seats

Texas

Gain one seat

Arizona, Florida, Georgia, Nevada, Utah

Lose one seat

Iowa, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Missouri, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania

Source: Election Data Services

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              337 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 26, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

More officials in Midwest, South adding Spanish lessons to training;
Immigrant population growing outside West

BYLINE: Andrea Stone

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 411 words


The growing influx of immigrants into America's heartland has local officials
from Des Moines to Durham, N.C., sponsoring Spanish courses so government
workers can speak to the people they serve.

These courses are all about constructive chitchat, as in: "Do you understand
this form?" (?Usted entiende esta forma?)

Language courses for city employees, especially police, are common in areas with
established Spanish-speaking populations. Tucson police, for example, earn extra
pay if they become bilingual.

The urge to habla Espaool, however, is fairly new in parts of the Midwest and
the South.

The Pew Hispanic Center last year reported that North Carolina saw its Hispanic
population increase nearly 400% from 1990 to 2000. Alabama saw a rise of more
than 200%. Most immigrants were drawn by jobs in manufacturing, agriculture and
construction, and a majority, 57%, did not speak English well or at all.

An intensive Spanish-language course for judges, prosecutors and public
defenders begins next month in Louisville. The year-long program includes eight
months of language-immersion classes and two weeks in Mexico.

Jefferson County District Judge Angela McCormick Bisig devised the program after
watching the number of court cases requiring a Spanish interpreter rise to
6,500, a 51% increase over 2005. She says the need to find translators often
delays proceedings.

Bisig admits there have been critics, "but the fact is, they're here and they're
in my court every day and they don't speak English, (and) I want to be able to
understand where they're coming from."

Other cities speaking Spanish:

*Des Moines. New police recruits must take 45 hours of Spanish before they get
their badges. "It's not just memorizing phrases," Spanish instructor Marcia
McPherren says. "They have to learn how to converse."

*Durham. The city, which expects the Hispanic share of its population to grow
from the current 9% to as high as 15% by 2010, offers five levels of Spanish
instruction to employees. "We looked at our changing community and we wanted to
look at how we could assist our citizens more effectively," human resources
manager Ruby Hargrove says.

*Montgomery, Ala. The city's two-day "survival Spanish" course draws police from
as far away as Georgia and Florida. Police Sgt. A. Mercado, who has taught his
native language since 1998, says class size has risen to 40 students from 10.

"The demand is increasing," Mercado says, "and it's a bigger priority than it
was before."

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              338 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 29, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Latinos: Can you hear us now?

BYLINE: Raul Reyes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 464 words


In my East Los Angeles high school, dividing lines among student groups were
common, even among Latinos. Gang members were known as Lowriders,
Spanish-speaking kids were called Beaners, and assimilated Hispanics like me
were derisively referred to as Coconuts -- brown on the outside, white on the
inside.

The only thing we had in common was that we all looked down on another group:
our immigrant classmates who occupied the bottom rung of the social ladder and
were practically invisible.

How times have changed: 2006 was the "Year of the Immigrant," driven by a fierce
national debate over what the country should do about 12 million undocumented
immigrants. The subsequent restrictive policy proposals were not surprising. But
the massive pro-immigrant marches were astonishing, and invigorating.

As the grandson of an illegal alien, I was proud to see so many aspiring
Americans coming out of the shadows and participating in democracy. The debate
motivated Hispanics to flex their political muscle. This summer, the Pew Center
found that 75% of Latinos believed their ethnic group would be more likely to
vote in the fall elections, and two-thirds thought the protests could lead to a
new social movement. But a majority also reported seeing a rise in
discrimination. Maybe the nascent immigrant rights movement came on too strong.
Was it the Mexican flags  at rallies? Or the Spanish version of The
Star-Spangled Banner?

Of course, not all Hispanics support the rights of undocumented workers. Like
other Americans, we're split on the issue. But by fall, the intolerant tone of
conservatives only served to remind us of our own roots. So did passage of
several restrictive local laws aimed at illegal aliens, as well as congressional
approval of a 700-mile fence along the U.S.-Mexico border.

So in the congressional elections, Latinos deserted the party of The Fence.
According to national exit polls, 69% of Hispanics voted Democratic, while 29%
went Republican. This was a significant shift for Latinos, who in 2004 gave
President Bush 44% of their votes. Democrats now have the challenge of retaining
a Hispanic constituency that is increasingly complicated. No doubt, the
immigration issue will not fade. But for me, hope arrived Oct. 17 at 7:46 a.m.
in New York, where Emanuel Plata was born. Heralded as the 300 millionth
American, he's a perfect symbol of his time: born to Mexican immigrants, in
Queens, the nation's most diverse county, with lingering questions about his
milestone status. But Emanuel will come of age in a society where Hispanics have
more influence and visibility than ever. That's because in 2006, Latinos emerged
in force and made sure their voices were heard.

---

Raul Reyes is an attorney in New York and a member of USA TODAY's board of
contributors.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              339 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 2, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Save Judeo-Christian values

BYLINE: Virgil Goode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 351 words


A letter I sent in early December was written in response to hundreds of e-mails
from constituents upset about Rep.-elect Keith Ellison's decision to use the
Quran in connection with his congressional swearing-in. Their communications
followed media reports that Ellison, a Minnesota Democrat,  had said that he
would swear on the Quran. He repeated that at a gathering of Muslims in Detroit
on Dec. 26.

My letter did not call for a religious test for prospective members of Congress,
as some have charged. Americans have the right to elect any person of their
choosing to represent them. I indicated to my constituents that I did not
subscribe to the Quran in any way, and I intended to use the Bible in connection
with my swearing-in. I also stated that the Ten Commandments and "In God We
Trust" are on the wall of my office, and I have no intention of displaying the
Quran in my office. That is my choice, and I stand by my position and do not
apologize for it.

My letter also stated, "If American citizens don't wake up and adopt the Virgil
Goode position on immigration there will likely be many more Muslims elected to
office and demanding the use of the Quran."

Immigration is arguably the most important issue facing the country today. At
least 12 million immigrants are here illegally. And diversity visas, a program
initiated in 1990 to grant visas to people from countries that had low U.S.
immigration at that time, are bringing in 50,000 a year from various parts of
the world, including the Middle East.

Let us remember that we were not attacked by a nation on 9/11; we were attacked
by extremists who acted in the name of the Islamic religion. I believe that if
we do not stop illegal immigration totally, reduce legal immigration and end
diversity visas, we are leaving ourselves vulnerable to infiltration by those
who want to mold the United States into the image of their religion, rather than
working within the Judeo-Christian principles that have made us a beacon for
freedom-loving persons around the world.

---

Rep. Virgil Goode is a Republican from Virginia's 5th congressional district.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              340 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 10, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Gen Y's attitudes differ from parents'

BYLINE: Sharon Jayson

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 363 words


The views of young people today on politics, social attitudes and life goals are
far different from their baby boomer parents', a national survey of 18- to
25-year-olds suggests.

More than two-thirds (67%) believe immigrants strengthen American society; a
quarter favor increasing legal immigration.

Just 47% of those ages 41 to 60 say immigrants strengthen society; among those
26 and older, 16% say immigration should increase.

While young people are split over gay marriage (47% in favor, 46% opposed),
those over 25 are not: 64% oppose same-sex marriage; 30% favor it.

"This is a more tolerant generation than its predecessors," says Scott Keeter of
Pew Research Center, which surveyed 579 young adults and 922 adults 26 and
older.

The findings that this generation's top life goals are to be rich (81%) and
famous (51%) contrast with a 1967 study of college freshmen in which 85.8% said
it was essential to develop "a meaningful philosophy of life," while 41.9%
thought it essential to be "very well off financially."

The Pew survey asked more than 75 questions on issues from world events to
politics to tattoos and binge drinking. Keeter says the study, in which 130
people were called on cellphones because they don't have a landline, is among
the most extensive of this age group.

Keeter doesn't expect views on social issues to become more conservative with
time. "One can imagine the complexion of these issues changing pretty
significantly when this generation is in positions of power and authority," he
says.

Among other findings:

*32% attend church at least once a week; 20% have no religious affiliation or
are atheist or agnostic.

*48% identify more with Democrats; 35% with Republicans.

*36% have a tattoo and 30% a body piercing in a place other than an ear lobe;
25% have dyed their hair a non-traditional color.

Overall, these young adults are content with their lives and optimistic about
the future: 84% say their life is excellent or good; 14% say fair or poor.

The poll was part of MacNeil/Lehrer Productions' Generation Next project.  The
margin of error for ages 18-25 is plus or minus 5 percentage points; for the
overall poll, plus or minus 3.5 percentage points.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              341 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 23, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Cockfighting's 'cultural tradition' kept alive in USA;
Immigrants giving a boost to the practice, which is illegal in 48 states

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 1021 words


Immigration has helped fuel the popularity of cockfighting, a common practice in
some countries that is illegal in most of the USA.

Statistics are hard to come by, but law enforcement officials and animal rights
groups in places such as Denver, Houston and Santa Barbara County, Calif., say
they've seen a surge. Others question whether there's just more attention on the
activity because police are cracking down.

Cockfighting is illegal in every state except Louisiana and New Mexico.

"It's definitely on the rise," says Wayne Pacelle, head of the Humane Society of
the United States. Pacelle says the Internet has helped connect cockfighters. He
also cites increased involvement of immigrants from countries such as Mexico and
the Philippines. "It's legal in a lot of places where there's significant
immigration to the United States," he says. "You're seeing participation from
people of those nations."

Mark Kumpf of the National Animal Control Association acknowledges there can be
a cultural link. He doesn't think cockfighting is on the rise, though. What's
up, he says, is enforcement.

Police are aggressively busting cockfighting operations, from fights to bird
smuggling, because crimes such as drug dealing, assault and gambling often are
associated, he says.

On Sunday, authorities raided a cockfight in Boydton, Va. Mecklenburg County
Sheriff Danny Fox says 122 people were cited for violating the state's ban, 22
were arrested by Homeland Security officials and accused of being in the country
illegally, and 126 birds were seized.

Bird flu fear

Kumpf says authorities also are motivated by concerns that cockfighting may
contribute to the spread of bird flu. In Asia, it is suspected in some cases of
spreading bird flu to humans, and, through smuggling, from country to country,
the World Health Organization says.

In cockfighting, razor blades or sharp metal spurs called gaffs are strapped to
the legs of specially bred roosters. Spectators place bets and watch the birds
battle, often to the death.

U.S. Rep. Elton Gallegly, R-Calif., says fear of bird flu is one reason he is
sponsoring a bill that would make it a felony to transport a bird or animal
across state or national borders for fighting. It also would prohibit interstate
and foreign commerce in cockfighting implements such as gaffs.

In Denver, the number of informal backyard fights is up, says Doug Kelley,
director of the Division of Animal Care and Control. "It's normally a couple of
households getting together for what they think of as a friendly competition,"
he says.

Animal control officer James Lopez says the practice is especially popular in
Denver's Mexican community. "It's legal in Mexico, so a lot of people come up
here and feel they should be able to do it here, too," he says.

The Santa Barbara County sheriff's department broke up four cockfighting rings
last year, three run by Hispanics and one by Hmong, Sgt. Erik Raney says.

About 150 birds were confiscated in one case after a drug bust led to a broader
investigation. "We often find that the people arrested have other criminal
records," Raney says.

Cockfighting has increased "at an alarming rate" in the Houston area, says Sgt.
Mark Timmers of the Harris County Constable Precinct 6. He says the number of
fighting roosters seized doubles every year. Last year, it was about 800.

Spreading 'folk practice'

In New Mexico, Diana Orosco VanHoozen takes talk of cockfighting personally.

Once her two daughters were old enough to walk, they helped her feed and handle
the roosters, she says. Her birds, numbering about 130, represent family and
cultural tradition to VanHoozen. A self-described "fifth-generation
cockfighter," she raises, breeds and fights roosters.

"This has been in our family for hundreds of years," says VanHoozen, 36, of Las
Cruces, who traces some of her lineage to Mexico. "It's Mexican culture.
Anywhere you go in Mexico, you can find a cockfight."

Some New Mexico lawmakers, animal rights groups and others want to make
cockfighting illegal. Last month, Gov. Bill Richardson backed the idea.

In Louisiana, state Sen. Arthur Lentini plans to introduce a bill to ban
cockfighting when the Legislature convenes in April, according to his assistant,
JoAnn Loebig.

VanHoozen calls New Mexico's effort discrimination. "I want to be able to still
practice my cultural tradition," she says.

State Sen. Mary Jane Garcia, a Democrat, counters, "Whose culture are we talking
about?"

Garcia's grandparents are from Mexico. She says her family has never
participated in cockfighting.

Garcia has been trying to get a cockfighting ban in New Mexico for 18 years.
Last week, she introduced a bill to make cockfighting -- or attending a fight --
a felony.

A 2004 Albuquerque Journal poll found that 66% of registered state voters would
support a law banning cockfighting. Among Hispanic voters, 59% favored a ban.
"To me, it's an animal-cruelty issue. It's barbaric and gruesome," Garcia says.
"It's an illegal and unethical practice. They allow young boys to go in there
and gamble."

Garcia acknowledges that cockfighting is still common south of the border. "It's
still practiced a lot in Mexico, but we're not in Mexico anymore," she says.

Most cockfighters and spectators in New Mexico are Hispanic, says Ronald Barron
of the New Mexico Gamefowl Breeders Association.

"At least 95% of the people raising game fowl in the state are Hispanic," he
says. "It's part of the Hispanic tradition."

Fred Hawley, professor of criminal justice at Western Carolina University, has
done research on cockfighting.

"Like any other folk practice, it's been spreading along with a number of other
folk practices, like folk healing, into areas that attract large Hispanic
populations," he says.

Hawley and Pacelle say cockfighting is also popular with rural whites.

Cockfighters take the practice from their native countries because they feel
pride in the tradition, Hawley says. "For people who have been doing it for
generations, this is symbolic and important," he says.

Timmers cautions against generalizing about ethnic groups. He says, "There are
no cultural boundaries when it comes to cockfighting."

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, 2001 photo by Seth Perlman, AP
PHOTO, B/W, J.R. Hernandez for USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Kim Ovard, Hobbs (N.M.) News-Sun via AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              342 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 24, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Address economic factors that drive immigration

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 439 words


I am a legal immigrant to the United States. My views on immigration:

*Build a border control system that is watertight. A country must control the
flow of people across its borders. No compromise, no discussion. We must keep
the terrorists out, and we must be able to control the influx of foreigners who
want to work and live in the USA.

*Give illegal immigrants five years to gain legal status. If they can't, they
must return to their native country and try again from there.

*If a person wants to immigrate to the USA, he must learn English and
assimilate.

These steps can resolve the problems of U.S. immigration and security.

On a larger scale, the USA has to mobilize Western countries to start addressing
poverty in Third World countries. As long as we have extreme "have-nots" in this
world, there will always be those who want to enter countries where the "haves"
live.

We need a Marshall Plan for Third World countries.

If such countries have good economies with well-educated, healthy and prosperous
people, they will support the economies in the Western world, too.

If this huge issue is not addressed, the enormous pressure of nomadic movements
of people will only grow: They have no choice.

Jim van Leenen

Naperville, Ill.

Conflicted by issue

Like most Americans, I am torn between my desire for secure borders and my
respect for people who leave their families and everything they have known to
cross a desert to find work.

I have had an extensive amount of landscaping done and I've gotten to know the
guys working in my yard. I have yet to meet one Mexican who is not a hard
worker. Most are good people with families who have helped revitalize East
Tulsa, Okla.

I am a Republican who voted for Pat Buchanan in two presidential elections, but
I have to say these hard-working people are the type of immigrants who are good
for America. It's time we drop the double standard of looking the other way when
Mexicans are doing work we benefit from, and then saying that they should all be
kicked out of the USA.

Maybe it is time to raise legal immigration numbers based on employers' needs;
this way, we will know who is coming into the United States.

Kelly O'Dell

Coweta, Okla.

---

Voices of immigration

Are you feeling the impact of immigration? What is life like for an illegal
immigrant living in the USA, and for others in the communities where he or she
works and lives? We're interested in hearing your experiences. Send comments to
editor@usatoday.com or fax to 703-854-2053. Please include your contact number,
city and state for verification purposes. Comments will be considered for an
ongoing conversation in letters and online.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Jack Gruber, USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              343 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           February 7, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Study shows immigrants 'a real engine' for growth;
Highly skilled entrepreneurs create 'enclave economies'

BYLINE: Edward Iwata

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 514 words


The growing number of immigrant entrepreneurs in major U.S. cities is giving a
huge lift to urban economies and even outpacing self-employed native-born
Americans, according to a report Tuesday.

"It's not just a handful of mom-and-pop enterprises," says Jonathan Bowles,
director of the Center for an Urban Future, a non-profit think tank in New York
that conducted the study. "Immigrants have become a real engine for economic and
job growth in many sectors."

Immigrants, of course, have started small shops, restaurants and other
neighborhood businesses throughout U.S. history.

But with the fast-rising immigrant population in recent years, highly skilled
immigrant entrepreneurs in many industries are creating broader "enclave
economies" of supermarkets, food-manufacturing companies, health clinics, banks,
law firms, high-tech start-ups and other companies.

The report, "A World of Opportunity," says the immigrant economy is thriving in:

*Los Angeles. Immigrants started 22 of the city's 100 fastest-growing
businesses, including Red Peacock International, a consumer electronics
wholesaler; PriceGrabber.com, an online comparison-shopping store; and Norstar
Office Products, a workplace furniture company.

Los Angeles County also boasts more businesses owned by Latinos and Asians  than
any U.S. county.

*New York. While the number of businesses citywide rose only 9.6% from 1994 to
2004, the number of firms exploded in immigrant neighborhoods such as Flushing
(55%), Sunset Park (47%), Sheepshead Bay-Brighton Beach (34%) and Washington
Heights (18%).

Job growth in immigrant neighborhoods also outpaced New York's citywide job gain
of 7%. The job rate grew 28% in Jackson Heights, 23% in Sunset Park and 13% in
Sheepshead Bay-Brighton Beach.

*Houston. Perhaps best known for its energy and oil industry, Houston has a
teeming economy of tens of thousands of immigrant entrepreneurs, from Mexico,
Vietnam, China, Nigeria and other countries.

Little known outside Texas, Houston boasts a suburban Asian business district of
strip malls, shopping centers and offices along Bellaire Boulevard. A real
estate developer and Vietnamese immigrant from the area, Hubert Vo, is a Texas
state lawmaker.

Why the surge in immigrant entrepreneurs?

Many come from strong merchant cultures -- such as Syria, Iran, Greece, South
Korea, Israel and Brazil -- that have existed for centuries, according to
Bowles. Millions are well-educated, middle-class professionals. And many possess
the same drive to succeed as U.S. business leaders.

"A lot of immigrants are the cream of the crop," Bowles says. "They have highly
developed skills, a work ethic, good education, business backgrounds," he says.
"They took big risks and sacrificed a lot to get here, and they put that same
spirit into their companies."

Even with the economic progress, however, Bowles says, many immigrants lack
language skills, access to financing and knowledge of the U.S. legal system and
business regulations. Cities, especially those with lagging economies, need to
do more to pump up their often-hidden immigrant economies, he says.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              344 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 9, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration becomes KKK rallying point;
Membership growing, 'imperial wizard' says

BYLINE: Theodore Kim and Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 415 words


The Ku Klux Klan is stepping up its activities in some parts of the country, a
trend that its leaders and opponents tie to anti-immigrant sentiment.

In the past year, the Klan has rallied or distributed fliers in Bloomington,
Ind.; Amarillo, Texas; Denison, Iowa; and elsewhere. In each case, the
white-supremacist group denounced illegal immigration or targeted communities
with growing immigrant populations.

"It surprised me they came," says police Sgt. Randy TenBrink in Amarillo, site
of a rally in August by the Texas chapter of the Empire Knights of the KKK. It
is the only local KKK rally he knows of in 30 years. "The content of their
message surprised me. It was so disjointed."

The Anti-Defamation League, a group that fights anti-Semitism and racism,
released a report this week citing "a surprising and troubling resurgence" of
KKK activity by long-standing and new groups. "They use this immigration issue
to bring in others who feel like America is under siege," says Deborah Lauter,
the ADL's national civil rights director. "It's easy for hate to spread."

The Southern Poverty Law Center, which tracks hate groups, also has charted an
overall increase in KKK activity and says anti-immigrant sentiment is a primary
driver, says Mark Potok, director of the center's tracking operation. The number
of KKK groups rose from 110 in 2000 to 179 in 2005 but fell to about 150 last
year, Potok says.

The behavior parallels the periods after Sept. 11, 2001, and the launch of the
Iraq war in 2003. Extremist groups recruited new members by targeting Muslims,
says William Aponte, the FBI's supervisory special agent for civil rights.

Phil Lawson, who says his title is "imperial wizard" of the United Northern and
Southern Knights of the KKK, would not give membership numbers but says his
group is growing.

He says last year it distributed 6,000 anti-immigrant newsletters in Bloomington
and other Indiana communities calling for a rally and blaming illegal workers
for taking jobs.

"Everyday that our government allows this Illegal Mexican Invasion to continue,
our membership numbers continue to grow in the KKK," he says in an e-mail
responding to questions.

In Denison, KKK members put recruitment fliers on parked cars in August, Police
Chief Rod Bradley says. Storm Lake, Iowa, also was targeted.

Bradley says, "The two communities they targeted in western Iowa are both
communities that have seen an influx of immigrants in the last 10 years."

Kim reports daily for The Indianapolis Star

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              345 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 16, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Cross-cultural marriage rates falling;
Big influx of immigrants makes them more likely to wed among themselves

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 409 words


The USA's growing diversity is cooling the melting pot in at least one way:
marriage across racial and ethnic lines.

The share of Hispanics and Asians married to whites dropped between 1990 and
2000 after two decades of steady growth, new research shows.

The sheer number of immigrants who arrived last decade has made it more likely
for them to marry among themselves, according to findings published this month
in American Sociological Review.

Recent minority immigrants are disproportionately less educated than the
native-born, earn less, do not speak English well and tend to live in segregated
neighborhoods -- major factors that discourage marriage outside racial or ethnic
groups, says Zhenchao Qian, sociology professor at Ohio State University and
co-author of the report. The researchers studied married couples between the
ages of 20 to 34.

The 2000 Census is the most recent data that include enough cases to examine
intermarriages at the national level, he says. "That kind of trend is likely to
continue because immigrants still are coming in," Qian says. "We see immigrants
as more likely to marry among themselves."

In contrast with the decline in intermarriages among whites and Asians and
Hispanics, the rate of marriages between blacks and whites rose significantly
from 1990 to 2000, although it continues to lag far behind those of other
minorities.

The arrival of more than 11million immigrants in the 1990s created a larger
marriage pool for Hispanics and Asians, including those born here. Immigrants
who were younger than 20 when they arrived and U.S.-born Hispanics and Asians --
mostly the less educated -- were more likely to marry among themselves in 2000
than in 1990.

The decline in the rate of intermarriages in the fastest-growing minority groups
could indicate that immigrants are reinforcing their cultural identity, says
Daniel Lichter, co-author of the report and a sociology professor at Cornell
University in Ithaca, N.Y.

If history repeats itself, the children of immigrants will be better educated,
earn more and live and work in more diverse areas than their parents. That could
lead to more marriages outside their groups, Qian says.

The unprecedented number of new immigrants helps explain the decline in
intermarriages, says Jeffrey Passel, demographer at the Pew Hispanic Center.
More than half of adult Hispanics and about three-fourths of adult Asians are
immigrants. "Basically, there's a larger pool," Passel says.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Robert W. Ahrens, USA TODAY (BAR GRAPH)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              346 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          February 21, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Israel tries to increase immigration;
Some fear demographic shift in nation

BYLINE: Yaakov Katz and Barbara Slavin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 623 words


JERUSALEM -- Israel is offering new incentives to attract more American
immigrants in response to its steadily declining Jewish majority.

Immigration is at an 18-year-low, and members of Israel's Arab minority are
having children at a faster rate than Jews. Some lawmakers are keen to protect
Israel's identity as a predominantly Jewish state.

The drop in immigration is of great concern, said Aryeh Eldad, an Israeli
parliament member with the National Union Party. "This will no doubt have a
negative effect on the demographic balance in the country," he said.

The Jewish Agency, the Israeli government organization that oversees
immigration, helps arrivals from the USA and elsewhere to obtain jobs. It also
is streamlining paperwork that may have chased off potential applicants in the
past.

The agency works with Nefesh B'Nefesh, a non-profit organization that provides
grants of $3,000 to $10,000 as an incentive for Jews to move. Nefesh B'Nefesh,
which means "Soul to Soul," also helps arrange housing, jobs and schools for
immigrants' children.

"Immigration to Israel is the ultimate means to securing the future of the state
of Israel and the Jewish people," said Daniel Ayalon, a former Israeli
ambassador to the United States who is the co-chairman of Nefesh B'Nefesh.

The number of immigrants from the USA increased 5% last year to 2,157, Israel's
Central Bureau of Statistics said in a statement released Tuesday. This came
despite a 9% drop in overall immigration in 2006 to 19,264 new arrivals, the
lowest level since 1988.

Jews constitute almost 76% of Israel's population of just more than 7 million
people, while Arabs make up nearly a fifth, the bureau said. The Israeli-Arab
population grows at an annual rate of 2.8%, more than double the Jewish
population's rate of 1.3%, according to Sergio Della Pergola, a demographer from
the Hebrew University in Jerusalem. "Low immigration is here to stay for a
while, and this will definitely affect demographics," Della Pergola said.

The USA, which has a Jewish population of 5.3 million, is the largest potential
pool for recruits. Ayalon said Nefesh B'Nefesh relies primarily on word of mouth
to promote immigration, but it also has put ads in Jewish community newspapers
and organized seminars.

Israel has historically depended on immigration for population growth. But the
country has been unable to repeat the influx of more than 1million Soviet Jews
into Israel during the 1990s after the collapse of the Soviet Union.

Today, about 80% of Americans who immigrate to Israel are Orthodox Jews, said
Steve Bayme, director for contemporary Jewish life at the American Jewish
Committee in New York. Orthodox Jews account for about 8% of the Jewish
population in the USA.

Jonathan Sarna, a professor of American Jewish history at Brandeis University,
said many Orthodox Jews believe it is their duty to live in Israel and find it
easier there to observe Jewish holidays and provide an Orthodox education for
their children.

The deteriorating security situation in the Middle East, especially the
unresolved Arab-Israeli conflict, could be discouraging immigration, said Aaron
Miller, a fellow at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.

"Unless you can create the same kind of economic and psychological security that
exists in the United States, most U.S. Jews are going to stay in the United
States," Miller said.

Ephraim Sneh, Israel's deputy defense minister, warned that Iran's nuclear
progress might be scaring away prospective immigrants, as well as native-born
Israelis.

Ayalon said he believes more immigration will aid Arab-Israeli peace talks, once
Israel's enemies "understand we are here to stay and that time is not on their
side."

Slavin reported from Washington

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Marcy E. Mullins, USA TODAY, Source: Central Bureau of
Statistics (Israel) (Line graph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              347 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 1, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Fee increase could curb citizenship applications;
Critics say cost for U.S. resident status is unfair to poor

BYLINE: William M. Welch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 970 words


Construction worker Martin Delgado paid $845 to the U.S. government to have the
chance for his wife and children join him as citizens in Arizona.

Under a proposed set of fee increases, Delgado would have had to pay nearly
three times as much, or $2,595. The Tucson resident said citizenship for his
family is worth the higher price.

"I'm willing to sacrifice to give my family the opportunity to live here
legally," says Delgado, 41, a native of Mexico who has worked in the USA since
2000.

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services says the fee hikes will allow it to
hire more staff and upgrade its creaky system so applications can be approved
faster. Among its proposals is to raise the application fee for citizenship from
$330 to $595 and the fee for legal permanent residency from $325 to $905.

Advocates for immigrants say the cost may price out the poor from becoming
citizens.

Patricia Mejia, a Tucson immigration attorney, calls the increases
"frightening."

"I've never seen an increase like that. It's outrageous," she says.

Emilio Gonzalez, director of Citizenship and Immigration Services, says he knows
some people may have to save more to become U.S. citizens. But Gonzalez says
most people seeking residency here are, like the Delgados, able to afford the
higher fees and consider their families worth the price.

According to agency records, the vast majority of people who apply for the
required first step of permanent legal residency (commonly referred to as having
a "green card") have jobs in the USA or are joining their spouses or parents as
citizens.

In 2005, 1.1 million people received legal permanent resident status. Of those:

*649,000 are applications to unify with family members

*220,000 were people working and seeking entry based on their professions, job
skills, or because they had jobs considered a priority by the U.S. government.

Of those, 134,861 had jobs in management or similar positions.

*160,000 people had sales, service, farming or similar jobs.

"This is a user fee, and the people benefiting from the service should be the
ones to foot the bill," says Ira Mehlman, spokesman for the Federation for
American Immigration Reform in Los Angeles.

Mehlman's group, which seeks to improve border security and reduce immigration
to about 300,000 people a year, says the proposed new fees are still a bargain
for U.S. residency. "When you compare value to cost, it is fairly
insignificant," he says.

Covering agency costs

The fee for the most commonly filed application, permanent residency or "green
card," will increase $580 under Gonzalez's proposal. Other fees will be reduced
and some will rise even more.

The fee for an investor (someone who qualifies as having the means to create
jobs) seeking a green card would go from $475 to $2,850. About 45 applications a
year fall in that category, says Rendell Jones, chief financial officer of the
agency.

Gonzalez says the impact of the proposed increase for a green card is not as
steep as it sounds.

He says under the current system, many people periodically pay $180 for work
permits while waiting for permanent residency. Under the proposed fee structure,
those work permit fees will disappear, Gonzalez said.

The law makes provision for fees to be waived in some cases, and 6% of green
cards are granted without fee, according to the agency. Most waivers are for
refugees and those seeking political asylum.

All of the fee increases proposed are undergoing a 60-day period of public
comment. That ends April 2. And if all goes as planned, Gonzalez says he hopes
the agency can implement the fees in June. "Any time you raise fees, it's going
to affect people. That's a given," he says. Even so, higher fees are "something
we feel is not onerous," especially given what the money will do.

Citizenship and Immigration Services gets its entire budget from its fees. The
increases will add an estimated $1 billion a year to its annual budget of close
to $2 billion, says Michael Aytes, associate director for operations.

Aytes says higher fees will allow the agency to digitize applications and
hopefully reduce waiting times for applicants by 20% by 2009.

"It's far more important that we charge a fee to cover the necessary cost of
processing cases in the right way, in the right amount of time, than to lowball
fees" and have poorer services, Aytes says.

Long waits, system glitches

Wait times for processing average six months. The agency says applicants
sometimes complain that they become lost in the system. That happened to the
Delgados, whose original applications were lost by the agency and had to be
refiled, says Mejia, their lawyer.

Some in Congress such as Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-Calif., chairwoman of a House
Judiciary subcommittee on immigration, questions whether the fee increases will
prevent impoverished people from trying to become Americans.

The agency says it grants waivers to those who can show they can't afford to pay
fees. But to get a green card, immigrants must make enough income to support
themselves or have a financial sponsor. Pleading poverty to get a fee waiver
could make one ineligible.

Gonzalez admitted "there is an inconsistency" in the policy. Mejia said people
who can't pay the higher costs may choose to do something both sides of the
debate dislike: remain in the country illegally.

Delgado, who brought carpentry skills with him from Mexico, makes about $32,000
a year and considers himself fortunate to have a job that allows him to bring
his family here. As good a life is not possible where he is from, he says. He,
his wife Ana Maria, and their sons Daniel, 11, and Luis, 13, are all here from
Mexico under temporary permits.

For him, almost no price seems too high to pay.

"It's something I'm willing to do because it will give my family more stability,
more opportunities here in the United States," Delgado says.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Gary Gaynor, Tucson Citizen

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              348 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            March 7, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Space too limited to ignore immigration

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 658 words


There are roughly 6 billion people in the world, and they can't all live in the
USA. So somebody must make an admittance determination.

Should it be the citizens already here, who decide through their elected
representatives how many people from various places can be absorbed over a given
period of time? Or should it be any human being on the planet who believes his
life, and the lives of his relatives, would be enhanced if he simply moved to
the USA, whether legally or not?

Considering the above alternatives, why do we have a problem confronting the
immigration issue?

John M. Jenks

Overland Park, Kan.

Law-abiding and happy

My grandfather was a fruit picker from Mexico who worked legally in Texas and
California in the 1950s, when the United States allowed Mexicans to come across
the border to pick fruit for the farmers, get paid and then return to Mexico
until the next season when they were needed.

My grandfather lived this way for many years. In fact, that's how he met my
grandmother. She would greet him at the border during picking season and they
would court in his off hours. They were married for more than 50 years before
she passed away in 2004. Their union brought seven children, numerous
grandchildren, great-grandchildren and three great-great-grandchildren.

My grandfather eventually earned a green card, held it for more than 20 years
and earned his citizenship. He designed and built his own house in Riverside,
Calif., and retired after 30 years as a union plumber. I was born in California.
I grew up next door to my grandparents. I am the first child or grandchild to go
to college, and I'm fortunate to have been able to earn two degrees. My
grandparents are very proud of me.

Yes, there is a need to help our farmers pick fruit. As a human resource
professional, I say hire people, hire Mexican people, but there should be
enforced laws. I also have to tell my clients and employers that if laws are not
complied with, serious consequences can include heavy fines and/or a shutdown of
the business entirely.

Our country can help by advertising that picking fruit or farming is an
honorable profession. My family made it through fine. My grandfather is a
law-abiding citizen enjoying his retirement and his children and grandchildren.

Follow the laws, and happiness is on its way. Do not follow the laws, and it
causes misery -- not only to those breaking them but also to the community.

As a Hispanic, I also dislike seeing and hearing objections to learning English.
My grandparents spoke both languages.

My grandmother had only a fifth-grade education. Her school closed down during
the Depression, but that didn't stop her from learning two languages and raising
children and grandchildren who have master's degrees and nursing degrees as well
as one who was promoted at a very young age to lieutenant in a sheriff's
department.

My grandfather learned English; he helped teach us, and we are thriving.

Catherine Casterline

Anna, Texas

Worth waiting for process

I was glad to see opportunity for frank discussion about the country's
immigration-related issues in USA TODAY.

My husband came to the USA from Canada nearly three years ago. We went through
the long process of paperwork in accordance with the United States' immigration
system. It was difficult, at times, stressful, most times, and somewhat costly.

Nonetheless, it was our belief that to do otherwise would needlessly risk the
stability and security of our marriage and our family.

We went through the process because it was the right thing to do. It was not
easier, but I think about the sleepless nights I would have spent worrying about
what might happen and I realize that it was absolutely the best decision we
could make.

Immigration laws exist for a reason, and anyone who disobeys those laws is a
criminal subject to deportation -- this is a simple and inescapable fact.

Making exceptions endangers everyone in one way or another.

Tanya L. Tremblay

Albrightsville, Pa.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              349 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 13, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Education key for immigrants to make case to the public

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 572 words


I believe immigrants have to integrate into society. We need to speak English
properly, know U.S. history and have basic knowledge of the law. This is all
part of a learning curve, and it will take time. Realize this.

At the same time, I know several people who have lived here more than 30 years
and do not speak a word of English. When I ask why they don't bother to learn, I
always get the same answer with a smirk, "I don't need to." In their
communities, the butcher, the cashier, the bank teller and, of course, the
priest all speak perfect Spanish.

I came to the USA with my bachelor's degree and a ton of hope. And I know how
difficult it is to live as the weakest link in a society. I guess how you're
perceived here depends on your evolution here.

I am married to a U.S. citizen, and I hope I will have my "green card" in six to
eight months. After that, the sky is the limit.  And no, my marriage was not a
business transaction; I dated my wife for two years before getting married. I
feel very privileged to be in this part of my development, and I will be the
best I can be for this country.

It is up to us immigrants to show our people how necessary it is to be educated.
That should be one of the main issues discussed in the mega marches of more than
500,000 people.

Ismael Ruiz Hoyos

Chicago

Difference is in the 'legal'

Regarding immigration, letter writer Michelle Parker wrote, "'Americans' tend to
forget that most Americans came to this great country as immigrants" ("'We are
all human beings,'" March 1).

Though it's true that most Americans are immigrants or descendants of
immigrants, she and the others who tout that mantra seem to conveniently forget
that the immigrants who built this country came here legally, not illegally, and
that they came with the intent of assimilating into the American culture. While
her intended husband-to-be might be "well-educated," he apparently doesn't
understand the concept of legal vs. illegal.

Although we are all human beings, as she stated, none of us is above the law.
The majority of law-abiding Americans do support immigration, as long as it is
done legally. It is the law-breaking illegal immigrants who we have a problem
supporting.

Gordon Smith

Riverside, Calif.

Discrimination in process

This country irritates me. My wife applied for naturalization nearly a year ago,
and her green card is going to expire at the end of the month.

We have been married for seven years and have two children. I am a
third-generation American citizen. Her family members immigrated from Canada
more than 12 years ago, and each of them began the naturalization process within
a week of applying. With an English surname, it seems, the process moved
quickly.

Because my wife took my Mexican surname, however, the Department of Homeland
Security believes she arrived from Mexico. It has been conducting a "background
check" since her interview.

When asked why her sister received her swear-in date before my wife did, the
immigration officer admitted her application was being held up as a result of
her surname.

Discrimination is alive and well. Why the disparities in the length of the
background check between an English surname and a Mexican surname?

My wife leads an exemplary life, she pays taxes and contributes to Social
Security. This, unfortunately, cannot be said for all immigrants. DHS needs to
conduct its background checks efficiently, regardless of surname.

Carlos Aguilar

Salt Lake City

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, John Bohn, The Boston Globe, via AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              350 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            March 14, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Calderon asks U.S. for investment, not barriers;
Mexican president tells visiting Bush that immigration strategy is misdirected

BYLINE: David Jackson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 497 words


MERIDA, Mexico -- Mexican President Felipe Calderon welcomed his U.S.
counterpart to his country Tuesday with a polite but blunt reminder that the
once-friendlier neighbors now labor under tensions over immigration, drug
trafficking and other issues.

The Mexican leader, who took office in December after a contested election,
criticized President Bush for backing construction of 700 miles of proposed
fencing and other barriers along the U.S.-Mexican border. He also chided Bush
and the United States for not working to boost the Mexican economy in order to
keep Mexicans from crossing the border to find work.

"Migration might not be stopped, and certainly not by decree," Calderon said
through an interpreter at a brief ceremony here on the Yucatan Peninsula. "We do
consider ... that we may truly stop the migration by building a kilometer of
highway in Michoacan or Zacatecas (rather) than 10 kilometers of walls in the
border."

The goal, he said, is to get investment in Mexico, "where the labor is located,
and our families will not continue splitting themselves, nor our population."

Bush stressed the historical partnership between the United States and Mexico on
issues of mutual concern. He also repeated a vow made often during his week-long
Latin American trip that he will seek a comprehensive immigration bill from
Congress that provides more opportunities for temporary foreign workers.

"We're working to ensure that we have a secure and modern border that speeds the
legitimate flow of people and commerce," Bush said. "The United States respects
the rule of law. But in the debate on migration, I remind my fellow citizens
that family values do not stop at the Rio Grande river."

Calderon, of the conservative National Action Party, narrowly beat leftist
Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, whose supporters are still protesting the election
outcome. Calderon met with Bush in Washington shortly before taking office Dec.
1.

During Bush's two-day Mexican visit, he and Calderon are trying to reboot a
relationship that seemed to stall  after the 9/11 attacks. Bush and Calderon's
predecessor, Vicente Fox, were close but split on immigration and the Iraq war.

"The idea is to start fresh after frayed nerves and fractured relations," said
Pamela Starr, who analyzes Latin American issues for the Eurasia Group
consulting firm.

Calderon reminded Bush that he once said the United States' relationship with
Mexico is the "most relevant," but he noted that "the terrible happenings" of
9/11 changed U.S. priorities.

On drugs, Calderon said it would be  difficult to reduce the amount of illegal
narcotics entering the USA from Mexico without curbing demand beyond Mexico's
borders. Bush has endorsed a regional effort on drug trafficking.

White House counselor Dan Bartlett said Bush did not find Calderon's remarks
harsh, and he noted the intensity surrounding immigration. "It's an emotional
debate in our own country," he said.

Bush and Calderon will hold a joint news conference today.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Alfredo Guerrero, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              351 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 19, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S. government scrutinizes Guatemalan adoptions;
Suspected fraud leaves prospective parents in limbo

BYLINE: Steve Friess

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 634 words


The U.S. government is warning thousands of Americans who plan to adopt children
from Guatemala that it suspects widespread fraud in that country's foreign
adoption practices and plans to increase its scrutiny of each case.

The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services division, which oversees
international adoptions, pointed in a  memo to a case in which a baby was
smuggled into the USA and cases in which fraudulent documents were used. The
memo  "strongly" urged parents to "carefully consider their options."

The memo all but assures people in the process of adopting that they will face
new delays,  immigration agency spokesman Dan Kane says.

"There are serious problems with the adoption process in Guatemala," Kane says.
"The Guatemalan government is planning to implement new adoption processing
procedures to increase protections, but these new procedures are not sufficient"
to ensure that the child being adopted is legitimately being surrendered by the
parent.

Guatemalan adoption activist Kevin Kreutner, who operates Guatadopt.com, says
parents are alarmed.

"There are a lot of really scared people right now who have entered into a
legal, legitimate system in good faith who are on a roller-coaster ride,"
Kreutner says. He lives in suburban Milwaukee and has adopted two Guatemalan
children.

Americans adopted 4,135 Guatemalan children last year, putting the impoverished
Central American nation second only to China in popularity as a source for
international adoptions. Kreutner says that's partly because, until now, the
process for Guatemala has been faster than elsewhere -- four to seven months vs.
usually a year for China. Many adoptive parents also like the fact that the
children typically live in private foster homes rather than orphanages.

But Kane says he fears that Guatemala may not meet its deadline of this year to
comply with an international treaty known as the Hague Convention on Protection
of Children and Co-operation in Respect of Intercountry Adoption.

The agreement requires countries to take extensive measures to ensure that the
rights of the biological mothers are protected. Without those, federal officials
say, an adoption system that has become lucrative for facilitators and
Guatemalan lawyers could be permitting parents to be coerced or bribed into
unwillingly relinquishing their babies.

The topic was one of many President Bush said he raised with Guatemalan
President Oscar Berger during his visit last week to Guatemala City. Berger made
no public statements about the matter, but Jose Guillermo Castillo, Guatemala's
ambassador to the United States, said Guatemalan lawmakers are working on reform
legislation that could be stalled in his country's congress.

"At the end of the day, it's a big business for some people, and they are
lobbying very firmly against changes in the current legislation," he said.

Kreutner says the Hague, although well-meaning, requires governments to conduct
investigations they don't  have the staff to handle and would severely slow down
the adoption process. He noted that the Guatemalan process already requires that
a DNA test be taken to ascertain that the woman who gives  the child up for
adoption is actually the mother.

The turmoil doesn't sit well with Jason Tylenda, 32, of Huntington Woods, Mich.,
who is now in his 11th month of trying to adopt an 11-month-old Guatemalan girl
but whose process already has been slowed down in part because the child's
mother is a minor. Tylenda, who is single, has had a nursery set up since July
for the girl, whom he plans to name Lilian.

"I have a room with a changing table, diapers and clothes that she's already
outgrown," Tylenda says. "That my process could be affected by this is at the
very least distressing. The prospect of that wait being even longer is
depressing."

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: U.S. Department of State
for fiscal year 2006 (BAR GRAPH)
PHOTO, B/W, Santa Fabio for USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              352 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 4, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration delay is tearing apart family

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 527 words


I was reading USA TODAY's letters on immigration, and I can relate ("Immigration
laws cause heartache," "System is unfair to families," "Treat Mexicans with
respect," Letters, March 22).

My wife is from Tanzania. She won a Fulbright scholarship and came to the USA to
teach Swahili, her native language, at Ohio University in Athens, Ohio. We met,
fell in love and married in August 2004.

We have filed her citizenship paperwork many different times. Every step of the
way we have met barriers, and it is expensive to continue filing paperwork. To
date, we still have not heard whether she will be granted U.S. citizenship.

My wife and I now work in different cities. This year, she is teaching at
Harvard and Boston universities, and I am working in Toledo so we have a steady
source of income and insurance. She has worked and paid taxes in this country
for four years, yet she still cannot become a U.S. citizen. She cannot even go
home to see her 13-year-old son, whom she hasn't been able to see or talk to
regularly since she moved to the USA. If she did return to Tanzania, she
wouldn't be able to come back to America for 10 years.

The United States once was made up of almost all immigrants, but now it seems
none is allowed in anymore. Yet we need them. We need their cultures and
diversity. And more important, we need their work ethic.

Nightly, my wife cries in her sleep. She wants to visit her family in Tanzania.
She wants to build a life for her son here. She can't do either. Something has
to be done.

Talmage Evans

Toledo, Ohio

Trying to do what is right

I travel frequently to China, and about a year ago I married a wonderful Chinese
woman.  I understood that the immigration process would take time, but I never
imagined how bad it could be. We began filing her immigration paperwork a year
ago, and today there is no end in sight.

Nothing in our file should be holding up her paperwork. I'm a 52-year-old
engineer, and she is a 38-year-old sales manager in Beijing.

The real problem is the U.S. government. The immigration system is too slow. No
wonder the USA has an immigration problem. If our government treated with
respect the people who are trying to come here legally, then many would not need
to come here illegally. Illegal immigrants should be deported immediately. I am
trying to do what is right, and I am suffering. Law-abiding immigrants don't
have many options.

Steve Anderson

Minneapolis

Poverty leads to tragic end

After three weeks in a small and barely seaworthy boat, more than 100 Haitians
landed in Florida last week. At least one was dead and several were in critical
condition. This is an example of the lengths people will go in order to escape
extreme poverty.

Instead of simply shipping these people back to their home, which is our normal
response, we should work harder to fix the problems in our world that caused
them to flee their countries.  This is not an unreasonable expectation. We need
to keep the promise that was made when we signed onto the United Nations
Millennium Development Goals in 2000. We must act like the world leader we are
and set the example in working toward these objectives.

Sarah Hoffman

Denton, Texas

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Rex C. Curry, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              353 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 11, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Klan-busters fighting on a new front;
Suit addresses crime aimed at immigrants

BYLINE: Laura Parker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 425 words


The Southern Poverty Law Center, which waged a 20-year campaign against hate
groups by suing them in court for money damages, is turning its legal firepower
against violence directed at immigrants.

The law center is suing two members of the Imperial Klans of America who are
serving prison terms for beating a 16-year-old U.S. citizen of Panamanian Indian
descent at a Kentucky fair in July.

The lawsuit alleges that Jarred Hensley, 24, of Cincinnati and Andrew Watkins,
26, of Louisville mistook Jordan Gruver for an illegal Hispanic immigrant and
beat him severely, breaking his jaw and left arm and cracking two ribs.

The lawsuit, filed in February in Meade County Circuit Court in Kentucky, is the
first by the law center aimed at combating a rise in violence against
immigrants, according to Morris Dees, the center's founder. "The biggest thing
fueling hate groups is Latino migration into this country, (people) who are
perceived as harming America," Dees said.

In the 1980s and 1990s, the center sued Ku Klux Klan groups that targeted
African-Americans. It won multimillion-dollar judgments, which forced some of
the groups into bankruptcy.

Klan membership in the USA has dropped from about 4 million in the mid-1920s to
about 6,000-8,000 today, according to statistics from the center, which tracks
white supremacist groups. Klan groups are active in 36 states.

The Imperial Klans of America, the second-largest Klan group in the USA, has 23
chapters, Dees said. The IKA's website describes the group as a "private
Christian organization." It says the group does not advocate violence but uses
racial slurs and adds, "If you are not of the White race, this web site is not
for the likes of YOU!"

Hensley and Watkins pleaded guilty to assault "under extreme emotional
disturbance" and each received a three-year prison term in February, said
Commonwealth Attorney Kenton Smith, prosecutor for three Kentucky counties.
Smith said the emotional disturbance aspect of the charge refers to the
defendants' emotions, such as anger, at the time of the offense.

"It's our contention that they picked (Gruver) out because they thought he was
Hispanic," Smith said. "Our theory of the case is that they were down here on a
recruiting trip. They had their Klan T-shirts on."

The two men attacked Gruver at the Meade County Fairgrounds in Brandenburg,
beat, kicked and spit on him, and shouted racial epithets at him, Smith said.

Attorneys for Hensley and Watkins could not be reached for comment.

Hensley and Watkins have not responded to the lawsuit, Dees said.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              354 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 2, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Visa process bans wedding guest

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 195 words


My son met his wife in Romania while volunteering and teaching in the public
schools. She is a medical student in her last year. They married last year and
currently live in Romania while she prepares for her exit exams.

Now she has applied for a visitor's visa so she can come to the USA for my
youngest son's wedding. Little did we did know that being married to a U.S.
citizen is actually detrimental.

She is no longer eligible for a visitor's visa. She was told at the U.S. Embassy
that because she is married to a U.S. citizen, she must go through the
immigration process to get a visa.

Unfortunately, we all know that the immigration process is expensive,
complicated and time-consuming. There is no way she can get a visa before my
youngest son's wedding on May 26. We were told that October would be the
soonest.

My son and his wife did not want to begin the immigration process. Now they will
be forced to do so just so they can visit us. My husband and I have hired a
lawyer because we have heard too many horror stories.

Relatives and friends have suggested that we hold the wedding in Mexico. At
least there, she could attend the wedding.

Judy Drinkall

Capron, Ill.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              355 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                               May 7, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

English-only workplaces lead to discrimination suits

BYLINE: Stephanie Armour

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 633 words


Some companies are adopting policies that require employees to speak only
English on the job, spurring a backlash of lawsuits alleging that such rules can
discriminate against immigrants.

The English-only policies are coming as the number of immigrants in the USA
soars: Nearly 11 million residents are not fluent in English, according to U.S.
Census data, up from 6.6 million in 1990. Nearly 34 million residents are
foreign-born, according to 2003 U.S. Census data. That's up from 24.6 million in
1996.

"This is becoming a much bigger issue," says Amy McAndrew, an employment lawyer
at Philadelphia-based Pepper Hamilton. "Employers want to have policies because
of safety and customer service, but they have to be careful not to be
discriminatory."

Employers may legally adopt an English-only speaking rule if they can show it is
a business necessity, such as the need for communication with co-workers and
customers or safety-sensitive situations where use of a common language could
prevent an emergency, she says.

But Ronna Timpa, owner of Workplace ESL Solutions in Henderson, Nev., says
employers go too far in adopting strict policies that prevent co-workers from
talking in their native language even during lunch.

"Imagine how you would feel if you couldn't speak your own language in the
bathroom," she says.

The issue typically comes up in lower-wage and service-sector jobs.

The number of charges filed with the federal Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) alleging discrimination based on such English-only policies is
small but six times as large as 10 years ago, from 32 charges in 1996 to about
200 in 2006.

"If the rules enter work breaks, they will be difficult to defend or justify,"
says Dianna Johnston, assistant legal counsel with the EEOC, adding that some
employers also have policies requiring employees to be fluent in English.

Employers have faced lawsuits for enforcing English-only policies. In April,
Flushing Manor Geriatric Center agreed to pay $900,000 to settle an EEOC lawsuit
based in part on the company's English-only policy. The New York-based geriatric
center barred Haitian employees from speaking in Creole while allowing other
foreign languages to be spoken, according to the EEOC.

That prohibition also included that no Creole be spoken during breaks, and
largely affected employees who worked in nursing, food service and housekeeping,
the EEOC says.

"There was no justifiable reason when there's not a specific business
necessity," says Stella Yamada, an EEOC lawyer.

Marc Wenger, a New York-based lawyer representing the geriatric center, says the
EEOC characterization is inaccurate and it believes its  language policies are
consistent with EEOC guidelines. He says there was no restriction on using other
languages during breaks, adding the consent degree was not an admission of
wrongdoing.

Some employers have extended the policy to customers, too. Geno's Steaks, a
Philadelphia landmark, generated a storm of media and blogger attention in 2006
when its owner posted a sign requesting that customers order only in English.

At New York-based Hakia, which provides an Internet-based search engine,
employees who are hired must speak English, and English is the language used for
all business communications, says President Melek Pulatkonak. Many employees are
immigrants who speak Turkish, German, Russian, Indian, Romanian or Spanish.
Employees are free to speak their native language in private conversations.

"We have a very international team," Pulatkonak says. "Sometimes we have slips,
and we just e-mail them back in English."

English fluency

These states have the highest percentage of residents ages 5 and older that
speak English less than "very well."

California 20.2%

Texas 14.8%

New York 12.7%

Nevada 12.1%

Arizona 11.8%

Source: Census Bureau

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              356 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 8, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A border agent (and immigrant) defies stereotypes;
One man's work in defending the U.S. border speaks volumes about what it means
to be an American

BYLINE: Paulette Chu Miniter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 877 words


LAREDO, Texas -- It is peak season for Mexican migrants looking to cross the
Texas border for work this spring and summer. But in this southwestern city
known as "the gateway to Mexico," more than 15,000 illegal immigrants have
already been thwarted. Gino Rodriguez is a good part of the reason why.

While driving along Laredo's dusty western border on a quiet morning, Rodriguez,
43, told me, "I feel I am serving the country. I'm serving my country by helping
protect it."

Immigration from Mexico, legal or not, has long been considered a problem in the
USA on the grounds that too many border-crossers aren't assimilating and
becoming loyal citizens. Last week's  immigrant protests around the country, in
which some  protesters waved Mexican flags alongside Old Glory, no doubt only
fuel these suspicions. There are even those who warn of an impending plot to
reannex the nation's southwestern states back to Mexico, no matter how
far-fetched that might sound.

But the irony is that many of those who keep watch over our borders each day
are, in fact, Mexican-American. Although the U.S. Border Patrol doesn't keep
statistics on where its agents are born, agency spokesman Mario Martinez says at
least 6,700 of the country's 12,800 Border Patrol agents identify themselves as
Hispanic. Perhaps not surprisingly, the nation's highest-ranking Border Patrol
agent, David Aguilar, also bears a Spanish surname.

On the front lines

So, of course, does Rodriguez. He is the son of working-class Mexican
immigrants, and many of his relatives still live across the border. Bucking the
stereotype of the Mexican-flag-waving, non-English-speaking Latino, Rodriguez
has been a proud member of the Border Patrol for 18 years. He has turned away
drug smugglers, bandits, gang members and, frequently, illegal migrant workers
from Mexico.

Last year, Laredo's Border Patrol force, which is heavily Mexican-American,
caught nearly 75,000 illegal migrants.

The work puts the country's many Mexican-American Border Patrol agents on the
front lines of the immigration debate. Rodriguez said migrants often say to him,
"C'mon, you're one of us. Aren't you Mexican?"

In truth, Rodriguez isn't Mexican. His family was Mexican. He considers himself
"an American of Mexican heritage." The distinction can't be overstated. Despite
the hand-wringing over immigrants not assimilating, there is a shared American
identity.  Being a U.S. citizen and rightfully belonging in this country is a
great source of pride that many immigrants and their children take to heart.

To be sure,  Rodriguez has seen migrants on the verge of death, stranded by
smugglers in midsummer when temperatures swell to more than 100 degrees. In
Spanish, they plead to him for mercy. Shaking his head, Rodriguez said, "I
understand their plight like any human being would," adding that his job "isn't
just about catching people, it's about saving lives, too." The agency even has a
special rescue team that treats migrants in distress. Even so, Rodriguez said,
"I'm a U.S. citizen, and I swore to uphold the laws of this country."

Notwithstanding first-generation Americans such as Rodriguez, immigrants still
tend to get a bad rap in surveys. A Pew Research Center poll a year ago found
that 45% of Americans believe Latino immigrants "keep to themselves and don't
try to fit in." This skewed view was in place well before the issue of
immigration reform came to a public boiling point last spring, as thousands of
immigrants filled the streets to protest the enforcement-only legislation passed
by the House of Representatives.  (Congress has yet to pass comprehensive
immigration reform legislation.) In 2004, a joint poll by National Public Radio
and the Kaiser Family Foundation  found that more than one-third of Americans
who aren't immigrants thought  new immigrants "love America less" than those
born here.

Pride at the border

But at least in this part of Texas, it is hard to believe that such perceptions
are true. In Laredo, which is  94% Hispanic, locals embrace Border Patrol
agents, who are fixtures in parades, schools and fundraisers. There is a strong
sense of where America begins and Mexico ends.

Rodriguez himself is a dispassionate supporter of congressional plans to build a
physical wall along the border. Indeed, later that day at the Border Patrol's
city headquarters, where agents monitor the border via cameras and electronic
sensors, we catch sight of a man wearing a black cowboy hat crossing  from
Mexico and into a Laredo neighborhood, where he briefly disappeared behind
nearby houses.

"We could certainly have more control of our border. You can never be
satisfied," Rodriguez said. "The truth is, the immigration problem was here when
I came to the Border Patrol, and it will continue to be here after I'm gone.
Because the magnet is here. Everybody wants to come to this country."

The immigration hard-liners tell us that even legal immigrants can't be wholly
trusted to pledge allegiance to America. But what better sign that many
immigrants are not only assimilating but faithfully so, than for the children
and grandchildren of yesterday's newcomers to be today's protectors of our
national borders.

---

Paulette Chu Miniter, a Phillips Foundation journalism fellow, is a writer in
New York.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Theresa Scarbrough for USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              357 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 15, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Snags in process cost dreams

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 576 words


I am a highly skilled immigrant and have been in the USA for seven years on a
work visa. I've been a resident of Florida since 2000 and started the process of
getting my green card a couple of years ago. But due to an application backlog
in the system and other problems, there is little hope that I will be granted
permanent residency in the near future.

In 2004, my daughter, who came as my dependent on an H-4 visa, graduated from
high school as the valedictorian. She received prestigious academic awards and
scholarships, including the Florida Bright Futures Scholarship, Hutton Junior
Research Fellowship and the Rotary Club of St. Petersburg award. She now is a
junior at the University of Florida and wants to pursue higher studies in
medicine at any Florida public university.

Besides meeting the high academic standards, applicants  into a medical program
at a Florida public university must be a citizen or permanent resident. I
applied for permanent residency in October 2004, and my daughter should be
covered under my application, but due to a huge backlog and processing delays at
the Department of Labor and at U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, there
is very little hope that we will be granted permanent residency status by the
time my daughter's admissions application is due.

We are here legally in the USA, and I pay the same tax rate as any U.S. citizen
would with my same living circumstances. But due to the restriction on my
immigration status, my daughter's application for admission into a medical
program will not be considered.

Despite being academically qualified, the immigration status will totally
jeopardize her childhood dream of becoming a doctor to serve society.

Kalyan Sircar

St. Petersburg, Fla.

Filipinos deserve better

On May Day, millions of illegal immigrants held rallies and protests, as they
did last year, claiming they deserve U.S. citizenship simply because of their
presence here. I'm not convinced.

I am far more concerned, especially as Memorial Day approaches, about the
injustice suffered by Filipino veterans who fought for the United States during
World War II and for their families.

America should first pay its debts to those who have served the country. Many of
those Filipino WWII veterans and their families live in poverty and would gladly
take up jobs many Americans don't want.

More than 200,000 Filipinos fought with the United States against the Japanese.
They were promised all the benefits given to U.S. veterans. But in 1946,
Congress passed the Rescission Act, denying Filipinos benefits promised on the
basis of what Harry Truman deemed practical under the GI Bill of Rights. What
shameful treatment!

One of those veterans was my wife's father, the late Augustine Pedrita, who was
never able to realize his great ambition to immigrate to America and become a
U.S. citizen. Over the years, these Filipino veterans have acquired partial
benefits from the U.S. government, but they are still not eligible for non-war
related disability pensions.

My wife is from the Philippines and is now a naturalized U.S. citizen. We are
frustrated at the length of time it is taking for her to reunify her family in
the USA. We feel that this is the least the U.S. government can do for us, since
her father was a WWII veteran. Had Congress not passed that Rescission Act,
Augustine Pedrita would have become a U.S. citizen and likely would have enjoyed
a longer and happier life.

Steve Mozena

Carson, Calif.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Alan Diaz, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              358 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 16, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GOP hopefuls slug it out in 'first in South' debate;
In South Carolina, candidates' records on abortion, spending come under fire

BYLINE: Jill Lawrence

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 788 words


COLUMBIA, S.C. -- The gloves came off at Tuesday night's Republican presidential
debate as the 10 candidates attacked each other's positions on abortion, taxes,
immigration and campaign spending.

The sharpest exchange came between former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney and
John McCain. Romney said he feared McCain would do for immigration what the
Arizona senator's campaign-finance law has done for politics and money -- "and
that's bad."

McCain, who would allow many illegal immigrants to become citizens, shot back
that he has consistently favored limits on money in politics and opposed
abortion: "I haven't changed my position in even-numbered years because of the
position that I may be running for."

It was a reference to Romney's shift in recent years from supporting to opposing
abortion rights.

Abortion also posed a challenge for former New York City mayor Rudy Giuliani,
who in recent days has made no bones about his support for legal abortion in a
party dominated by abortion opponents. "I ultimately do believe in a woman's
right of choice," he said in the debate. He noted that abortions fell and
adoptions rose during his tenure.

The debate at the University of South Carolina came after a May 3 meeting at the
Reagan Presidential Library in California. It was, as advertised, the "first in
the South" debate, in the state that holds the region's first nominating
contest. The South Carolina primary is scheduled for Feb. 2.

The debate on the Fox News Channel featured the network's reporters asking tough
questions that pit the 10 candidates against each other and their own records.

One divide emerged when moderator Brit Hume posed a hypothetical question about
suicide attacks on U.S. shopping centers. He asked McCain how aggressively he
would interrogate prisoners to get information on future attacks.

McCain, who was tortured as a POW in Vietnam, said standard Army interrogation
techniques "would be adequate" in almost every case, without eliciting false
information or sacrificing world opinion of the United States. "If we agree to
torture people, we would do ourselves great harm," he said.

Giuliani said yes when asked whether he would approve "enhanced" methods such as
"waterboarding," a controversial technique which simulates drowning. "I would
tell the people who had to do the interrogation to use every method they could
think of," he said, "short of torture." The CIA does not consider waterboarding
torture, although others do.

Giuliani seized an opportunity and won applause when Texas Rep. Ron Paul said
U.S. policy in the Middle East was a reason for the 9/11 attacks.

"That's an extraordinary statement ... that we invited the attack because we
were attacking Iraq," Giuliani said. "I don't think I've ever heard that before,
and I've heard some pretty absurd explanations for Sept. 11th."

Several candidates were forced by questioners and rivals to defend themselves on
tax matters:

*Romney was asked why his signing of a no-new-tax pledge this year, after
refusing to do so in 2002 when he ran for governor, should not be considered "a
blatant appeal to the party base." Romney replied: "I want to make it very clear
that I'm not going to raise taxes."

*Former Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee said he cut taxes 94 times and would not
apologize for raising them to build highwaysand make court-ordered improvements
in schools.

*McCain said he voted against President Bush's tax cuts in 2001 and 2003 because
Congress refused to cut spending. He said he voted to continue those cuts so
families would not experience the equivalent of a tax hike.

Colorado Rep. Tom Tancredo expressed disbelief after hearing several fellow
contenders lament the GOP's lost reputation for fiscal discipline. Did they vote
for the expensive Medicare prescription-drug program or the No Child Left Behind
education law? "If they did, how in the world can they come back here and say
we've got to be careful about spending?" he asked.

The unpopular Iraq war dominated the debate's start, with McCain repeating that
he is willing to be "the last man standing" to support involvement in Iraq as
long as he believes it is possible to succeed there. He said the Iraqi
government must improve, but the United States cannot leave because failure
would create "chaos and genocide" in the region "and they'll follow us home."

The debate also included Kansas Sen. Sam Brownback; California Rep. Duncan
Hunter; former Virginia governor Jim Gilmore; and former Wisconsin governor
Tommy Thompson. The field could expand as early as next month to include former
Tennessee senator Fred Thompson. He is now an actor on Law & Order, but NBC
executive Kevin Reilly said Monday that it is "highly unlikely" Thompson will be
back next year.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              359 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 22, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Kyl catches grief over compromise;
Immigration plan needed, senator says

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 765 words


WASHINGTON -- In a seventh-floor office of the Hart Senate building, two
receptionists with headsets and manically flashing phones got a lesson in the
rewards of legislative compromise.

"Yes, ma'am; yes, sir, I'll tell him how you feel about the legislation," the
two young men repeated over and over as the phones continued to ring.

The recipient of all the telephonic attention is Jon Kyl of Arizona, the
Senate's No. 3 Republican leader. Last year, he opposed a proposed immigration
bill President Bush backed. This year, he's one of the chief architects of a
bipartisan deal that has won the blessing of the president and the Senate's
leading liberal, Edward Kennedy of Massachusetts.

The reaction among Kyl's conservative base has been less than gratifying. "The
criticism has been more intense than the plaudits," the senator acknowledged
Monday.

Back home in Arizona over the weekend, he talked to Republican officials about
the immigration compromise the Senate is debating this week. "I'd say half of
them were quite unhappy," Kyl said.

The Senate voted 69-23 Monday to begin debate on an immigration bill that is a
key domestic priority for the president. It has generated intense opposition
from conservatives in his party.

Probably no one in the Senate catches more flak over the immigration legislation
than Kyl. He represents the state with the highest number of illegal border
crossings in the nation, according to the Border Patrol.

Arizona is also the birthplace of the Minutemen, a citizens group dedicated to
apprehending illegal immigrants.

A leading GOP conservative, Kyl is viewed as a traitor by some opponents of the
deal he helped hammer out.

"His position seems to be an about-face," Ira Mehlman of the Federation for
American Immigration Reform, a group that opposes the Senate bill, told the
Tucson Citizen.

"This is one of the most difficult and emotional issues that the Senate has
dealt with since the civil rights legislation, perhaps," Kyl said. Still, he
insisted, "I know that I'm doing the right thing.

"I see what's happening to my state. I see what's happening to the country," he
said. "Every year of inaction, the problem is simply getting worse."

Kyl, who won re-election to a second six-year term last year with 53% of the
vote, said he got "one loud and clear message" from voters "and that was do
something about immigration." Rather than try to block a bill, he said, "it
seemed to me the best thing I could do was get in the game and fight as hard as
I could for what I believe in."

The resulting compromise, under attack by interest groups on the left and right,
would give about 12 million illegal immigrants a chance to stay if they paid
fines and back taxes. It also would increase penalties on future illegal
immigrants and employers who hire them and would change the legal immigration
system to give a priority to skilled immigrants.

Kyl said he would prefer that people who entered the country illegally not be
given a chance to become citizens. But he said the deal is better than "a
continuation of the status quo, which in my state is not good."

He reluctantly agreed to support a chance at citizenship for illegal immigrants
in return for additional border barriers and limitations to keep a temporary
"guest worker" program from becoming an automatic path to citizenship.
"Temporary means temporary," Kyl said.

To keep the bill on track, a group of senators, including Kyl, will meet
privately every day to examine proposed amendments. The senators will oppose as
a group those amendments they consider deal-breakers, even if some of the
senators personally favor the measures.

"The problem here is that it's very hard for either side to make concessions,"
Kyl said. "Both sides made concessions here. If there is a substantial change
one way or another, then that balance is off."

Feeding the "tremendous anxiety and opposition" among his conservative base, Kyl
said, is the company he keeps. "How can you possibly sit down and negotiate with
Ted Kennedy?" is one of the messages he said he heard last weekend in Arizona.
Kyl, who grew up in politics -- his father, John Kyl, served six terms as an
Iowa congressman -- simply explained, "I'm in the minority now."

"If you're elected to be a legislator and your constituents put a caveat on it
-- don't negotiate with any of your colleagues -- you're not going to be a very
effective legislator," he said.

On the Senate floor, Kennedy assured Kyl's constituents that their senator
fought hard for their views. He praised Kyl as a senator who knows how to
"compromise without compromising your values."

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Tim Dillon, USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Matt York, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              360 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 24, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Chertoff chides left, right over bill;
Says opposition may hurt interests of both

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely and David Jackson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 613 words


McLEAN, Va. -- Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said Wednesday that
Republican conservatives working to block an immigration bill risk endorsing a
"silent amnesty" by insisting on deportations that are "not going to happen."

Chertoff also leveled criticism at liberal immigrant rights advocates, saying
they could prolong the anguish of immigrant families by withholding support for
legislation that could make them legal.

His warnings came in an 80-minute appearance he and Commerce Secretary Carlos
Gutierrez made before the USA TODAY editorial board. The two men's appearance is
a preview of a media blitz by the Bush administration as Congress prepares to go
on a week-long Memorial Day recess that will give both sides in the emotional
debate a chance to sway senators on a bill President Bush wants as part of his
legacy.

The Homeland Security secretary said he canceled an overseas trip to help. In
addition, the president is expected to stump for the bill next week and a "rapid
response" team is countering critics, not only in the conventional media but,
for the first time, on Internet blogs, said White House communications director
Kevin Sullivan. The president's press secretary, Tony Snow, already has debated
talk radio host Rush Limbaugh and TV commentator Lou Dobbs, both critics of the
bill.

Chertoff acknowledged that there is "a fundamental unfairness" in a bill
allowing illegal immigrants to stay. But  trying to force them to leave would be
impossible, Chertoff said, "We are bowing to reality."

He dismissed the argument of Republican conservatives, such as Rep. Brian
Bilbray, R-Calif., who argue that illegal immigrants will leave if strict
enforcement of U.S. laws makes it impossible for them to find a job.

"You're not going to replace 12 million people who are doing the work they're
currently doing," Chertoff said. "If they don't leave, then you are going to
give them silent amnesty. You're either going to let them stay or you're going
to be hypocritical."

Bilbray said his idea hasn't worked because  "there's been a conscious strategy
of not enforcing the law."

Chertoff, whose department has staged a number of recent raids that have
resulted in mass roundups of illegal workers and sharp protests from religious
groups, warned there will be more if the workers don't get a chance to become
legal. "We're going to enforce the law," he said. "People all around the country
will be seeing teary-eyed children whose parents are going to be deported."

Both he and Gutierrez warned that major changes could kill the compromise bill.

Kevin Appleby of the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops rejected what he called
the "take it or leave it" argument. "The groups who represent those who don't
have a voice in the debate want to get the best deal possible," he said.

Gutierrez addressed another controversial aspect of the immigration bill, a
program to expand the number of foreigners who can work temporarily in the USA.
The Senate on Wednesday voted to reduce the number of guest workers from 400,000
to 200,000 a year, a move Gutierrez called "a bit concerning."

The USA needs more foreign workers as baby boomers retire, the Commerce
secretary said. His department's figures show the population ages 25-54 growing
at 0.2% a year while the workforce is growing at 1.2% a year.

"The reality is, we don't have enough people," said Gutierrez, adding that many
of the USA's economic competitors, such as France, Germany, Japan and China,
will be facing a similar demographic shift. "The big challenge of the 21st
century is: Who gets the people? Who gets the immigrants?" he said. "We don't
appreciate today that these people are coming in for free."

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              361 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 29, 2007 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 FINAL EDITION

Builders worry about documentation delays;
Construction

BYLINE: Sue Kirchhoff

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 353 words


The immigration bill carries high stakes for builders, given that about a
quarter of the 7 million U.S. construction workers are of Hispanic origin.

In general, home builders and other contractors support setting uniform,
national standards for hiring workers and giving illegal immigrants now in the
USA a path to eventual legal status. But they have concerns about the
guest-worker program, liability issues and the logistics of the bill's employee
verification scheme.

Jerry Howard, CEO of the National Association of Home Builders, says requiring
firms to verify the immigration status of all employees could cause delays in an
industry where workers are often hired on the job site, away from a central
office or a computer.

He's also concerned about the point system in the bill for allocating green
cards for permanent residency. Breaking from current policy, more green cards
would be awarded based on work skills and education and fewer allocated to
family members.

"Instead of give me 'your tired and your poor,' this is 'give me your rich and
your technically trained,'" Howard says, referring to the famous Emma Lazarus
poem at the base of the Statue of Liberty.

His concerns are seconded by Maria Ramirez of the AFL-CIO, who says immigrants
working lower-skilled construction jobs might have a tough time building up
points.

Steve Sandherr, CEO of the Associated General Contractors of America, is willing
to take a "leap of faith" on the employee verification system in return for
uniform national laws. The contractors he represents also support allowing
workers to earn legal status.

While employers now comply with hiring laws, "There is some concern that some of
these folks may have fraudulent documents. It would be nice for contractors to
be able to go to bed at night and know that everybody who works for them" is
legal, Sandherr says.

Another concern: the guest-worker program. Sandherr and Howard say employers
have little incentive to invest in training under a two-year program. It takes
four years to become a journeyman carpenter, for example. Sandherr adds that the
number of visas won't meet demand.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 30, 2007



CORRECTION: A story Tuesday about the compromise immigration bill misstated the
first name of Sonia Ramirez of the AFL-CIO.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Larry W. Smith, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              362 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 4, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Personal histories shape immigration views;
Sen. Pete Domenici, R-N.M.

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 735 words


The immigration debate in the Senate has at times been intensely personal, with
senators taking the floor to tell stories of their own immigrant roots.
Children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren of Italy, Ireland, Ukraine,
Lithuania and Cuba rose to describe how their families became American.

"Immigration always has been an issue that goes to the root of what America is
all about," said Betty Koed, a Senate historian who wrote her  dissertation on
the passage of the 1965 immigration act.

In some cases, senators have used their family histories to buttress their
positions, as Sen. Robert Menendez, D-N.J., did when he argued against a
merit-based point system that would give preference to immigrants with job
skills rather than family ties. Sen. Pete Domenici, R-N.M., cited his mother's
experience as an unwitting illegal immigrant in explaining why he's willing to
support the bill.

Here are excerpts from the first week of the debate, which resumes today.

Sen. Pete Domenici, R-N.M.

I wish to tell about both my parents who came to this country as aliens. ...
They were told that my mother was a citizen once they got married because my
father was a citizen. He became a citizen because he served in the First World
War. He came over at the turn of the century and was drafted into the First
World War.

It turned out that the lawyer gave them wrong advice, and my mother was not a
citizen. She raised her children here and lived here as a ... model citizen.

Then one day during the Second World War, she was arrested by several men who
came in black cars to the backdoor while we four children were playing with
marbles, or whatever we did. In came the people, the agents that work for the
U.S., saying this lady was an illegal alien and she should be arrested. ... By
evening, my poor mother was released because she had a good lawyer.

A lot of people don't have that, and we know what happens to them under our
laws.

Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa.

My mother came here when she was 6 years old in 1906. My father came in 1911
when he was 18. The czar wanted to send my father to Siberia. He lived in
Ukraine. That is where the czar wanted to send all the young Jewish men: to
Siberia. My father didn't want to go to Siberia because he heard it was cold
there. He wanted to go to Kansas instead. It was a close call, and he got to
Kansas, where I was born.

Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass.

From the windows of my office in Boston ... I can see the Golden Stairs from
Boston Harbor where all eight of my great-grandparents set foot on this great
land for the first time. They walked up to Boston's Immigration Hall on their
way to a better life for themselves and their families.

So many Americans can tell similar stories of ancestors who came from somewhere
else. Some built our cities. Some toiled on our railroads. Some came in slavery;
others to raise their families and live and worship in freedom. That immigrant
spirit of limitless possibility animates America even today.

Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill.

Ninety-six years ago, just a few miles from where we are meeting, on July 18,
1911, a woman came down a gangplank in Baltimore, Md. She had just arrived on a
voyage from Bremen, Germany. She had a 2-year-old little girl in her arms and
two young children, a boy and a girl, by her side. She stepped foot in America
in Baltimore and took a train to join up with her husband in a place called East
St. Louis, Ill.

This woman who brought these three children across the Atlantic didn't speak
English. She only knew that her husband was waiting 800 miles away and was
making her journey. That woman was my grandmother. The baby in her arms was my
mother. That was 96 years ago. Ninety-six years later, the son of that little
girl stands as a United States senator from Illinois. It is a story about
America.

Sen. Robert Menendez, D-N.J.

Whether your family was part of the men and women who made the voyage on the
Mayflower or part of the millions who stepped off of Ellis Island, or part of
those who were brought to this nation against their will -- or if, like my own
parents, you came to this country fleeing tyranny and in search of freedom -- we
have a connection to this nation. This deal would have prevented my own parents,
a carpenter and a seamstress, from coming to this country. They wouldn't have
qualified under the point system. I'd like to think that ... they've contributed
to the vitality of this nation.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W,Family photo(4)
PHOTOS, B/W, Getty Images(3)
PHOTO,b/w,AP
PHOTO,b/w,Reuters
PHOTO,b/w,John F. Kennedy Presidential Library

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              363 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 4, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Entry to U.S. is all relative -- and that's the problem

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 580 words


The most important quality a would-be immigrant needs today to get a U.S. green
card -- a document that grants legal permanent residence -- isn't job skills, an
ability to speak English or any likelihood that he or she will be a productive
member of American society. It's a family member who's already here legally.

Since 1965, family members of legal residents have jumped to the head of the
line for admission. That has produced "chain migration" -- a steady stream not
just of immediate family members such as spouses and young children, but also of
relatives such as adult brothers and sisters and adult children, all of whom may
have immediate families of their own, who can then qualify for entry. And so on
and so on.

The immigration bill that senators resume debating this week would change this
system in a way that makes sense. You wouldn't know it from the impassioned
rhetoric of opponents, but the proposal wouldn't do away with all family
preferences. Roughly half of green cards would still go to relatives. But it
would sharply reduce preferences for a legal resident's parents and end them for
siblings and adult children.

This change would make room for a controversial points system that would hand
out roughly a third of green cards on the basis of qualities such as education,
age, ability to speak English and work history. Though this plan would give
advantages to people with doctoral degrees who speak perfect English, it would
also add points for lower-skilled people, such as health care workers, who the
U.S. economy desperately needs.

Opponents of the proposal -- led by Latino groups and liberal lawmakers --
contend there's no need to compromise on virtually unlimited family
reunification. The points plan "undermines our family values," says House
Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif.

That's overblown. The proposed change is an overdue recognition that, with a
limited number of green cards, handing them out is all about tough choices.
There's no doubt that extended families and the support systems they provide are
a major reason why immigrants succeed. But giving overwhelming preference to
family members excludes worthwhile immigrants who don't happen to have family
here already. It ignores the reality that the USA is in a global race to attract
the best minds and the most productive and effective workers.

To be sure, there are legitimate concerns about the U.S. immigration
bureaucracy's ability to implement and administer such a complex points system.
Yet similar systems have been tried with success in Canada, Britain, Australia
and New Zealand. Congress can learn from their experiences in fashioning the
U.S. version.

Like the rest of the immigration bill, the points system is far from perfect. It
could be improved by making it easier for businesses to sponsor certain highly
skilled employees. There could also be more points for lower-skilled workers
who've played by the rules, stayed employed and managed to rise in their jobs.

But like the larger bill, its flaws are an argument for improving it, not
rejecting it. If the nation is going through all the trouble of overhauling its
immigration laws, it at least ought to do more to ensure that the people allowed
in are those who can best help promote economic prosperity, not just perpetuate
their family trees.

---

This is the second in an occasional series of editorials about this year's
immigration debate. View the previous editorial at
blogs.usatoday.com/oped/immigration_editorial.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Adrienne Lewis, USA TODAY, Source: Migration Policy
Institute (averages for 2002-06)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              364 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 4, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

System has served us well

BYLINE: Jeanne Butterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 403 words


The point system that has been proposed in the Senate immigration bill would
result in a radical and counterproductive restructuring of our legal immigration
system. It proposes to unhinge our system from its historical grounding in
relationships and replace it with one based on paper qualifications.
Characteristics such as age, education, experience and fluency in English,
rather than specific familial or employment relationships, would become the
dominant criteria for permanent residence.

Our current system, which allows Americans to reunite with their closest family
members and employers to sponsor specific, highly-skilled employees, has served
us well; employment-based and family-based immigrants have integrated
successfully into our economy and made our nation stronger. Yet the Senate bill
would eliminate most of the family and job categories. American employers and
many families wishing to sponsor an immigrant would be unable to do so.

The assumption underlying this radical proposal is that what America really
needs are highly-educated, English-speaking elites. As desirable as such people
might be as potential immigrants, it is also clear that we need hard-working
people who might not have degrees but who have a strong connection to the United
States, the gumption to start businesses or a willingness to work in some of our
most difficult jobs.

The immigrants who built this country tended not to have formal credentials, but
we are justifiably proud of the work and drive which made them and our nation
successful. This continues to be true.

The entrepreneur who starts a restaurant and raises a strong family is
undoubtedly a success as an immigrant and an American, with or without a degree.
She may petition for a visa for her sister to help run the family business. The
sister would never be competitive under the point system, but who is to say that
a Ph.D. from Europe would be more successful or contribute more economically?
Likewise, an employer may need a particular technical specialist in order to
develop a new product line, but under the point system, that specialist would
likely lose out to a European Ph.D. with more "points."

Our legal immigration system isn't what's broken about our immigration laws; it
should not be dismantled and replaced with an experiment in social engineering.

---

Jeanne Butterfield is executive director of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              365 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 5, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Villains and the immigration debate;
If the assumption is that one's opponent is lying or has ulterior motives, we
lose our ability to debate an issue democratically

BYLINE: Jonah Goldberg

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 910 words


Did you hear the real reason President  Bush is so gung-ho to cram his
immigration "amnesty" bill through Congress? It's the first step toward creating
the North American Union, where the United States, Canada and Mexico become one
giant country  and the dollar is replaced by the Amero. Just ask Lou Dobbs  and
Pat Buchanan  about it.

Actually, that's not it at all. Bush is just a pawn in the Big Business-Welfare
State axis (headquartered at The Wall Street Journal's editorial offices) to
create a Latin American-style society with an exploitable brown-skinned
workforce by day and pliant clients for ever-expanding big government by night.

These are just two of the theories enjoying wide circulation among conservative
critics of "comprehensive immigration reform"  today.

Reform advocates aren't much better.

Linda Chavez, long a valued voice of reason on the right, recently all but
declared that fellow conservatives who disagree with her on immigration pretty
much have to be racists. "Some people just don't like Mexicans -- or anyone else
from south of the border. ... They think Latinos are dirty, diseased, indolent
and more prone to criminal behavior. They think Latinos are just too different
from us ever to become real Americans."

She went on: "Where once the xenophobes could advocate forced sterilization and
eugenics coupled with virtually shutting off legal immigration from
'undesirable' countries, now they must be content with building walls, putting
troops on the border, rounding up illegal aliens on the job and deporting them,
passing local ordinances to signal their distaste for immigrants' multifamily
living arrangements, and doing whatever else they can to drive these people back
where they came from."

So, in other words, enforcement of existing immigration laws is the consolation
prize for folks who can't realize their real dream of forcibly sterilizing
Mexicans.

Oh, the hidden agenda

In a recent webcast of a Wall Street Journal editorial board meeting, the
Journal's editors dismissed the editors of the National Review (their allies on
almost all other issues) as "irrational" and driven by a "cultural" agenda that
we at National Review refuse to divulge.

Even President Bush got in on the act, proclaiming last week that opponents of
the Senate bill were nitpicking the legislation and scaring people because the
nitpickers "don't want to do what's right for America."

Conservatives normally take great pride in the caliber of our intramural
debates. But this is a shameful moment.

Oh, to be sure, there are racists, bigots, xenophobes and the like among the
critics of immigration reform. Of this I am quite sure. I am also certain there
are people who believe that the marketplace is the highest source of values, and
the bottom line is the ultimate arbiter of right and wrong.

There are also would-be aristocrats who probably love the idea of a color-coding
system for the lower classes, the working poor, the help. Heck, there may even
be some people who really want to make North America into one big American
cheese enchilada with maple syrup on top.

But you know what? Even if these are the overriding motives for all of the
combatants in the debate over immigration reform, none of them is publicly using
these arguments to justify his position. No one -- of any consequence at least
-- is saying we need to keep the Mexicans out because they're racially inferior.
No one is openly pushing amnesty as a vital first step toward the nullification
of the U.S. Constitution.

Perhaps chief among the many problems with these sorts of accusations is that
they help no one, advance nothing. Only those already convinced cheer the
unsubstantiated charges of villainy. Indeed, crying racism to delegitimize an
opponent's legitimate arguments is typically a left-wing tactic, and
conservatives do not color themselves with glory by mimicking it.

The beauty of a democratic system is that it depends on democratic arguments.
Even if every partisan is a villain, he has to make his case in a way that will
convince people. And it's those arguments we're supposed to be dealing with.
It's very easy for me to say that while my opponent may say X that he secretly
believes Y because he is a member of a supersecret Satanic cabal or because his
fern is speaking to him through his dental fillings. But unless I have proof,
debate should be confined to X.

Engage the argument

Besides, are the merits of the immigration debate really so boring and trivial
that we need to invent dramatically malevolent motives for each other? Must the
editors of the Journal be market idolaters seeking to erase the very concept of
America in order to dispense with their arguments? And do my colleagues at
National Review have to be cast as secretly rabid xenophobes and racists in
order to make the conversation interesting? Does every person worried about the
influx of millions of poor immigrants -- here illegally, by the way -- really
have to be a eugenicist hiding his phrenologist's calipers behind his back?

Not every businessman is a mustache-twirling robber baron, and not every
advocate of enforcing the law is a bigot.

And even if they were, saying so wouldn't disprove their math, refute their
examples or invalidate their arguments.

Or at least that's what my Freemason paymasters at Halliburton tell me.

---

Jonah Goldberg is editor at large of National Review Online. He is a syndicated
columnist and a member of USA TODAY's board of contributors.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Alejandro Gonzalez, USA TODAY (ILLUSTRATION)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              366 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 6, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Tough words exchanged on Iraq, terror fight;
Candidates spar over immigration during GOP debate

BYLINE: Richard Wolf and Jill Lawrence

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 709 words


GOFFSTOWN, N.H. -- Republican presidential candidates criticized their party,
one another and the Democratic field Tuesday night in a two-hour debate that
veered from tough talk on terrorism to musings on faith and morality.

Former New York City mayor Rudy Giuliani, former Massachusetts governor Mitt
Romney and others criticized an immigration bill co-written by Arizona Sen. John
McCain that would step up border security and allow many illegal immigrants to
become citizens.

The war on terrorism was the dominant theme. Giuliani, who was in office on
Sept. 11, 2001, belittled the eight Democrats running for president. He said
Democrats were "in denial" and acting like they were "back in the 1990s" by not
taking the threat of terrorism more seriously.

The Republican candidates also had harsh words for their own party, if not
President Bush by name. They criticized the management of the war in Iraq, the
inability to hold down federal spending and the corruption that helped Democrats
take over Congress in 2006.

"We lost credibility because we didn't do what we were hired to do," former
Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee said.

Giuliani, McCain and Romney -- the top candidates in national polls -- stuck by
their previous support for Bush's overall policy in Iraq. Giuliani said the
U.S.-led invasion of Iraq in 2003 was "absolutely the right thing to do." McCain
said the war "is long and hard and tough, but I think we can succeed." Texas
Rep. Ron Paul is the only Republican candidate against the war.

McCain and Sen. Sam Brownback of Kansas said they did not read the full report
on the best U.S. intelligence gathered at the time before voting to use force in
Iraq. Former Virginia governor Jim Gilmore said they should have.

The missing man at the debate, actor and former Tennessee senator Fred Thompson,
appeared on Fox News Channel afterward. He said he has just put up a new website
-- imwithfred.com -- and said July 4 is a "plausible" announcement date for his
presidential bid but that he hadn't set one yet.

Thompson said he spent years not wanting to run for president, but "I think the
times are different. I think the challenges are different."

The candidates onstage here sounded toughest when addressing Iran's nuclear
ambitions. Giuliani, Romney and California Rep. Duncan Hunter said they would
consider all options, including disabling Iran's bomb program with a tactical
nuclear device.

The most pointed intraparty squabble came when Giuliani and Romney attacked the
bipartisan immigration bill.

Giuliani called it "a typical Washington mess" that would not keep track of who
was in the country. Romney said the bill was unfair to millions "who would love
to come here." McCain defended it as the kind of problem-solving voters want on
tough issues.

Rep. Tom Tancredo of Colorado said even legal immigration should be stopped
temporarily. "Are we finally ready to say enough is enough?" he said.

The candidates were asked about moral and religious issues:

*Giuliani, the only Republican candidate who supports abortion rights, said the
reality is that religious and moral people choose to have abortions. "Should
government put them in jail?" he asked.

*Huckabee, who indicated previously that he does not believe in evolution, said
Tuesday that it is irrelevant to the race. But he added that God created the
world, "whether God did it in six days or whether he did it in six days that
represented periods of time."

*All the candidates supported current military policy that allows gays and
lesbians to serve but not be open about their sexual orientation. The eight
Democratic contenders said Sunday the policy should be ended.

Giuliani, Romney, McCain and others also said that former White House aide Lewis
"Scooter" Libby got a raw deal Tuesday when he was sentenced to 30 months in
prison for lying to the FBI and a federal grand jury. They said they would
consider pardoning him.

The debate at Saint Anselm College, in the state that holds the first primary,
was sponsored by CNN, WMUR-TV and the New Hampshire Union Leader.

It was the first since Fred Thompson signaled his intentions. Former Wisconsin
governor Tommy Thompson drew laughs when he introduced himself as "the
candidate, not the actor."

Lawrence reported from Washington

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO,color,Elise Amendola,AP
PHOTO,b/w,Elise Amendola

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              367 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 8, 2007 Friday
                                 CHASE EDITION

Immigration vote stuns Senate supporters

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 418 words


WASHINGTON -- Sen. Jim Bunning, R-Ky., sat in the back of the Senate wearing the
tux he had donned for an evening event where he was the scheduled speaker. Sen.
Hillary Rodham Clinton, D-N.Y., rubbed fatigue from her eyes.

Rep. Patrick Kennedy, D-R.I., came to sit by his disappointed father, Sen.
Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., the chief sponsor of the immigration bill, as the
Senate blocked it from coming to a vote Thursday night. Another key supporter of
the bill, Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., refused to speak to reporters.

The breakdown of the immigration legislation, despite the support of the
Senate's Democratic and Republican leadership and the White House, left stunned
backers of the bill vowing to revive it, but uncertain of how.

"We're not giving up the game," Kennedy told Senate colleagues.

The National Immigration Forum, one of the groups that have lobbied hardest for
the immigration bill's passage, called the Senate's 50-45 vote against limiting
debate, "a huge disappointment to immigrant communities."

Voting in favor of the immigration bill were 37 Democrats, seven Republicans and
one independent. Voting against: 38 Republicans, 11 Democrats, one independent.

Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, one of the bill's leading opponents, said the vote
was a victory for open government.

"I simply do not understand why some of my colleagues want to jam this
legislation through," he said.

Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., and other Democrats blamed Republican
opponents of the bill for its collapse, even though 11 Democrats also opposed
the bill.

"There's lots of support for this bill on the outside," he said. "The problem is
inside the Senate chamber."

Opponents of the bill insisted they wanted more time to debate amendments but
repeatedly objected Thursday to bringing those amendments up. Sen. Arlen
Specter, R-Pa., said Republican opponents of the immigration bill had "lost
credibility."

Sen. Mel Martinez of Florida, who also serves as chairman of the Republican
Party, rebuked his fellow party members in a Senate floor speech, saying it is
time for them to be "putting forth a proposal" instead of "tearing down one that
has been put out there."

Opponents of the bill range from conservative Republicans, who think it is too
lenient with immigrants who broke the law, to liberal Democrats who believe it
is too harsh.

Prospects were uncertain as weary senators left the Capitol. "When you're trying
to anchor the center down, it's tough," said Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Ore.

*Bill suffers setback, 1A

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              368 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 12, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Back from abroad, Bush has full plate of leftovers;
Faces questions about Joint Chiefs; meets today with senators to discuss
immigration bill

BYLINE: David Jackson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 586 words


SOFIA, Bulgaria -- President Bush returned from Europe on Monday to face
domestic headaches he left behind last week.

As he prepares to lobby Senate Republicans today, Bush vowed to help revive a
sweeping immigration bill that he supports. Bush also talked about his decision
not to nominate Marine Gen. Peter Pace for another term as chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff.

"I believe we can get an immigration bill," Bush said. "It's going to require
leadership from the Democrat leaders in the Senate, and it's going to require me
to stay engaged and work with Republicans who want a bill."

Bush plans to meet with Senate Republicans during their weekly luncheon on
Capitol Hill. Last week, seven Republicans joined 38 Democrats to vote against
moving the immigration bill to a final vote.

The bill, which has drawn fire from both parties, would create a path to
citizenship for the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants already in the USA.
It also would create more opportunities for foreign "guest workers" and
emphasize job skills for new immigrants.

Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., urged Bush on Monday to provide
"stronger leadership" on the issue. "We need more than seven Republicans," Reid
said.

In Bulgaria's capital, Bush was confident that Republicans and Democrats will
resolve their differences on immigration. "I'll see you at the bill signing," he
said.

On the Joint Chiefs chairman, Bush noted how Pace's situation before the Senate
contrasted with that of Attorney General Alberto Gonzales. Defense Secretary
Robert Gates said Friday that he was not recommending Pace for another term as
the military's top uniformed officer because of concerns that the Marine
general's confirmation hearings would be dominated by a look backward at the
Iraq war.

"It's an interesting comment about Congress ... that, on the one hand, they say
that a good general shouldn't be reconfirmed and, on the other hand, they say
that my attorney general shouldn't stay," Bush said Monday. "I had confidence in
Pete Pace."

Overall, Bush declared his European tour a success. He ended by lauding
Bulgaria, a former communist state, for its democratic reforms.

"We've had a great trip," he said. "It's a chance for America to talk about a
liberty agenda, and a chance to talk to our allies about how we can advance it.

Charles Kupchan, a Europe expert at the Council on Foreign Relations, said the
trip was "business-like" but not consequential.

"It's a sign of where we are in the Bush presidency with his power both at home
and abroad on the wane," he said.

Other issues Bush will revisit on U.S. soil:

*Iraq. The war was barely discussed during Bush's eight-day trip. The president
told the Czech Republic, Albania and Bulgaria during stops in those countries
that he appreciated their partnership in Iraq and Afghanistan. Nevertheless,
Bush can expect Iraq to dominate his time again in the United States when he
formally nominates a successor to Pace.

*Missile defense. After Russian President Vladimir Putin's unexpected proposal
to allow an anti-missile system in the former Soviet republic of Azerbaijan,
Bush assured Bulgaria that he takes the offer seriously. He repeated that the
system's goal is to defeat long-range missiles from "rogue" nations. Bush said
U.S. and Russian defense experts will work together to determine the plan's
feasibility. It's unclear whether they'll have an answer by the time the two
leaders meet July 1-2 at the Bush family compound in Maine.

Contributing: Barbara Slavin in Washington

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              369 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            June 13, 2007 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration bill gets new bipartisan push;
Bush meets with GOP foes in Senate

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 601 words


WASHINGTON -- A bipartisan group of senators are moving to revive the
immigration bill after President Bush made an animated plea for the
controversial bill just outside the doors to the Senate chamber.

"Now is the time to get it done," Bush said as he left a closed-door meeting
with Republican senators. "The status quo is unacceptable."

Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., has said he's prepared to resume
debate on the bill this month. He warned it won't happen unless Bush can deliver
more support from Republican senators.

Last week, 38  Republican senators opposed moving to a vote on the immigration
bill -- a procedural vote that brought action on the bill to a halt, when Reid
refused to let the debate continue.

Among key provisions of the bill: a path to citizenship for an estimated 12
million illegal immigrants in the USA and expanded work opportunities for
foreigners. It would also beef up border security.

Participants at the Republican luncheon said the president spent most of the
hour-long meeting talking about immigration. Senate Minority Leader Mitch
McConnell, R-Ky., said Bush was "very emotional in describing his feeling about
the importance of doing this.

"I don't think there was anybody in the room who was not impressed by the
strength of his conviction," McConnell added.

Presidential visits to Congress are rare, and presidential pronouncements within
the halls of Congress are even rarer. Outside of the State of the Union address,
presidents generally don't make lobbying trips to Capitol Hill. Don Ritchie of
the Senate Historical Office called Bush's statement on the Senate's threshold
"extraordinary."

Sen. Jeff Sessions of Alabama was among Republicans not persuaded. "Nothing was
said to change my fundamental concerns about the bill," Sessions said. But he
said his exchange with Bush was cordial. "He made it clear he was my friend
whether I was with him or not."

Bush acknowledged opposition to the immigration legislation in GOP ranks. "Some
members in there believe we need to move a comprehensive bill; some don't," he
said. But he delivered a clear signal that party leaders will not permit
opponents to delay action on the bill indefinitely.

"Those of us standing here believe now is the time to move a comprehensive
bill," said Bush, who was flanked by the Senate's three top Republican leaders
as he spoke. All three -- McConnell and Sens. Trent Lott of Mississippi and Jon
Kyl of Arizona -- joined opponents of the bill in voting to prolong the debate
last week, arguing that Reid was rushing a vote on the bill.

Sen. Mel Martinez, R-Fla., who also serves as his party's national chairman,
said a number of Republicans who voted against the immigration bill last week
will switch their votes once they feel their colleagues are given a chance to
offer enough amendments. Martinez is part of a bipartisan group working to
reduce the list of proposed amendments to about a dozen.

Bush will continue his campaign for the immigration bill in appearances Thursday
before Associated Builders and Contractors and Friday at the Hispanic Prayer
Breakfast, Martinez said.

Brett Farley of the Minuteman Civil Defense Corps, a citizens group that works
to quell illegal immigration, said his group's political action committee will
recruit candidates to oppose senators who back the immigration legislation.
"We're looking at all the folks who supported the bill," he said.

Republicans who back the bill said they don't take the threat seriously.

"I've seen anti-immigration folks focus on a candidate," said Sen. Larry Craig,
R-Idaho. "I've never seen them take one out."

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 18, 2007



CORRECTION: A photo caption in a story Wednesday about the immigration bill gave
the wrong title for Sen. Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., in some editions. He is the
Senate minority leader.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Charles Dharapak, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              370 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 15, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Senate agrees to revive bill on immigration

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely and David Jackson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 346 words


WASHINGTON -- The Senate will resume debating immigration later this month, its
Democratic and Republican leaders announced Thursday.

The deal to revive the bill came after a stepped-up lobbying effort by President
Bush, who met with Republican senators during a rare visit to Capitol Hill on
Tuesday.

Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., had pulled the legislation from the
Senate schedule, saying Republicans were trying to kill it with amendments.

Reid and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., tentatively agreed to
limit the number of amendments that can be offered, putting the bill on track
for a vote on final passage before the July 4 break.

The House will begin debating immigration in July, Speaker Nancy Pelosi,
D-Calif., has said.

White House spokesman Scott Stanzel said administration officials "are
encouraged by the announcement from Senate leaders."

Hours before Reid's announcement, the president pledged $4.4 billion for border
security and enforcement of employment laws in a speech to Associated Builders
and Contractors.

The move was designed to win over Republican skeptics. Only seven of Bush's
fellow Republicans supported the immigration bill in a key vote last week.

In the days since, Bush has pressured senators to support the most sweeping
rewrite of the nation's immigration laws in more than two decades.

The bill would beef up security along the border, increase penalties for hiring
illegal aliens, expand opportunities for foreigners to work in the USA and, for
the first time, make job skills a factor in determining who may immigrate. The
most controversial provision would give an estimated 12 million illegal
immigrants a chance at citizenship.

White House spokesman Tony Snow said the funds for border security would come
from fines and penalties assessed against illegal immigrants under the bill.

Rep. Duncan Hunter, R-Calif., a presidential candidate and bill critic, accused
Bush of backing "amnesty fees" and the administration of stalling construction
of a U.S.-Mexican border fence "until the president gets his amnesty bill."

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              371 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 15, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Most '08 candidates have stayed out of talks to broker deal

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 840 words


WASHINGTON -- The effort to cobble together a bipartisan immigration bill has
forged unlikely alliances among some of the most influential members of the
Senate, including liberal Democratic Sen. Edward Kennedy of Massachusetts and
the chairman of the Republican Party, Sen. Mel Martinez of Florida.

With the exception of Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., who has been under fire within
his party for his part in the bill, the Senate's six declared presidential
candidates have not been among them.

As a bipartisan team of negotiators worked Thursday on a deal to resume the
immigration debate later this month, the lesser roles played by the Senate's
most ambitious members illustrates the hurdles the legislation faces.

All six of the Senate's declared presidential candidates voted for last year's
bill. This year, though none has ruled out voting for the bill, several have
offered amendments that sponsors said would unravel the compromise.

"It would be nice to see more leadership," said Tom Snyder, who directs the
political action committee for UNITE HERE, one of the unions pressing for
passage of the immigration bill.

Stephen Hess, a political science professor at George Washington University,
said the battle to win their parties' presidential nominations is forcing the
senators away from the political center.

"They start to think: How will this appear to the basic constituency of my
party? How will this be played by my opponents?" Hess said. "They become
exceptionally cautious."

The changed atmosphere was dramatized during a testy late-night floor exchange
last week -- one day before Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., pulled
the bill from the Senate agenda.

The antagonists were Sens. Barack Obama, D-Ill., and Lindsey Graham, R-S.C. In
the last Congress, the two were co-sponsors of a bipartisan immigration bill.

As Obama offered an amendment that would have put a five-year expiration date on
a key provision of this year's bill, Graham accused the Democratic presidential
candidate of abandoning "everybody over here who has walked the plank" by
defying political supporters on the right and left. Graham had kind words for
Kennedy's leadership but told Obama: "You are going to destroy this deal."

Obama insisted he wasn't. Yet, when the roll was called on his amendment, all of
the architects of the proposed immigration deal voted against it, including
Kennedy. Obama's amendment failed on a 55-42 vote.

Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton, D-N.Y., played no part in the bipartisan,
behind-the-scenes negotiations on the immigration bill and waited until 10 days
into the debate to speak on it, even though she represents a state with the
second-highest percentage of  foreign-born residents in the nation.

Clinton spokesman Philippe Reines said the senator has been "very active in
terms of championing her amendment, which is the top priority for the immigrant
community."

The amendment, which would have eliminated caps on immigration for the spouses
and children of legal permanent residents, was rebuffed as a deal breaker by the
bill's sponsors. "This compromise was constructed very carefully and very
painfully," Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., told her.

Last year Sen. Sam Brownback, R-Kan., was one of the architects of the
bipartisan immigration bill. He offered a passionate defense of the provisions
giving illegal immigrants a chance at citizenship.

"One of the key measures in any society is what you do for the so-called least
of these," Brownback said in a May 2006 speech. "It is what you do for the least
of these, what you do for the huddled masses. That really is a key hallmark and
a key measure for a society."

Earlier this month, Brownback backed an amendment by Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas,
that Kennedy and others said would have effectively blocked many illegal
immigrants from obtaining legal status. Cornyn called his proposal "a defining
issue for those who seek the highest office of the land," but it was defeated,
51-46.

Besides Clinton, Obama, McCain and Brownback, Sens. Joseph Biden, D-Del., and
Chris Dodd, D-Conn., are running for president.

The bill's most controversial element -- a plan to offer about 12million illegal
immigrants a chance at citizenship -- is vociferously opposed by conservatives.

In a debate of GOP presidential hopefuls earlier this month, McCain came under
fire for his role in the compromise from his leading rivals, former
Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney and former New York City mayor Rudy Giuliani.
"A typical Washington mess" is how Giuliani described the bill.

On the Democratic side, the leadership of the AFL-CIO is deeply suspicious of
another element of the bill, which would create an expanded  program to allow
more than 200,000 foreigners a year to take temporary jobs in the USA. AFL-CIO
President John Sweeney has argued that could undercut Americans' jobs and wages.

Jaime Contreras of the Service Employees International Union, which supports the
bill, said the candidates are trying to avoid a "very touchy issue." He said,
"I'm not impressed with any of them."

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Yuri Gripas, Reuters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              372 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 18, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Long waits, onerous rules invite immigrants to break law

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 620 words


In 1989, Mohamad Abdo and his family, living in Lebanon, took their first step
toward a dream of living in the USA. A relative, already here, petitioned for
the family to join him.

Then they all waited. And waited and waited.

First came the inevitable delay caused by quotas that limit family immigration.
Ten years passed before they even got permission to apply for visas.

Then the real frustrations started. For the next four years, they lived a
paperwork nightmare as their application bounced around the immigration
bureaucracy. In 2003, the Abdos finally were told they could come to the USA as
permanent residents, with just one catch: Their eldest son, Raed, who was 8
years old when the process began, would have to stay behind. Because he had just
turned 21, he no longer qualified to immigrate with them as a minor.

Welcome to the legal immigration system -- a Byzantine world of bureaucratic
bungling and unconscionable waits for those who try to play by the rules.

Unless you have a relative here, or a job waiting for you, or you're granted
political asylum, there's virtually no legal way in. And if you do have a
connection, you'll probably wait for a long, long time. Some people have stood
on line for more than 20 years.

Small wonder so many people just skip the process and enter the country
illegally, or come here on temporary visas and then stay. For all the screaming
about illegal immigration, now focused on a bill in the U.S. Senate, the truth
is that legal immigration is so difficult that it gives normally law-abiding
people potent incentives to cheat. No immigration reform will work unless that
changes.

Of those who choose the legal route, by far the largest group is people such as
the Abdos, who have relatives here. At the moment, the waiting list is more than
4 million people long, allocated by country.

The Senate compromise attempts to deal with this by promising to clear the
backlog within eight years. Until then, no green cards would be given to people
now here illegally.

That's not entirely fair. It's still a long wait, and in the interim, immigrants
here illegally could get safe harbor while those seeking legal entry wait
outside. But it's at least a start. The 12 million people here illegally aren't
going to be rounded up and deported in any case.

The Senate could do better, though. The bill fails to address the nonsensical
age-21 glitch leaving Abdo and his family in Memphis and his now-adult son in
war-torn Lebanon.

More broadly, it does nothing to help legal residents bring their children and
spouses here more quickly, which is heartless. Nuclear families should be able
to stay together.

An even larger question is whether the glacial immigration system is capable of
trimming the backlog. The money is supposed to come later.

As Congress tries to fix the immigration mess, it needs to remember that any
system of legal immigration as onerous and time-consuming as the current one is
doomed to undermine respect for the law and encourage even greater levels of
illegal immigration. And that people such as the Abdos, who've followed the
rules, deserve fair treatment and an opportunity to realize their dreams.

---

This is the fourth in an occasional series of editorials about this year's
immigration debate. View the previous editorials at
blogs.usatoday.com/oped/immigration_editorial.

Languishing in lines

Depending on their origin, spouses and minor children of legal U.S. residents,
eligible this month for visas to become legal residents, have waited:

*Mexico -- six years.

*Other -- five years.

Siblings of U.S. citizens, eligible this month, have waited:

*Philippines -- 22 years.

*Mexico -- 13 years.

*Other -- 11 years.

Source: State Department Bureau of Consular Affairs

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              373 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            June 27, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

White House issues correction after Bush misspeaks on 'amnesty'

BYLINE: David Jackson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 232 words


WASHINGTON -- President Bush misspoke Tuesday about the immigration bill he
supports and triggered a rare White House correction.

Hours before the Senate voted to proceed with debate on the bill, Bush goofed by
appearing to say the measure included amnesty for illegal immigrants. It's a
point he has long denied.

The bill would create a path to citizenship for many illegal immigrants. Sen.
Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., and other critics say that is amnesty.

"Amnesty means that you've got to pay a price for having been here illegally,
and this bill does that," Bush said at a meeting of White House staff and bill
supporters. A few spectators chuckled at Bush's gaffe, and the comment quickly
appeared on websites and TV.

The White House press office swung into action, e-mailing a statement from
spokesman Tony Snow that said "President Bush misspoke." Snow said interpreting
Bush's comment at the White House meeting as an endorsement of amnesty "is the
exact opposite of the president's long-held and often-stated position."

Snow noted that Bush decried the "rhetoric" about the immigration proposal and
pointed out that it contains fines and other penalties for immigrants who have
entered the USA illegally.

"Amnesty means forgiving wrongdoing without imposing punishment," Snow said.
"The immigration reforms passed in 1986 granted amnesty. The legislation under
consideration this year does not."

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Saul Loeb, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              374 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            June 27, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Senate vote revives debate on immigration bill;
Foes ramp up effort to block legislation immediately

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 643 words


WASHINGTON -- The Senate voted Tuesday to resume debate on the immigration bill,
handing an important, but not decisive, victory to supporters of the
controversial legislation.

The 64-35 vote in favor of resuming debate came after a full-court press by
President Bush, who has made passage of the immigration bill a top domestic
priority.

Every member of the Senate's Democratic and Republican leadership backed the
bill, as did every one of the Senate's six presidential candidates, four of them
Democrats and two Republicans.

Opponents of the bill vowed to pull out all the parliamentary stops to block it
and quickly made good on their threat, bringing proceedings in the Senate to a
halt by forcing the reading of a book-length amendment.

In a rare use of the Senate's arcane rules, Sen. Tom Coburn, R-Okla., objected
when Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., moved to waive the reading of
proposed amendments to the bill. That forced Senate clerks to begin a
word-for-word recitation of the 373-page document.

The immigration bill's opponents relented after about 45 minutes, at which point
the clerks had gotten through 46 pages. But they succeeded in preventing any
votes from being cast for the evening.

"I hope tomorrow we can get some movement on this bill," Reid said.

Coburn is vowing more efforts to slow down the process. "I'm going to do
everything in my power to prevent this bill from leaving the Senate," he said.

The majority leader's spokesman, Jim Manley, said opponents will not be able to
forestall a key vote Thursday that will determine whether the Senate can pass
the immigration legislation this week.

In Tuesday's vote, 21 Republicans and six Democrats switched their votes after
voting earlier this month to effectively stop further proceedings on the
immigration bill.  Some, such as Sens. Kit Bond, R-Mo., and John Ensign, R-Nev.,
have been promised a chance to offer amendments to the bill. Others, such as
Sens. Olympia Snowe, R-Maine, and Arlen Specter, R-Pa., support the bill but
voted with fellow Republicans who were angry that Reid was pressing for a quick
vote on the bill and would not allow more votes on amendments.

Further sweetening the pot for Republican skeptics: At the Bush administration's
request, the bill's sponsors added $4.4 billion to beef up security along the
border.

Some senators who voted to revive the bill said they might not support its
passage if amendments they plan to offer don't win approval. "I think it's
important to give this bill another chance on the Senate floor, but I remain
seriously concerned," said Sen. Robert Menendez, D-N.J., who voted to resume the
debate. He said provisions of the bill aimed at illegal immigrants are becoming
"increasingly onerous and impractical."

Sen. Jim Webb, D-Va., said his vote on the bill will depend on the fate of his
amendment, which would require illegal immigrants to prove they have been living
in the USA for four years in order to qualify for legal status.

The immigration bill would offer a chance at citizenship to all illegal
immigrants who can prove they arrived in the USA before Jan. 1, 2007. It would
also expand opportunities for foreigners to work legally in temporary jobs and
would change the criteria for future immigration to make job skills a factor in
determining who wins admission.

Before the vote, Bush spoke to business, religious, agricultural, high-tech and
immigrant advocacy groups that backed the bill, which he called "really
important for our country."

"The status quo is unacceptable," Bush said. "Most Americans understand that."

Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., a supporter of the bill, acknowledged that she
is getting "a lot of heat" for her position.

She said her office has been inundated with 100,000 calls, e-mails and letters,
many of them opposed to the bill, but added, "That doesn't mean they are a
majority."

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              375 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            June 27, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A changing family picture;
Rising immigration, costs send more aging parents to live with their kids,
creating multi-generational households

BYLINE: Sharon Jayson

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 7D

LENGTH: 735 words


McHENRY, Ill. -- Walk in the front door of Robert and Dianna Hubka's home, and
smiling family photos line the entryway. Take a few steps, and framed artwork
titled "We Are a Family" hangs at the foot of the stairs.

They take family pretty seriously.

Both 50, they are the parents of three and grandparents to two preschoolers.
They were on the verge of empty-nesthood with their youngest son when Dianna's
mother, Dorothy Drinan, moved from nearby Round Lake just over three years ago
to live in their 1,991-square-foot home.

They converted the 12-by-12-foot den on the ground floor into a bedroom because
Drinan, 81, can't climb the stairs. They transformed a closet that housed the
furnace and water tank into a space for her clothes. They added a shower to the
downstairs bath. They also brought over some of Drinan's bedroom furniture to
make it feel more like her home.

"You've got to take care of your elderly. It's just something you do," says
Robert Hubka, a union electrician.

Although Americans tend to take pride in independence, and living in nuclear
families is the norm, new factors are driving an emerging trend of more
relatives moving in together and creating multi-generational households. Among
the changes are rising immigration, because people of other cultures often live
with extended family, and higher housing costs that are forcing these different
age groups to share quarters.

From 1990 to 2000, homes in which three or more generations live together grew
more than 38%. The largest segment are those in which the householder lives with
an adult child and grandchild, but about one-third of these extended family
arrangements are similar to the Hubkas', in which an aging parent joins the
nuclear family.

"The Waltons are us now," says Angela O'Rand, a sociologist at Duke University.

With increased longevity, four-generation families such as the Hubkas and even
five-generation families are becoming more common, experts say, resulting in a
changed family structure.

Vern Bengtson, a professor of gerontology at the University of Southern
California-Los Angeles, started a three-generation study in 1970 with 2,000
individuals who were grandparents, parents and young-adult grandchildren. Now
it's expanded to four generations and how they live. "We began to realize
housing is fluid," he says of these often-temporary living arrangements.

Such multi-generational households are more common among immigrants --
particularly Latinos and Asians who have a strong sense of familial obligation
and tend to live in extended family households, says Marcelo Suarez-Orozco,
co-director of Immigration Studies @ NYU, a center at New York University.

Yoshu Win, 64, of St. Paul and his family came to the USA from Burma in 1999.
Nine live in his five-bedroom home.  "We like our children to live with us,"
says Win, who is an interpreter. "This tradition has been passed on from
generation to generation."

But that feeling is changing somewhat as immigrants become more Americanized and
because they don't have the space to take in aging relatives, suggests Nestor
Rodriguez, a sociologist at the University of Houston who directs its Center for
Immigration Research.

The Hubkas are a more typical multi-generational household. According to a USA
TODAY analysis of 2005 data from the U.S. Census Bureau's American Community
Survey, multi-generational households tend to have bigger quarters and more
income than households overall: 48% of multi-generational households had an
income of $60,000 or more, and 37% are in housing with four or more bedrooms.

The Hubkas' 22-year-old son, also Robert, works full time for a biomedical
company and goes to community college. He says his grandmother doesn't interfere
with his family's inner workings.

"She's really good with the fact that she doesn't jump into situations or put
her two cents in when it's not really her place," he says.

Drinan says she doesn't want to alter the family routine. "They work hard. I
want them to go to a movie or go out to eat or just be together."

Drinan savors her independence. She insists on paying her way at the grocery
store, for instance. Because the Hubkas are gone during the day, she wears a
medical pendant in case of emergency. She has her own phone line and a
cellphone, and she keeps the dog company.

Says Dianna Hubka, "She needed people in her life to give her a reason to keep
going."

Contributing: Anthony DeBarros

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Sam Ward, USA TODAY (ILLUSTRATION)
GRAPHIC, B/W, Veronica Salazar, USA TODAY, Source: USA TODAY analysis of U.S.
Cnsus 2005 American Community Survey data (BAR GRAPH)
PHOTO, B/W, John Zich, USA TODA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              376 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 3, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

You can't say that;
In many countries, citizens can have a candid dialogue about preserving national
identity. Try that in this country, and you're labeled an exclusionary bigot.
Exhibit A: the immigration reform debate.

BYLINE: Jonah Goldberg

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 939 words


Historians may well look back on last week's defeat of the immigration bill as a
watershed moment. It was, for good or ill, a milestone in America's
transformation into a "normal" country. Normal countries have arguments about
their national identity and immigration's effect on it. In normal countries,
it's not illegitimate to suggest that too many immigrants, or too many
immigrants of a specific origin, may upset the social peace or do damage to the
national culture. In America, however, to raise such concerns is to open
yourself to charges of racism, bigotry, nativism and all-around hate.

Indeed, one of the most striking aspects of the recent immigration bill was how
its opponents managed to win despite having the deck stacked against them. Any
reference to cultural objections to mass immigration from Mexico was
automatically deemed reactionary and bigoted by proponents of the bill in the
news media and on Capitol Hill. Meanwhile, supporters of legalizing some 12
million illegal immigrants were free to use the cultural card as much as they
liked. We are a nation of immigrants, we were told constantly. Immigrants make
American society better. Anyone who disagreed with this was automatically lumped
in with the forces of bigotry and hate. Referring to opponents of the bill,
Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., said, "We've been down this road before. No
Catholics, no Jews, Irish, need not apply. That's not the America I want."

A cultural club

One could get bogged down in pointing out that few people have problems with
immigrants applying. It's the part where they skip the application process and
illegally jump the line that rankles. But the real point here is that even
Southern conservative Republicans have bought into the idea that cultural
arguments are legitimate only when employed in favor of massive Mexican
immigration, never in opposition to it.

This is one reason why the economic impact of immigrants became such an outsized
issue. At one point, the White House trumpeted a new study showing that
immigration contributes about $30 billion a year to the economy.  Even assuming
the numbers are accurate, and leaving aside how it includes legal immigration --
which was never at issue -- that's still a trivial amount in a $13 trillion
economy.  But arguing about the numbers is a safe harbor for liberals and
conservatives alike because you can't be called a hatemonger when you're
debating dollars and cents. Similarly, hype about everything from leprosy to
terrorists crossing the U.S.-Mexican border can be chalked up, in part, to a
desire to talk around what's really bothering lots of people.

But if advocates of comprehensive immigration reform are going to make any
headway toward their goals, they're going to have to learn how to speak to those
worried about the cultural impact that Mexican immigration is having on
communities around the country without calling them racists or reactionaries
incapable of coping with modernity.

In a piece last week on small-town America's revolt against the immigration
bill, The Washington Post chronicled how elderly residents of Gainesville, Ga.,
were taken aback by the transformation of their bedroom community by a huge
influx of Spanish-speaking Mexican immigrants, parking on the grass, failing to
understand how flush toilets work and the like.  Of course, the Post couldn't
help but point out that the bemused locals still have a monument to "Our
Confederate Soldiers." Still, the Post was better than The New York Times, which
in an earlier story cast grass-roots opponents as barely one generation removed
from the cast of Deliverance.

Now, the offense some take to the seeming underside of Mexican immigration might
seem uncharitable, snobbish or bigoted to Post reporters, senators and editors
at the  Times, but such people tend to live in buildings or communities that
protect themselves from poor working-class Mexican-Americans, and every other
kind of poor American to boot (except as the help). Not a lot of Mexican
immigrants are going to park on John Kerry's lawn or get approved by Maureen
Dowd's condo board.

In France, the French are free to worry about staying French. Indeed, throughout
the industrialized world, it's considered normal to talk about one's national
character and culture. Nowhere else is the desire to control your border
considered an act of bigotry.

The American identity

Well, "Americanness" is no less real than "Frenchness." But in America, the
logic of diversity has completely swamped any conception of Americanness as
anything beyond platitudes about "inclusiveness." Worse, Americans who think
real inclusiveness requires learning English are told that their kind of
inclusiveness is actually exclusionary. This merely exacerbates resentments
because such policies are the only surefire way toward assimilation.

The point here is not to say that America has become "too Mexican." Though it's
ironic that liberals who see nothing wrong with talking about America, the GOP,
or various universities as being "too white," "too Christian," or not black or
Hispanic enough should recoil in horror at such a thought. Rather it's simply to
note that such concerns are normal, human reactions to changes many Americans
feel they were never consulted on. How could they be consulted when so much
immigration is illegal? Americans are proud of being citizens of the most
inclusive country in the world. But is it so outrageous for them to want it to
be a bit more of a normal country, too?

---

Jonah Goldberg is editor at large of National Review Online. He is a syndicated
columnist and a member of USA TODAY's board of contributors.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Keith Simmons, USA TODAY (ILLUSTRATION)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              377 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 5, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Bilingual requirement unfair to U.S. citizens who speak English

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 453 words


You better believe I feel the impact of immigration. Many job openings in El
Paso require applicants to be bilingual. I am confident that I am qualified to
do all the jobs I have applied for, but often I have not gotten an interview. I
believe it is because I cannot speak Spanish fluently. It is amazing that
otherwise qualified applicants are passed up because they don't speak a foreign
language in their own country.

There are many times that I have asked for assistance at a local business and
the employee can't or won't help because he or she does not speak English. What
part of the job requirement was fulfilled when those applicants who speak only
Spanish got hired?

It is unfortunate that some may label me racist if I expect immigrants to learn
English. I can't even get the jobs that so many say Americans don't want to do
because I don't speak Spanish.

How many foreign countries can we go to and expect that menus, television shows
and billboards will be written in English? If we demanded such a requirement, we
would only exacerbate the stereotype of "arrogant Americans." Immigrants chose
to come here. We didn't ask them.

My great-grandparents were immigrants who learned English. It's sad that the
country I was born and raised in has made jobs easier for illegal immigrants to
get than for people who were educated here, respect U.S. traditions and served
in our military.

Paul Manning

El Paso

Bill wasn't realistic

USA TODAY's editorial on the now defeated immigration bill was unrealistic. Few,
if any, of the 1986 immigration law provisions were implemented ("Amnesty? What
amnesty? Critics substitute fear for facts," Our view, Illegal immigration
debate, June 8).

Yet USA TODAY wants Americans to believe that this bill would have made things
different:

*USA TODAY claims that illegal immigrants would have had to pay fines and fees
of more that $9,000. Because most illegal immigrants make so little money and
all of them are not being deported, what makes USA TODAY think they'd pay
anything?

*The legislation would have forced immigrants who want to become legal permanent
residents to leave and to apply to re-enter the USA. They are already here
working, so why would they do this?

*The bill would have forced illegal immigrants to learn English and U.S. civics.
But with so many bilingual signs and services, who really thinks they'd learn
English?

The fairest way to deal with illegal immigrants is to deport them and make them
reapply, pay the fees to enter the USA legally and learn English. Most
important, seal our southern borders. Upholding the law and these guidelines
would bring illegal immigration to a trickle. Passing a new, unenforceable law
isn't the answer.

Peter J. Seaha

Aiken, S.C.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, J. Emilio Flores, Getty Images

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              378 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 16, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigrants scramble to beat higher application fees

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 377 words


Immigrants are rushing to apply for citizenship, green cards and other benefits
before hefty fee increases kick in at the end of the month.

Starting July 30, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) will raise
application fees an average of 66%. In many cases, the new fees are hundreds of
dollars higher. Applying for citizenship will jump to $675 from $400, which
includes a fee for photos and fingerprinting. Eligible immigrants who want to
become legal permanent residents, known as green-card holders, will pay $1,010
rather than $395.

The prospect of higher fees has fueled a mad dash.

In the first eight months of this fiscal year, the immigration service received
711,538 citizenship applications -- nearly as many as in all of last year.

Maria Castro, 29,  a green-card holder from Mexico, applied for citizenship in
May. "In May I didn't have a job," says Castro of Houston. "I said, 'If I don't
do it now, I won't be able to do it when the fees go up.'"

Castro has since landed a job with the National Association of Latino Elected
and Appointed Officials advising immigrants on citizenship applications. She
says 95% tell her they applied to beat the fee hike. "It's really motivating
people."

USCIS spokesman Bill Wright says the fee increase is only one reason
applications are up.

"More and more people want to become part of the American fabric and part of the
American dream," he says.

Fees are supposed to cover USCIS' operating and processing costs, Wright says,
but the current ones don't. The increase is meant to make up the shortfall and
reduce backlogs, he says. The last fee increase was in October 2005.

The failure last month of a bill to overhaul the immigration system inspired
Angel Alvarez, 25, to apply for citizenship. Alvarez, a Whittier, Calif., real
estate agent who has been a legal permanent resident for 15 years, came to the
USA from Mexico. He was eligible to apply for citizenship five years after
getting his green card but says he was fearful of losing his Mexican identity.
Now, Alvarez says, he sees his future here.

He wants to participate in the political process, advocate immigration changes
and represent other immigrants who are unable to vote. "I'm looking forward to
voting and having a voice in my country."

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color,Karl Gelles,USA TODAY,Source:Department of Homeland
Security(Bar graph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              379 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 9, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Hispanic growth extends eastward;
Areas unfamiliar with diversity

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser and Brad Heath

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 559 words


Rapidly growing numbers of Hispanics are fanning out across the eastern half of
the USA and settling in rural and suburban counties far from traditional
immigrant strongholds, according to Census numbers released today.

The increases in areas that experienced little diversity until this decade
intensify the uproar over immigration. Forty-one states have enacted 171 laws
this year aimed at illegal immigrants. About 100 communities have proposed
similar ordinances; 40 have been enacted.

"We're seeing new immigrant minorities coming in to areas that haven't had very
much minority populations or immigrant populations," says William Frey,
demographer at the Brookings Institution. "It put immigration on the front
burner politically. It scared a lot of people."

The number of Hispanics has soared since 2000 in counties such as Paulding near
Atlanta, Kendall on the western edge of Chicago, and Stafford, Prince William
and Loudoun in Virginia, outside Washington.

None of the traditional immigrant gateways, including Los Angeles, Chicago and
New York, remains among the fastest-growing Hispanic centers.

The Hispanic population in Pennsylvania's Luzerne County, two hours north of
Philadelphia, nearly tripled since 2000, the fourth-fastest increase among large
counties. Luzerne is home to Hazleton, which enacted a law last year that would
have fined landlords who rented to illegal immigrants and suspended licenses of
companies that hire them. A federal judge last month ruled the law
unconstitutional.

Immigrants who resettled in the USA in the 1990s typically moved from California
to escape that state's recession, says Jeffrey Passel, demographer at the Pew
Hispanic Center. They flocked east to jobs in poultry and meatpacking plants.
Then the housing boom happened.

"Immigrants who were coming in no longer were going first to California," he
says. "This is a very fast turnaround. It accelerated and it's just continuing.
... What causes the friction is the rapid change much more than the absolute
number."

Not all the changes in the July 1, 2006, county estimates are caused by
immigration, but they're a strong indicator of where immigrants settle. Births
and moves from other parts of the USA add to the growth.

A high birthrate among Hispanics accounted for more than half the growth in
Hispanics this decade, according to Kenneth Johnson, demographer at the
University of New Hampshire's Carsey Institute.

As young Hispanics settle in places where the aging population is largely white,
the generation gap widens, says Peter Morrison, demographer at RAND Corp, a
think tank. In Philadelphia County, for example, 14% of whites are 65 and older,
and 5% of Hispanics are.

"It's affecting school budgets and creating new needs that impinge directly on
local taxpayers," he says. "How will the newcomers in these non-traditional
gateways be transformed into productive workers and taxpayers? ... The frictions
will be most palpable at the local level."

The Census data show that diversity is increasing in more parts of the country.
In 303 counties -- nearly one of 10 -- the share of whites has slipped below
50%. Eight more counties joined the list since 2005, and 205 others are nearing
the mark with more than 40% minorities, nearly all in the South and West.

"We'll be able to see how well America can adapt to multiethnic populations,''
Frey says.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              380 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 26, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

One family's nightmare;
A Palestinian couple's application for asylum -- filed a decade ago -- is
denied. The wife faces deportation, and no country will accept the entire
family. All thanks to our broken immigration system.

BYLINE: Souheila Al-Jadda

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 969 words


T

he Garadah family story is about how an American dream turned into an
immigration nightmare. In 1998, Bassam Garadah and his wife, Maha Dakar, both
Palestinians, applied for political asylum in the USA. In the ensuing nine
years, the couple made a good life, raising four daughters born in America, all
now younger than 10.

Earlier this year, after a decade-long process of court hearings and appeals,
the 6th Circuit Court of Appeals came back with a final decision on their asylum
petition: denied. The family was left scrambling about what to do next.

The nation's immigration debate has been largely about the 12 million illegal
immigrants in this country. But little attention has been paid to the
law-abiding immigrants whose families have suffered through long delays and even
errors because of backlogs at the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services
(USCIS) and FBI.

So now Maha Dakar is being threatened with deportation -- which would mean the
family will likely be split apart. Several years ago, the couple tried to
improve their odds by also applying for residency through their immediate
relatives in the USA. But their applications will take at least five years --
well beyond Maha's deportation deadline.

Their situation becomes more complicated by the family's background. Maha is a
Jordanian citizen of Palestinian descent. She will likely be deported to Jordan.
Bassam, who carries only Egyptian travel documents, has been refused entry to
both Egypt and Jordan. The couple lived in Bulgaria and Kuwait before
immigrating to the USA. But Kuwait will not allow the entire family to return
because they are Palestinians and do not have citizenship rights.  (In fact, the
judge, in rejecting their asylum request, mistakenly ruled that they could
return to Kuwait without facing persecution.)

Aside from reflecting the poor state of U.S. immigration services, the Garadah
story also highlights how stateless and displaced Palestinian refugees, who
number more than 4 million, are often mistreated in host countries. These
refugees often are treated as second-class citizens. For those reasons and
others, the Garadah family felt privileged to live in America.

From bad to worse

On July 30, Rep. Steve Chabot, R-Ohio, introduced a bill that would allow Maha
to remain in the USA while her immigration application is being considered.
Chabot has been strongly opposed to illegal immigration, but he has said that
Garadah family members entered the country legally, have broken no laws and
should be allowed to stay given that their daughters are U.S. citizens.  After
Chabot's bill was introduced, USCIS decided not to enforce Maha's deportation
until March 2009.  Still, such bills are usually symbolic and  have rarely
passed.  When they do pass, only an individual or family is helped. For families
like the Garadahs, the path to legal immigration does not appear to be getting
shorter:

*Application backlog. As of September 2006, about  1.2 million immigration
applications had yet to be processed, USCIS reported then. Recently, however,
USCIS ombudsman Prakash Khatri issued a report estimating that the backlog is
more like 2.5 million cases -- and rising. Some immigrants, he found, have been
waiting many years for a decision to be made on their green card or citizenship
applications.

*FBI background checks. After 9/11, President Bush folded Immigration and
Naturalization Services into the new Department of Homeland Security, linking
the immigration process with security policy. As a result, the FBI conducts name
checks on all immigrant applications to screen for threats. According to the
USCIS ombudsman report, FBI name checks "may be the single biggest obstacle to
the timely ... delivery of immigration benefits."

As of May, 329,160 FBI name-check cases were pending.  That's up nearly 40% from
the previous year.  USCIS does not include these cases in its own backlog
estimates.

A difficult existence

Delayed applications can make the daily lives of these immigrants quite
difficult.

The Garadah family has not traveled outside the USA in the past 10 years out of
fear of being refused re-entry. Maha and Bassam also must apply for a work
permit every year, making it difficult to hold down a job because their
authorization papers often arrive months late, or sometimes not at all.
Applicants often face difficulties obtaining driver's licenses, opening bank
accounts and establishing a credit history  to buy a home or car.

The fact that immigrants are willing to wait out the seemingly interminable
immigration process shows the value that they place in living in the USA. Yet
how does the nation reward them for trying the legal path? It allows their
applications to become entangled in a bureaucracy that will ultimately fail many
of them.

In 2005, Homeland Security tried to resolve the backlog  by raising citizenship
application fees to cover the cost of hiring more staff to process cases more
quickly. Clearly, this has not worked. Fees were raised again this summer,  yet
millions of applications are pending.

Comprehensive immigration reform in Congress this year appears dead.  Perhaps an
incremental approach would be more politically viable. Lawmakers could first
concentrate their efforts on correcting the glitches in the system that affect
legal immigration,  before turning to illegal immigration. After all, if the
legal process was more efficient and less daunting, perhaps the illegal
immigration problems wouldn't be quite so bad.

USCIS aims to serve legal immigrants, and its  motto is "Securing America's
promise."

For the Garadah family and many others, that promise is being broken.

Souheila Al-Jadda is associate producer of a Peabody award-winning show, Mosaic:
World News from the Middle East, on Link TV. She's also a member of USA TODAY's
board of contributors.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              381 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 3, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Price of political asylum: Prove threat of persecution

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 402 words


As a foreign service officer in Washington, D.C., in the 1980s, I adjudicated
hundreds of applications for political asylum made by  immigrants who were in
the USA illegally. An asylum request is often a last desperate attempt by
someone who has been unable to obtain immigration papers ("One family's
nightmare," The Forum, Sept. 26).

More than 90% are refused  because the applicant can't establish a well-founded
fear of persecution should he return to his country. For the few granted asylum,
their status is temporary. It can change if conditions in their countries
change. That's the law.

None of this seems to have occurred to Souheila Al-Jadda, who wrote that the
United States' "broken" immigration system is to blame for a Palestinian family
being denied political asylum in the USA.  I blame the system for having kept
the family here far too long.

Nowhere in this flawed attempt to pluck our heartstrings does the author state
the basis for the family's claim to political asylum, or even whether the family
thinks it has merit, or why it was denied. Does Al-Jadda believe that the
precious right of asylum should be granted to everyone who happens to be
Palestinian?

The only thing "broken" about our system is the delay in processing these cases.
If the process was faster, I imagine more illegal immigrants could be removed
from our shores.

Robert F. Dorr

Oakton, Va.

Waiting, praying

My husband is a resident immigrant with a green card, a Dutch citizen and a
pilot for a major carrier. He is trying to become a U.S. citizen.

We have been together almost 17 years, married 13 years. He began the
application process more than six years ago after seeking the advice of an
immigration attorney. He has not received his citizenship because of a pending
background check that has no time limit.

He recently had to renew his green card, and we will continue to wait it out and
pray for resolution. He is regularly scrutinized, fingerprinted and checked out
by the FBI, Homeland Security and the terrorist division of the Department of
Justice. We are frustrated by these measures of security and feel we don't have
any way of solving this dilemma. The backlog for people seeking legal access to
citizenship is nothing compared with the backlog that would occur if everyone
took the high road. No wonder there are so many people slipping under the fence
and disappearing into the USA.

Denise Pereau

Williamstown, N.J.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Reed Saxon, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              382 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             October 8, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Children caught in the immigration crossfire;
Bill stirs new debate over a generation lost 'in limbo'

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2005 words


On the phone, Fiorella Maza comes across as a typical American teenager. Her
English is unaccented. Her best friend's name is Brittney. Her three most prized
possessions are her wallet, her cellphone and, of course, her iPod.

Those were the necessities Maza, 19, took when immigration agents arrived at 6
a.m. on March 1 to deport her and her family.

The 2006 South Miami Senior High School graduate and her parents now live in her
grandmother's house in Lima, Peru -- more than 2,600 miles from the place she
had called home since she was 2. She's searching for language classes "because
my Spanish is really bad," and trying to adjust to life in a land where, she
says, "I feel like an outcast."

Hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants' children could suffer the same
fate, according to the non-partisan Migration Policy Institute. They are the
lost generation of an underground economy: Brought here illegally by parents,
they grew up in American neighborhoods, attended American schools and made
American friends. As they approach adulthood, most find that their illegal
status is a barrier to jobs and education, and their lack of documentation puts
them in line for deportation.

Now, Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., is pushing a plan that would give them a way to
stay here and become Americans. The measure is triggering another bitter debate
over how the nation should deal with its growing shadow population.

"The letters and e-mails I get from these young people are just heartbreaking,"
says Durbin, the No. 2 Democratic leader in the Senate. "They have nowhere to
turn. They are without a country."

In all but 10 states, students who are not legal residents cannot qualify for
in-state college tuition or student loans. They have no right to work. And
there's the dread of a knock on the door such as the one that sent Maza's family
packing.

It's unclear how many of the 185,431 immigrants removed from the country last
year were children who had grown up here. The Department of Homeland Security
does not track such statistics, spokeswoman Kelly Nantel says.

The Migration Policy Institute, however, estimates that there are 360,000 high
school graduates in the USA illegally who would be eligible for conditional
legal status under Durbin's bill for the Development, Relief and Education for
Alien Minors -- or the DREAM Act, as proponents call it. Another 715,000 younger
students could qualify if they graduate high school.

"They talk like Americans; they think like Americans," says Bishop Thomas Wenski
of Orlando, speaking for the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops. "We ought to
let them dream like Americans."

Durbin's bill would carve an exemption in the nation's immigration policy for
undocumented immigrants who grew up in the USA.

It would protect students from deportation and qualify young adults up to age 30
for permanent legal status if they complete high school and at least two years
of either post-secondary education or two years of military service.

It's one of several pieces of a sweeping proposed overhaul of the nation's
immigration laws that proponents are trying to revive this fall, following the
larger bill's collapse earlier this year.

The other measures, which would allow more foreign workers, have the backing of
the agricultural industry and technology companies. The DREAM Act's backers have
a different kind of political clout.

The Catholic bishops are among several religious groups lobbying for the bill.
Democratic leaders in the House and Senate support it. So do senior Republican
senators such as Arizona's John McCain and Indiana's Richard Lugar, as well as
the nation's largest teachers union.

Even so, the act's passage is far from certain. Many of the groups that
torpedoed the immigration bill by arguing it provided amnesty to lawbreakers are
targeting the DREAM Act as a backdoor attempt to accomplish the same goal.

"It really is an amnesty plan disguised as an education initiative," says Bob
Dane of the Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR), a group lobbying
to reduce legal and illegal immigration.

Dane says the bill will "encourage illegal behavior" and force Americans to
compete with illegal residents for college slots and scholarships.

The bill's opponents aren't out to punish kids, Dane says: "We're merely not
rewarding them for the illegal actions of their parents."

Such distinctions are lost on many of those caught in the middle of the debate.
"I just want to return home where I belong," Maza writes in an e-mail.

Families split by deportation

"I'm living in limbo," says Marie Gonzalez, 21, a junior at Westminster College
in Missouri.

Gonzalez, a political science major, has lived in Missouri -- "Jeff City," she
says, using the nickname for Jefferson City -- since she was 5. She learned in
2002 she wasn't here legally when an anonymous tipster reported her father. At
the time, he was working as a courier in the office of then-Missouri Gov. Bob
Holden, a Democrat. Gonzalez was a sophomore in high school.

"I was scared people were going to turn their backs on us," she recalls. "We
were the people they talk about on TV."

Instead, neighbors in Gonzalez's conservative community rallied around her
family.

It wasn't enough to save her parents, who were deported to Costa Rica in 2005.
Then 19, Gonzalez had to sell the family home and cars. She hasn't seen her
parents since, because a visit would mean not being able to return.

At Durbin's request, the Department of Homeland Security twice deferred
Gonzalez's deportation. However, she says that DHS officials have warned her
that if the DREAM Act doesn't pass, she will be deported to Costa Rica in June.

A deportation deadline also looms for Juan Gomez, 18, and brother Alex, 20.

Earlier this summer, the two, both students at Miami Dade College in Florida,
spent a week wearing orange jumpsuits at the Broward County detention center.
Their crime: having arrived here at age 2 and 4, respectively, with their
parents from Colombia. Their parents are to be deported this month.

In handcuffs on the ride to the detention center, Juan used his cellphone to
send a text message to a friend. The result was the creation of a Facebook group
that rallied more than 3,000 supporters to lobby Congress on the boys' behalf.

Rep. Lincoln Diaz-Balart, a Republican from Florida, and Sen. Chris Dodd, a
Democratic presidential candidate from Connecticut, introduced what is known as
a "private bill," used to help individuals with immigration problems.

That move gave the brothers two more years in the USA -- a courtesy extended by
immigration officials to allow Congress time to consider the legislation.

"It just shows you what a democratic country we are," says Juan Gomez. "This is
the country I've always considered home."

For the Gomez brothers to be able to stay, however, the DREAM Act will have to
pass. Diaz-Balart says it's highly unlikely Congress will approve a private bill
for the brothers because there are too many similar cases.

"We continually run into kids who are in this country because of their parents'
choice," he says. Some have younger siblings who are legal. The Constitution
says anyone born in the USA is automatically a citizen.

Barriers to legislation

The DREAM Act is one of several pieces of the failed immigration bill now in
play in Congress.

Other measures that could be part of a year-end immigration deal: one to permit
more foreign farm workers to live in the USA, and another to grant more visas
for temporary workers in business ranging from high technology to restaurants.

By one measure, the DREAM Act would seem the least controversial of the three:
When the Senate Judiciary Committee considered it in 2003, the vote in favor was
16-3.

The opposition this year is enough to raise doubts about whether it or any piece
of the immigration act can become law in the current Congress.

"I just don't think the political wherewithal is there to do it," says Sen. Mel
Martinez, R-Fla., the party's national chairman.

He supported the immigration overhaul but isn't sure he'll back relief for
illegal immigrant children as a separate issue.

And though Martinez says it hasn't affected his stance, he says he received "a
flood of letters and phone calls" opposing the DREAM Act when Durbin tried to
add it to the defense authorization bill last month.

FAIR representatives made 24 appearances on radio talk shows over two weeks in
September to oppose the DREAM Act, Dane says.

NumbersUSA, another group that favors clamping down on legal and illegal
immigration, urged people on its website to call senators thought to be in favor
of the bill. Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., threatened a filibuster.

That persuaded Durbin and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., to drop
their effort temporarily. They say they'll try again to pass the DREAM Act
before Thanksgiving.

Responds Dane: "We intend to keep the heat up."

Without the DREAM Act, Tam Tran, 24, is a person without a country.

The daughter of Vietnamese boat people, Tran was born in Germany, where her
parents ended up after the German Navy plucked them out of the sea. The family
moved to the USA when Tran was 6.

When her parents lost their political asylum case, immigration authorities tried
to deport the family to Germany, Tran says. However, the Germans refused to take
them.

For now, Tran  is permitted to stay -- only because the United States has no
repatriation treaty with Vietnam.

If the diplomatic situation changes, Tran could be deported to the country of
her parents' birth, says Department of Homeland Security spokeswoman Nantel.

Tran, who has never been to Vietnam, says that "I consider myself a Southern
Californian." She graduated with honors from UCLA in December. Her major:
American literature and culture.

For Martine Kalaw, a graduate of Syracuse University's prestigious Maxwell
School public affairs program, it took eight years and three lawyers to overturn
a judge's order that would have sent her to the Congo, a country she left at age
4.

Kalaw, 26, is an orphan. Her stepfather died when she was 12. Three years later,
she lost her mother.

That misfortune may have been her salvation, Kalaw says.

Unlike students who fear putting their parents at risk for deportation, she was
able to take her case to the public. She first spoke out at an immigration rally
where she shared a stage with McCain, and later testified before Congress.

"I was scared because I thought there would be a backlash," Kalaw says, who adds
that she was treated for clinical depression during her ordeal. "I was extremely
ashamed of my situation. Deportation proceedings are the most terrifying,
belittling process."

On July 4, Kalaw says, her legal odyssey ended.

The Board of Immigration Appeals overturned her deportation order and awarded
her permanent legal resident status, which will enable her to apply for
citizenship in five years.

"Now that everything is secure, I'm looking to develop my career," she says.

"The sky's the limit."

Key parts of DREAM

*It covers illegal immigrants ages 12 to 30.

*They must have been younger than 16 when they arrived in the USA, and must have
lived here at least five continuous years.

*They must demonstrate "good moral character."

*Those who graduate high school or  pass a high school equivalency test would
receive conditional legal status for six years.

*Those who complete two years of postsecondary education or serve two years in
the military would qualify as permanent legal residents -- the first step to
citizenship.

*Those still in school would be protected from deportation.

Source: Senate bill 774

---

States reach out

While Congress debates the fate of illegal immigrant children who grew up in the
USA, some states have been making it easier for them to get an education.

In 2001, Texas became the first state to allow illegal immigrants who graduated
from the state's public schools to qualify for in-state college tuition rates.
Nine states have followed suit:

*California

*Utah

*Washington

*New York

*Oklahoma

*Illinois

*Kansas

*New Mexico

*Nebraska

Source: National Conference of State Legislatures

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Ana Cecilia Gonzales Vigil, WPN, for USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Ana Cecilia Gonzales Vigil, WPN, for USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Don Shrubshell for USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              383 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             October 8, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Islands' immigration fight heats up;
Northern Marianas at crux of battle that now includes homeland security

BYLINE: Donna Leinwand

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 940 words


For 20 years, the federal government, Washington politicians and a disgraced
lobbyist have squabbled over an immigration loophole affecting a remote chain of
Western Pacific islands.

Now the Bush administration is adding a fresh argument to try to resolve that
long-simmering battle: homeland security.

The Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands has controlled its own
immigration since it joined the United States as a territory in 1976. Federal
officials say its lax local immigration rules have contributed to human
trafficking and smuggling in the territory.

That local oversight presents an increasing risk, federal officials say, as the
military expands its bases on neighboring Guam, a major military outpost about
130 miles away that includes Andersen Air Force Base and Naval Base Guam. By
2010, the Defense Department has said it will move 8,000 Marines and their 9,000
family members there, bringing the military population in Guam to about 38,000
people.

The Homeland Security Department recognizes "there is a potential vulnerability
that could be exploited by a foreign national looking to gain entry into the
United States," spokesman Russ Knocke says. "As we look at this in a post-9/11
world, when we encounter something that is fixable, we want to fix it."

Smugglers 'caught all the time'

Local immigration officials do not prescreen, interview or fingerprint people
who want to enter, says Interior Department Deputy Secretary David Cohen, who
oversees U.S. territories. The garment and tourism industries there have relied
on "guest workers" from the Philippines and China who are willing to work for
low wages.

Smugglers "are caught all the time with boatloads of people who are landing in
Guam" from the Northern Marianas, Cohen says. "It's possible that they are in
search of better economic opportunity. But if people can get to Guam for that
reason, they can get to Guam for other reasons."

Both Guam and the Northern Marianas "offer a target-rich environment for
terrorist activity," according to a 2002 classified report for the Justice
Department. The Northern Marianas are "currently being exploited by
transnational criminal organizations and possibly by terrorist groups," the
report said. If the security holes are left open, "there is a high probability"
that they could be used in a deliberate attack against the USA.

The push to close the loophole by imposing federal immigration law  is not new,
but previous attempts -- dating back to the Reagan administration -- were
thwarted by others, including the territory's powerful lobbyist: Jack Abramoff.

Opposition waning

Its government hired Abramoff in 1995, paying him and his firm more than $6
million to fend off U.S. minimum wage, labor and immigration laws, court records
show.

Abramoff is now serving five years and 20 months in prison for tax evasion,
defrauding Native American tribes and corrupting public officials. With the
powerful lobbyist gone, sponsors of new bills in the Senate and House say
Congress finally appears willing to close the loophole.

"There is support for the overall bill. We're just trying to work out the
kinks," says Delegate Donna Christensen, D-Virgin Islands. In May, Congress
forced the islands to phase in federal minimum wage laws despite fierce local
opposition.

Northern Marianas officials testified in an August congressional hearing that a
federal takeover of immigration will devastate an economy already in shambles
and gut a guest-worker program that has lured industry.

"The idea that this bill has anything to do with U.S. homeland security is just
a laughable excuse," former governor Froilan Tenorio wrote in the local Saipan
Tribune.

The territory has attracted foreign factories by offering cheap labor and a
"Made in the USA" label. At its 1999 peak, 34 apparel factories operated there.
From 1998 to 2000, it shipped $1 billion in clothing to the mainland USA,
according to the Commerce Department.

That industry collapsed last year after new U.S. trade agreements relaxed import
quotas and tariffs on some foreign goods, meaning foreign companies no longer
needed to stay there to export their products to the mainland USA.

Tourism, the second biggest industry, has continued a decline.

A look at past controls

The guest-worker program provoked Congress to examine the Northern Marianas'
immigration controls in the 1980s and 1990s. Federal labor officials and human
rights investigators accused the territory of allowing widespread labor abuses.

Tim Moran, an assistant U.S. attorney who worked in the capital of Saipan from
2004 to 2007, prosecuted several human trafficking and immigration fraud cases.
In a typical case, he says, a Chinese national pays an employment recruiter
about $5,000 to get a job. In one case, seven women thought they had jobs in a
karaoke club but were forced to work as prostitutes to repay the recruiter.

To fend off previous attempts to exert more oversight, island officials hired
Abramoff and courted powerful members of Congress, including former House
majority leader Tom DeLay, R-Texas.

Congress, now under Democratic control, phased in the federal minimum wage over
eight years. In July, wages increased 50 cents to $3.55 an hour.

The Defense Department's expanding military presence on Guam also is building
momentum to corral the Northern Marianas.

"Before 9/11, the main worry was with organized crime. Now, an additional
concern is terrorism, says Sen. Jeff Bingaman, D-N.M., who chairs the key Senate
committee for the bill.

Christensen, who sponsored the House version says, "It was never intended that
the Northern Marianas would stay outside the U.S. immigration law forever."

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Charles Hanley, AP
PHOTO, B/W, Seaman Stephen W. Rowe, U.S. Navy

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              384 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 19, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Passive government permits illegal one-way flights to U.S.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 486 words


USA TODAY exposed great treachery on the part of our neighbors south of the
border in the article "Discount airlines fly migrants to U.S. border" (News,
Oct. 12).

The new discount airlines in Mexico -- called Aeromigrante, or "Migrant Air," by
passengers -- have been taking passengers from Central America and southern
Mexico to cities along the U.S. border, such as Tijuana and Mexicali, to assist
them in their illegal entry into the USA.

It is a booming one-way industry because, as the article says, return flights
are nearly empty.

This is happening at the acquiesce of the Mexican government, a country known
for draconian immigration laws.

Mexican President Felipe Calderon's puppies in Congress and the White House
continue their servile obedience and work tirelessly to pass bills that smell of
amnesty. The invasion continues.

Peter DiLorenzo

Bonaire, Ga.

Leap to conclusions?

USA TODAY claims that new discount Mexican airlines are responsible for the
transportation of illegal immigrants, but as a former airline employee and
frequent flier on low-cost carriers to Mexico, I have a few questions:

*The article quotes Mexico City resident Leopoldo Torres, 37, who said he and a
traveling companion aboard a Volaris flight to Mexicali were planning "to cross
into the USA illegally through the California desert." But how does USA TODAY
know that these two men actually crossed over the border? Undocumented travelers
may be planning to cross but instead decide to return to their native towns.

*USA TODAY's article says these flights benefit Central American immigrants. But
every passenger who arrives at the International Airport of Tijuana is
questioned by Mexican customs officials, whether it is a regular carrier or a
low-cost carrier.

*The article also mentions that most of these planes return almost empty. As a
frequent flier, I have never been on flight leaving Tijuana with less than 60%
occupancy.

Is USA TODAY feeding paranoia and anti-immigrant sentiment? It is ridiculous
that Mexicans who fly within the country's borders are now labeled "future
illegal immigrants."

Fabricio Bautista

Fontana, Calif.

Danger is very real

Thank you USA TODAY for an informative, well-written story about discount
airlines in Mexico that are helping immigrants get into the USA.

The article states, "Passengers who used to make bus trips of several days can
arrive at the border well-rested for the often dangerous crossing."

Many immigrants don't realize how dangerous a border crossing can be.

I wish USA TODAY would report on how many bodies are found in the desert every
year. These are people who died in the desert while trying to enter the USA.

This danger is very real, and many people who attempt to cross the deserts of
California, Arizona and New Mexico do not realize how quickly dehydration and
heat exhaustion can lead to death.

I'm sure many bodies lie in the desert undiscovered.

Mary Staples

Green Valley, Ariz.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Claudio Cruz, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              385 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 25, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Senate shies away from immigration issue;
Vote dampens DREAM Act, aimed at youths

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 1048 words


WASHINGTON -- The Senate signaled a desire to steer clear of divisive
immigration issues Wednesday by refusing to take up legislation that would
provide safe harbor for young adults who grew up in the USA after being brought
here illegally by their parents.

The 52-44 vote -- eight short of the 60 needed to move the bill toward a final
vote -- came as three potential beneficiaries of the legislation, known as the
DREAM Act, looked on from the Senate gallery. It provided a stark example of how
hostile the climate has become to immigration measures since a sweeping bill
backed by President Bush failed last June.

"Since when in America do we visit the sins and crimes of parents on their
children?" said Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., the bill's sponsor.

In bringing the DREAM (Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors) Act
to the floor, Durbin said he was reviving "the most bipartisan" element in the
larger immigration bill. Last year, the Judiciary Committee approved it
unanimously.

Wednesday's debate indicated that attitudes have shifted.

Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., called the DREAM Act "a divisive
issue." Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., said it "will strike a dagger in the will of
the American people" to debate it. The White House, which Durbin said  insisted
on including the DREAM Act in  this year's comprehensive immigration bill,
issued a statement opposing it.

And one of the bill's co-sponsors, Sen. Mike Crapo, R-Idaho, voted against it.
Spokeswoman Susan Wheeler said Crapo objected to parliamentary procedures that
would have limited chances to amend the bill. Eight Democrats also voted no.

"The debate has changed a lot," Durbin said. "There's a genuine political fear
about this issue."

Durbin, the deputy Democratic leader of the Senate, said the DREAM Act's failure
will dampen his enthusiasm for business-backed immigration measures that the
Senate likely will consider soon. Major corporations, such as Microsoft, and
trade associations, such as the Western Growers Association, are seeking to
expand visas for temporary foreign workers in fields ranging from farming to
computer design.

"If you're going to turn away all these children ... don't come back to me and
tell me that we need a bigger labor pool and more talent in America," Durbin
told his colleagues. Sen. Robert Menendez, D-N.J., said the vote was a "litmus
test" of congressional willingness to move ahead on other immigration issues.

"If we can't do this for children," Menendez said, "I doubt we can do anything
else for immigration reform."

The DREAM Act would have protected certain children of illegal immigrants from
deportation and qualified young adults up to age 30 for permanent legal status
if they completed  at least two years of either postsecondary education or
military service.

Opponents argued that the age of the children when they crossed the border
doesn't change their status. "This is an amnesty bill," said Sen. James Inhofe,
R-Okla. "We're talking about people who came into this country illegally,
regardless of age."

Disagreements over the DREAM Act crossed party lines. Sen. Mel Martinez, R-Fla.,
worked with Durbin and Sen. Ken Salazar, D-Colo., to persuade Sen. Kay Bailey
Hutchison, R-Texas, to back the bill.  Hutchison announced she'd back the DREAM
Act if Durbin agreed to let her add an amendment tightening its provisions. "I
think there is a compassionate reason for us to try to work this out," said
Hutchinson, one of 12 Republicans who voted for the bill.

The potential DREAM Act beneficiaries who listened to the debate from the Senate
gallery remained upbeat.

"I'm still hopeful. I know something has to happen," said Marie Gonzalez, a
political science major at Westminster College in Missouri.

Gonzalez said it was "tough" hearing the bill described  as amnesty for illegal
immigrants. "It's hard for me to listen and be categorized that way," Gonzalez
said. "If you could just meet me, maybe you can change your mind."

How senators voted

Here's how senators voted Wednesday on whether to consider the DREAM Act.

Sixty "yes" votes were needed to bring the bill to the floor:

Voted 'Yes' (52)

Democrats (38)

Daniel Akaka, Hawaii; Evan Bayh, Ind.;

Joseph Biden, Del.; Jeff Bingaman, N.M.; Sherrod Brown, Ohio; Maria Cantwell,
Wash.; Benjamin Cardin, Md.; Tom Carper, Del.; Robert Casey, Pa.; Hillary Rodham

Clinton, N.Y.; Dick Durbin, Ill.; Russ Feingold, Wis.; Dianne Feinstein, Calif.;
Tom Harkin, Iowa; Daniel Inouye, Hawaii; Tim Johnson, S.D.; John Kerry, Mass.;
Amy Klobuchar, Minn.; Herb Kohl, Wis.; Frank Lautenberg, N.J.; Patrick Leahy,
Vt.; Carl Levin, Mich.; Blanche Lincoln, Ark.; Robert Menendez, N.J.; Barbara
Mikulski, Md.; Patty Murray, Wash.; Ben Nelson, Neb.; Bill Nelson, Fla.; Barack
Obama, Ill.; Jack Reed, R.I.; Harry Reid, Nev.; Jay Rockefeller, W.Va.;

Ken Salazar, Colo.; Charles Schumer, N.Y.; Debbie Stabenow, Mich.; Jim Webb,
Va.; Sheldon Whitehouse, R.I.; Ron Wyden, Ore.

Republicans (12)

Bob Bennett, Utah; Sam Brownback, Kan.; Norm Coleman, Minn.; Susan Collins,
Maine; Larry Craig, Idaho; Chuck Hagel, Neb.; Orrin Hatch, Utah; Kay Bailey
Hutchison, Texas; Olympia Snowe, Maine; Trent Lott, Miss.; Richard Lugar, Ind.;
Mel Martinez, Fla.

Independents (2)

Joe Lieberman, Conn.; Bernie Sanders, Vt.

Voted 'No' (44)

Republicans (36)

Lamar Alexander, Tenn.; Wayne Allard, Colo.; John Barrasso, Wyo.; Kit Bond, Mo.;
Jim Bunning, Ky.; Richard Burr, N.C.;

Saxby Chambliss, Ga.; Tom Coburn, Okla.; Thad Cochran, Miss.; Bob Corker, Tenn.;
John Cornyn, Texas; Mike Crapo, Idaho;

Jim DeMint, S.C.; Elizabeth Dole, N.C.;

Pete Domenici, N.M.; John Ensign, Nev.; Mike Enzi, Wyo.; Lindsey Graham, S.C.;
Chuck Grassley, Iowa; Judd Gregg, N.H.; James Inhofe, Okla.; Johnny Isakson,
Ga.;

Jon Kyl, Ariz.; Mitch McConnell, Ky.;

Lisa Murkowski, Alaska; Pat Roberts, Kan.; Jeff Sessions, Ala.; Richard Shelby,
Ala.;

Gordon Smith, Ore.; Arlen Specter, Pa.;

Ted Stevens, Alaska; John Sununu, N.H.; John Thune, S.D.; David Vitter, La.;

George Voinovich, Ohio; John Warner, Va.

Democrats (8)

Max Baucus, Mont.; Robert Byrd, W.Va.; Kent Conrad, N.D.; Byron Dorgan, N.D.;
Mary Landrieu, La.; Claire McCaskill, Mo.; Mark Pryor, Ark.; Jon Tester, Mont.

Not Voting (4)

Democrats (3)

Barbara Boxer, Calif.; Chris Dodd, Conn.;

Edward Kennedy, Mass.

Republican (1)

John McCain, Ariz.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              386 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 31, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Rival debaters take aim at front-runner Clinton;
Her stance on Iran sticking point in Philadelphia forum

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 655 words


PHILADELPHIA -- Hillary Rodham Clinton was the Democrats' target in chief
Tuesday night as six rivals for her party's presidential nomination attacked her
on issues ranging from foreign policy to immigration to her electability.

Clinton remained unrattled until the end, when she refused to be nailed down on
whether she backs New York Gov. Eliot Spitzer's proposal to provide driver's
licenses to illegal immigrants.

"This is where everybody plays 'gotcha,'" Clinton said as questioners made
attempts to clarify her position. At one point, the New York senator said
Spitzer's proposal "makes a lot of sense," but she also said, "I did not say it
should be done."

Her chief rivals pounced. Former senator John Edwards of North Carolina called
it an example of the "double talk" he has accused Clinton of practicing on other
issues. "I can't tell whether she's for it or against it," Illinois Sen. Barack
Obama agreed.

The lively debate also featured Delaware Sen. Joseph Biden's charge that
Republican front-runner Rudy Giuliani is "absolutely unqualified" to be
president, and Ohio Rep. Dennis Kucinich's claim that he has seen a UFO, but the
evening was dominated by the intense barrage that Edwards and Obama launched
against the Democratic front-runner.

The pounding grew so intense that New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson protested
"this holier-than-thou attitude" toward Clinton. He said it verged on "a
personal attack."

The other candidates on the debate platform at Drexel University criticized
Clinton's vote last month for a Senate resolution that labeled Iran's
Revolutionary Guards a terrorist organization.

Sen. Chris Dodd of Connecticut said President Bush could cite the vote to
justify a military attack against Iran. Edwards said Clinton was allying herself
with neoconservatives. The resolution passed on a 76-22 vote. Clinton was one of
26 Democrats who voted in favor. Dodd and Biden voted no; Obama was absent.

Clinton argued that a strong message is needed to discourage Iran from building
a nuclear weapon. "I am not in favor of this rush for war, but I'm also not in
favor of doing nothing," she said.

On Iraq, she insisted rivals are misrepresenting her position by suggesting
she's not as committed to ending the war as they are. "I stand for ending the
war in Iraq, bringing our troops home," Clinton said. "But I also know it will
be complicated." She said a small number of troops will stay in Iraq to guard
the U.S. Embassy and perhaps to hunt for al-Qaeda.

Clinton dismissed charges that her more centrist foreign-policy positions put
her in the same camp as the Republicans, pointing to the GOP presidential
candidates' "constant obsession" with  criticizing her during their debate last
week. "I don't think the Republicans got the message that I'm voting and
sounding like them," she said. Obama and Edwards argued that Republicans might
be targeting the easiest-to-beat candidate. "It's a fight they're comfortable
having," Obama said.

One Clinton supporter viewed her competitors' attacks as good news. "My
granddaddy used to say, 'If you get kicked in the rear, that means you're out
front,''' said Bill Gray, a former Philadelphia congressman and one of the
state's most prominent African-American politicians.

Biden turned attention briefly to Giuliani. He not only questioned the former
New York City mayor's qualifications but chided  Giuliani's emphasis on his role
in the aftermath of the World Trade Center attacks. All Giuliani's sentences
consist of "a noun, a verb and a 9/11," Biden said.

Kucinich tried to laugh off a question from NBC Meet the Press host Tim Russert
about his sighting of a UFO, but did not deny the account in a book by actress
Shirley MacLaine. "More people in this country have seen UFOs than I think have
seen a probe of George Bush's presidency," said Kucinich said.

Former Alaska senator Mike Gravel was excluded by debate organizers because of
his poor showing in polls.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Stan Honda, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              387 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 1, 2007 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Workplace raids ensnare kids in net, too

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 433 words


For every two illegal immigrants arrested in a workplace raid, at least one
child feels the effect, according to a study released Wednesday.

In some cases, children spend at least one night without a parent and are handed
off in a mad scramble to babysitters or relatives, says the study, conducted by
the Urban Institute on behalf of the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic
civil rights organization.

The study focuses on three large workplace raids: Two on Dec. 12, 2006, at Swift
& Company meatpacking plants in Greeley, Colo., and Grand Island, Neb.; and one
on March 6, 2007, at the Michael Bianco leather goods plant in New Bedford,
Mass.

In those raids, 506 children had at least one parent arrested, the study says.
At the Colorado site, two-thirds of the children were U.S. citizens. In all, 912
workers were arrested.

"We don't question the fact that our laws need to be enforced. We do question
how we enforce those laws," says Janet Murguia, the council's president. "You're
talking about real pain and suffering for these kids."

Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) spokeswoman Pat Reilly did not dispute
the report's numbers but challenged the criticism. The agency's procedures
protect children from abandonment, she says. "We grant humanitarian relief in
the case that someone is a single parent or sole caregiver of a child," she
says. "We go to extraordinary means to find out."

In New Bedford, officials released 60 of more than 300 illegal immigrants, many
of them single parents, to await the outcome of their cases, she says.

One problem, Reilly says, is that some illegal immigrants don't tell federal
officials they have children.

The Urban Institute's Randy Capps, lead author of the report, acknowledges that
some workers withhold information because they fear the children will be taken
into custody or placed in foster homes.

He says ICE should provide speedy access to social workers, clergy or someone
immigrants may feel more comfortable talking to. The report also suggests that
ICE more quickly and consistently release illegal immigrants who are sole
caregivers. "It took more time than it should have in some cases," he says.

La Raza wants Congress to hold hearings on how children are affected by
workplace enforcement, which has skyrocketed.

The raids will continue, says Reilly, who warns that parenthood won't protect
illegal immigrants from arrest. "In enforcing the law, we are going to encounter
people who have started families in a country they're not authorized to be in,"
she says. "Illegal immigrants have to prepare for the day when they're
detected."

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              388 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 2, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Don't forget history of encouraging immigration

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 461 words


For more than a year, I sustained the illusion that American justice would grant
my Mexican girlfriend a tourist visa so she could fly to Boston and meet my
family and friends. But I was stripped of that assurance when I learned that not
only had she been overtly denied a visa, but she also was made to feel less
human.

The U.S. Consulate interviewer commented in broken Spanish on the insufficiency
of her professional life goals and the poor economic status of her family. After
$130 for the phone call and visa appointment, in addition to months of
preparation, our built-up hopes vanished with a demoralizing "no."

The view that Mexican nationals compete for American jobs and burden the health
care system obscures the historical roots of Mexican migration and ignores
larger governmental agreements that have played significant roles in
contributing to the contemporary levels of immigration. Since the early 1940s,
the United States has sponsored contract labor programs essentially inviting
Mexican laborers to the USA.

One of the most prominent examples of this is the Bracero Program started during
World War II to replace American agricultural workers leaving the fields for
battle.

The United States historically has thus encouraged immigration for economic
purposes while simultaneously chiding the phenomenon. I believe that for many
Mexican immigrants, the difficulties associated with visiting their homeland and
maintaining transnational ties are a motivating factor in their decisions for
permanent settlement. Moreover, such simple-minded solutions prevent good people
such as my girlfriend from enriching American society.

Thomas Perry

Hanover, N.H.

Consider practical options

The immigration debate is multifaceted and very emotional. Unfortunately,
whatever side one is on, one has to look at what is practical. For example, no
matter how much one is against immigration, deporting millions of people is not
logistically feasible, even if there was the political will to do so. There are
plenty of illegal immigrants from the United Kingdom, France and other European
countries. They are not all poor and Hispanic. Unfortunately, the face of
immigration is Hispanic, and that has led to a tinge of racism in the
discussion. If the face of immigration were northern European, I think the tone
of the debate would change considerably.

Also, Canada and Australia have a system of immigration that grants points  to
immigrants who bring something to the table. They differentiate between the
various types of immigrants.

An immigrant who is in the USA after completing his or her MBA is quite
different from a casual laborer. A point system would provide incentives for
immigrants to improve themselves and help the USA attract the best.

Fred Opere

Nairobi, Kenya

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Peter J. Zuzga for USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              389 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 16, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Spitzer loses control of license proposal

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 687 words


The New York Times, in an editorial: "When Gov. Eliot Spitzer dropped his
proposal to make driver's licenses available to undocumented immigrants
(Wednesday), he sowed disappointment and anger among many of his supporters --
who felt, rightly, that they had been left holding the bag. ... New York's
embattled governor  ...  was endangering the rest of his agenda by knocking over
the hornet's nest that is the nation's immigration debate. ... Part of the
challenge is style. ... The governor needs to find wise voices and listen
carefully to their counsel. ... The idea would be to help Spitzer figure out in
advance whether his instincts or timing are off. The governor deserves a brain
trust in the manner of one of his predecessors, Franklin Delano Roosevelt.
Finally, Gov. Spitzer needs to return to ground, to reconnect with the people
who elected him."

El Diario/La Prensa, New York, in an editorial: "Spitzer officially withdrew the
second, three-tiered version of the license policy. It is the latest casualty of
the anti-immigrant lobby -- a well-funded force that brooks no compromise, no
matter how reasonable. ... This anti-immigrant mobilization is imbued with
racism and xenophobia. ... This poisonous atmosphere emerges as the demographics
of this nation shift rapidly, with Hispanics at the helm of growth. Latinos have
become the targets of misdirected angst over the pressures of globalization. ...
With poor planning, there were missed opportunities to make the strong and
logical case for the licenses. ... But far more disappointing was the passive
support. ... Hispanics need to take notes on who is truly going to bat for us."

David S. Broder, columnist, for The Washington Post: "The failure of the
Democratic Congress, like its Republican predecessor, to enact comprehensive
immigration reform, including improved border security, has left individual
states and local communities to struggle with the problem. Some are showing a
high degree of tolerance and flexibility. Others are being more punitive. But
all of them are running into controversy. I noticed a new Siena College Research
Institute poll of registered voters in New York. It found heavy opposition to
Gov.  Spitzer's proposal to permit undocumented aliens to obtain driver's
licenses; nearly two-thirds opposed the latest version. ... The issue is part of
a weakening of support for Spitzer, who now has an almost 2-to-1 negative job
rating. ... It was just last year that Spitzer was elected in a landslide."

Newsday, Long Island, N.Y., in an editorial: "As an elected official, sometimes
you lead and sometimes you represent. The real skill is knowing which to do
when. On driver's licenses for undocumented immigrants, Gov. Spitzer tried to
lead. Unfortunately, there was no great rush to follow.  ... There are still 14
million undocumented immigrants living in the United States. It's still
impossible to deport all those people. It's still impossible to detain them all.
One million of them still live in New York, and many of them will still drive
without licenses or insurance. And that will continue to make the roads more
hazardous and insurance more costly than need be for the rest of the state's
motorists. Given the public mood, it will be all but impossible to make headway
on ...  illegal immigration. Spitzer misread that mood."

Los Angeles Times, in an editorial: "When he first announced a change in state
policy to make illegal immigrants eligible for driver's licenses,  Gov.  Spitzer
came out swinging. But relentless opposition prompted him to pull his punch. ...
The policy would have made the roads safer, reduced insurance premiums and
generated millions of dollars in new license fees. And when critics protested
that some of those newly privileged drivers might turn out to be terrorists, he
countered that the licensing process would bring them into the system. ...  The
nativists ... want to make driver's licenses a validation of citizenship rather
than evidence of having passed a driving test. In doing so, they place their
cruelty above their common sense. As Spitzer said, 'The DMV is not the INS.'"

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Yuri Gripas, Reuters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              390 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 20, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration process puts strain on relationships

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 456 words


I am a U.S. citizen who is planning to marry a Mexican citizen. My fiancee, who
is a medical doctor in Mexico, has a tourist visa and is allowed to visit here.
But when we marry and apply for her residency status, she will have to surrender
her visa and make the difficult choice of either staying in the USA for six to
12 months while her application is processed, or stay in Mexico for two or more
years to wait. I can't help but feel frustrated because hundreds of thousands of
illegal immigrants are allowed to remain in the USA.

Not only is the U.S. immigration process putting a strain on my relationship
with my fiancee, but it has forced us to hire an immigration lawyer and to spend
thousands of dollars.

The difficulty of navigating the immigration system shows me that Congress has
little regard for our citizens or for stopping this madness.

Dave Hogate

Yuma, Ariz.

Work together

Life for illegal immigrants in the "land of the free" is pure hell. The ones who
can find work have to do it for low wages. They work long hours without
benefits. For the unlucky ones who get caught and eventually deported to their
countries, they are treated like they are the worst kind of criminal. Their only
crime is trying to make a living for their families.

I know someone who recently was deported. Because his two children were born
here, the U.S. government is responsible for taking care of his kids. I don't
understand the reasoning at all.

No fences or laws will stop people from coming to the USA. Americans need to
wake up and work on solutions instead of making life hard for vulnerable people.

Ed Villavicencio

Dayton, Ohio

Respect laws

I'm an immigrant who came to the USA 17 years ago. My take on immigration is
simple: Immigrants need to understand they are in a host country. They need to
get in line and follow the proper procedures as many other people around the
world do.

They basically are saying to the American people, "I don't care about your
laws." U.S. taxpayers are paying the price.

Jose Luis Morales

Arlington, Va.

Face consequences

USA TODAY reader Luis Sotelo, who wrote that "immigrants have the potential to
become great participants in American society," had good intentions. But he
overlooked a significant fact about those who are living illegally in the USA:
They are breaking U.S. laws ("Given the chance, illegal immigrants can succeed,"
Thursday).

It makes no difference how well these immigrants have fared here. They should
face the consequences of ignoring U.S. law, and that means being deported. If a
person robs a bank, law enforcement will chase that person until he or she is
caught. Law enforcement officers should treat illegal immigration the same way
they treat other crimes.

Bill Walters

Greenfield, Ind.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Brian Kersey, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              391 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 26, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

North Dakota's aging face Can a culture resist change?;
State short of workers, but many balk at plans to lure immigrant labor

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2060 words


COOPERSTOWN, N.D. -- Every other Wednesday at lunchtime, the Coachman Inn
attracts what, in this sparsely populated part of the world, amounts to a crowd.
They come for the kumla -- the Scandinavian potato dumplings their grandmothers
and great-grandmothers used to make.

It's a lively scene that reveals a sobering demographic truth. The hands passing
the pitchers of melted butter are weathered; the heads bobbing in animated
conversation are mostly silver-haired. The kumla tradition is in danger of
extinction. So is Cooperstown and many of North Dakota's once-bustling rural
crossroads.

"We simply don't have enough workers," says Orville Tranby, a community leader
who in 1999 helped Griggs County, where Cooperstown is the seat, and neighboring
Steele County win a 10-year federal grant to create jobs and stem population
loss.

When developers proposed locating a dairy in the area, however, the community
shot it down. A proposed hog plant is facing similar opposition. Tranby says
it's because some residents fear such facilities might attract a wave of
Hispanic immigrants who could change the local culture.

"I've had them face to face tell me that," he says.

The tension here reflects why the nation's debate over immigration is likely to
be such a potent issue in next year's presidential campaign. More than 1,400
miles from the nation's southwestern border and far from the cities where the
debate has been most prominent, the conflicts many communities face in dealing
with an aging workforce are exposed in North Dakota like the flat prairie
landscape after the fall harvest.

Nationally, the U.S. Commerce Department projects that the number of people in
prime working years, ages 25 to 54, will increase 0.3% a year through 2015. In
the third quarter of this year, the economy grew by 3.9%.

"We're facing a dramatic labor shortage," Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez
said in a speech in March. "Without immigrants, we don't have enough workers.
Period."

The demographic crisis in North Dakota is more severe. The population increased
in only six of North Dakota's 53 counties from 1990 to 2000.

Farm families have become smaller and farms have become bigger. Richard Rathge,
a demographer at North Dakota State University says the average size of a North
Dakota farm is 1,300 acres, up from 500 acres during the 1940s.

That's left businesses in rural communities with fewer customers to serve. That,
in turn, leaves the farmers who remain with fewer places to worship, shop or
send their kids to school.

Rathge considers depopulation a threat to the state's agricultural economy.
"We've seen North Dakota really hollow out," he says.

On one hand, state officials are working hard to attract people to North Dakota.
The Griggs-Steele empowerment zone wired the area for high-speed Internet,
improved parks and renovated apartments.

But as the conflict over the plans for a dairy here shows, residents are
struggling with what Democratic state Rep. Lee Kaldor calls "cultural concerns."

Welcoming newcomers is part of the state's settler heritage, but "the average
North Dakotan is German or Norwegian, Lutheran and white," Kaldor says. "If we
have an influx of people with a different heritage, how will we react?"

Sen. Byron Dorgan, D-N.D., is co-sponsoring a "new homestead act" to provide
incentives for people who relocate in North Dakota, but he sees the immigration
debate as a "separate issue."

Solving the state's depopulation problem, he says, is a matter of creating
enough good jobs to attract Americans.

Becky Meidinger, who heads the Cooperstown economic development office, isn't so
sure. She says rural North Dakotans "have to break some barriers down" and
recognize that "we're not going to get the people we feel comfortable with in
this area."

Dorgan and North Dakota's other Democratic senator, Kent Conrad, are taking a
tough line in the national immigration debate.

Last month, when the Senate considered a bill to stop the deportation of
children and young adults who grew up in the USA after being brought here
illegally by their parents, four of the eight Democrats who joined Republicans
in blocking it were from Canadian border states with acute labor shortages:
Conrad, Dorgan and Montana's Max Baucus and Jon Tester.

The senators say they were responding to their constituents' concerns.

"People are very disturbed ... by these images of millions of people crossing
our border illegally," Conrad says. "We seem to have lost control of our
country."

Dorgan, a leading voice against the outsourcing of American jobs, sees illegal
immigration as "the reverse side of the same coin. "The same corporations that
want to export good jobs want to import cheap labor here," he says.

That argument carries some weight in a state that ranks near the bottom in
median household income at $39,233 a year. While North Dakota's labor shortage
has not yet brought incomes up to the national median, it serves as a magnet for
undocumented immigrants.

This month, agents for state Attorney General Wayne Stenehjem plucked 26
suspected illegal immigrants from the rooftops of Fargo homes, where they were
repairing damage from recent hailstorms.

In April, a story about 13 undocumented workers being nabbed at a North Dakota
dairy lit up the phone lines for Ed Schultz, a self-described "lefty Democrat"
who hosts a nationally syndicated radio talk show from Fargo, North Dakota's
biggest city.

"I was surprised by the vehemence of the response," he says.

Seeing immigrants as a threat

Attitudes along the nation's northern tier indicate that the level of anger
about illegal immigration has little to do with firsthand experience. Among the
50 states and the District of Columbia, North Dakota ranks 48th in terms of its
percentage of foreign-born population. Montana ranks 49th.

Yet in the month before a bipartisan effort to overhaul the nation's immigration
policy collapsed last June, Montana's junior senator was inundated with calls
opposing the plan, which would have offered an estimated 12 million illegal
immigrants a chance at citizenship.

"I got more comments in one month (on the immigration bill) than I did in a
whole year on Iraq," Tester says.

The building tension over illegal immigration seems to have created a political
talking point for Republicans in particular. With an unpopular president and an
unpopular war weighing against Republicans in this year's elections, some GOP
candidates across the nation had success by casting crackdowns on illegal
immigration as a matter of national security.

"I think the feeling of the average person is anger that illegal immigration is
ruining their neighborhoods and their community," Corey Stewart says. He won
re-election this month as chairman of the board of supervisors in Prince William
County, a Virginia suburb of Washington, D.C., after a campaign in which he
emphasized his plan to deny county benefits to illegal residents.

In northeastern Pennsylvania, Hazleton Mayor Lou Barletta, who made national
headlines last year with his effort to drive illegal immigrants from his town,
won re-election by a nearly 9-to-1 ratio after getting the nomination of both
the Republican and Democratic parties. Now, Rep. Tom Cole, an Oklahoma
Republican and chairman of his party's congressional campaign committee, is
trying to recruit Barletta to challenge veteran Democratic Rep. Paul Kanjorski.

In some instances, however, candidates focusing on illegal immigration have seen
their strategy backfire.

It didn't help several prominent Republican candidates who made a promise to
crack down on illegal immigration a key issue in 2006: Rick Santorum lost his
Senate seat in Pennsylvania, and John Hostettler of Indiana, J.D. Hayworth of
Arizona and Henry Bonilla of Texas all lost House seats.

Although Stewart won re-election as county board chairman in Virginia's Prince
William County, two other Republican candidates who ran on similar anti-illegal
immigration platforms lost bids for the state Senate.

Democratic strategists James Carville and Stan Greenberg say their polling
indicates that immigration is the top issue for independent voters looking ahead
to the 2008 elections.

"This is a real wedge issue that Democrats need to get right," they wrote in a
memo they released to reporters Oct. 30.

A week later, U.S. Rep. Heath Shuler, D-N.C., introduced a bill to add 8,000
Border Patrol agents and require employers to verify that their workers are
legal residents.

His 95 co-sponsors include Rep. Tom Tancredo, a Colorado Republican running for
president who has made opposition to illegal immigration his main issue, and 45
Democrats. Sixteen of those Democrats are freshmen who, like Shuler, face tough
re-election fights in GOP-leaning districts. Shuler's bill quickly found a
Senate sponsor: Mark Pryor, a Democrat up for re-election next year in Arkansas.

At the same time, Hispanic leaders are pushing the party to remain loyal to
voters who helped Democrats win control of the House and Senate in last year's
election.

The conflict for Democrats was apparent in the difficulty the party's two
leading presidential candidates, Sens. Hillary Rodham Clinton, D-N.Y., and
Barack Obama, D-Ill., had recently in answering questions about New York Gov.
Eliot Spitzer's proposal to give driver's licenses to illegal aliens.

Clinton eventually came out against the idea; Obama gave it a qualified
endorsement. Spitzer ended up withdrawing the plan.

Some strategists argue that lawmakers are overreacting to a vocal minority.

"They have a megaphone from one side stuck in their ear," says Ed Goeas, a
Republican pollster who has worked for groups advocating immigration changes
that include a path to citizenship for many illegal immigrants.

Another advocate of that approach, Frank Sharry of the National Immigration
Forum, says the get-tough-on-illegal-immigrants proposals make better campaign
rhetoric than policy.

If they were enacted, "some undocumented immigrants would leave the country, but
the vast majority would stay even as they are driven further into the shadows,"
Sharry says. "Unscrupulous employers and cutthroat subcontractors would have a
bigger pool of even easier-to-exploit workers, and decent employers intent on
paying decent wages and growing their businesses would be further undermined."

'10,000 jobs looking for people'

In North Dakota, the percentage of the population in prime working years -- ages
25 to 54 -- is below the national average and will fall from 40.5% in 2000 to
33.4% by 2020, the Census projects.

"We've got 10,000 jobs looking for people," says Kaldor, the legislator.

The situation has people here in a state of chronic anxiety. That's because the
state's two leading commodities, agriculture and energy, are notoriously
volatile. So while prices may be good this year, "we all know the wipeout that
can be over the next hill," says Conrad, the state's senior senator.

Both facets of the state were on display this month on Schultz's talk show. One
North Dakota employer said his business is sinking because of illegal
immigrants; another said he would be sunk without them.

Roger Hauck, a Fargo drywaller, says he had to lay off half his workforce -- 30
people -- because he was being underbid by competitors using illegal labor.

"They were breaking every wage and hour law on the books," he says. "I couldn't
get a job."

Mike Zimmerman, owner of a Minot dairy, says he hasn't been able to replace the
Mexican workers whose arrests provoked all the angry calls to Schultz earlier
this year.

Zimmerman says he thought they were legal. They were the only laborers  willing
to stay with the job, which pays $30,000 a year plus housing, he adds.

"They weren't good workers," Zimmerman says. "They were great workers."

Meanwhile, in Cooperstown, where memories of the town's non-English-speaking
founders and their potato dumpling recipes remain vivid, residents must weigh
whether it's worth changing their community in order to save it.

The federal grant money to stem outmigration has slowed the tide, but not
stopped it.

In neighboring Steele County, Auditor Linda Leadbetter ticks off a list of
restaurants, grocery stores and even a bowling alley that are being run by
municipal governments because they aren't profitable enough to attract private
owners.

"We can't discourage everybody from coming here," she says.

"We have to be prepared to open up and let change come in."

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Alejandro Gonzalez, USA TODAY, Source: North Dakota State
Data Center, Pew Research Center poll of 2,007 people in October (Pie chart, bar
graph, map)
PHOTO, Color, Dan R. Koeck for USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Dan R. Koeck for USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              392 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 29, 2007 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                                 FINAL EDITION

GOP candidates' debate attacks get personal;
Immigration and Iraq war among forum hot topics

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 746 words


ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. -- Eight Republican presidential contenders clashed
Wednesday over immigration, interrogation techniques for terrorism suspects and
the Iraq war in a sharp-elbowed debate filled with pointed and personal attacks.

A fiery exchange between Mitt Romney and Rudy Giuliani over immigration set the
tone for the debate, which took place in a state where 19% of the population is
foreign born, according to a 2006 Census report. Romney accused Giuliani of
operating a "sanctuary city" for illegal immigrants when he was mayor of New
York City.

Giuliani retorted that Romney had a "sanctuary mansion" -- a reference to
reports that contractors working on Romney's home employed illegal immigrants.

The argument exemplified the aggressiveness that animated a debate in which a
number of candidates were seeking a breakthrough five weeks before the
presidential eliminations begin with the Jan. 3 Iowa caucuses.

Former Tennessee senator Fred Thompson used the 30-second video that his
campaign submitted as part of the evening's format to attack two rivals, Romney
and Mike Huckabee. Sen. John McCain confronted Rep. Ron Paul over his support
for a pullout from Iraq. "That kind of isolationism is what got us involved in
World War II," McCain told the Texas lawmaker.

McCain wheeled on Romney for refusing to rule out the use of "waterboarding"
while interrogating terrorism suspects. "I'm astonished ... that anyone could
believe it's not torture," said the Arizona senator, who was tortured as a
prisoner of war in Vietnam.

Sponsored by CNN and YouTube, the debate featured some unorthodox questions,
including several by cartoon characters, submitted by voters via YouTube's
online video uploading service. But the colorful questions were overshadowed by
the often hostile interplay between the candidates.

The debate came at a crucial time and in a crucial state. Romney is ahead in the
polls in Iowa and New Hampshire, the states where the first of the presidential
eliminations will be held in January. But polls show him trailing Giuliani in
Florida, the first big state that will cast ballots in the presidential contest.
Florida's primary is Jan. 29.

And now Romney, who has been portraying himself as the conservative alternative
to Giuliani, is getting some competition on his right flank. An Insider
Advantage poll taken this week showed Huckabee, a former governor of Arkansas,
moving into second place in Florida, with 17% of the vote to Giuliani's 26%. The
poll put Romney at 12%.

On Tuesday, Huckabee won the endorsement of a key Florida conservative, state
Senate Majority Leader Daniel Webster.

Romney was pressed repeatedly Wednesday to explain changes in his political
position. He acknowledged a change of heart on abortion, which he once said
should be legal. "I'm not going to apologize for becoming pro-life," he said.
Romney dodged a question about whether he still backs an earlier statement
supporting gays serving openly in the military, saying he would seek advice from
military experts.

On taxes, all but three of the candidates -- McCain, Thompson and Rep. Duncan
Hunter -- said they would sign a pledge not to raise taxes. "You could have an
emergency, a time of war," Hunter said.

On abortion, Romney and Thompson said they would sign a federal ban. But Paul
and Giuliani said the decision about outlawing abortion should be left to the
states. Huckabee, a Baptist minister, said he could support abortion and the
death penalty.

Asked if he thought Jesus would support the death penalty, Huckabee said: "Jesus
was too smart to ever run for public office."

The debate's early focus on immigration delighted Tom Tancredo, a Colorado
congressman who has made opposition to immigration, legal and illegal, his
signature issue. He said the other candidates were "trying to out-Tancredo
Tancredo."

Thompson and Hunter of California endorsed a get-tough approach on illegal
immigration, but McCain and Huckabee urged some accommodation for illegal
immigrants. "They are God's children, too," McCain said. Huckabee defended his
decision, as Arkansas governor, to back scholarships for the children of illegal
immigrants. "We are a better country than to punish children for what their
parents did," Huckabee said.

Several candidates said they own guns. "I'm not going to tell you where they
are," Thompson half-joked. Giuliani and McCain said they did not. "For a long
time, I used a lot of guns," said McCain, a former naval aviator. "I don't own
one now."

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 30, 2007



CORRECTION: Former Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee opposes abortion rights and
supports the death penalty. In some editions Thursday, his position on abortion
was misstated in a story on the Republican presidential candidates' debate.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Hans Deryk, Reuters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              393 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 29, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Center says immigrants' lack of education hurts country;
Critics: Study overlooks contributions

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 425 words


A study out today focuses on a central question in the immigration debate: Do
immigrants help or hurt the USA?

The report by the Center for Immigration Studies, which promotes limiting
immigration, argues that the current levels hurt the country. Foreign-born
adults have less education than native-born citizens and raise the rates of
poverty, welfare use and lack of medical insurance, says Steven Camarota, the
center's director of research.

"It doesn't seem the country is all that well served by the current immigration
policy," Camarota says. "If you have a legal immigration system that mostly lets
people in without regard to education, and you tolerate a lot of illegal
immigration, you're going to get a very large share of immigrants who will be
very low-skilled."

Critics say the study overlooks immigrant contributions. Dowell Myers, a
professor of urban planning and demography at the University of Southern
California, says immigrants help the economy by working and buying homes.

"If you don't have workers, you can't grow," Myers says. "Immigrants are making
up a huge proportion of that."

The study, an analysis of 2007 Census data, concludes that there are 37.9
million foreign-born residents in the USA. It estimates that at least 11.3
million of those immigrants are in the country illegally.

One of the key findings is that 31% of immigrant adults don't have a high school
diploma, compared with 8% of U.S.-born residents.

That's important, Camarota says, because it correlates with high rates of
welfare and poverty: 33% of households headed by immigrants use at least one
major welfare program, such as the Women, Infants and Children nutrition
program, compared with 19% of U.S.-born households. "It costs a lot of money,"
he says. "Does it make sense to bring in lots of people who don't have lots of
education?"

Myers says the economy needs unskilled labor. "You need some manual workers," he
says.

He criticizes the study for ignoring homeownership among immigrants, which he
says signals their entry into the middle class.

In the 1990s, foreign-born residents accounted for 21% of the growth in
homeowners, he says. This decade, they are 40%.

Angela Kelley, director of the American Immigration Law Foundation's Immigration
Policy Center, faults the study for analyzing immigrants at one point in time
instead of over a longer period.

Over time, she says, immigrants assimilate and succeed.

"Folks learn English, they buy homes. If given the chance, they naturalize, and
they intermarry," Kelley says. "That is a story as old as America."

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              394 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 6, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Culture may change for better

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 409 words


USA TODAY's story "Can aging N.D. resist

change amid immigration debate?"

presented a textbook example of xenophobia

(Cover story, News, Nov. 26).

In the article, Orville Tranby, a community

leader in North Dakota's Griggs

County, explains that a proposed hog

plant is facing opposition because "some

residents fear such facilities might attract

awave of Hispanic immigrants who could

change the local culture."

Change might be inevitable, but who is

to say change would be bad? North Dakota

would undoubtedly change, but no

more than when German or Norwegian

immigrants settled in North Dakota.

Once Americans are able to get past

their xenophobic fears, they might be surprised

and well served by a new wave of

immigrants in this country.Mike Steinhardt

Pewaukee, Wis.

Duty to obey law

USA TODAY reader Aetna Thompson

selectively uses the Bible to justify opening

U.S. borders to immigrants ("Open up

U.S. borders," Nov. 29).

She wrote that those "howling loudest

against immigration appear to be the people

who claim to believe in the Bible. So

how do they explain away the Bible's call

for believers to welcome strangers?"

The Bible does call for Christians to take

care of those who are vulnerable in our

society, but it also calls for believers to

obey the laws of the nation. In Matthew

22, the Pharisees ask Jesus, "Tell us then,

what is your opinion? Is it right to pay

taxes to Caesar or not?"

Jesus answers them by saying, "Give to

Caesar what is Caesar's, and to God what

is God's." Jesus' response implies that

people have a responsibility to obey the

laws of their nation. Illegal immigrants

have knowingly disobeyed the laws of a

sovereign nation and should be returned

to their homelands. If they want to become

citizens, they should go through the

legal process.

Dan Henige

Ontario, Ohio

Family of immigrants

Americans need to remember that

most people come from a long line of immigrants.

I personally feel that today's

leaders have forgotten this fact. If it were

not for immigrants coming to what is now

known as the United States, these leaders

would also be living in oppressed, poor

countries.

I am proud that my spouse is from another

country, as she is very devoted to

our family and our house of worship and

loves the USA.

If today's American leaders feel that

this country is too full of immigrants from

other countries, then they are free to

pack up their bags and leave. This would

make more room for those who value the

diversity of America's great melting pot.

Clarence R. Fischer

Hayward, Calif.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              395 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 19, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Harsh words on immigrants could backfire on GOP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 731 words


Listening to the Republican presidential candidates, you might sometimes think
that the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, the softening economy, a government in
serious debt or a planet in climatological peril are second-tier issues.

They're talked about, but the talk is often drowned out by a clattering,
non-stop debate about illegal immigration. To some degree, this is inevitable.
An estimated 12million people, about 4% of the population, are in this country
illegally. In areas where the immigrant population -- legal and illegal alike --
has swelled, local services have been strained. Collisions of culture and
language have tensions running high. Meanwhile, Washington has utterly failed to
agree on a response.

Even so, there's a fine line between advocating that laws have meaning, which
they must, and stoking anti-immigrant sentiments. The tone and volume of the
comments of several GOP candidates, as well as some of their specific proposals,
position them on the wrong side of that line.

As they race to abandon previous positions based on compromise and pragmatism,
and as they attack each other relentlessly in ads and debates, the candidates
make the race for the nomination look like an unseemly competition for who can
be meanest.

While such tactics might give them an edge in some early primary states, they
only aggravate an enormously complex problem with no elegant solutions.

Former Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee, who once said of illegal immigrant
families that "we are a better country than to punish children for what their
parents did," now proposes that illegal immigrants register within 120 days and
then leave the country.  As if that is going to happen. Huckabee also touts his
endorsement from Jim Gilchrist, co-founder of the Minutemen, a hard-line border
enforcement group.

Former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney, meanwhile, has gotten tough on
illegal immigration by firing his landscaping company, which employed
undocumented workers, making Romney a pioata for theanti-immigrant swipes of
other candidates. Romney would cut federal funding to "sanctuary cities,"  those
with police departments instructed not to ask people about their immigration
status. Never mind that immigration enforcement is a federal duty and that the
police have other work to do.

Not to be outdone, former senator Fred Thompson of Tennessee advocates
enforcement-only tactics that he says would prompt illegal immigrants to leave
or be deported. He calls it "attrition through enforcement."

Former New York mayor Rudy Giuliani has used some of the harshest rhetoric in
debates, but he has a more nuanced and practical approach toward immigration, as
does Sen. John McCain of Arizona.

Giuliani is the only one of the leading Republican candidates who still promotes
a path to legal status for some of those here illegally. Opponents deride this
as amnesty, but, like the plan President Bush attempted to push though earlier
this year, it would carry a long and difficult list of requirements. This type
of approach is the only practical way of reducing the numbers of illegal
immigrants, who are unlikely to return home voluntarily or be rounded up and
deported.

McCain has put on hold his support for Bush's plan, which would have combined
border enforcement with a path to citizenship and guest-worker program. But the
senator still approaches the topic with a more deferential tone and worries that
his party could be doing itself great harm, as indeed it is.

Karl Rove, the architect of Bush's victories in 2000 and 2004, saw immigration
reform and Hispanics as key elements of his effort to craft a lasting GOP
majority. On the other side of the political divide, many Democrats see the
potential for Hispanic voters to contribute to an era of their party's
ascendency.

Hispanic voters, of course, are no monolith. They originate from more than a
dozen countries and have diverse views about immigration and other issues.

But if the Republicans' harsh pre-primary rhetoric backfires on them next
November in Florida and other battleground states, they will have only
themselves to blame.

This is the third in a series of editorials examining the leading presidential
candidates' positions on major issues. To view the previous editorials -- the
Republicans on global warming and the Democrats on budget balancing -- go to
blogs.usatoday.com/oped/election_2008_editorial/index.html.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Alejandro Gonzalez, USA TODAY, Source: New Democrat
Network, from exit polls (BAR GRAPH)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              396 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Faithful find controversy within ranks

BYLINE: Cathy Lynn Grossman

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 11D

LENGTH: 592 words


In 2007, believers took their principles into the streets and the political
arena. And sometimes, they found themselves opposing fellow believers. USA
TODAY's Cathy Lynn Grossman recaps key events and controversies:

Immigration: Catholic and mainline Protestant groups pushed for comprehensive
immigration reform and a path to citizenship for the estimated 12 million
undocumented immigrants in the USA. More than 50 churches from Los Angeles to
New York offer housing and help for immigrants. But others stressed border
security. The Christian Coalition, citing Deuteronomy 27:17, says it's a sin "to
ignore or disrespect national boundaries."

Protests: Buddhist monks prompted the largest pro-democracy protests since 1988
in Burma, also known as Myanmar, when they marched in September to protest
economic hardships imposed by the ruling military junta. The government's
response was brutal. At least 10 were killed and thousands beaten and arrested.
Despite worldwide condemnation, the junta has not budged.

Latin Masses: Catholic traditionalists rejoiced in October when Pope Benedict
XVI made the 1962 Latin (Tridentine) Mass more readily available. Until then,
priests needed advance permission from their bishop to offer it. Catholics
primarily have said the Mass in their local languages since the 1960s reforms by
the Second Vatican Council. Benedict called the change a move toward
"reconciliation and unity."

Politics: Democrats, stung by signs in 2004 of a "God gap" between its
candidates and religious voters, encouraged candidates to speak about faith.
Hillary Clinton and John Edwards (both United Methodists) and Barack Obama
(United Church of Christ) pumped up their God-talk with an emphasis on social
justice. Republican front-runners Mitt Romney, a Mormon who says Jesus is his
savior, and Mike Huckabee, an ordained Southern Baptist preacher, duked it out
over who is truly Christian. Catholic bishops published a guide to "responsible
citizenship" but noted none of the five Catholic candidates hews to pro-life
teachings.

Evangelical disputes: Focus on the Family's James C. Dobson, an influential
conservative evangelical, called for firing the leadership of the
30-million-member National Association of Evangelicals and asked the group to
cease campaigning for environmental causes. The Rev. Richard Cizik, the
association's vice president for government relations, countered "creation care"
is just as critical to a biblical life as opposing abortion or seeking social
justice. By fall, evangelical leaders were all over the map in endorsing
candidates they said share their moral priorities.

Anglican disarray: Cracks widened between conservatives in the Anglican
Communion, the world's third-largest Christian denomination, and its U.S branch,
the Episcopal Church, over homosexuality and whether the Communion can include
opposing views. In February, the presiding bishops of the Communion's national
and regional churches met in Africa and issued a vague threat that the Episcopal
Church needed to change course by October. Nothing happened. By May,
conservative archbishops in Africa and South America began ordaining their own
bishops in the USA in violation of Anglican tradition. But Archbishop of
Canterbury Rowan Williams, head of the Communion, has been unable to halt the
fractures. This month for the first time, the entire Diocese  of San Joaquin in
Fresno, Calif., seceded from the Episcopal Church. In Virginia, several
historic, wealthy parishes that quit last year are in court fighting for control
of properties.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Vincenzo Pinto, AFP/Getty Images
PHOTO, B/W, Judi Bottoni, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              397 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 17, 2008 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Group starts effort to 'Draft Lou Dobbs'

BYLINE: Mark Memmott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 400 words


Add "Draft Lou Dobbs" to the efforts by independents to bring another candidate
into the presidential race. The movement was launched Wednesday by a group
called Americans for Legal Immigration. In a press release, it praised the CNN
host for "his tough stance on border security and curbing illegal immigration."
William Gheen, who heads the organization and its political action committee,
said in the release that Dobbs "could run and win because he could easily raise
the funds and grass-roots support he needs to be a historic and viable candidate
quickly."

Would Dobbs do it? "I cannot say never," he told The Wall Street Journal this
month when it asked about whether he would consider a White House run.

His fans have started the loudobbsforpresident.org website. On Tuesday, a "Draft
Bloomberg" effort was launched by admirers of New York City Mayor Michael
Bloomberg. Its website is draftbloomberg.com.

Not-so-ringing endorsement for Obama

When the Las Vegas Review-Journal's editorial board told its Democratic readers
Wednesday that they should support Sen. Barack Obama in Saturday's Nevada
presidential caucuses, it made no attempt to hide its conservative leanings.
After some highly critical paragraphs about Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton and one
line about John Edwards, the Review-Journal wrote:

"Sen. Obama is a relatively young man with relatively little of the kind of
real-world experience that prepares a candidate to stand firm against urgent
advice to, say, bomb some remote population of defenseless civilians to 'send a
message,' or plunge the economy into a dark night of unforeseen consequences by
crippling the free market in the name of 'fighting greed.' But Barack Obama is,
at least, likeable. He is a good enough orator that there is no need to cringe
when he dares to speak off the cuff."

The candidates' plans

Here's where some of the major presidential contenders will be today:

*Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton, D-N.Y.: Los Angeles and Santa Barbara, Calif.

*Democrat John Edwards: Henderson, Nev.; Los Angeles.

*Republican Rudy Giuliani: Fort Walton Beach, Destin and Tallahassee, Fla.

*Republican Mike Huckabee: Clemson, S.C.

*Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz.: South West Aiken, S.C.

*Sen. Barack Obama, D-Ill.: San Francisco; Las Vegas.

*Rep. Ron Paul, R-Texas: Fort Mill and Rock Hill, S.C.

*Republican Mitt Romney: Pauline and Greenville, S.C.

*Republican Fred Thompson: South Carolina.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Saul Loeb, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              398 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 18, 2008 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Citizenship applications caught in backlog;
Some immigrants may be unable to vote in elections

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 456 words


WASHINGTON -- The head of the nation's immigration agency faced tough questions
in Congress on Thursday about a backlog in citizenship applications that may
keep thousands of people from voting in the presidential election.

Last year, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) received almost 1.4
million citizenship applications, nearly double the number received the previous
year.

USCIS Director Emilio Gonzalez told a House immigration subcommittee that
applications submitted after June 1 may take up to 18 months to process,
compared with the previous average of seven months.

"It sounds like immigrants have had more success with third-world countries'
immigration services," said Rep. Louie Gohmert, R-Texas.

Activists decried the delay.

"The vast majority of people actually submitted applications because they want
to vote. They've seen all of these attacks on immigrants, which is driving a lot
of the interest," says Eliseo Medina of the Service Employees International
Union, which helped run a campaign last year to get eligible immigrants to
apply. "Now, we have the possibility that they're not going to be able to vote
or participate because of all this bureaucratic bungling."

Gonzalez called the surge of applications "unprecedented" and said it was
spurred partly by a rush of immigrants trying to beat higher application fees
that took effect July 30. On average, fees for citizenship, permanent resident
status and other applications went up 66%. The citizenship application fee
jumped to $675 from $400.

More immigrants than anticipated applied, Gonzalez said. Other factors, he said:
FBI background checks slow the process and there was an increase in other types
of applications, such as to become legal permanent residents.

Members of Congress said he should have been better prepared. "Every time
there's a fee increase, there's a bump in applications," said Rep. John Conyers,
D-Mich. "You don't have to take Statistics 101 to figure that out."

Gonzalez said he is hiring more employees, bringing back retirees and
computerizing agency's paper-based system, but he said the agency must be
careful not to speed processing too much.

"We will not compromise the interest of national security in the name of
productivity," he said.

Sandra Flores, 26, of Houston, applied for citizenship in July, motivated by an
increase in government raids on illegal immigrants and laws addressing
immigration. Even though she is a legal permanent resident from Mexico, she says
becoming a citizen will make her feel more secure and allow her to vote her
beliefs.

"I want a say in the future of the country," she says. "When I applied in July,
I thought I was going to be able to vote. Now, they're taking so long, I'm
concerned."

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Adrienne Lewis, USA TODAY, Source: Citizenship and
Immigration Service (Line graph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              399 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 25, 2008 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

USA's southern borders could benefit from tighter rules, too

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 398 words


Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff is enforcing new border-crossing
rules at the United States' northern borders ("U.S. tightens ID rules at
borders," News, Jan. 18).

The list of restrictions and acceptable IDs to prove citizenship is impressive.

I'm sure Canada hasn't been pleased with the U.S. government's lax security and
inability to control illegal entry into the USA. Now that Homeland Security can
produce a feasible security plan, it should also tighten the USA's southern
borders.

Norell Bahrs

Newport, N.C.

Withhold blame

I feel profound sadness that immigrants have become our scapegoats. I am an
immigrant who grew up during World War II in Germany.

I deeply feel that what is happening now in our country is wrong. Are we going
to blame immigrants for whatever economic or other ills the U.S. government
can't seem to resolve?

When I was living in Los Angeles, I had household help from a woman who has
spent 14 years trying to get through the system so she can go back home to El
Salvador to see her daughter. Her daughter was 3 years old the last time they
saw each other.

When all this hullabaloo about immigration started, she would tell me about the
increased anxiety within her Latino community, about people afraid of visiting
doctors, being scammed or cheated and reluctant to go to the authorities.

I'm sure building a border wall, as Berlin did, or passing strict immigration
laws aren't going to do anything except to further incite hatred and prejudice.
Such punitive solutions only intensify the paralyzing fear among the people whom
America desperately needs for jobs that help our economy.

After all, weren't all of us, except our Native Americans, initially immigrants
to this continent?

Are our leaders creative, intelligent and caring enough to find a solution that
will be good for all the people living in and contributing to this country?

Christa Metzger

Arapahoe, N.C.

Give and take

In light of recent debates about immigration, it is important to remember that
ongoing immigration is vital to the USA's best interests.

That said, the U.S. government's collective failure to enforce existing laws
will give rise to dire economic conditions, which will cause undue hardship upon
the United States.

Illegal immigrants shouldn't have access to government benefits, but they should
be treated humanely in accordance with U.S. laws.

William A. Ray

San Benito, Texas

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Ted S. Warren, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              400 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           February 12, 2008 Tuesday
                                 CHASE EDITION

U.S. growth spurt seen by 2050;
Projected rise in population driven by immigration

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 518 words


The U.S. population will soar to 438 million by 2050, and the Hispanic
population will triple, according to projections released Monday by the Pew
Research Center.

The latest projections by the non-partisan research group are higher than
government estimates to date and paint a portrait of an America dramatically
different from today's.

The projected growth in the U.S. population -- 303 million today -- will be
driven primarily by immigration.

"We're assuming that the rate of immigration will stay roughly constant," says
Jeffrey Passel, co-author of the report.

Even if immigration is limited, Hispanics' share of the population will increase
because they have higher birth rates than the overall population. That's largely
because Hispanic immigrants are younger than the nation's aging baby boom
population. By 2030, all 79 million boomers will be at least 65 and the number
of elderly will grow faster than any other age group.

The projections show that by 2050:

*Nearly one in five Americans will have been born outside the USA, compared with
one in eight in 2005. Sometime between 2020 and 2025, the percentage of
foreign-born will surpass the historic peak reached a century ago during the
last big immigration wave. New immigrants and their children and grandchildren
born in the USA will account for 82% of the population increase from 2005 to
2050.

*Whites who are not Hispanic, now two-thirds of the population, will drop to
47%, making them a minority.. They made up 85% of the population in 1960.

*Hispanics, already the largest minority group, will more than double their
share of the population to 29%.

*People 65 and older will increase to 19% from 12% of the population, while
those 18-64 will decline to 58% from 63%.

*The gap between the number of working-age people and the children and seniors
who depend on them will widen as boomers age. There will be 72 young and elderly
for every 100 people of working age by 2050, up from 59 in 2005.

The projections are based on detailed assumptions about births, deaths and
immigration levels based on trends, which can change. For example, a new
immigration policy could substantially limit the growth.

"Immigration has long-term consequences on the makeup of the country and the
size of the population, and we need to take those results into account when we
make immigration policy," says Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center
for Immigration Studies, a group that promotes limits on immigration.

"Growing our population by 100 million more than we would otherwise is a choice.
Immigration is a choice. ... It's all up to us," Krikorian says.

The nation's ethnic and racial profile has changed because of intermarriage.
It's not clear what the children and grandchildren of multiracial and
multiethnic unions will call themselves in the future.

"We've assumed that the definitions and categories being used today will
continue to be used in the next 50 years," Passel says. "Fifty years ago, we
didn't have the definition for the Hispanic population."

Adds Krikorian: "Will that category of who's white be redefined? What is a
non-Hispanic white?"

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: Pew Research Center (Bar
graph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              401 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          February 13, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Europe wants visitors printed;
Fingerprinting for entry, exit proposed

BYLINE: Jeffrey Stinson

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 468 words


LONDON -- Americans and other foreigners entering and leaving Europe would be
fingerprinted under a proposal to combat terrorism, organized crime and illegal
immigration to be unveiled today.

The proposal is to be laid out in detail in Brussels by Franco Frattini, the
European Commission's vice president in charge of justice and security. It would
apply to tourists or business travelers visiting Europe for up to six months, as
well as those staying longer on a visa for work or study.

The U.S. government already requires foreigners who need a visa to travel to the
USA to provide fingerprints.

The European proposal follows calls from many European ministers to tighten
security and improve information sharing following the alleged plot to blow up
passenger jets flying from London's Heathrow airport to the USA. On Aug. 10,
2006, British police said they foiled that plot.

The proposal must be approved by the European Parliament before it could take
effect, and it could take a year or longer before it could be implemented.

Taking digital fingerprints would allow security authorities to help check
travelers' identities against lists of suspected terrorists and criminals, said
Friso Roscam Abbing,  Fratini's spokesman.

He said it also would be a key element of a major undertaking to identify who is
entering the 27-nation European Union and help guarantee they don't overstay
their welcome. Illegal immigration is a growing concern across Europe.

"We have 150 million entries and 150 million exits a year, and we have no
information on them," Roscam Abbing said.

Roscam Abbing said the collection of biometric information on travelers could be
extended to taking digital photographs and iris scans of visitors' eyes and
putting the information into a Europe-wide database.

That information also could be used to ease travelers' border crossings in a
"fast-track" fashion as they travel from one European country to another once
they arrive in the EU bloc, he said.

Some privacy groups already were expressing concerns about the proposal. "It's
boys with toys. They want to have the toys the Americans have," Gus Hosein of
the group Privacy International told Reuters.

Russ Knocke, spokesman for the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, said the
U.S. government supports the concept and was waiting to see the details from the
European Commission, which is the EU's executive branch.

The EU proposal comes as Homeland Security is moving ahead with plans to tighten
entry requirements for travelers from Europe, where citizens of 15 of the 27 EU
nations can visit the USA for up to 90 days without a visa.

Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff told the BBC last month that he has
become increasingly concerned over "the possibility of Europe becoming a
platform for a threat against the United States."

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Christophe Ena, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              402 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 22, 2008 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigrants sue to speed citizenship;
Residents tired of long delays in background checks turn to courts to remove
barriers

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 885 words


Mohammad Barikbin came to the USA in 1988 and says he has spent every day since
then fulfilling the American dream.

The Iranian immigrant started a catering business in Philadelphia, then a taxi
company and a taxi call center, all while investing in real estate.

His 26-year-old son, Mehrdad, is a Marine. His 16-year-old son, Bijan, plays
high school football.

There's a critical piece missing from Barikbin's American dream: He's not an
American yet.

Barikbin, 57, is a legal permanent resident, known as a "green card" holder. He
is among nearly 68,000 legal immigrants whose citizenship applications have been
stalled for six months or more by an FBI background check of their names. Some
have been waiting for years with little or no information about the status of
their applications or the reasons for the delay.

"I'm like a man with no country," he says. "I feel American, but the government
is not identifying me that way."

He says he has no idea what is delaying his name check but suspects it's because
he's from Iran, which is accused of sponsoring terrorism.

Barikbin, whose application has been pending for 3 1/2 years, has joined a surge
of immigrants turning to the courts to force U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services (USCIS) to complete their background checks and act on their
applications. The background check involves running an applicant's name through
terrorism and crime watch lists.

In 2005, about 270 lawsuits filed against USCIS were over delayed name checks,
USCIS spokesman Chris Bentley says. Last year, there were more than 4,400 such
suits.

"People realized the only way they were going to get their names cleared was to
file litigation," says Crystal Williams of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association. "We've never seen the volume we're seeing now."

Most of the lawsuits are still pending, she says.

Delays 'unacceptable'

U.S. District Judge Michael Baylson consolidated Barikbin's lawsuit with those
of five other citizenship applicants. On Feb.8, he called the delays
"unacceptable," ordered USCIS to draft regulations for its name-check process or
stop using it, and gave the agency 30 days to tell the immigrants why their
cases have been delayed.

"Plaintiffs have experienced delays of many months to several years, incurred
substantial expenses and lived with the resulting uncertainty in their personal
and professional lives, and immeasurable impact on their families," Baylson
wrote.

He said the name-check delays pose "an increased risk to national security"
because applicants remain in the country for months or years while awaiting the
results.

USCIS contracts with the FBI to do the name checks. There is a separate
fingerprint search through criminal files.

Bentley says 99% of the checks are done in less than six months. Eventually "a
very high percentage" of the remaining 1% are cleared, he says.

FBI spokesman Bill Carter says the backlog stems from late 2002, when USCIS sent
the names of more than 2.7 million immigrants to the FBI for a second, more
thorough check. "That was from an abundance of caution after 9/11," he says.

The first step is to run an applicant's name through computerized FBI databases,
Carter says. If the name matches one in an FBI case file, an employee must
investigate, which may involve searches of paper files "in any number of
places," he says. "There are more than 265 FBI facilities that could house
information. ... We have to remember the national security of this country is at
stake."

Applicants with common names or names with various spellings, such as Mohammad
or Sean, are more likely to generate hits.

Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-Calif., says she plans to question FBI officials about the
delays at a hearing next month. She wants USCIS to use some of the money from a
recent increase in application fees to hire more name checkers.

Some policy changes

USCIS officials say they're taking steps to speed the process, such as nearly
quadrupling last year's $7.9 million budget. Carter says the FBI will use the
money to automate paper files and add 111 workers to the 150 already checking
names.

For people seeking green cards, not citizenship, the agency has changed its
policy. Those whose name checks have been pending for more than six months will
be accepted as long as they meet all other requirements. If a name then came
back linked to crime or terrorism, the Department of Homeland Security would
revoke the green card and begin deportation proceedings.

That doesn't help Barikbin. He fled Iran in 1982 to escape political turmoil and
spent five years in Germany before entering the USA with his wife, Fery, and son
Mehrdad.

They became legal permanent residents in 1999 and applied for citizenship in
2004. Mehrdad became a citizen a year later; Fery won her citizenship last year
after the couple sued.

Because he's not a citizen, Barikbin doesn't have a passport. He could request
permission to travel overseas and try to get a visa from another country, but he
hasn't done that because friends with green cards have tried and failed, he
says.  He hasn't seen most of his relatives in 26 years, including his mother,
who died in December.

Although he says he has been treated "unfairly," Barikbin eagerly awaits the
benefits of citizenship, such as voting.

"Whatever I can do for this country," he says, "I am ready to do it."

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services (Line graph)
PHOTO, B/W, Eileen Blass, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              403 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           February 26, 2008 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 FINAL EDITION

Across the USA;
News from every state

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 3033 words


Alabama:

Montgomery -- Twinkle Andress Cavanaugh, the first woman to lead the Alabama
Republican Party, announced her candidacy for president of the state Public
Service Commission. And Lucy Baxley, who was Alabama's first female lieutenant
governor, said she'll file qualifying papers to run for the post as a Democrat.
No men have entered the race yet.

Alaska: Wasilla -- Three gold mining companies helped the state's ailing dairy
industry with the purchase of $75,000 worth of cheese. NovaGold Resources,
Barrick Gold Corp. and Fairbanks Gold Mining Inc. each wrote a check for $25,000
to the Alaska Farmers and Stockgrowers Inc. The group started selling cheese
futures as a way to generate income until a new dairy can start buying milk.

Arizona: Phoenix -- Even with tougher enforcement of immigration laws, illegal
immigrants are not being charged with a disproportionate number of crimes in
Maricopa County. Ten percent of those booked into county jails are subject to
being turned over to immigration officials, the sheriff's office says. That
corresponds closely to the estimated percentage of illegal immigrants in the
county.

Arkansas: Mountain View -- The oldest part of Stone County Medical Center will
have to be torn down due to tornado damage, officials say. The county's only
hospital has hobbled along since a tornado tore through three weeks ago.
Patients are being seen on an emergency basis, out of what was a new surgery
center.

California: Gustine -- The police chief in this small town is on paid
administrative leave after his SUV was seen weaving erratically and he failed a
field sobriety test. The California Highway Patrol says Kris Anderson was
arrested Sunday on Interstate 580. The case is under investigation.

Colorado: Leadville -- About 1,200 Leadville-area students got Monday off
because a natural gas leak in a school bus barn led to cancellation of classes.
Lake County School Superintendent Betty Bullock said drivers could not start
their buses for fear of triggering an explosion. The leak's cause wasn't known.

Connecticut: Waterbury -- Former Waterbury mayor Philip Giordano has hired a new
lawyer in a bid to have his federal conviction for sexually abusing two girls
thrown out. Giordano, serving a 37-year sentence, filed a motion in federal
court claiming his longtime attorney had been ineffective. Giordano has lost
previous appeals.

Delaware: Rehoboth Beach -- City officials are considering raising parking meter
rates from $1 to $2 per hour and raising the cost of parking permits. City
Councilman Paul Kuhns says that would help pay for parking machines that accept
credit cards. Critics worry the increases could drive away shoppers.

D.C.: The number of U.S. Park Police officers fell to a 20-year-low, according
to watchdog group Public Employees for Environmental Responsibility. The number
of sworn officers on the force was 576 at the end of January, the lowest level
since 1987. A recent government report on Park Police found inadequate security
at U.S. landmarks.

Florida: Indialantic -- Nine juvenile sea turtles are back in the waters off
Indialantic. The plate-size amphibians washed ashore in December with infections
caused by red tide. About 40 turtles died. The survivors were rehabilitated at
the Volusia Marine Science Center.

Georgia: Rome -- DaySpring Assembly of God Church is sending a refurbished
hearse to a town in Romania that church officials say has none. The 1987
vehicle, filled with medical supplies, is bound for Lupeni. The hearse was
donated by Henderson & Sons Funeral Home.

Hawaii: Wailuku -- Whale watchers counted a record 1,726 humpback whales off
Maui over the weekend. Volunteers at the annual count organized by the Pacific
Whale Foundation tally sightings from 12 shoreline observation stations. The
count broke the 2006 record for Maui of 1,265.

Idaho: Boise -- Farmers, environmentalists and state officials have agreed on a
proposed law and new rules to make field burning more acceptable by toughening
air quality standards and adding safeguards near schools. For decades, northern
Idaho bluegrass growers burned fields each fall, but in 2007 a federal appeals
court ruled the level of burning violated U.S. law.

Illinois: Chicago -- The state's Judicial Inquiry Board filed a complaint
against McHenry County Circuit Judge Michael Chmiel, saying he should be
punished for helping a political ally's brother get out of jail early. Chmiel
granted a hearing that allowed the man to post bail and be home for Father's
Day. The judge told the board the man was entitled to a bond hearing.

Indiana: Peru -- The Grissom Air Reserve Base will open to private airplanes in
March. Miami County Economic Development Authority board member James Tidd says
it's the first step toward making the base near Peru a regional airport. Grissom
is home to the 434th Air Refueling Wing.

Iowa: Des Moines -- More than 25 House members, hoping to cut clutter, have
chosen to go paperless and monitor bills and amendments on the Iowa
Legislature's website. Chief Clerk of the House Mark Brandsgard estimates the
House could save $30,000 a year by not printing the daily record of its
proceedings.

Kansas: Topeka -- Mothers of fallen soldiers could get special license plates
free under a bill that passed in the House by 119-0 and was sent to the Senate.
The bill would honor "gold star" mothers, whose children die on active military
duty. They would not have to pay the $40 fee that normally goes with getting a
specialized plate.

Kentucky: Georgetown -- An expected surge in air traffic for the 2010 FEI
Alltech World Equestrian Games has prompted a $4million expansion of the
Georgetown-Scott County Airport. Construction is expected to begin in a few
months and be completed before the 2010 games in neighboring Fayette County. The
project includes a new terminal building, officials say.

Louisiana: New Orleans -- The city's first black fire chief has died, officials
said. Warren McDaniels, who was 63, became the first black superintendent in
1993. He was a 33-year veteran and retired at the end of 2002. The New Orleans
Fire Department did not release a cause of death.

Maine: Machias -- A Down East sheriff ordered his deputies to cut ties with the
Maine Drug Enforcement Agency, saying state drug agents have engaged in
disturbing behavior. Washington County Sheriff Donnie Smith said a DVD he
obtained shows a drug agent flashing his badge, drinking a beer and driving off.
Smith says other scenes also warrant investigation by the drug agency.

Maryland: Ocean City -- Wicomico County State's Attorney Davis Ruark apologized
for his drunken driving arrest, saying he made "a tremendous error in judgment."
He said he has no plans to resign. Officers began following Ruark on Coastal
Highway on Friday night after getting a 911 call about someone driving
erratically. Police say he was speeding and crossing the center line.

Massachusetts: Waltham -- State health officials say about 200 Bentley College
students have been given preventive antibiotics after the second case of
bacterial meningitis at the school in recent months. The infected student was
put in the intensive care unit of a Boston hospital. An 18-year-old Bentley
freshman died after contracting bacterial meningitis in October.

Michigan: Lansing -- A special division created by state Attorney General Mike
Cox in 2003 has collected more than $50million in previously unpaid child
support. The division goes after fathers who can afford to pay child support but
don't.

Minnesota: St. Paul -- Police adopted new guidelines for investigating protest
groups. The policy would require "reasonable suspicion" that the groups might be
planning illegal acts. Some civil liberties advocates say the policy lays
groundwork to infiltrate groups during the Republican National Convention in
September. The police say the change just rewrites department policy.

Mississippi: Jackson -- Attorney General Jim Hood's office is offering domestic
violence training to law enforcement officers this week. The training at the
Jackson Police Department Training Academy will cover dynamics of domestic
violence, state laws and officer responsibilities.

Missouri: Columbia -- A third Democrat announced she is seeking to replace Kenny
Hulshof in the 9th Congressional District. State Rep. Judy Baker is an adjunct
professor at Columbia College and helps run a health care consulting firm.
Former House speaker Steve Gaw and Marion County Presiding Commissioner Lyndon
Bode are also in the Democratic race.

Montana: Glasgow -- An information officer for the Montana Department of Fish,
Wildlife and Parks has resigned to become the hunting editor for Outdoor Life
magazine. Andrew McKean of Glasgow is taking over the position held by Jim Zumbo
of Cody, Wyo., who resigned a year ago after he sparked criticism for referring
to assault rifles as terrorist weapons.

Nebraska: Grand Island -- Michael Van Boening, 23, tacked on his fourth driving
under the influence arrest in five weeks. He was taken into custody during the
weekend by a state trooper near Interstate 80. A York County sheriff's
spokeswoman says Van Boening has yet to be prosecuted on the other charges filed
since Jan. 20.

Nevada: Las Vegas -- Clark County court officials are working to release 16
years of records that administrators say should not have been sealed. The effort
follows a Nevada Supreme Court ruling that stopped judges from sealing entire
lawsuits. The Las Vegas Review-Journal reported last year that judges were
sometimes sealing cases for wealthy or influential individuals, groups or
companies.

New Hampshire: Durham -- Former governor Walter Peterson, 85, and his
21-year-old granddaughter, Anna Peterson, both sit on the University System of
New Hampshire board of trustees. She is a senior at the University of New
Hampshire and won the post last year, one of two student slots. Peterson notes
that a law passed when he was governor (1969-1973) created the office of student
trustee.

New Jersey: Secaucus -- Truck drivers using GPS devices and online directions to
reach an industrial section of Secaucus are reaching only a road block on Fifth
Street. The electronic maps don't show a closed gate that separates the
residential and industrial areas. The mayor says residents started complaining
of trucks clogging the street as electronic maps increased in popularity.

New Mexico: Albuquerque -- Bankruptcies in the state increased by more than a
third in 2007 over the year before, but came nowhere close to the 2005 figure.
That was before a federal law made filing for bankruptcy more complicated and
expensive. In 2007, 3,402 bankruptcies were filed in New Mexico, up from 2,519.
In 2005, 12,424 bankruptcies were filed.

New York: Syracuse -- A high school student admitted distributing nude photos of
underage female students over the Internet. Michael Wixson, 17, pleaded guilty
to possessing a sexual performance by a child. A state judge promised Wixson no
more than five years probation. School officials say nine girls, ages 11 to 14,
took the photos in 2006 using digital and cellphone cameras.

North Carolina: Raleigh -- A state House ethics panel plans to hold an
investigative hearing on Rep. Thomas Wright after a judge agreed to delay his
upcoming criminal trial. The panel is considering whether Wright acted
inappropriately as a sitting legislator. Wright faces fraud and obstruction
charges for his handling of more than $350,000 in campaign donations, loans and
charitable money.

North Dakota: Bismarck -- Since the Legislature set aside money last year to pay
for medical examinations of rape victims, hospitals and clinics in North Dakota
have billed for 57 exams at a total cost of about $26,000, statistics show.
Lawmakers made it illegal for victims to be billed directly or through their
health insurance coverage, thereby ensuring privacy and encouraging reporting.

Ohio: Cincinnati -- Mayor Mark Mallory says proposed streetcar routes linking
downtown with nearby neighborhoods would give the city an economic boost. A
majority of council members have expressed doubts about the cars, which are
powered by overhead electrical wires. They supported a resolution that would put
the plan on hold while they examined the project's finances.

Oklahoma: Oklahoma City -- A spokesman for AAA, the state's largest travel
association, urged the Legislature to respond to what he called a public safety
crisis caused by deteriorating roads and bridges in Oklahoma. Failure of
lawmakers to keep their commitment on highway spending will lead to the loss of
$127million in scheduled repair and construction projects, AAA's Chuck Mai said.

Oregon: Salem -- With two weeks until the filing deadline, Oregon Republicans
have a candidate for one of three statewide offices open this year. TV newsman
Rick Dancer announced he has quit his job as evening anchor at a Eugene station
to run for secretary of state. Four state senators are seeking the Democratic
nod. A two-term limit applies to the office. Democratic incumbent Bill Bradbury
has reached the limit.

Pennsylvania: State College -- Penn State students raised more than $6.6million
for pediatric cancer research and care with their annual dance marathon. The 708
dancers went without sleeping or sitting for 46 hours from Friday evening to
Sunday afternoon in Bryce Jordan Center. A spokesman said the total raised from
sponsors was almost $1.4million more than last year.

Rhode Island: Providence -- The state Supreme Court turned down a request from
seven Narragansett Indians to delay a trial for fighting with state police
during a raid on a tribal smoke shop in 2003. But the high court said it will
take up tribe members' appeal later this week to allow a computer expert to
scour state police computers for e-mails about the raid that might have been
deleted.

South Carolina: Columbia -- The state Supreme Court said a man sentenced to die
for killing his girlfriend and assaulting her teenage daughter three years ago
should not get a new trial. Attorneys for Stephen Stanko, 40, had argued that
his trial was unfair because lawyers were barred from asking potential jurors
what they thought about someone using an insanity defense.

South Dakota: Pierre -- Lawmakers believe the federal economic stimulus package,
along with strong farm prices, will soften the blow to South Dakota of a weaker
economy. The Legislature's budget committee decided state revenue in the next
budget year will be $11million more than the governor's economists expect.
Lawmakers will use the higher number in writing a state budget.

Tennessee: Cleveland -- A campaign has started to restore the last home of the
Cherokee Nation's chief before he and thousands in his tribe were forced in 1838
to move to Oklahoma in what became known as the Trail of Tears. Michael Willis
of Bradley County has begun a public awareness project to restore the one-room
log cabin in Cleveland that belonged to Cherokee Chief John Ross.

Texas: Houston -- The U.S. Supreme Court threw a lifeline to a Texas death row
inmate condemned for a robbery 15 years ago at a suburban Dallas sporting goods
store where two workers were fatally bludgeoned with a hammer. Joseph Lave's
case was sent back to the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals for more review after
his lawyers argued Lave's trial attorneys weren't able to cross-examine a
co-defendant.

Utah: Salt Lake City -- Utahans might get a chance to cast a ballot for a Romney
this fall after all. Josh Romney, son of former GOP presidential contender Mitt
Romney, said he has been approached about running for Congress against incumbent
Democratic Rep. Jim Matheson. The son said he has not ruled out the possibility
but is taking a break from the campaign trail.

Vermont: Montpelier -- Lawmakers are considering legislation that would spell
out who owns the state's groundwater. The move comes in the face of a growing
bottled-water industry that is raising concerns in some communities about
privatization of a key resource. The town of East Montpelier is to vote next
week on a moratorium on groundwater extractions until a state law is passed.

Virginia: Richmond -- A legislative committee killed a Senate-passed bill that
would have boosted gasoline taxes by a nickel per gallon over five years. The
House Finance Committee tabled the measure, intended to generate cash for the
state's highway system. The sponsor, Sen. Richard Saslaw, warned that the
soaring costs of road repairs will use all road-construction funds in seven
years.

Washington: Seattle -- Microsoft millionaire Ric Weiland, who died in 2006 at
age 53, left about $160million to charities, including $65million to the Pride
Foundation for work on gay rights and HIV prevention, and $60million to Stanford
University. He left more than $3million to Lakeside School in Seattle where he
met Bill Gates.

West Virginia:

Charleston -- Lawmakers are asking taxpayers for more money to triple per diem
payments to $150 for the House speaker and Senate president, and double such
payments to $50 for party leaders in each chamber. The proposal would raise
travel pay to $131 per day, up from $115. Lawmakers make $15,000 a year; their
last pay raise was in 1994.

Wisconsin: Wausau -- Snowmobile crashes on trails have killed 24 riders so far
this winter, up 40% from a year ago, but fewer than might be expected given
heavy snowfall this winter, a state safety expert said. Gary Eddy, of the
Department of Natural Resources, credited a 55 mph nighttime speed limit on
trails for keeping deaths down.

Wyoming: Cheyenne -- The state Supreme Court ruled that the husband of a nurse
killed in 2004 at the Wyoming Honor Farm can't pursue a wrongful death lawsuit
against the state. The court held that the Corrections Department has immunity
against the claims in the lawsuit filed by Leonard Watts. Tammy Watts, 39, was
strangled and struck on the head by an inmate in 2004.

U.S. territory: Puerto Rico -- Caguas Bishop Ruben Antonio Gonzalez, leader of
the commonwealth island's Episcopal Conference, called for a settlement between
the teacher's union and the territory's government. A strike by public school
teachers, after a breakdown in talks, was in its third day Monday.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 28, 2008



CORRECTION: The Florida brief in Tuesday's Across the USA misclassified the sea
turtle. It is a reptile. The information was provided by the Associated Press.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              404 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 4, 2008 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

For more immigrants, suburbia's a nice fit;
Economically and culturally, newcomers in the USA are 'flourishing more rapidly'

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2082 words


KISSIMMEE, Fla. -- Twice, Nancy Cadavid left her native Colombia to live in the
USA. Twice, she settled in cities that have long attracted large numbers of
immigrants -- New York first, Miami second.

Now that she's here to stay, Cadavid, 44, has chosen to live far from the large
cities that have been traditional immigrant gateways. She works two jobs and
owns a house here in central Florida, near Orlando and Disney World. Her
daughter graduated from Florida State University and works in advertising in
Tampa. Her son attends community college and works part time at Disney.

Cadavid's tale is more than an immigrant success story. It reflects the path
that immigrants increasingly are taking after they first enter the country --
legally or illegally. Her moves eventually landed Cadavid -- now a U.S. citizen
-- in a suburban county, well ensconced in middle-class America.

The movement of the foreign-born after they arrive sheds light on a key issue in
the national immigration dialogue: How quickly immigrants assimilate into
American culture and progress from a transient population to one that pays
taxes, achieves homeownership and becomes largely self-sufficient.

Traditionally, newcomers settled in urban enclaves teeming with immigrants who
shared their language and culture. They didn't spread out much until their
children grew up and moved away.

That's still the case in some urban areas.

However, a growing number of immigrants are settling in suburbia as soon as they
arrive, adding diversity to once largely homogeneous areas -- and sometimes
triggering tension among residents who are jarred by the impact of immigrants on
their neighborhoods.

Other immigrants are moving to places that haven't seen immigrants in almost 100
years, such as rural counties in the South and Midwest.

The newcomers' move to the suburbs is telling, analysts say. "A good portion of
the movement to outer suburbs within a region reflects a movement up the
(economic) ladder," says Audrey Singer, an immigration specialist at the
Brookings Institution.

Today, many "immigrants in America are pre-assimilated," adds Dowell Myers, a
demographer at the University of Southern California. "They know a lot about
America before they come, and many know English, also. ... Economically, they're
flourishing more rapidly now than they did at the turn of the (20th) century."

How quickly immigrants assimilate depends on what measure is used -- from
English-speaking skills and education to employment.

Homeownership is one of the most widely used characteristics of success. About
68% of immigrants who arrived in the 1970s are homeowners -- equal to the rate
of natives.

"Most people think of language and appearance as being assimilation," Myers
says. "But we often lose track of the fact that immigrants are upwardly mobile
economically and moving into homeownership at astounding rates."

Homeownership among Hispanic immigrants is about double that of low-income
immigrants of the past, he says.

"The fear that immigrants are assimilating more slowly is largely a mirage based
on the fact that we have more immigrants who have arrived recently and look
unassimilated," Myers says. "Many things they have achieved exceed immigration
in the old days."

"The ones who came in the '80s actually made faster progress than the ones who
came in the '70s, but not as fast as the ones who came in the '60s," says
Jeffrey Passel, demographer at the Pew Hispanic Center.

Progress varies depending on countries of origin and economic conditions in the
USA at the time. "I don't know that there's a handy-dandy measure that's
available," Passel says. "The point is, they're making progress."

About 12.5% of the population is foreign-born today, compared with just under
15% in the 1890s and early 1900s. The share is expected to surpass 15% in 2025
and reach 19% by 2050, according to the Pew Research Center.

Spreading out

More than 2% of the residents of Osceola County, where Cadavid lives, are
foreign-born and moved from somewhere else in the USA from 2005 to 2006. It's
one of the highest such rates in the nation, the Census Bureau says.

The places that have the highest move-in rates of foreign-born residents are
suburban, from the city of Alexandria and Prince William County in the Virginia
suburbs of Washington to Henry and Gwinnett counties near Atlanta and Riverside
County near Los Angeles.

Education levels were particularly high among immigrants who moved to some
states, says Mark Mather, deputy director of domestic programs at the Population
Reference Bureau. Three-quarters of the foreign-born who moved to Connecticut
from another state from 2005 to 2006 had a bachelor's degree or higher. The
state has major universities and financial centers that draw educated workers.

Moving -- and moving up -- are slices of the immigration story often lost in the
furor over illegal residents, day laborers packing strip-mall parking lots and
low-income families crowding apartments.

Immigrants typically make significant progress over time, says Steven Camarota,
director of research at the Center for Immigration Studies, a think tank that
supports limits on immigration. But even those who have been here for 20 years
are more likely than natives to be poor, lack insurance or use welfare.

"One thing that makes the public most dissatisfied about immigrants is that they
use a lot of services," Camarota says.

It took 60 years for poorly educated immigrants, such as the Italians who came
at the turn of the last century, to reach income and educational parity with
natives, he says. A century later, conditions have changed and comparisons are
difficult, Camarota says. "This is a much bigger group" of immigrants.

Douglas Massey, sociologist at Princeton University and editor of New Faces in
New Places: The Changing Geography of American Immigration, says immigrants are
"more mobile and ... moving into economic niches in the suburbs."

Hispanic immigrants have been fanning out across the nation for almost a decade.
The Hispanic population of southwest Kansas, the heart of the meatpacking
industry, has soared since the 1990s. Immigrants also arrived in rural parts of
the South, working in North Carolina's furniture plants, and in Delaware's
poultry processing industry.

Their arrivals in such rural areas sometimes have produced outcries for a
crackdown on illegal immigration. "When you go into a place like North Carolina
that hasn't had immigrants in 100 years and people speaking a different language
plop down in the middle of their society, it's unnerving to a lot of people,"
Massey says.

Immigrants, including many who entered the country illegally, also have flocked
to fast-growing suburbs to fill the need for construction workers, gardeners,
maids and other service workers. Such areas also have attracted more affluent,
highly educated immigrants who are engineers, doctors and lawyers.

"You have an industrial park with a bunch of programmers and engineers and a
bunch of them are foreign-born," Massey says. "Then you have the service staff,
and they're foreign-born, too."

Incomes vary widely

Immigration is part of the fabric in New Jersey, where almost one-third of the
residents were born outside the USA. Joe Gutierrez, a native of Lima, Peru, came
to the USA in 1986 when he was 26. He was a university student in his homeland
and worked in a bank's credit department. Here, he says, "I work in a restaurant
in the beginning, like everybody."

Gutierrez worked 10 years in restaurants, eventually becoming a manager. Then he
opened a delicatessen, sold it after seven years, got a real estate license and
went back to college. He lives in Paterson.

Gutierrez, 47, got a business degree and attends graduate school at Fairleigh
Dickinson University. He and his wife, Margaret, also Peruvian, have two sons.
They're all U.S. citizens.

He says the backlash against immigration is "a shame because people like me came
looking for a better life, a better job because in our country it's difficult.
Unfortunately, there's discrimination. We don't speak English well, we don't
know the customs here, but we are strong, and little by little we learn."

Emilio Fandino is executive director of The Hispanic Institute for Research and
Development in Paramus, N.J., a school that teaches English as a second
language. He says New Jersey's immigrants fit largely into two groups.

"You have the recently arrived who may be moving to these suburbs to obtain
jobs," he says. And "you have the assimilated upper-middle class moving in to
the suburbs because they're buying houses. ... You're starting to see a wide
range of socio-economic levels among the foreign-born."

Adds Fandino, a native of Argentina: "The concept of the ethnic ghetto is
starting to disappear."

Tension has been rising in some areas where newcomers are settling. Monday, a
law cracking down on illegal immigrants took effect in Virginia's Prince William
County. Police can check residency status even for people pulled over for minor
infractions, and some county services may be denied.

Other communities are more welcoming. Riverside County, east of Los Angeles, is
a haven for a growing Hispanic middle class.

"This sort of suburbanization is generally seen as a good thing," says Vanesa
Estrada, sociologist at the University of California-Riverside and a fellow at
RAND Corp., a think tank. "These sorts of patterns ... imply that these
immigrants are showing assimilation."

Little sign of a backlash

There has been little apparent tension between natives and immigrants here in
Osceola County.

Maybe it's because crowding is not an issue in a 1,321-square-mile county that
is still largely rural. Cows graze in open fields next to luxury resorts and
townhomes.

Or maybe it's because the county has had a large Hispanic presence for decades.
Puerto Ricans, who are not foreign-born, began settling here in the early 1980s
and are the largest Hispanic group in central Florida. Many were drawn here by
the warm weather.

Osceola is capitalizing on its proximity to Orlando and low cost of living. Its
population (244,045) grew more than 40% from 2000 to 2006. The county is more
than 38% Hispanic. In Kissimmee, Hispanics are the majority: 52%.

"I am unaware of any immigrant backlash," Richard Logue, program director of
Catholic Charities' Immigration & Refugee Services, writes in an e-mail. But
"with any community that experiences rapid growth, there are growing pains with
... education, transportation and law enforcement."

Rogelio Rodriguez, born in the Dominican Republic, came to the USA in 2003 on a
visitor's visa. He settled in Long Island, near friends and relatives. He
married Madeline Vega-Rodriguez, born in this country to a Dominican mother. He
now is a permanent resident.

Rogelio worked as a carpenter and obtained his real estate license. Madeline was
an X-ray technician. They quit in 2006 and moved here. "We wanted to be
self-employed as opposed to working for other people," says Madeline, 28. "There
were more opportunities and ... the (balmy) climate."

Rogelio, 27, and Madeline recently opened RG Printing, which does business
printing and website design. Rogelio still sells real estate.

Cadavid first came to the USA with her husband and daughter and became a
permanent resident thanks to her husband's legal status. Her son was born in
this country and she became a citizen. After a divorce, she returned to
Colombia. "I was upper-middle class," Cadavid says of her life in Colombia,
where she was a partner in an interior design company.

Political turmoil caused her return to the USA in 1999, two kids in tow. She
landed in Miami but found it too crowded. She knew no one in Kissimmee but found
work at a supermarket here, rented a house, found better jobs and bought the
house she shares with her son and a divorced cousin and her son. She works as a
clerk at a distribution center and as supervisor for an office cleaning company.

"I am middle class now," she says. "I love this place."

Communities that seem welcoming to immigrants may see more of them as other
jurisdictions pass laws denying jobs or driver's licenses to the undocumented.
Some immigrants have left states such as Arizona and Oklahoma because of laws
denying some public benefits to illegal immigrants.

"A lot of the political backlash against immigrants has been cultural," Myers
says. "In some people's eyes, (immigrants) can never assimilate. The real story
is that there is upward mobility among immigrants."

Contributing: Paul Overberg in McLean, Va.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Gary Bogdon for USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Gary Bogdon for USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              405 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 25, 2008 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Giving visas to skilled workers bolsters economy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 583 words


Next Monday marks the first day employers can apply for some of the 65,000
temporary  visas for highly skilled foreigners available for 2009. It may also
be the last day.

The available number of so-called H-1B visas, which last six years, has always
run short of demand. But last April, when applications for this year came in,
they exceeded the limit on the first day they were accepted.

Pause for a moment to consider the implications of this. A program many
high-tech companies consider crucial in filling their need for programmers,
engineers and such, is so oversubscribed that it is turning into a once-a-year
lottery. As Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates noted in recent congressional
testimony, that can mean rescinding job offers to top recruits who can't get in.

The H-1B problem is one part of the highly skilled labor shortage the USA faces.
So, too, is the lack of permanent visas for the best and brightest workers here
on temporary visas, such as the H-1B and student visas, that are about to
expire.

The problem is that too few Americans are going into scientific and technical
fields. Meanwhile, general unease about immigration and globalization is holding
up much-needed efforts to help U.S. companies that can't hire highly skilled
workers for want of a visa.

This makes it harder for U.S. high-tech companies to compete. It also shows the
effect the nation's anger and frustration over immigration and globalization can
have in areas critical to the nation's future.

According to a study by the National Foundation for American Policy, a think
tank on trade, immigration and education policy, the average high-tech company
has 470 openings it can't fill. Microsoft tops the list with more than 4,000.
Collectively the members of the Standard & Poor's 500 have 140,000 unfilled
openings for highly skilled workers.

It's impossible to look at these numbers and not see a problem. President Bush
and all three major presidential contenders see one and have expressed a desire
to increase the number of H-1Bs awarded. And yet the efforts to raise the H-1B
cap, as well as to provide more permanent visas to highly skilled workers, is
being thwarted in Washington by labor and anti-immigration groups.

What's needed is obvious. The H-1B program should be both expanded and
overhauled. Its critics rightly point out that it does not differentiate well
between truly high-skilled workers and those who are merely in high demand.
Valuable H-1B slots have gone to nurses' assistants, even chefs and models.

Beyond the H-1B program, more permanent visas need to be steered to highly
skilled people. The obvious place to start is the 30,000 on temporary visas who
get masters degrees, and 16,000 who get Ph.D.s, in science and engineering each
year from American universities. These are some of the most desirable hires on
the planet, and many have been financially supported by government and private
foundations. And yet once they get their degrees, they are told to go home.

Some of the most ardent opposition comes from labor groups. Building on a
hostility to immigration and globalization, they argue that employment-based
immigration displaces U.S. workers and depresses wages.

Perhaps this is true for some jobs, but the case is much harder to make in high
tech, where companies have vacancies they struggle for years to fill. It's also
hard to make the case that we should be driving away some of the best tech
talent in the world, effectively forcing those people to work for overseas
competitors.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Adrienne Lewis, USA TODAY, Source: Bureau of Labor
Statistics (BAR GRAPH)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              406 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 16, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Vatican aid to immigrants raises ire in USA;
Minutemen chief calls Mexican shelter 'sinful'

BYLINE: Chris Hawley and Sergio Solache

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 542 words


MEXICO CITY -- The Vatican donated at least $20,000 to build a shelter for
Central American immigrants traveling to the USA, angering immigration-control
advocates as Pope Benedict XVI begins his first official U.S. visit.

The Pontifical Commission for Latin America, which reports to the pope, sent the
money in January to help the Brothers on the Path charity construct a $120,000
shelter in Ixtepec in southern Mexico, the Vatican confirmed Tuesday.

Many Roman Catholic churches in the USA and Mexico have programs to aid
immigrants, but few receive direct support from the Vatican, said Alejandro
Solalinde, a priest and director of the project.

The donation comes at a delicate time, as the United States fortifies its
southern border and the number of Central Americans crossing illegally is high.
The area around Ixtepec is a major conduit for Central American migrants who
ride freight trains to the U.S. border.

Al Garza, executive director of the Minutemen Civil Defense Corps, based in
Scottsdale, Ariz., called the refuge "sinful."

"What they're really doing is saying, 'Look, even though the United States has
laws, we're going to help you break the laws to realize your dream,'" Garza
said.

Solalinde said the Brothers on the Path owns two warehouses and adjacent land
where it provides food, bathrooms and a place to rest for as many as 1,000
people a night.

He said the charity wants to build a better-equipped facility and has approached
Catholic charities in Mexico, Colombia and Germany for donations. In September,
the Diocese of Tehuantepec asked the Vatican for help.

In a letter dated Jan. 5, Cardinal Giovanni Battista, president of the
Pontifical Commission for Latin America, endorsed the project and sent a check.

"I ask for the maternal protection of our lady of Guadalupe for the successful
completion of this project," Battista wrote.

There was some confusion over the amount. Battista's letter pledged $20,000, but
Solalinde said the actual check was for $30,000.

Battista's office confirmed the donation Tuesday but did not say how much was
sent.

Immigration-control advocates called the refuge an affront to Americans worried
about people illegally crossing the border.

By funding the shelter, the Vatican was "undertaking policies that had the
effect of facilitating illegal immigration to this country," said Jack Martin of
the Federation for American Immigration Reform.

"There is definitely a particular interest on the part of the Catholic Church
that derives from the fact that the majority of illegal immigration into the
country is from Catholic countries," Martin said. "It helps fill the pews, it
helps fill the coffers, it helps fill the recruits to the priesthood."

Catholic officials defended the contribution as a humanitarian gesture.

"Any good deed of the Holy Father is deserving of praise," said a statement from
Luis Flores, a monsignor who directs Mexico's branch of Caritas Internationalis,
an umbrella group for Catholic charities.

Kevin Appleby, director of migration and refugee policy for the U.S. Conference
of Catholic Bishops, said, "The church's mission is to provide assistance to
people in need. We're not a law enforcement agency."

Hawley is Latin America correspondent for USA TODAY and The Arizona Republic

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, USA TODAY, Source: ESRI (Map)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              407 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 16, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigrants make pilgrimage to see church's leader;
Many hope to hear condemnation of deportations that separate families

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 619 words


Oanh Mary NguyenTa arrived in the USA with her husband and three children in
1975, on the last day of the Vietnam War.

She had fled partly because the Communist government did not allow her to
practice Catholicism, she says. In Sacramento, NguyenTa became an active member
of the Vietnamese Catholic Martyrs' Church.

On Friday, NguyenTa, 66, will take a red-eye flight to New York, where she plans
to attend Pope Benedict XVI's Mass on Sunday at Yankee Stadium.

"I will see the Irish. I will see the Mexicans. ... I'm going to see 60,000
people who speak different languages, who have different skin colors," she says.

"But the Catholic Church brings us together. The pope ... makes us connected."

Catholic immigrants are making the pilgrimage from around the country to see
Benedict, who arrived in Washington on Tuesday for his first visit here as pope.

For many, a Mass with the pope will be a momentous experience.

Some are eager for him to delve into immigration politics and speak out against
deportations and workplace raids targeting illegal immigrants. He said Tuesday
that he will discuss the issue with President Bush. He expressed particular
concern for families separated across borders.

"What happens with all these immigrants who have no papers?" asks Carmen Ortiz,
66, of Chicago. "It's been a hard time for them."

Ortiz, a U.S. citizen who came from Mexico 48 years ago, nabbed a ticket to the
Yankee Stadium Mass and will rent a van with nine other immigrants for the trip.
"Everybody's expecting that he will pray for us and talk about immigration for
us," she says.

A survey released in February by the Pew Forum on Religion & Public Life found
that 23% of Roman Catholics in this country are foreign-born. Of those, 82% are
from Latin America or the Caribbean.

Native-born Catholics are leaving the church faster than others are joining, but
the proportion of the population that identifies as Catholic has been stable for
30 years, largely because of immigration, says Luis Lugo, director of the group.
The survey found that 46% of immigrants are Catholic, compared with 21% of
natives.

Many of the pope's activities in the USA will reflect the diversity of the
Catholic population, says Kevin Appleby of the U.S. Conference of Catholic
Bishops.

At the public Masses at Washington's Nationals Park on Thursday and Yankee
Stadium, there will be readings in English and Spanish; some prayers will be in
other languages, including Korean, Tagalog and Vietnamese.

In Chicago, 44% of 2.3 million Catholics are immigrants, says Elena Segura,
director of the archdiocese's Catholic Campaign for Immigration Reform.

The church is a haven and support for immigrants, she says. Her department
teaches workshops on what to do if they are confronted by immigration officials,
for instance.

"The church is the first place they feel comfortable," Segura says.

In Virginia's Prince William County, illegal immigrants are worried about an
ordinance that allows police to check immigration status of all lawbreakers,
even those who are detained for traffic offenses.

Last week, some county immigrants facing deportation delivered a letter to the
papal ambassador in Washington. It asks the pope to speak for them, says Ricardo
Juarez of the immigrant-advocacy group Mexicans Without Borders.

"What we are requesting is for him to ask the federal government to stop these
immigration policies that are destroying and dividing families," Juarez says.

Bishop Thomas Wenski of Orlando notes that Benedict is a German immigrant who
has spent many years in Italy and has spoken out frequently about refugees.

"The pope can't change the laws of our country," Wenski says. "Hopefully he will
touch the hearts of many people in our country."

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              408 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 25, 2008 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Touchy issue of immigration is pols' touchstone;
Pa. congressional race reflects divisions crisscrossing party lines

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 802 words


HAZLETON, Pa. -- In a year when veteran House Republicans are rushing for the
exits rather than attempt re-election, Lou Barletta represents something of a
rarity: He's a Republican challenger who has a 24-year Democratic congressman
worried.

Barletta, mayor of this northeastern Pennsylvania city, made headlines last year
with efforts to drive out illegal immigrants, part of a wave of newcomers who
headed to the Poconos after the 9/11 attacks in New York City.

Barletta, 52, spearheaded an ordinance allowing the city to fine landlords who
rent to illegal immigrants and yank the business licenses of employers who hire
them. He lost a federal court case (now on appeal) but won nationwide publicity
and 90% of the vote in his re-election last November.

"I've been a voice for many people," Barletta said.

Now, he's running to unseat Rep. Paul Kanjorski, a 71-year-old Democrat in a
solidly Democratic district who is taking nothing for granted. Kanjorski has
raised more than $1million for his re-election bid, compared with $185,000 for
Barletta. The race is a case study on how immigration continues to divide and
dog both parties.

National Republican Congressional Committee Chairman Tom Cole's decision to
recruit Barletta underscores the contradiction for Republicans: While the
party's presumptive presidential nominee, John McCain, has been a voice of
moderation on immigration, other Republicans are playing hardball.

In March, Republican senators introduced 14 immigration-related bills in one
day. They included a bill by Sen. James Inhofe, R-Okla., to make English the
official U.S. language and one by Sen. Elizabeth Dole, R-N.C., to ban repeat
drunken drivers from becoming citizens.

In the House, Republicans are pushing a petition that would force a vote on a
bill to crack down on illegal immigrants and their employers. The bill's author
is a freshman Democrat, Rep. Heath Shuler. The former NFL quarterback says his
western North Carolina district is plagued with illegal immigrants who also are
drug traffickers.

Shuler's bill, which is co-sponsored by Rep. Brian Bilbray, R-Calif., would add
thousands of new law enforcement officials and judges and require employers to
verify the legal status of new hires.

Forty-nine Democrats are co-sponsoring the legislation, including 11 House
freshmen, among the party's most vulnerable members.

Hearings on the legislation begin in May. If they hadn't been scheduled, Shuler
contends, rebellious Democrats would have signed the Republicans' petition to
force a vote on the bill.

"I'm hearing a lot of people say we want this bill," Shuler said.

It takes 218 signatures to bring up a bill without committee action. Shuler's
bill has 185 signatures, including Kanjorski's and eight other Democrats.
Kanjorski added his name after the Republican Congressional Committee made an
issue of the bill in his district.

Kanjorski declined to grant an interview to USA TODAY, but he provided responses
in e-mail to written questions. He said he backs the Shuler bill as a means to
"reduce illegal immigration" but noted that "there are other issues directly
affecting voters" in his district. "My top priority in Congress right now is to
help reverse the downturn in the economy," Kanjorski wrote.

While Democrats from conservative districts, such as Shuler and Kanjorski, are
pushing for action on a tough enforcement bill, Hispanic lawmakers are furious.

This week, Rep. Rau´l Grijalva, D-Ariz., called his party's leaders "spineless"
for allowing hearings on the Shuler bill rather than taking up more
comprehensive immigration legislation that includes a path to citizenship for
the nation's estimated 12 million illegal immigrants.

All three of the remaining candidates for president last year supported a
comprehensive Senate bill that included a legalization program. McCain -- who
now says he "got the message" and favors securing the borders before pursuing
any other immigration measures -- was one of the Senate bill's authors.
Democrats Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama voted for it.

Yet none of the candidates is pushing the issue now.

Rep. Bart Stupak, D-Mich., said McCain sabotaged his effort to revive bipartisan
immigration legislation. Stupak said his Republican allies disappeared after the
Arizona senator's campaign put the word out that McCain didn't want an
immigration debate.

"He doesn't want to remind his core supporters that he was in favor of
immigration reform," Stupak said his Republican allies told him.

McCain campaign spokesman Brian Rogers said Stupak's version of events is
"absolutely untrue," and declined to elaborate.

Barletta said he invited McCain -- along with Clinton and Obama -- to visit his
city as they campaigned for the Pennsylvania primary. "What better place to
discuss immigration?" he asked.

Barletta got no takers.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Rick Smith, AP
PHOTO, B/W, Susan Walsh, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              409 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 13, 2008 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigrant assimilation varies;
Report: Some foreign-born embrace U.S. culture faster than others

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 568 words


The nation's immigrants are adopting American ways just as quickly as they were
in 1990 despite a doubling in their numbers, according to research out today.

The findings show, however, that Mexicans, the largest immigrant group, are
making slower progress than others.

Calculations by the Manhattan Institute for Policy Research, a libertarian think
tank, are among the most detailed to measure how well immigrants fit in with
native-born Americans on three fronts: economic, cultural and civic.

The index used Census data from 1890 to 2006 to measure current and historical
similarities between natives and the foreign-born.

"Mexicans and other Latin Americans are assimilating slowly. On the other hand,
many immigrant groups are doing quite well and assimilating quite rapidly," says
Jacob Vigdor, a Duke University associate professor of public studies and
economics who devised the index.

Immigrants in the USA number almost 40 million. About half are Latin American,
an issue at the center of the debate over immigration law and border
enforcement. Tracking how well immigrants blend in -- from owning homes to
moving up the economic ladder -- is a key part of the controversy.

The level of assimilation typically drops during times of high immigration
because there are more newcomers who are different from native-born Americans.
It happened between 1900 and 1920, when the immigrant population grew 40% -- a
much slower rate than the recent wave.

Yet the rapid growth since 1990 has not caused as dramatic a decline in
assimilation, Vigdor says.

Immigrants who arrived in the past 25 years have assimilated faster than their
counterparts of a century ago, he says.

Measuring assimilation is challenging because it is difficult to define. For
some, it's a person's ability to speak English or their willingness to become
U.S. citizens. To others, it may be their appearance or way of dressing.

Vigdor uses characteristics that can distinguish immigrants from U.S. natives:
economic (employment, occupations, education, homeownership); cultural (ability
to speak English, marriage to natives, number of children); civic
(naturalization, military service).

Some immigrants, such as Canadians, fit in well culturally but not in civic
involvement because they don't seek U.S. citizenship, Vigdor's report says.
Mexicans assimilate better culturally than Vietnamese but rank lower
economically.

Mexicans have the lowest civic assimilation of any immigrant group, the report
says.

"The long-term question is how do the children and grandchildren of immigrants
do?" says Jeffrey Passel, demographer at the Pew Hispanic Center. "Those are the
groups who really do the integrating."

Passel says 30% of all immigrants are in the USA illegally.

Vigdor's index finds that immigrants:

*Who arrive in the USA as children are almost indistinguishable from
native-born.

*From developed countries do not necessarily assimilate better than others.

*Who speak English don't necessarily do better economically than those who
don't.

Dowell Myers, demographer at the University of Southern California, says an
index is "a futile effort" because different characteristics change at different
rates. Some happen in a few years, he says, while others take a lifetime or even
several generations.

Vigdor doesn't expect his report to settle debates: "I want to provide
information that can prove their arguments right or prove their arguments
wrong."

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: Jacob Vigdor, associate
professor at Duke University, for the Manhattan Institute (Bar graph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              410 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 19, 2008 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Harsh and counterproductive

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 447 words


There are an estimated 1.8 million immigrant children in this country whose
parents brought them here illegally. Many have known no other home, and chances
are they will be a part of the nation's future, either because they attain
citizenship or because immigration enforcement will continue to fail.

That's why last week's news from North Carolina was so jarring. The state
community college system slammed its doors to undocumented students (current
students may stay) after the state attorney general raised legal questions.

It is the first state to do so, though some individual institutions have bans,
and rules for admitting students here illegally are under scrutiny in other
places.

Such bans have a gut-level sensibility, of course. Taxpayers who subsidize
public universities don't do so with the expectation of helping people living
outside the law.

But on closer examination, denying educational opportunities to undocumented
children appears both harsh and counterproductive. On a human level, the
students are being punished for their parents' decisions. As for practicality,
blocking their hopes of improving their lives seems certain to backfire on the
United States whether they stay here or not.

In this case, North Carolina's attorney general appears to have misinterpreted
federal policy, which gives states leeway to determine who attends their
universities.

States have good reasons to want to see all their residents educated. Their
economies suffer not from too many educated workers, but from too few. Ten
states, in fact, provide in-state tuition rates at public colleges and
universities to undocumented immigrants who attended high school in the state.
Among them is Oklahoma, which last year enacted what's considered the nation's
toughest crackdown on illegal immigration.

In North Carolina, undocumented community college students already pay an
out-of-state rate of more than $7,000 a year, far above the $1,344 paid by
traditional state students. Perhaps that's why only 112 undocumented students
are in the 297,000-student system.

Skeptics ask: Why bother educating residents who can't legally hold jobs?

One answer is that is that if they do leave the country, they, like millions of
foreigners who have benefitted from U.S. educations, will have a more favorable
view of the USA.

Another answer is that eventually, Congress will pass something akin to the
DREAM (Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors) Act. This measure
would provide a path to citizenship for youths, brought here before they turned
16, who head to college or the military.

When that day arrives, states that made the effort to educate all their
residents will be glad they did.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              411 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 20, 2008 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Three mayors fight immigration raids;
They maintain searches could hurt economies

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 588 words


Three West Coast mayors are asking the leaders of other cities to take a stand
against workplace immigration raids that they say hurt local economies and may
force companies to relocate.

At the annual meeting of the U.S. Conference of Mayors that kicks off today in
Miami, Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa, Oakland Mayor Ron Dellums and
Seattle Mayor Greg Nickels will ask their colleagues to challenge how the
government raids businesses in search of illegal workers.

They want Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to focus on businesses that
exploit workers, such as those that violate wage and safety laws, not
"responsible employers" that contribute to economies, their resolution says.

"We've never taken the position that you shouldn't enforce the law,"
Villaraigosa says. "What we've said is, in a time of limited resources, we
should prioritize our enforcement. At a time when we don't have the resources to
go after criminals, we're going after legitimate businesses and workers instead.
That doesn't make sense."

The resolution will be discussed by a committee Saturday and, if approved, will
go to all the mayors for a vote Monday.

ICE has aggressively ramped up workplace arrests in the past five years. Last
year, it charged 863 people with criminal violations such as identity theft and
4,077 with being in the country illegally. In 2002, it made 25 criminal and 485
immigration arrests.

"We fully respect the opinions of local leaders and will continue to work with
them," agency spokeswoman Kelly Nantel says. She says ICE has a duty to enforce
immigration law "that we take very seriously."

"Sometimes we find employers with their illegal workforce in deplorable,
substandard conditions, and that's not acceptable," Nantel says. "Employers who
harbor illegal aliens are inherently mistreating those aliens for their own
financial gain." She says ICE refers suspected violations to state or federal
law enforcement agencies. Last year, ICE was responsible for charges against 92
employers.

Villaraigosa wants his colleagues to adopt the resolution because "mayors all
over the country have to deal with the consequences of a broken immigration
system," such as businesses taking a severe economic hit if they're raided, says
spokeswoman Jazmin Ortega.

Mark Boughton, mayor of Danbury, Conn., also says the immigration system needs
fixing, but he believes communities should help ICE enforce laws. He is a member
of the mayors conference but won't attend the meeting.

"To encourage ICE not to enforce the law is irresponsible and goes against good
public policy," he says.

If raids continue, Villaraigosa says, regional economies will suffer.

In February, ICE raided Micro Solutions Enterprises, a company in Van Nuys,
Calif., that recycles printer cartridges. ICE arrested 138 suspected illegal
immigrants out of about 700 workers at the plant.

Chief Financial Officer Nitin Dhopade says the company lost millions after the
raid because of reduced productivity, fewer sales and customers, and increased
shipping costs to make up for delays.

He says the effects will ripple into the broader economy.

Barbara Coe, chairwoman of the California Coalition for Immigration Reform,
which works to raise awareness of illegal immigration, counters that raids don't
hurt the economy, illegal immigrants do.

Some employers hire illegal immigrants instead of legal workers so they can pay
them lower wages, she says. "Cheap labor is the bottom line," she says. "There
are American workers who will fill those jobs in a heartbeat."

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Lenny Ignelzi, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              412 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            June 25, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Citizens sue after being detained in workplace;
An inconvenience or a violation of rights?

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2879 words


LOS ANGELES -- Nitin Dhopade, the chief financial officer for Micro Solutions
Enterprises, was headed toward the accounting department on the afternoon of
Feb. 7 to deliver checks he had just signed. Suddenly, he says, he encountered
armed men and women wearing bulletproof vests and uniforms branded with "ICE,"
which stands for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Dhopade, 47, says he and 30 other administrative workers for the Van Nuys,
Calif., company, which recycles used toner and ink cartridges, were marched down
a stairwell lined by officers. The workers were ordered against a wall and told
not to touch anything or use their cellphones. "There was no way you could
leave. You were definitely detained," he says. "None of us were in handcuffs,
but there was no way you could say 'I'm leaving.'"

That marked the beginning of a surprise raid that would result in the arrests of
138 suspected illegal immigrants, about one-fifth of MSE's workforce. Also swept
up in the same raid were more than 100 U.S. citizens and legal residents,
including Dhopade, a naturalized U.S. citizen from India. They say they were
illegally detained at the factory for an hour when ICE agents blocked the doors
and interrogated them, forbidding them to leave or go to the bathroom without an
escort.

Whether their brief detention was a mere inconvenience or a flagrant violation
of their constitutional rights is the subject of a growing debate that seems
likely to be resolved in federal court. Immigration officials, charged with
enforcing the law against the estimated 12 million undocumented foreigners in
the USA, are mounting more raids at slaughterhouses, restaurants and factories.

Increasingly, U.S. citizens and legal residents who work alongside illegal
immigrants are being detained and interrogated, too. And some, such as Dhopade,
are filing claims or lawsuits against the government.

Dhopade says he was a victim of racial profiling by ICE. An ICE agent questioned
him about his immigration status and his ability to speak English "because of my
skin color," he says. "None of the white folks in the office ... that I know of
were asked for proof of citizenship. To be asked for proof of citizenship, in
this country, it's an insult. This is the United States of America. This country
does not require that."

In other immigration raids, citizens and legal, permanent residents have been
taken to jail. Jesus Garcia, a former Texas poultry worker, was handcuffed and
spent more than 30 hours in ICE custody this year, part of that time in jail.
Two co-workers, both citizens, also were arrested. No charges were filed against
them.

In April, the Center for Human Rights & Constitutional Law, a public interest
law firm here, filed claims for damages on behalf of 114 MSE employees, all
citizens or legal permanent residents, also called green-card holders. The
claims allege that they were subjected to "false imprisonment" and "detention
without justification" and seek $5,000 each in damages from the federal
government.

The lawsuits and claims against the government are part of a strategy by
immigration lawyers to halt or change workplace raids. Peter Schey, president
and executive director of the center, acknowledges that "we're hoping the
prospect of thousands of U.S. citizens over time filing claims for damages
against the United States government might cause (ICE) to reconsider how these
raids are conducted."

"You cannot in this country engage in group detentions of large numbers of
people because you think a smaller number within the larger group has done
something wrong," Schey says. At the Van Nuys plant, ICE "created a powerful
atmosphere of fear and intimidation. People felt like they had been taken
hostage."

The rationale for the raids

Julie Myers, the Department of Homeland Security's assistant secretary for ICE,
says federal law, Supreme Court decisions and search warrants give ICE the
authority to enter workplaces to question "all the people inside," including
citizens. She declines to discuss the MSE case, citing the ongoing
investigation. But she says ICE agents work fast to separate legal workers from
suspected illegal ones.

"When we go in, a lot of people are pretending to be U.S. citizens, and then
there are some people who are," she says. "Our goal is to make sure we work as
quickly and efficiently as we can so that U.S. citizens and legal permanent
residents are free to go."

The stepped-up enforcement protects U.S. workers, she says. "We're trying to
create a culture of compliance ...  so that businesses would start to have
incentives to hire only people who are legally entitled to work here."

Workplace arrests by ICE in 2007 were 10 times what they were in 2002. Last
year, the agency charged 863 people with criminal violations, such as identity
theft, and 4,077 for allegedly being in the country illegally. In 2002, ICE made
25 criminal and 485 immigration-related arrests. Workers arrested on criminal
charges face jail time; those accused of being in the country illegally are
subject to deportation.

So far this year, ICE has made 850 criminal arrests and detained 2,900 people on
immigration violations.

ICE has three primary targets, Myers says: workers who steal the identities of
U.S. citizens, such as those who use someone else's Social Security number to
gain employment; work sites such as airports and naval bases, which could be
particularly vulnerable to terrorist threats; and what Myers calls "egregious
employers" -- those who knowingly hire illegal workers.

Barbara Coe, chairwoman of the California Coalition for Immigration Reform, says
raids "are providing the incentive for at least some of these illegal aliens to
get out of here before they are deported. I don't think there are enough raids.
There should be more." She says she's sorry legal residents are sometimes
questioned during raids but believes ICE needs time to determine who is here
legally.

So does Mark Krikorian of the Center for Immigration Studies in Washington.
"It's not the end of the world," he says of citizens who are detained. "These
people were briefly inconvenienced. Too bad."

'My heart was racing'

Denise Shippy, nine months pregnant the day of the MSE raid, says it was more
than an inconvenience.

She had planned to take off that afternoon for parent-teacher conferences and a
doctor's appointment. But Shippy, 30, needed to train a receptionist to fill in
for her while she was on maternity leave, so she took her two children to the
office with her. The raid occurred as she settled Cassidy, 7, and Ricky, 9, into
the mailroom for lunch.

As she left the mailroom, Shippy found the lobby filled with ICE agents, and
she, the children and co-workers were herded in there. When Shippy tried to
respond to an e-mail, she says, one ICE agent said, "Stop typing."

"My rights were violated," Shippy says. "I am a citizen of this United States. I
was born here. I'm not who they're looking for. I wasn't allowed to leave. ... I
couldn't go anywhere and couldn't do anything. Neither could my children."

Although she was upset, Shippy tried to calm her kids, she says. She needed to
use the restroom, but held off because she didn't want an agent to accompany
her.

"I didn't want to scare the heck out of my kids," she says. "I was trying to be
cool and calm for my children. My heart was racing."

At one point, agents started escorting handcuffed workers -- suspected illegal
immigrants -- from the factory floor out the front door. Her children asked why
the workers were handcuffed, what they had done wrong and what would happen to
them, she says.

"That was when I started getting angry," she says. "My kids should not have had
to watch these things. They saw people being led out in handcuffs. These are
people who are recognizable to my children."

Shippy, who gave birth to a boy on Feb. 19, returned to work June 9 and says she
still feels justified in filing a claim.

"I'm not some money-hungry person," she says. "This is something I'm pretty
passionate about. It shouldn't have happened the way it did."

Debate over the law

As long as ICE has a warrant to enter a workplace, Myers says, agents can
conduct what she calls a "survey" to determine the legal status of "anyone
within the premises."

She cites a 1984 Supreme Court ruling that said factory surveys during
immigration raids don't amount to an unconstitutional detention or seizure of
those being questioned, even U.S. citizens.

In its ruling, however, the Supreme Court emphasized that the employees in the
factory were not prevented from moving around, continuing to work or leaving.
The current raids are different from those the Supreme Court approved, Schey
says.

ICE can question workers as long as the interaction is voluntary, "but what
they're doing (now) is not that," he says, because workers think they have no
choice except to answer questions -- which may incriminate those here illegally.

Many workers caught in raids don't know they're not obligated to respond,
regardless of their immigration status, says Kevin Johnson, dean of the
University of California-Davis law school. ICE "can ask people questions. That
doesn't mean people have to respond," he says.

Schey suspects ICE is using search warrants as a pretext to enter workplaces and
then arrest as many people as it can to get publicity. "It's in effect a group
detention," he says, "not supported by probable cause, ... not supported by any
law."

Michael Wishnie, a professor at Yale Law School, argues that ICE cannot legally
detain or arrest anyone without reasonable suspicion that a specific person
broke the law. People should not be detained simply because "they work in the
same factory as the person" for whom ICE has warrant, he says.

Kris Kobach, who teaches law at the University of Missouri-Kansas City, counters
that police sometimes have to detain a large group to find the lawbreakers among
them. He cites, as an example, police looking for two drug dealers in a house
where 10 people live. In such a drug raid, "police will reasonably close the
doors to the house and detain everybody," he says.

The factory's owners

No fines or charges have been levied against MSE or its managers.

Brothers Avi and Yoel Wazana, immigrants from Israel, started the company in
1994. Last year, net revenue was $95 million. At MSE's headquarters, a
225,000-square-foot building in Van Nuys, workers clean, disassemble, reassemble
and test old printer cartridges. Before the raid, MSE employed about 700 people
here.

Myers declined to say what prompted the raid. However, ICE began auditing the
company in May 2007, focusing on "I-9 forms," which employers use to document
employees' legal status. As part of the I-9 process, employers must inspect at
least two documents that show identity and legal status, including U.S.
passports, Social Security cards or green cards.

MSE was "in compliance with I-9 requirements," says Schey, who also represents
the company. "If some of the documents workers presented were fraudulent," MSE
has "no way of determining that."

The next month, the company voluntarily began using a government database to
verify the status of new hires, he says. Then the company didn't hear from the
government for months, Schey says.

"They expected a letter," he says. "Instead, on Feb. 7, ICE comes in like
gangbusters."

About 100 ICE agents raided the factory between 3:30 and 4 p.m., says Nora
Preciado, an attorney with the National Immigration Law Center. Armed with a
federal search warrant, they arrested 130 workers from Mexico, El Salvador,
Honduras and other countries on suspicion of being in the country illegally. ICE
also had arrest warrants for eight others, who were picked up at their homes or
the factory. These eight, identified by ICE during the earlier check of
documents, face criminal charges for making false claims of U.S. citizenship or
presenting false documents.

Five people arrested in the raids have been deported, ICE says. The others
remain, some in detention, some not, while fighting their deportation orders in
court.

Avi Wazana did not comment on the cases against his former employees or the
methods MSE used to check their immigration status. In an e-mail after the raid,
however, he told some of his customers that "MSE ... has rejected hundreds
(possibly more) of applicants ... due to improper documentation."

The ACLU and other legal aid groups sued ICE, saying the detained MSE workers
should have been allowed access to attorneys when they reported for interviews
after the raid. U.S. District Court Judge George Wu agreed, and ordered ICE to
stop interviewing workers. ICE has since allowed lawyers to be present at any
interview with MSE workers.

One of the workers interviewed without an attorney present was Maria, a
39-year-old Pacoima resident who worked at MSE for eight years. She asked that
her last name not to be used, on the advice of her attorney. "I felt like I had
to answer" questions from ICE, she says. "I didn't know about my rights."

Maria was a supervisor in charge of eight line workers. She says she entered the
USA illegally 15 years ago from Mexico so she could give her children a better
education. One of her three children, a 14-year-old girl, is a U.S. citizen.

Maria says she'll fight to remain in the USA because she doesn't want to be
separated from her family, especially her daughter. The girl's father, Maria's
longtime partner, is a U.S. citizen and will care for their daughter if Maria is
deported.

"She's not going to leave," Maria says of the girl, an eighth-grader. "This is
her country."

Jailed 'over a mistake'

ICE's raids foster discrimination, says Domingo Garcia, attorney for the League
of United Latin American Citizens. "There's a lot of racial profiling. ... If
you look like a Hispanic, you're detained or arrested."

He says he plans to file a class-action, civil rights lawsuit on behalf of legal
workers detained in raids, including Jesus Garcia, 27, a green-card holder from
Mount Pleasant, Texas. Domingo Garcia says he will ask the court to prohibit ICE
from conducting raids until it changes its policies to prevent racial profiling.

ICE agents went to Jesus Garcia's home on April 16 in conjunction with a raid on
a nearby Pilgrim's Pride poultry processing plant, where he worked marinating
chicken meat. Garcia, from Mexico, has been a legal permanent resident for a
year and a half. When about 10 ICE agents and local sheriff's deputies knocked
on his door, they told him he was using the wrong Social Security number, says
his wife, Olivia Garcia, a U.S. citizen.

Though Garcia showed the agents his green card, they handcuffed him and jailed
him. He was released a day and a half later after agents told him he wasn't the
person they wanted, he says. He had spent the night in jail. "He said it was
pretty bad," Olivia says. "People were crying and screaming."

Jesus Garcia, who has since left Pilgrim's Pride for another job, says the
mishap cost him three days of work. "I worked hard to get my residency," he
says. "And to take me to jail just over a mistake?"

Four major raids

*Swift & Co. -- On Dec. 12, 2006, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE)
arrested 1,297 suspected illegal immigrants at six meatpacking plants. Of those,
274 were charged with criminal offenses primarily related to identity theft, in
addition to facing immigration violations. ICE later arrested 20 more employees,
including a human resources manager who pleaded guilty to harboring illegal
immigrants. The United Food and Commercial Workers union has filed a lawsuit
against the federal government alleging that thousands of Swift workers,
including U.S. citizens, were illegally detained during the raids.

*Michael Bianco -- ICE arrested 361 workers for immigration violations on March
6, 2007, at a leather goods and textile manufacturing plant in New Bedford,
Mass. The owner and two other managers also were arrested and charged with
conspiring to encourage or induce illegal immigrants to live in the USA and
conspiring to hire illegal immigrants. Their cases are pending in federal court.

About 160 of the workers have been deported, according to Greater Boston Legal
Services. Most of the remaining workers' cases are pending.

When ICE took workers into custody, some children were stranded at day care
centers or schools, without provisions for their care. The agency has since
revised its procedures and now releases suspected illegal immigrants who have
children or medical problems while their cases proceed.

*Pilgrim's Pride -- ICE arrested 309 employees at Pilgrim's Pride poultry plants
in five states April 16. All face immigration charges and possible deportation,
and 91 of them also face criminal charges such as document fraud. An attorney
for the League of United Latin American Citizens plans to file a class-action
lawsuit on behalf of legal workers detained in the raids. Some were jailed.

*Agriprocessors -- On May 12, ICE arrested 389 suspected illegal immigrants at
Agriprocessors in Postville, Iowa, the country's largest kosher meatpacker. The
raid was the largest at a single site. Within 10 days, 298 workers pleaded
guilty to felonies such as using false IDs to get jobs. Most who pleaded guilty
got five months in prison. After serving their sentences, they face deportation
hearings.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: Immigration and Customs
Enforcement (Line graph, bar graph)
PHOTO, Color, Robert Hanashiro, USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Brian Harkin for USA TODAY
PHOTOS, B/W, Robert Hanashiro, USA TODAY (2)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              413 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 27, 2008 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Broken borders need more than lip service

BYLINE: Raul Reyes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 460 words


Sen. Robert Menendez, D-N.J., recently gave a speech in the Senate that was both
courageous and appalling. His words were courageous because this son of Cuban
immigrants sharply criticized Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials.
Menendez spoke of a 19-year-old who had been dragged out of her home in pajamas,
a pregnant woman whose door had been broken down by 20 officers, and a mentally
impaired man who had been deported without his family being notified.

The senator's words were appalling because all the people he described were U.S.
citizens. Because of racial profiling and improper law enforcement procedures,
Menendez said, these Americans were denied their constitutional rights. He plans
to introduce legislation to protect citizens and legal residents from such
raids. People who want to restrict immigration could argue that these incidents
are an unavoidable human cost of the struggle. That doesn't mask the fact that
our current policies remain a losing proposition.

A June study by the University of California revealed that tighter border
controls have turned the two-way migration path into one heading only north.
Traditionally, when the U.S. economy has slumped, migrants have returned home.
Now, the report says, they're staying longer and putting down roots.  The Pew
Hispanic Center reached a similar conclusion in a new report on the Latino labor
market. Due largely to the construction industry's woes, the overall illegal and
legal immigrant unemployment rate has risen to 7.5%.  Yet Pew noted immigrants
are not leaving the USA.

In some ways, we're making it harder for illegal immigrants to return home.
California's border patrol is pulling immigrants off buses headed for Mexico and
arresting others attempting to drive out of the country. True, they were caught
on U.S. soil, but if we want them to leave, this seems like the wrong approach.

The presidential candidates need to confront the immigration issue. Barack Obama
supported John McCain's failed comprehensive reform bill, and both candidates
voted for the border fence.  McCain has recently leaned more toward an
enforcement-first approach, while Obama supports driver's licenses for illegal
immigrants. Mostly, the candidates seem content not to discuss an issue that is
sensitive to Latino and to blue-collar white voters. But with their silence,
they're ceding the debate to a vocal, unreasonable minority.

I applaud and support Menendez's proposal to shield our own citizens from
overzealous harassment. McCain and Obama, who have been espousing leadership and
change, would do well to emulate his example. They might also want to explain
how  they'd fix  our broken borders.

Raul Reyes is an attorney in New York and a member of USA TODAY's board of
contributors.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              414 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 30, 2008 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Births fueling Hispanic growth;
Immigration no longer top factor

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 511 words


Births, not immigration, now account for most of the growth in the nation's
Hispanic population, a distinct reversal of trends of the past 30 years.

The Hispanic baby boom is transforming the demographics of small-town America in
a dramatic way. Some rural counties where the population had been shrinking and
aging are growing because of Hispanic immigration and births and now must
provide services for the young.

"In all of the uproar over immigration, this is getting missed," says Kenneth
Johnson, demographer at the University of New Hampshire's Carsey Institute. "All
the focus is on immigration, immigration, immigration. At some point, it's not.
It's natural increase."

This natural increase -- more births than deaths -- is accelerating among
Hispanics in the USA because they are younger than the U.S. population as a
whole. Their median age is 27.4, compared with 37.9 overall, 40.8 for whites,
35.4 for Asians and 31.1 for blacks.

Because they are younger and likely to have more children, Hispanics are having
an impact that far outlasts their initial entry into the country.

From 2000 to 2007, the Hispanic population grew by 10.2 million -- 58.6% from
natural increase. The total U.S. population grew 20.2 million, about 60% from
natural increase, in that period. About 6.8million Hispanics were born and
812,000 died, according to Johnson's research of data from the National Center
for Health Statistics.

In some established immigrant gateways such as Los Angeles and Chicago, all the
Hispanic growth comes from natural increase, according to Johnson's analysis.

The impact on rural America is seen in areas such as Bureau and Putnam counties,
Ill., where dentist Ernesto Villalobos treats a growing Hispanic population.
Since the counties' health department dental clinic in the rural part of
north-central Illinois hired the Spanish-speaking Villalobos about three years
ago, the number of patients has grown from 3,000 to 8,000.

The growth of Hispanic populations in parts of the country where few lived
previously has intensified this decade. From 2000 to 2005, 221 counties would
not have grown except for Hispanics, according to research by Johnson and Daniel
Lichter at Cornell University. Their findings are reported in this month's
Population and Development Review, a demographic journal published by the
Population Council.

For declining counties, many in the Great Plains, the growth in young Hispanics
may be the only way out of a population spiral.

"Demographically, they can't recover unless something like this happens,"
Johnson says. "There's no way older white populations can replace themselves."

Because more than half of births to Hispanic immigrants are to low-income women
who have no high school degree, a natural population increase challenges
communities, says Steve Camarota, research director at the Center for
Immigration Studies, which promotes limits on immigration.

"It's a huge growth in low-income population and low tax payments," he says. "If
the town is not viable economically, immigration is not going to fix that
problem."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              415 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 3, 2008 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Farmers find help getting workers' visas;
Associations, state launch programs after illegal-immigration crackdown

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 720 words


Two years ago, Bruce Talbott could barely scrape together enough workers to
harvest the peaches, apples, pears and grapes on his 400-acre farm in Palisade,
Colo.

Competition for unskilled labor was fierce, he says, and the state was cracking
down on the illegal immigrants who often filled those jobs.

One option was the federal visa program for seasonal farm workers, but Talbott,
49, had avoided it because of its reputation for being bureaucratic and
expensive. He gave in, he says, because he couldn't risk letting fruit rot.

"We would lose our income for the year," he says.

Ads for vacant $9.42-an-hour jobs had no takers this year, Talbott's second
season using the H-2A visa program. About 40 of his farmhands are here legally
from Mexico for the season.

He got the workers, in part, by paying a company about $600 per worker to handle
applications. Next year, he can turn to the state for help.

Farmers associations, a farm workers union and the Colorado government have
launched programs to help farmers get visas for workers. They say they acted
because Congress failed to pass immigration legislation last year.

"Inaction is no longer an option," says Landon Gates  of the Colorado Farm
Bureau. "We have producers across the state who ... started making cuts in the
amount of acres they produce."

He and others blame a shrinking labor pool on Congress, stepped-up enforcement
of immigration law and tough state and local laws targeting illegal immigrants.

"We are trying to work with the program we have," says Jason Resnick of Western
Growers, which represents farmers in Arizona and California. The group has a
service to apply for visas on behalf of members.

Unlike other visa programs, there's no cap on the number of temporary
agricultural visas each year. Last year, the State Department issued 50,791 of
the H-2A visas.

That's a fraction of the need. In California's San Joaquin Valley, the peak
summer harvest requires 180,000 workers, says Manuel Cunha Jr., president of the
Nisei Farmers League, which represents growers in California, Oregon and Utah.
Danny Santos, senior policy adviser to Oregon Gov. Ted Kulongoski, says his
state needs 120,000.

The bulk of hired help on farms -- Resnick estimates at least 70% -- is in the
U.S. illegally using fake documents to get work,  he says.

Many farmers have avoided the H-2A program because they must apply weeks in
advance and advertise locally to prove the positions can't be filled by U.S.
workers. If federal and state agencies then approve an application, a farmer is
required to provide the workers with transportation to the U.S. and housing.

Last month, Colorado Gov. Bill Ritter signed a bill to create a program that
will guide farmers through the application hoops, shortening processing time.
The state will work with the Mexican government and a Mexican labor firm to
recruit workers.

The United Farm Workers union (UFW) hopes to ease the visa process by matching
workers with farmers.

Foreign workers often are charged thousands of dollars by labor contractors in
their home countries, which the union would eliminate, says Erik Nicholson of
the union's guest worker program. Farmers would have to negotiate wages and
conditions with the union.

The UFW has agreements with Mexico and Thailand to streamline immigrants'
paperwork. The first workers from Thailand will land in a few weeks, headed for
vegetable farms on the East Coast.

In the Mexican state of Michoacan, officials have promised the union expedited
passport services, background checks and training.

"We don't want any more people from Michoacan dying trying to cross into the
United States," says Marco Antonio Zaragoza Sierra of the state's department of
immigrants.

Last month, the Nisei Farmers League met with Central American officials,
including the president of Honduras, to set up a job training program.  This
fall, the group plans to bring 300 Central Americans to the U.S. for training.
They would then go home to train thousands of others, who would go to the West
Coast with H-2A visas starting in 2010, he says.

Roy Beck of NumbersUSA, a group that advocates reduced immigration, calls the
plans "encouraging."

Some farmers "have resolutely refused to use legal means in recruiting workers,"
he says. "The fact that they're actually ... pursuing legal means, that's a good
sign."

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Christopher Tomlinson for USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              416 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 28, 2008 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Airport Check-In;
Every Monday

BYLINE: Roger Yu

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 574 words


SEATTLE

In translation

With international arrival traffic up 16% from 2007, Seattle-Tacoma has seen
increasing demand for its phone translation service.

The airport's translation phones -- equipped with two receivers for three-way
conversation -- are installed at all 22 immigration booths, plus in the main
terminal and baggage-claim areas. California-based Language Line Services, which
employs 3,000 translators for 170 languages, runs the service.

Immigration officials who interview arriving passengers use the service most
frequently, says Sue Hansen-Smith, Sea-Tac's customer service manager. "I don't
know what we'd do without it. It'd really slow down the (immigration clearing)
process."

Korean is the most common language requested at the airport, followed by
Mandarin, Khmer (Cambodian) and Vietnamese.

HOUSTON

These Texas rangers ride for the skies

Those horseback riders you may spot at George Bush Intercontinental aren't
simply out for fun. In a unique approach to airport security, a group of
volunteers known as the Airport Rangers has been patrolling airport grounds
since 2003. About 500 active riders roam the 10,000-acre perimeter to alert
airport officials of any suspicious or illegal activities. The volunteers also
clear trails of debris and other foreign objects.

Volunteers must provide their own horse and must undergo a background check.
Once approved, they can ride 25 miles of trails around the airport. "Having the
Airport Rangers at Bush Intercontinental has worked for both horse lovers and
(the airport). We get the extra level of security, and the volunteers have
plenty of room to ride," says Rick Vacar, director of the Houston Airport
System.

BOSTON

Tarmac material is first in USA to go green

Boston Logan says it will be the first U.S. airport to use environmentally
friendly asphalt for repaving a runway.

The so-called warm mix asphalt is heated to between 250 and 275 degrees, up to
75 degrees less than is required for traditional "hot mix" asphalt.

"Warm mix uses 20% less energy to make, produces 20% fewer greenhouse emissions
when applied, and allows us to use a higher percentage of recycled asphalt
pavement in the final product," said Massport CEO Thomas Kinton in a statement.

The compound is already in use at European airports, but Boston Logan first
tested it on a taxiway and other airfield areas before receiving permission from
the Federal Aviation Administration to use it on a runway. If the asphalt
performs as expected, the airport will likely use it for future paving projects.

INDIANAPOLIS

Local cuisine leads lineup at new terminal

Indianapolis International has announced the lineup of retail stores and
restaurants at its new main terminal that will open in the fall. In keeping with
the trend of airports adopting local flavors and themes, the airport will be the
launch site of the first Indianapolis 500 Grill. The sit-down restaurant will
include a "museum" about the famed auto race, the airport says.

A local museum store, Cultural Crossroads, will have an outlet at the airport
with merchandise from eight area museums, including the Indianapolis Museum of
Art. Other restaurants with local ties include Harry & Izzy's, Cafe Patachou,
Shapiro's Delicatessen and 96th Street Steakburgers.

National brands will include Starbucks, McDonald's, Brooks Bros., Borders, Au
Bon Pain and Cold Stone Creamery. The new 1.2 million-square-foot terminal, with
two 20-gate concourses, will open on Oct. 28.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Larry Burmeier

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              417 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 7, 2008 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                                 FINAL EDITION

Demographic landscape shifts;
Hispanic boom, immigration and slowing growth of whites spur more
majority-minority areas

BYLINE: Charisse Jones and Paul Overberg

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 614 words


White populations have declined in more than half of the USA's counties since
2000, helping fuel a rise in the number of communities where minorities are now
the majority, an analysis of 2007 Census estimates released today shows.

The data reflect how immigration, a population boom among Hispanics and the
slowing growth of an aging population of whites are reshaping the nation's
demographic landscape.

Among large counties, San Francisco lost the highest percentage of whites --
which the analysis defined as people who are not Hispanic, black, Asian,
American Indian or Native Hawaiian -- with that group dropping 17% from  2000 to
2007. Cook County, Ill., home of Chicago, had the biggest numerical decline,
losing 215,535 whites during the same period.

Minorities made up more than half the population in 302 of the nation's 3,141
counties last year. Most such areas in the early 1990s were centered in
established metropolitan areas and border cities in the Southwest.

Now, counties where minorities are a majority are popping up "all over the
place," not just in areas where immigrants traditionally first settled, says
William Frey, a Brookings Institution demographer. A continuing migration of
African Americans to the South also is furthering this trend, he adds.

Though whites are 66% of the population nationwide, "it's kind of a zero sum
game. Hispanic and Asians are growing nationally and they can spread out," Frey
says.

Because the white population is growing very slowly, whites leaving many
communities are not replaced by other whites. At the same time, the white
population continues to grow rapidly in many Sun Belt counties.

Counties in which minorities have become the majority during the last decade
include Osceola County, Fla., which saw its white population drop from 60.2% in
2000 to 46.1% in 2007, and Riverside County, Calif., where the share of white
residents dropped from 51.6% to 43.1%.

At least 10 counties are on the brink of seeing such change by 2010, Frey says.
They include Clark County, Nev., the heart of the Las Vegas metropolitan area,
which was 52.3% white in 2007, and Denver County, Colo., which was 50.7% white.

"It's this intersection of continuing immigration, a spreading out of that
immigrant population into new areas and the relatively young age structure of
the Hispanic population, and to some degree the Asian population" that is
contributing to these ethnic shifts, says Jeffrey Passel, senior demographer at
the Pew Hispanic Center.

The number of counties that are predominantly minorities likely will increase as
white baby boomers retire from densely populated communities, says Mark Mather,
a demographer for the Washington, D.C.-based Population Reference Bureau.

"For a long time now, we've seen the white population moving out of those
crowded areas," he says. "With baby boomers now hitting retirement, I think
that's going to accelerate and obviously the people who are replacing those
exiting boomers are mostly minorities."

Other highlights in the population estimates for July 1, 2007:

*In more than a quarter of the 1,800 counties that grew from  2000 to  2007,
Hispanics provided at least half of the gains. San Diego County gained 161,000
residents, including 150,000 Hispanics. Hartford County, Conn., gained 19,600,
including 18,600 Hispanics.

*Blacks are returning to New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina. From 2006 to 2007,
the number of non-Hispanic black residents in Orleans Parish grew by 16.4% to
144,050.

*The Southwest is home to counties that have the nation's oldest and youngest
populations. In La Paz County, Ariz., 32% of residents are 65 or older. In Webb
County, Texas, 12.8% of the residents younger than 5.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 8, 2008



CORRECTION: USA TODAY misstated San Francisco population trends in a story
Thursday. The city lost 17% of its black population from 2000 to 2007 while the
number of non-Hispanic whites grew 0.3%.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Bob Laird, USA TODAY, Source: Census Bureau, Analysis
by Paul Overberg, USA TODAY (Map)
PHOTO, B/W, Michael Nagle, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              418 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 7, 2008 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Demographic landscape shifts

BYLINE: Charisse Jones and Paul Overberg

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 631 words


Hispanic boom, immigration, slowing growth of whites spur more majority-minority
areas

White populations have declined in more than half of the USA's counties since
2000, helping fuel a rise in the number of communities where minorities are now
the majority, an analysis of 2007 Census estimates released today shows.

The data reflect how immigration, a population boom among Hispanics and the
slowing growth of an aging population of whites are reshaping the nation's
demographic landscape.

Among large counties, San Francisco lost the highest percentage of whites --
people who are not Hispanic, black, Asian, American Indian or Native Hawaiian --
with that group dropping 17% from  2000 to  2007. Cook County, Ill., home of
Chicago, had the biggest numerical decline, losing 215,535 whites during the
same period.

Minorities made up more than half the population in 302 of the nation's 3,141
counties last year. Most such areas in the early 1990s were centered in
established metropolitan areas and border cities in the Southwest.

Now, counties where minorities are a majority are popping up "all over the
place," not just in areas where immigrants traditionally first settled, says
William Frey, a Brookings Institution demographer. A continuing migration of
African Americans to the South also is furthering this trend, he adds.

Though whites are 66% of the population nationwide, "it's kind of a zero sum
game. Hispanic and Asians are growing nationally and they can spread out," Frey
says.

Because the white population is growing very slowly, whites leaving many
communities are not replaced by other whites. At the same time, the white
population continues to grow rapidly in many Sun Belt counties.

Counties in which minorities have become the majority during the last decade
include Osceola County, Fla., which saw its white population drop from 60.2% in
2000 to 46.1% in 2007, and Riverside County, Calif., where the share of white
residents dropped from 51.6% to 43.1%.

At least 10 counties are on the brink of seeing such change by 2010, Frey says.
They include Clark County, Nev., the heart of the Las Vegas metropolitan area,
which was 52.3% white in 2007, and Denver County, Colo., which was 50.7% white.

"It's this intersection of continuing immigration, a spreading out of that
immigrant population into new areas and the relatively young age structure of
the Hispanic population, and to some degree the Asian population" that is
contributing to these ethnic shifts, says Jeffrey Passel, senior demographer at
the Pew Hispanic Center.

The number of counties that are predominantly minorities likely will increase as
white baby boomers retire from densely populated communities, says Mark Mather,
a demographer for the Washington, D.C.-based Population Reference Bureau.

"For a long time now, we've seen the white population moving out of those
crowded areas," he says. "With baby boomers now hitting retirement, I think
that's going to accelerate and obviously the people who are replacing those
exiting boomers are mostly minorities."

Other highlights in the population estimates for July 1, 2007:

*In more than a quarter of the 1,800 counties that grew from  2000 to  2007,
Hispanics provided at least half of the gains. San Diego County gained 161,000
residents, including 150,000 Hispanics. Hartford County, Conn., gained 19,600,
including 18,600 Hispanics.

*Blacks are returning to New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina. The number of
non-Hispanic black residents in Orleans Parish grew by 16.4% to 144,050 between
2006 and 2007.

*The Southwest is home to counties that have the nation's oldest and youngest
populations. In La Paz County, Ariz., 32% of residents are 65 or older. In Webb
County, Texas, 12.8% of the residents are under the age of 5.

*Change in median age, by county, 7A

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              419 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 14, 2008 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

America's face evolves, blurs, ages;
Diversity to reign in 2042, Census finds

BYLINE: Paul Overberg and Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 341 words


The number of minorities in the USA is growing so briskly that non-Hispanic
whites will lose their majority status in 2042, years before demographers had
previously projected, according to Census data released today.

The population is surging on almost all fronts, the new figures show. There will
be 400 million people in the USA in 31 years, up from fewer than 305 million
now.

The swelling numbers will transform Americans' standard of living from the
environment to public schools, demographers and public policy experts say.

"It affects quality of life in very important ways," says Mark Mather, who
studies U.S. demographic trends for the Population Reference Bureau, a research
group in Washington. "We're already experiencing that in traffic congestion, in
schools and in our crowded coastal areas."

Dramatic growth in the numbers of legal and illegal immigrants, especially
Hispanics, has propelled the increase. Annual immigration this year is about 1
million and is projected to double by 2050.

Jeffrey Passel, senior demographer at the Pew Hispanic Center, says the earlier
projections were low because they underestimated immigration.

"We've measured a much higher immigration in the '90s," he says. "In this
decade, those high levels continued."

Census projections in 2000 forecast that minorities in the USA would become a
majority in 2059, 17 years later than previously forecast. The latest figures
show that in 2050, non-Hispanic whites will have fallen to 46% of the
population.

The proportion of children under 18 who are minorities will be even higher: 62%,
up from 44% today. Two in every five children will be Hispanic, and two in five
will be non-Hispanic white.

Other projections:

*The Hispanic population will nearly triple, from 46.7million to 132.8million in
2050, which would increase its share of the population from 15% to 30%. Blacks
will increase from 14% to 15%, Asians from 5% to 9%.

*In 2050, one in five U.S. residents will be at least 65. The group over 85 is
expected to more than triple from 5.4million to 19million.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Bob Laird, USA TODAY, Source: Census Bureau (Line
graph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              420 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           August 20, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Son of immigrants wins gold for USA

BYLINE: Gary Mihoces

SECTION: BONUS; Pg. 5D

LENGTH: 502 words


BEIJING -- Henry Cejudo, who was born in Los Angeles to then-undocumented
Mexican immigrants and who never slept in a bed alone until arriving at  the
Olympic Training Center in Colorado Springs at 17, draped the U.S. flag over his
shoulders after winning an Olympic wrestling gold medal Tuesday.

"I'm living the American dream right now," Cejudo said.

"This is the land of opportunity. It's the best country in the world," added
Cejudo, who wept the moment he clinched his final victory against Japan's
Tomohiro Matsunaga. Cejudo (say-HOO-doh), 21, battled from behind to win three
earlier matches.

In each of his first three matches, he lost the first period and won the final
two. In the final, he beat Matsunaga in two periods.

Then he stood on the podium as the U.S. flag was raised for the first time at a
wrestling event in this Olympics. "To watch it go up, it feels really good,"
Cejudo said.

His mother, Nelly Rico, raised Cejudo and his six siblings, working various
factory and janitorial jobs as the family moved from Los Angeles to New Mexico,
Arizona and Colorado. Cejudo said his mom didn't make the trip because of family
duties but he spoke to her by phone.

"She almost did a back flip when she was on the phone. ... She's probably not
going to be able to sleep," Cejudo said.

His father, Jorge, died last year in Mexico City. "I never really knew what it
was like to have a father," Cejudo said. "But my family has been there."

He said his mother came to the USA when she was 15. "My mom and her sister
crossed, and they thought it was like Disneyland or something," he said.

He said his mother, who  lives in Colorado Springs, is now classified as a
resident. "She's not a citizen yet," he said. "If you ask my mom, she'll tell
you she's American."

Cejudo won his first two of four state high school titles in Arizona. When older
brother Angel, also a wrestler, became a resident athlete at the training center
in Colorado Springs, Cejudo tagged along. "His brother was actually the guy we
brought in; Henry just followed," U.S. coach Kevin Jackson said.

Angel, Cejudo's practice partner in Beijing, was with other family members and
friends in the stands during the final. "I really couldn't cheer. I was real
nervous," said Angel, who did not make the team at 132 pounds.

Cejudo said the bed at the Olympic training center dorm was the first he had to
himself. "It was lonely, to be honest," he said.

As a 19-year-old high school senior, he won U.S. senior nationals in freestyle.
He opted to bypass college scholarship offers. Now he is an Olympic champion.

Then came tears. He buried his face in his hands on the mat. "I'm a pretty
tough-nosed guy. It just happened," he said.

According to USA Wrestling, Cejudo will get bonuses totaling $65,000:  $25,000
from the U.S. Olympic Committee, $15,000 from USA Wrestling and $25,000 from an
enthusiast who pledged extra for wrestlers who win gold.

"My mom always taught us to suck it up and whatever you want to do you can do.
That's what I did," Cejudo said.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Robert Hanashiro, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              421 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 10, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Fewer seek citizenship after fee increase;
Immigrant group, feds differ on why

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 466 words


Immigrants are getting priced out of citizenship because they can't afford
higher application fees that kicked in last year, according to a report out
today.

Citizenship applications plummeted after the fee rose from $400 to $675 on July
30, 2007, says an analysis by the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee
Rights, an immigrant advocacy group.

In the first six months of this year, an average of 46,866 immigrants applied
for citizenship each month -- a 59% decrease from last year, when an average of
114,469 people applied monthly during the same period.

"The expense has shut the door on many hard-working immigrant families," says
report author Flavia Jimenez.

Officials at U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) believe
applications are down because so many people rushed to apply before the fees
went up. The agency received about 650,000 more applications last year than in
2006, acting deputy director Mike Aytes says.

"We saw a lot of people who chose to file earlier than otherwise," Aytes says.
"We do see the numbers starting to come back up."

Still, he acknowledges that this year's numbers are below a typical year.

The agency allows citizenship applicants to apply for waivers if they can't
afford the fee and generally approves about two-thirds of the requests, Aytes
says. In July, USCIS granted 1,052 fee waivers out of 1,578 requests from
citizenship applicants.

Application fees cover most of USCIS' operating and processing costs. The agency
increased fees to cover costs and improve services, he says.

The coalition says it's unfair that fees pay for more than the cost of
processing applications, such as the agency's administrative expenses.

In the report, the group recommends that the citizenship application fee be tied
to the federal minimum wage and calls on Congress to provide funding.

Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., has proposed legislation that would, in part, allow
for increased congressional appropriations. "Citizenship shouldn't be for the
wealthy," he says.

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which
calls for reduced immigration, often finds himself at odds with immigrant
advocates. Yet he agrees the fees are "probably too high" and should reflect
only processing costs.

"Once you've admitted people to legally reside in the United States, we want
them to naturalize," he says. "If they're not, that's a problem."

Azad Ahmed Siddiqui, 62, didn't apply for citizenship with his wife a few years
ago because he couldn't afford the fee, says the unemployed Chicago resident.
His wife makes minimum wage as a child care worker.

Siddiqui, who came to the USA from Pakistan in 1999, is saving money for the
application by scrimping on food and other household expenses. "It has been hard
for us to get the funds," he says.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Bob Laird, USA TODAY, Source: U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services (Chart)
PHOTO, B/W, David McNew, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              422 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 17, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Opportunity knocks in Canada;
Alberta hits U.S. job fairs to lure immigrants with faster path to permanent
residency status

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 764 words


CHANTILLY, Va. -- Fawad Rehman can't wait to show his adoptive country his
entrepreneurial streak.

Rehman, an immigrant from Pakistan, plans to start a business school, similar to
the one his family runs back home, and a construction business. A big obstacle
stands in the way, though: He doesn't know which country will adopt him, the USA
or Canada.

Rehman, 29, an information technology consultant who lives in Columbia, Md., is
in this country on a temporary H-1B visa, the kind issued to skilled workers for
up to six years. He wants to become a permanent resident, but he isn't sure
whether or when that will happen.

So, about a month ago, he applied to become a permanent resident in the province
of Alberta, Canada, through a special program that fast-tracks applications from
skilled immigrants in the USA. If he qualifies, he could be approved in less
than a year. In the USA, that could take at least three years. And it's not a
sure thing, because an employer must sponsor the worker.

"I want to start these businesses," Rehman says. "But I'm not trying here yet
because I don't know if I will be here permanently."

At a time when the immigration debate in the USA is tied to national security
and tightening borders, Alberta is urging immigrants to cross over and come
north.

Since the Alberta government started recruiting immigrants in the USA in April,
it has aggressively courted people such as Rehman, who are here on H-1 or E-3
visas for specialized work in technology, health care and other fields. Alberta
needs to fill high-demand jobs, including pharmacists, iron workers and
architects.

The province, which has a population of about 3.3 million, is experiencing
explosive population and economic growth, particularly in oil and natural gas
production. "It's virtually full employment in Alberta," says Gary Mar,
Alberta's official representative to the United States.

Skilled immigrants in the USA are attractive because they have North American
work experience, know the culture, speak English and assimilate quickly, he
says.

In the USA, the federal government handles immigration. In Canada, provinces
have some authority for the skilled workers they recruit, says Wendy Blackwell
of Alberta's Ministry of Employment and Immigration.

On Monday, Alberta immigration officials held an information session for about
200 immigrants at the Canadian Embassy in Washington. They were at an area job
fair here Tuesday and planned to attend one in Maryland today. They have
traveled to Houston, Chicago, Philadelphia and Palo Alto, Calif., and will be in
New York City next month.

So far, about 500 people have submitted initial applications for permanent
residency, Blackwell says.

The program appeals to skilled immigrants who are frustrated with the U.S.
immigration system, she says. Getting permanent status here can take years, and
some immigrants complain because their spouses aren't allowed to work.

Alberta's program grants eligible applicants and their families permanent
residency in six to 12 months and allows spouses to work. Those interested don't
need to secure a job before applying.

"People say it's so difficult for them here," Blackwell says. "The people who
have been coming to see us have been the well-educated, people that are
concerned about the way the U.S. economy is going, people that really want to
start looking at other options."

Saskatchewan, the province east of Alberta, also is growing rapidly and needs
workers, says Rob Norris, the minister responsible for immigration. It, too, is
considering recruiting skilled immigrants in the USA, he says.

Jeff Lande is senior vice president at the Information Technology Association of
America, a trade group that lobbies for more visas for skilled workers and legal
permanent residents, known as green-card holders.

He believes most immigrants aren't leaving willingly. "If they have the option
of staying in America, where they have established roots and jobs and contacts,
chances are they would," he says. "Because they cannot get that green card, they
look at options elsewhere."

Peter Njoroge, 26, visited Alberta's booth at the job fair. He came to the USA
from Kenya as a refugee in 2001 and says he's upset by the pace of the
immigration process. He's not eligible for Alberta's program because he's not on
a skilled-worker visa, but Blackwell says people like him might get
temporary-worker visas that could lead to permanent residency.

"I love the U.S.," he says, "but if it means my life's going to get better by
living in Canada and getting the process taken care of, I'll definitely look
into it."

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W, Melissa Golden, USA TODAY (3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              423 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 17, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Opportunity knocks in Canada

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 776 words


Alberta has held job fairs in the USAtargetingimmigrants

CHANTILLY, Va. -- Fawad Rehman can't wait to show his adoptive country his
entrepreneurial streak.

Rehman, an immigrant from Pakistan, plans to start a business school, similar to
the one his family runs back home, and a construction business.

A big obstacle stands in the way, though: He doesn't know which country will
adopt him, the United States or Canada.

Rehman, 29, an information technology consultant who lives in Columbia, Md., is
in this country on a temporary H-1B visa, the kind issued to skilled workers for
up to six years. He wants to become a permanent resident, but he isn't sure
whether or when that will happen.

So, about a month ago, he applied to become a permanent resident in the province
of Alberta, Canada, through a special program that fast-tracks applications from
skilled immigrants in the U.S. If he qualifies, he could be approved in less
than a year.

In the United States, that could take at least three years. And it's not a sure
thing, because an employer must sponsor the worker.

"I want to start these businesses," Rehman says. "But I'm not trying here yet
because I don't know if I will be here permanently."

At a time when the immigration debate in the U.S. is tied to national security
and tightening borders, Alberta is urging immigrants to cross over and come
north.

Since the Alberta government started recruiting immigrants in the USA in April,
it has aggressively courted people such as Rehman, who are here on H-1 or E-3
visas for specialized work in technology, health care and other fields. Alberta
needs to fill high-demand jobs, including pharmacists, iron workers and
architects.

The province, which has a population of about 3.3 million, is experiencing
explosive population and economic growth, particularly in oil and natural gas
production. "It's virtually full employment in Alberta," says Gary Mar,
Alberta's official representative to the United States.

Skilled immigrants in the USA are attractive because they have North American
work experience, know the culture, speak English and assimilate quickly, he
says.

In the U.S., the federal government handles immigration. In Canada, provinces
have some authority for the skilled workers they recruit, says Wendy Blackwell
of Alberta's Ministry of Employment and Immigration.

On Monday, Alberta immigration officials held an information session for about
200 immigrants at the Canadian Embassy in Washington. They were at an area job
fair here Tuesday and planned to attend one in Maryland today. They have
traveled to Houston, Chicago, Philadelphia and Palo Alto, Calif., and will be in
New York City next month.

So far, about 500 people have submitted initial applications for permanent
residency, Blackwell says.

The program appeals to skilled immigrants who are frustrated with the U.S.
immigration system, she says. Getting permanent status here can take years, and
some immigrants complain because their spouses aren't allowed to work.

Alberta's program grants eligible applicants and their families permanent
residency in six to 12 months and allows spouses to work. Those interested don't
need to secure a job before applying.

"People say it's so difficult for them here," she says. "The people who have
been coming to see us have been the well-educated, people that are concerned
about the way the U.S. economy is going, people that really want to start
looking at other options."

Saskatchewan, the province east of Alberta, also is growing rapidly and needs
workers, says Rob Norris, the minister responsible for immigration. It, too, is
considering recruiting skilled immigrants in the USA, he says.

Jeff Lande is senior vice president at the Information Technology Association of
America, a trade group that lobbies for more visas for skilled workers and legal
permanent residents, known as green-card holders.

He believes most immigrants aren't leaving willingly. "If they have the option
of staying in America, where they have established roots and jobs and contacts,
chances are they would," he says. "Because they cannot get that green card, they
look at options elsewhere."

Peter Njoroge, 26, visited Alberta's booth at the job fair. He came to the USA
from Kenya as a refugee in 2001 and says he's upset by the pace of the
immigration process. He's not eligible for Alberta's program because he's not on
a skilled-worker visa, but Blackwell says people like him might get
temporary-worker visas that could lead to permanent residency.

"I love the U.S.," he says, "but if it means my life's going to get better by
living in Canada and getting the process taken care of, I'll definitely look
into it."

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              424 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 23, 2008 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigrants follow natives' flow;
Sun Belt 'burbs see influx

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser and Paul Overberg

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 693 words


Foreign-born Americans are moving from place to place in patterns similar to
those of the native-born, according to a USA TODAY analysis of Census data out
today offering the first detailed look at migration since the beginning of the
decade.

The foreign-born, who in the 1990s concentrated in enclaves in large
metropolitan areas, are increasingly following the same trajectory as natives.
They're often leaving congested, expensive coastal cities for smaller,
middle-class metropolitan areas where schools are better and housing is cheaper.

It's the first time since the 2000 Census that such detail on the movement of
Americans in and out of thousands of places has been collected.

The 2007 numbers open a window on the effects of a tumultuous decade marked by
terrorist attacks, natural disasters, globalization and a housing boom and
collapse.

"The new immigrants, especially Hispanic immigrants, are assimilating
geographically much more quickly than at the turn of the previous century," says
William Frey, demographer at the Brookings Institution.

"They're more quick to leave the inner city and go to the suburbs," he says.

North Carolina, South Carolina and Texas are among the states gaining the most
natives and immigrants from other states. Both groups also are moving in
substantial numbers to Sun Belt counties in smaller metropolitan areas:
Mecklenburg (Charlotte); Tarrant (Fort Worth); Richland (Columbia, S.C.); Cobb
and Gwinnett (Atlanta).

"Hispanics are both aspiring to be in the American middle class and, according
to this data, to a large degree they're succeeding," Frey says. Other findings:

*Immigration slowdown. The foreign-born population grew by about a half-million
from 2006 to 2007, half as fast as in previous years this decade. It had been
growing by an average 1 million a year since 2000.

Fourteen states, including traditional immigrant magnet states such as Illinois
and New Jersey, had declines in their foreign-born population, Frey says.

"It's pretty clear that immigration has tanked in the last year, perhaps in
response to the losses in employment opportunities," he says.

Research by the Center for Immigration Studies, a group that seeks immigration
limits, also attributes the slowdown to a crackdown on the undocumented.

*Fewer new households. Only about 750,000 households were created from 2006 to
2007, compared with an average 1.3million a year over the past decade.

The share of household heads under age 25 dropped from 5.4% in 2005 to 4.7% in
2007, says Casey Dawkins, co-director of the Metropolitan Institute at Virginia
Tech.

"It suggests that young householders may be delaying new household formation,
living with parents longer in the face of rising housing costs," he says.

*More roommates. The share of non-family households made up of roommates,
boarders and unmarried partners rose to 18.1% in 2007 from 15.9% in 2005.

*More Spanish speakers. At least one in five residents of Arizona, California,
New Mexico and Texas spoke Spanish at home in 2007. About 12.3% of U.S.
residents speak Spanish at home.

"While the nation has a higher share of Spanish speakers, they are still
clustered in a handful of states," Frey says.

In 80% of homes, English is the only language spoken.

"We are far from becoming a bilingual nation or Spanish-English society," Frey
says.

*More parents move in with adult kids, 1A

A handful of states gained the most new residents in several demographic
categories from 2006 to 2007. States and number of residents gained from other
states (numbers rounded to the nearest thousand because they are estimates):

U.S.-born

1. North Carolina 108,000

2. Texas    92,000

3. South Carolina   66,000

4. Arizona    66,000

5. Georgia    63,000

Foreign-born

1. Texas     39,000

2. Georgia    12,000

3. North Carolina   11,000

4. Nevada    11,000

5. Washington     10,000

Non-Hispanic white

1. Texas    80,000

2. North Carolina   70,000

3. Arizona    48,000

4. South Carolina   48,000

5. Georgia    27,000

Hispanic

1. Texas    34,000

2. North Carolina   16,000

3. Nevada    15,000

4. Arizona    15,000

5. Utah     10,000

Source: Analysis of U.S. Census data by Paul Overberg, USA TODAY, and William
Frey, Brookings Institution

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, John Moore, Getty Images

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NATION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              425 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 24, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Ellis Island strives to tell whole tale;
New center will highlight other eras in immigration

BYLINE: Charisse Jones

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 752 words


NEW YORK -- For 62 years, millions of immigrants passed through the corridors of
Ellis Island on their way to becoming Americans. Their journeys, however, are
only part of the story.

What of those immigrants who came before and those who continue to come long
after? What of the Africans who came not of their own free will and the Mexicans
who through annexation suddenly found themselves Americans?

A center on Ellis Island soon will tell those stories, too.

Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne and other officials are scheduled to unveil
plans today for The Peopling of America Center. It's an expansion of Ellis
Island's Immigration Museum that will chronicle the years before the historic
portal opened in 1892 and the evolving face of immigration since it closed in
1954. The center is scheduled to open in 2011.

"There were other ports of entry," says Stephen A. Briganti, president of The
Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation, "but there's none as symbolic as
Ellis Island, so we think it's important we tell the story of everybody, even
the many people who didn't come through Ellis Island."

The new $20 million center will illuminate other eras in immigration history,
such as the arrival in the mid-1800s of more than 4 million Irish, Germans and
Scandinavians, the nation's first mass immigration, says Alan Kraut, a history
professor at American University in Washington, D.C. The National Park Service
has contributed some of the funds; the rest will come from private donations.

"It's very important that we tell in the fullest way possible the story of the
peopling of America, and that's much larger than the Ellis Island experience,"
says Kraut, chairman of the foundation's history advisory committee. "We're
talking about slaves who were part of a forced migration, Mexicans who were
literally engulfed by the United States; the earliest arrivals, of course,
Native Americans. ... Then in the later period, especially since 1945, we're
looking at waves of Southeast Asians (and) Latinos."

About 2 million people visit Ellis Island annually, and some have said that they
did not see a reflection of their own family's experience there, Briganti says.

Salju Thomas, 28, who came to the USA from India when he was 4, is one of a
dozen people who will become a U.S. citizen during today's presentation. A
former Marine who is a student at Hofstra University on Long Island, he said
it's important that the museum recognize newer immigrants. "America is
changing," he says, and the museum "definitely needs to reflect that."

In the new center, maps, videos and interactive exhibits will help visitors
understand the challenges immigrants faced as they traveled to and reshaped a
new land.

Those who are creating the center say it won't shy away from the topic of
illegal immigration. "That's part of the story," Briganti says.  "There's always
been controversy . . .  about who was being let in, and that continues today."

Ultimately, though, the center will honor the nation's diversity, Kempthorne
says.

More than 12 million immigrants passed through Ellis Island upon entering the
USA, according to the National Park Service.  Paperwork for 5 million more was
processed there. Key dates:

1892 -- The first Ellis Island Immigration Station officially opens. The first
immigrant to pass through is Annie Moore, 15, whom The New York Times describes
as a "rosy-cheeked Irish girl" from County Cork.

1907 -- Peak year; 1,004,756 immigrants are processed.

1924 -- The Immigration Act of 1924 marks the end of mass immigration to
America. Ellis Island's main function changes from that of an immigrant
processing station to a staging ground for detention and deportation of people
who had entered the USA illegally. The buildings at Ellis Island begin to fall
into disrepair.

1954 -- Ellis Island and its 33 buildings are closed.

1984 -- The Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation, partnering with the
National Park Service, raises funds for the restoration of the Statue of Liberty
and Ellis Island.

1990 -- The Ellis Island Immigration Museum opens. More than 30 million people
have visited. Also unveiled is the American Immigrant Wall of Honor, the world's
largest wall of names, where individuals can have the name of an immigrant
ancestor inscribed.

2001 --The American Family Immigration History Center opens. Visitors can
explore records of people who entered the USA through Ellis Island and the port
of New York from 1892 to 1924. The online database has had 12 billion hits.

Source: www.ellisisland.org

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Dave Merrill, USA TODAY (Map)
PHOTO, B/W, Library of Congress
PHOTO, B/W, EllisIsland.org

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              426 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 24, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Ellis Island strives to tell whole tale;
New center will highlight other eras in immigration

BYLINE: Charisse Jones

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 502 words


NEW YORK -- For 62 years, millions of immigrants passed through the corridors of
Ellis Island on their way to becoming Americans. Their journeys, however, are
only part of the story.

What of those immigrants who came before and those who continue to come long
after? What of the Africans who came not of their own free will and the Mexicans
who through annexation suddenly found themselves Americans?

A center on Ellis Island soon will tell those stories, too.

Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne and other officials are scheduled to unveil
plans today for The Peopling of America Center. It's an expansion of Ellis
Island's Immigration Museum that will chronicle the years before the historic
portal opened in 1892 and the evolving face of immigration since it closed in
1954. The center is scheduled to open in 2011.

"There were other ports of entry," says Stephen A. Briganti, president of The
Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation, "but there's none as symbolic as
Ellis Island, so we think it's important we tell the story of everybody, even
the many people who didn't come through Ellis Island."

The new $20 million center will illuminate other eras in immigration history,
such as the arrival in the mid-1800s of more than 4 million Irish, Germans and
Scandinavians, the nation's first mass immigration, says Alan Kraut, a history
professor at American University in Washington, D.C. The National Park Service
has contributed some of the funds; the rest will come from private donations.

"It's very important that we tell in the fullest way possible the story of the
peopling of America, and that's much larger than the Ellis Island experience,"
says Kraut, chairman of the foundation's history advisory committee. "We're
talking about slaves who were part of a forced migration, Mexicans who were
literally engulfed by the United States; the earliest arrivals, of course,
Native Americans. ... Then in the later period, especially since 1945, we're
looking at waves of Southeast Asians (and) Latinos."

About 2 million people visit Ellis Island annually, and some have said that they
did not see a reflection of their own family's experience there, Briganti says.

Salju Thomas, 28, who came to the USA from India when he was 4, is one of a
dozen people who will become a U.S. citizen during today's presentation. A
former Marine who is a student at Hofstra University on Long Island, he said
it's important that the museum recognize newer immigrants. "America is
changing," he said, and the museum "definitely needs to reflect that."

In the new center, maps, videos and interactive exhibits will help visitors
understand the challenges immigrants faced as they traveled to and reshaped a
new land.

Those who are creating the center say it won't shy away from the topic of
illegal immigration. "That's part of the story," Briganti says.  "There's always
been controversy . . .  about who was being let in, and that continues today."

Ultimately, though, the center will honor the nation's diversity, Kempthorne
says.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              427 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 17, 2008 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Immigrants given no choice on vaccine

BYLINE: Generic

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 405 words


For most women, it's a choice whether or not they want Gardasil -- a vaccine
that protects against the sexually transmitted human papillomavirus (HPV). Not
so for immigrant families with young daughters who are applying for U.S.
citizenship. The only choice they have is to either abide by the mandate or give
up their American Dream.

A 12-year-old immigration law boils down vaccine requirements for green-card
applicants to an issue of semantics. Accordingly, vaccines merely recommended
for the general population are required by citizen applicants. Usually, that's
not a problem. Most of the 16 vaccines required by the U.S. government ward off
contagious diseases.

Gardasil, in addition to helping prevent cervical cancer, is for young women who
are going to be sexually active. For the vast majority, that's going to be the
case. But U.S. officials recommend the three-dose vaccine be given to girls
starting at age 11, which has made many parents nervous. Even the 41 states that
introduced legislation to "require, fund and educate" families about the vaccine
(only 19 states have passed legislation) would allow people to opt out of the
vaccine on moral, religious or medical grounds.

The hefty cost of the vaccine --  $120 per dose, not counting additional doctor
office fees -- is also troublesome. For immigrants without health insurance,
that is out-of-pocket money.  Because the medical guidelines stipulate that the
vaccine should be given to female applicants ages 11 to 26, the whole series
cost of $360 is a heavy price to pay, especially if  a family has more than one
daughter.

The Migration Policy Institute, a non-profit group that studies the migration of
populations, reports that U.S. naturalization fees are already among the highest
in the world.  A family of four has to pay $2,430 to become naturalized
citizens. That cost doesn't include the extra money that might be necessary for
English or civics classes to help prepare for the citizenship exams.

The HPV vaccine is effective in helping women stave off the threat of cervical
cancer, which is the second leading cause of cancer deaths among women. But if
the government is intent on imposing such a financial burden on immigrant
families, it should either subsidize the cost of the vaccine or deliver on the
promise of what the United States has always stood for -- the freedom to choose.

Marisa Trevioo, who lives in Dallas, writes a blog, Latina Lista.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              428 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 7, 2008 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Hispanic vote grows, shifts to Democrats;
GOP takes hit on immigration, economic issues

BYLINE: Jill Lawrence

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 641 words


WASHINGTON -- Hispanic voters surged this week and swung their support to the
Democratic Party, helping flip four states to winner Barack Obama in a trend
that poses challenges for Republicans in future elections.

Obama made huge gains nationally, according to surveys of voters leaving the
polls.  He won 67% of the Hispanic vote -- 23 percentage points higher than
President Bush's showing in 2004.

Dramatic rises in Hispanic participation, support or both put Obama over the top
in Florida, Nevada, New Mexico and Colorado. The trends were similar in Arizona
and Texas, though the two states went for Republican John McCain. The group also
made its presence felt in Indiana, Virginia and North Carolina.

"If the Republicans don't make their peace with Hispanic voters, they're not
going to win presidential elections anymore.  The math just isn't there," says
Simon Rosenberg, head of the NDN, a Democratic group that studies Hispanic
voters.

Bush was popular with Hispanics and, along with McCain, tried to pass an
immigration bill that would have allowed about 12 million illegal immigrants to
earn citizenship.  But a fierce backlash from conservatives has led to an
anti-immigrant image for the Republican Party.

Danny Vargas, chairman of the Republican National Hispanic Assembly, says
Hispanics are "more conservative than liberal" and have a "natural home" in the
GOP. "We have to communicate with them in a positive way and not alienate them,"
he says.

Vargas says the harsh tone of some immigration-bill opponents was problematic.
"Let's have less on the emotional frenzy side of it and more on the solution
side," he says.

Matt Barreto, a University of Washington political scientist who surveys
Latinos, says immigration was "an important symbolic issue" in the campaign, but
most Latinos are working-class and cared most about the economy. "They are
looking for economic stability in their own personal life" and responded to
Obama's plans to avert foreclosures, make health insurance and education more
affordable, and step up spending on job-creating infrastructure projects, he
says.

Barreto and Democratic pollster Fernand Amandi say the Iraq war was also a big
concern of Hispanics.  They are overrepresented in the armed forces, and "that
was especially a factor in the Southwest," Amandi says.

One of the most dramatic turnarounds was in Florida. Bush had a 12-point
advantage over Democrat John Kerry in surveys of Hispanics leaving the polls in
2004.  Obama turned that into a 15-point advantage over McCain.

Amandi says Republicans "took a tremendous hit" on immigration and the Wall
Street crisis was "gasoline on that fire."  Changing demographics also took a
toll.

Traditionally pro-GOP Cubans are shrinking as a proportion of Florida's Hispanic
population as Puerto Ricans, Mexicans, Colombians and others move in. Obama
received 70% of the non-Cuban Hispanic vote in voter polls conducted by Bendixen
& Associates, Amandi's Miami-based firm.

Obama also carried 75% of U.S.-born Hispanics and he won 35% of the
Cuban-American vote itself, "the highest any Democratic candidate has ever
scored," Amandi says. "This shows a road map for Democrats to win in Florida for
generations."

In Nevada, New Mexico and Colorado, analysts see a replay of California's
demographic and political evolution.  California hasn't voted for a Republican
nominee since George H.W. Bush in 1988.

"If these trend lines continue, Texas and Arizona will be in play in 2012,"
Rosenberg says.

Hispanics repeatedly chose New York Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton over Obama
during the Democrats' long primary battle, triggering speculation about whether
Hispanics would ever support an African-American presidential candidate.  "The
election results officially debunk the myth that Latinos will not vote for
blacks," Barreto says. "That is officially laid to rest now."

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: National and state
surveys of voters conducted by Edison Media Research and Mitofsky International
(Bar, pie charts)
PHOTO, B/W, Isaac Brekken, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              429 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           February 9, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

3 convicted in deaths of illegal immigrants

BYLINE: John Bacon; Leon Alligood

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 769 words


A jury in Houston on Wednesday convicted three
people connected to the nations deadliest human
smuggling attempt, in which 19 people died after being
left inside a truck trailer. Each defendant was convicted
of conspiracy to harbor and transport illegal immigrants,
as well as other counts. Victor Sanchez
Rodriguez, 58, was also convicted of eight counts of
harboring and nine counts of transporting illegal immigrants.
His wife, Emma Sapata Rodriguez, 59, was
convicted of eight counts of harboring and six counts
of transporting. Her half sister, Rosa Sarrata Gonzalez,
was convicted of one count of harboring. All are U.S.
citizens from Texas. Sentencing was set for May 1.
More than 70 illegal immigrants had crowded into
the back of a tractor-trailer to be hauled from South
Texas to Houston in May 2003. The victims died from
dehydration, overheating and suffocation.

19 hurt in latest L.A. County jail fight

Nineteen inmates were injured in racially motivated
brawls at a Los Angeles County jail where deadly rioting
occurred last weekend, authorities said. Four different
fights involving more than 450 black and Hispanic
inmates occurred at the Pitchess Detention
Center in Castaic, about 40 miles northwest of downtown
Los Angeles, the sheriffs department said. No
sheriffs deputies were hurt.
The fighting began after inmates housed in a group
dorm separated along racial lines, said sheriffs Sgt.
Diane Hecht. Another section of the same detention
center was hit with rioting Saturday between Hispanic
and black inmates that killed one man and injured 100
others. Two melees Monday caused one minor injury.

In flames, UPS plane lands in Philadelphia

A UPS cargo plane with flames shooting from the
back made an emergency landing at Philadelphia International
Airport in time for the pilot and two crewmembers
to jump to safety on the runway. The plane
was carrying normal packages, UPS spokesman Mark
Giuffre said. He said the National Transportation Safety
Board was investigating the cause of the fire.
Emergency crews surrounded the DC-8 when it
touched down on a flight from Atlanta. Firefighters
said the fire was under control about four hours later.

Two men indicted in seven Va. murders

A Virginia grand jury indicted two men on capital
murder charges in the slayings of seven people in the
homes of two Richmond families. If the evidence
bears it out, we intend to ask for the death penalty,
Commonwealth Attorney Michael Herring said. The
indictments were returned against Ray Dandridge and
Ricky Gray, both of Arlington. All seven victims were
found in their homes bound with tape. A musician, his
wife and their two young daughters were found dead
after their home was set ablaze on New Years Day. Six
days later, another home was ransacked, and three
members of a family there were killed.

Fossett takes off on record-flight attempt

Adventurer Steve Fossett rolled down a 3-mile runway
at Floridas Kennedy Space Center and took off on
an attempt to break a 20-year-old flight distance record.
Fossetts lightweight GlobalFlyer plane hit two
birds during takeoff but wasnt damaged, said Jim Ball,
a NASA manager at the Kennedy Space Center.
Fossetts goal is a nearly 26,000-mile trip, once
around the world and then across the Atlantic again,
with a landing outside London. The trip would break
the previous airplane record of 24,987 miles set in
1986 by the Voyager aircraft piloted by Dick Rutan and
Jeanna Yeager and the balloon record of 25,361 miles
by the Breitling Orbiter 3 in 1999.

Protesters draw protest at Army post

Members of a Kansas church who picket the funerals
of soldiers nationwide drew more than 170 counterprotesters
at Fort Campbell, Ky., as a memorial service
for several soldiers took place nearby.
The Rev. Fred Phelps, pastor of Westboro Baptist
Church, says soldiers are dying in Iraq because God is
punishing America for its acceptance of gay lifestyles.
Six members of his Topeka church picketed at the
forts front gate with signs such as Thank God for
IEDs (improvised explosive devices). Flag-waving locals,
some of them wives of deployed soldiers, shouted
at them. Fort Campbell is home to the 101st Airborne
Division; the service was for soldiers who have died in
Iraq since Christmas. Police in riot gear stood by but
didnt intervene.
My job in this, the last of the last days, is to show
America her abomination, said protester Margie
Phelps, the reverends daughter and a church lawyer.
I just think it is very disrespectful what they are
trying to do, said Michelle Dangerfield, who was supporting
a friend whose husband is in Iraq. They are
not a church. The church is about love, and this is not
love at all. Leon Alligood, The (Nashville)Tennessean

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Rick Gargiulo, The Saratogian via AP
PHOTO, B/W, Patti Longmire, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NATIONLINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              430 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 11, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Trashing the border;
Build a wall, save the environment? Maybe. But as lawmakers decide how to secure
the border, illegal crossers are decimating our treasured lands. So where are
the environmentalists?

BYLINE: Bridget Johnson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 954 words


Every time I go down to the Mexican border, I'm struck by a down and dirty
realization: This beautiful land looks like a dump.

Recently I was at a waist-high border vehicle barrier in a valley northeast of
Tecate, Baja California. As far as the eye could see, strewn past barbed wire or
collecting knee-deep in culverts, were water bottles, food wrappers, used paper
products such as toilet paper and maxi pads, even felt shoe covers designed to
obscure tracks.

From California to Texas, illegal immigrants and drug runners leave such calling
cards  on their trek north.

"This was a beautiful refuge 10 years ago," Mitch Ellis, manager of Arizona's
Buenos Aires National Wildlife Refuge, says. "Just stunning." Now, he says, it
looks like a "war zone." The refuge shares just 5 1/2 miles with the Mexican
border but is a staging point near the Sasabe border crossing and is
crisscrossed by highways that serve as pick-up routes. The sheer amount of foot
and vehicle traffic -- at least 200,000 to 300,000 crossers a year on the
118,000-acre refuge -- makes endangered species conservation a losing battle.

As National Guard troops have been dispatched to the border and lawmakers
grapple with the specifics of immigration reform, a proposed southern wall has
ignited contentious debate. But while the primary intention of a fence would be
homeland security and immigration control, a welcome byproduct of such a wall
might be softening the  blow on the environment.

Trashed terrain

Last year, 500 tons of trash was strewn across the Buenos Aires refuge, as well
as human waste and about 100 abandoned vehicles. Wild animals are choking on
plastic or getting tangled in trash, and crossers' campfires have sparked
wildfires. Aerial photos, Ellis says, reveal a shocking web of 1,300 miles of
illegal trails cut through the refuge.

How much trash do crossers leave in their wake? A report by a presidential
advisory committee, the Good Neighbor Environmental Board, says more than six
tons of solid waste -- about 8 pounds per border crosser -- is dumped daily on
the Tohono O'odham Nation, a reservation that spans 75 miles along the Arizona
border.

The carnage makes one wonder why environmental groups aren't out lobbying for a
sturdy border fence -- instead of arguing against tougher enforcement.

"The unintended consequences of a restrictive border policy with Mexico have
resulted in many park, wildlife and natural areas being trampled and trashed by
migrants, but also invaded by enforcement activities such as new or upgraded
roads, Border Patrol outposts and vehicle damage involved in pursuit and rescue
operations," says Rob Smith, the Southwest representative for the Sierra Club.

The Border Patrol, which has a policy of sticking to appointed roads and trails
except when pursuing illegal crossers, wouldn't be out there if it weren't for
the deluge coming north. It's not the Border Patrol dumping trash, tagging
majestic cacti with graffiti or defecating in the wilderness.

And don't forget, they have a job to do. "We have to balance our effects on the
environment with national security," Border Patrol spokesman Todd Fraser says.

"The Border Patrol needs to follow the current (environmental) law, which right
now they're ignoring," counters Jenny Neeley, southwest representative for
Defenders of Wildlife, a conservation advocacy group, adding that "the damage is
being caused by border policy." Tougher border enforcement near portals such as
San Diego and El Paso, she says, funnels traffic into more remote and
environmentally sensitive regions.

Defenders of Wildlife opposes a proposed border wall; Neeley says it would
destroy habitat and cut off cross-border migratory routes for species such as
jaguars. "Who's to say it would stop the trash? Who's to say it would stop the
people?" she asks. "Trash can get picked up. Illegal trails can be revegetated."

Other environmentalists echo this opposition to a wall.

"The Sierra Club is neutral on the specifics of immigration reform policy, but
we have opposed the construction of permanent walls where wildlife and natural
areas would be harmed," Smith says.

The environmental damage hasn't escaped notice on Capitol Hill. Sen. Craig
Thomas, R-Wyo., introduced an amendment that was adopted into Senate immigration
legislation. It provided more Border Patrol along federal lands and national
parks, as well as environmental training for agents, says Cameron Hardy, his
press secretary. Hardy says Thomas supports some fencing but not a comprehensive
border wall. Defenders of Wildlife has praised the amendment.

What about gaps in the fence?

The Border Patrol hasn't ignored environmental concerns in previous
wall-building projects. In fact, Fraser notes that the 14-mile fence constructed
from the Pacific Ocean through the busy Tijuana region in the mid-'90s included
gaps left for environmental concerns, whether drainage issues or wildlife
habitat.

Those sensitive protected areas, of course, were exactly where illegal crossers
streamed through. So crossers came through these wildlife passages, and the
environment was wrecked in the process. Is the trade-off worth it?

"Do you think the person running across the border cares about those areas?" the
Border Patrol's Fraser asks. "They're not thinking, 'Oh, we have to protect the
environment,' or, 'Oh, we can't litter.' I think their last concern is the
environment."

But don't tell that to the environmentalists, who would rather blame U.S. border
policy than even consider  that a fence and tighter enforcement might -- just
might -- preserve these treasured lands.

The alternative is clearly visible. Just take a hike to the border to see for
yourself.

Bridget Johnson is a columnist at the Los Angeles Daily News.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Bob Laird, USA TODAY (Illustration)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              431 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 21, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

High-tech plan pitched to fight illegal crossings

BYLINE: Mimi Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 527 words


WASHINGTON -- The Homeland Security Department is preparing to have hundreds of
new camera towers installed along the nation's porous land borders as part of a
multiyear effort to tighten security and dramatically slow illegal migration
across the southern border.

Secretary Michael Chertoff plans to announce today that the government will pay
private contractors, including Boeing, tens of millions of dollars to set up
high-tech towers to hold cameras and sensors that will help Border Patrol agents
catch people crossing illegally. The contract also will include some unmanned
aerial vehicles and ground-based radar systems.

Sen. Judd Gregg, R-N.H., chairman of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on
Homeland Security, praised Chertoff for asking businesses to submit proposals
for securing the border and said Congress will approve the money to pay for the
new program.

"Is this the right plan?" Gregg said of the primarily cameras-and-sensors
approach. "Is it going to work? Obviously the jury's out."

He noted that a previous effort to install cameras along the border failed when
the equipment didn't work well. "Hopefully, we learned some lessons," Gregg
said. "You've got to make sure you're on top of the contractors."

T.J. Bonner, president of the National Border Patrol Council, the union that
represents border agents, is skeptical of any plan that relies on technology.

"They're applying the wrong solution to the problem," said Bonner, adding that
Congress needs to pass legislation to "stop the employment magnet."

Immigration legislation promoted by President Bush that would create a "guest
worker" program died amid political battles over a host of issues, including
whether immigrants should be offered a path to citizenship.

The new technology is one piece of a multiyear Secure Border Initiative that
Chertoff announced in 2005. Homeland Security is a third of the way toward
doubling the number of border agents  -- from 9,000 in 2001 to 18,000 by the end
of 2008. In the meantime, the effort to boost the number of so-called boots on
the ground is now being aided by up to 6,000 National Guard troops.

The department also has ended a "catch-and-release" policy of allowing illegal
immigrants to stay in the country, on their own, pending a court date. Many
offenders simply never showed up in court and stayed in the country illegally.
Now, those who are caught are sent home or held in detention centers pending
court dates.

Maine Sen. Susan Collins, chairwoman of the Senate homeland security committee,
said the new technology, which will initially be set up along the border in
Arizona, "should greatly improve situational awareness of Border Patrol agents."

Bonner said, however, that there still aren't enough agents and more cameras
won't change that. "None of this technology catches people," he said. "The
cameras don't swoop down off the towers and grab people by the ankles until
Border Patrol agents show up."

He said he's disappointed that the only thing Congress can agree on is building
700 more miles of fencing. "As long as employers hire them (illegal migrants) in
this country," he said, "they're going to come by the millions."

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              432 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 8, 2006 Wednesday
                              FINAL CHASE EDITION

The results;
Selected statewide referendums

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 1881 words


Arizona

Immigrant bail(prop 100) Proposition 100-BailableOffenses( 94%)

X

Yes691,399 (77%)

No208,138 (23%)

Will deny bail to illegal immigrants accused of serious crimes when the evidence
is convincing.

Immigrant litigation(prop 102) Proposition 102-Civil Actions( 94%)

X

Yes652,754 (73%)

No236,302 (27%)

Will prevent illegal immigrants from suing for punitive damages or rewards.
Secretary of State Janet Brewer argued that a person who breaks the law by
entering the United States illegally should not benefit from civil proceedings.

Immigrant education(prop 300) Proposition 300-Public Program( 94%)

X

Yes627,045 (71%)

No256,942 (29%)

Will bar illegal immigrants from state-funded education and child-care programs.

English as official language(prop 103) Proposition 103-EnglishLanguage( 94%)

X

Yes660,419 (73%)

No241,223 (27%)

Will make English the state's official language and require that official
actions be conducted in English.

Marriage definition(prop 107) Proposition 107-Define Marriage( 94%)

Yes433,889 (48%)

No463,295 (52%)

Would define marriage as existing only between one man and one woman.

Voter lottery(prop 200) Proposition 200-Voter Reward( 94%)

Yes302,838 (34%)

X

No586,949 (66%)

Would have awarded $1 million to one voter chosen randomly by the commission
that regulates the state lottery. The initiative was intended to attract more
Arizonans to the voting booths. Money would come from unclaimed state lottery
prizes.

Eminent domain(prop 207) Proposition 207-Eminent Domain( 94%)

X

Yes573,805 (65%)

No305,478 (35%)

Will ban eminent domain for private uses; require compensation for public ones.

Minimum wage(prop 202) Proposition 202-Minimum Wage( 94%)

X

Yes594,446 (66%)

No307,861 (34%)

Will raise the minimum wage to $6.76 an hour from $5.15, to be re-evaluated
annually and adjusted for inflation.

California

Cigarette tax(prop 86) Proposition 86 Cigarette Tax( 32%)

Yes1,275,920 (46%)

No1,491,655 (54%)

Would increase the cigarette tax by 13 cents per cigarette, or $2.60 per pack,
to a total of $3.47 per pack. Proceeds would go toward tobacco education
programs and funding for hospitals.

Eminent domain(prop 90) Proposition 90 Eminent Domain( 32%)

Yes1,362,728 (50%)

No1,363,183 (50%)

Would restrict eminent domain, void unpublished eminent domain decisions and
define "just compensation" for properties seized.

Colorado

Minimum wage(amend 42) Amendment 42 Minimum Wage( 60%)

Yes550,052 (52%)

No506,586 (48%)

Would raise the minimum wage to $6.85 an hour from $5.15 and adjust the figure
annually for inflation.

Marriage definition(amend 43) Amendment 43 Marriage( 60%)

Yes603,685 (57%)

No456,988 (43%)

Would define marriage as existing only between one man and one woman.

Marijuana possession(amend 44) Amendment 44 Legalize Marijuana( 60%)

Yes410,970 (39%)

X

No646,873 (61%)

Would have allowed individuals over the age of 21 to possess up to 1 ounce of
marijuana and use it in private. Compensation for any transfer would remain
illegal.

Enforce immigration laws(ref K) Referendum K Immig Suit vs Fed Govt( 58%)

Yes564,616 (56%)

No437,069 (44%)

Would require the state attorney general to sue the U.S. attorney general to
ensure that immigration laws are enforced.

Florida

Tobacco settlement(amend 4) Amendment 4 Tobacco Settlement( 98%)

X

Yes2,700,575 (61%)

No1,724,161 (39%)

Will require the Legislature to allocate a portion of tobacco settlement money
for education and prevention programs.

Eminent domain(amend 8) Amendment 8 Eminent Domain( 98%)

X

Yes2,945,254 (69%)

No1,324,087 (31%)

Will prohibit the transfer of private property seized through eminent domain to
an individual or private entity.

Georgia

Eminent domain(amend 1) Amendment 1 Eminent Domain( 84%)

X

Yes1,318,893 (82%)

No280,083 (18%)

Will require any taking of private property for redevelopment be approved by a
government official for a public use.

Idaho

Eminent domain(prop 2) Proposition 2 EminentDomain( 47%)

Yes38,726 (24%)

X

No125,743 (76%)

Would have restricted use of eminent domain by private parties and for urban
renewal or economic development purposes and provide fair compensation for those
whose property is affected.

Marriage definition(amend HJR 2) Amendment HJR2 Marriage( 46%)

X

Yes106,996 (64%)

No59,091 (36%)

Will define marriage as existing only between one man and one woman.

Michigan

Affirmative action(prop 2) Proposal 2 Affirmative Action( 89%)

X

Yes1,856,325 (58%)

No1,337,886 (42%)

Will prohibit the University of Michigan and other state-funded universities
from discriminating against or giving preferential treatment to applicants based
on race, ethnicity or gender.

Eminent domain(prop 4) Proposal 4 Eminent Domain( 89%)

X

Yes2,525,320 (80%)

No624,208 (20%)

Will restrict use of eminent domain for private projects.

Missouri

Stem cell research(amend 2) Amendment 2 Stem Cell( 83%)

Yes868,736 (50%)

No853,407 (50%)

Would amend the state constitution to prohibit bans on stem cell research and
would make provisions to prevent barriers to the research. Would also limit the
procedures and ban human cloning.

Minimum wage(prop B) Proposition B Minimum Wage( 83%)

X

Yes1,287,418 (75%)

No418,231 (25%)

Will raise the minimum wage to $6.50 an hour from $5.15, to be re-evaluated
annually and adjusted for inflation.

Montana

Minimum wage(I-151) Initiative 151 Minimum Wage( 60%)

X

Yes166,928 (73%)

No60,454 (27%)

Will raise the minimum wage to at least $6.15 an hour from $5.15, to be
re-evaluated annually and adjusted for infla-tion.

Nebraska

Video keno machines(meas 421) Measure 421 Video Keno( 69%)

Yes142,897 (39%)

No226,696 (61%)

Would allow video keno gambling machines, revenues from which would be taxed.

Nevada

Eminent domain(Q2) Question 2 Property Rights( 73%)

X

Yes310,614 (62%)

No187,103 (38%)

Will demand proof that property seized under eminent domain was taken for public
use and requires compensation.

Smoking ban(Q4) Question 4 Secondhand Smoke( 74%)

Yes244,700 (48%)

No265,640 (52%)

Would ban smoking in public places except in strip clubs, bars, restaurants
where only patrons over the age of 21 are permitted, brothels, casinos, tobacco
retail stores, hotel and motel rooms.

Minimum wage(Q6) Question 6 Minimum Wage( 74%)

X

Yes350,989 (69%)

No159,953 (31%)

Will require employers who pay $5.15 an hour to offer health benefits. Employers
who chose to raise their minimum wage to $6.15 from $5.15 will not be required
to offer health benefits. Minimum wage will be indexed annually for inflation.

Regulation of marijuana(Q7) Question 7 Legal Marijuana( 74%)

Yes225,369 (44%)

X

No285,749 (56%)

Would have legalized the purchase, possession, use and transport of up to 1
ounce of marijuana for individuals over the age of 21. Would have required
marijuana retailers and wholesalers to be licensed by the Department of Taxation
and to pay license fees and excise taxes.

New Hampshire

Eminent domain(Q 1) Question 1 Curb Eminent Domain( 98%)

X

Yes308,443 (86%)

No50,238 (14%)

Will prevent seizure of property for private projects.

New Mexico

Right to own property(amend 1) Amendment Amendment 1-Property Protection( 89%)

X

Yes285,458 (69%)

No126,745 (31%)

Will repeal an article in the state constitution barring illegal immigrants from
owning property.

Ohio

Minimum wage(const. amend)- Amendment 2 Minimum Wage( 92%)

X

Yes1,915,867 (56%)

No1,515,245 (44%)

Will raise minimum wage to $6.85 an hour from $5.15 and index it annually for
inflation.

Smoke free Ohio(init 5) Initiative 5 SmokeFree Work( 92%)

X

Yes2,063,531 (58%)

No1,480,722 (42%)

Will prohibit smoking in most public places and workplaces. This ban is backed
by a long list of medical organizations, including the American Cancer Society.

Smoke less Ohio(init 4) Amendment 4 Smoke Less( 92%)

Yes1,255,797 (35%)

X

No2,295,879 (65%)

Would have enacted a constitutional amendment prohibiting the Legislature from
banning smoking entirely in certain places, such as bars. This was backed by
R.J. Reynolds and other tobacco companies.

Oklahoma

Election Day alcohol sales(Q 733) Question 733 Liquor Sales(100%)

X

Yes460,858 (53%)

No416,772 (47%)

Would amend Article 8 of the state constitution, which prohibits package stores
from selling alcohol while the polls are open on Election Day. State Rep. Kevin
Calvey, who penned the bill, said the current ban is a relic of the Wild West
era when candidates and their supporters would pack local saloons.

Oregon

Eminent domain(meas 39) Measure 39 Eminent Domain( 43%)

X

Yes465,597 (67%)

No225,411 (33%)

Will bar the government from seizing private property to be used for private
projects. Will require that the owners of any property seized for public
projects be properly compensated, and will allow for owners to contest
compensation in court.

Abortion ban restriction(meas 43) Measure 43 Parental Notification( 44%)

Yes328,484 (46%)

No381,340 (54%)

Would require minors 14 years and younger to obtain parental consent before
undergoing an abortion. Parents would have to be notified 48 hours prior to the
procedure.

Rhode Island

Tribal casino(Q 1) Question 1 Indian Gaming(100%)

Yes141,525 (37%)

X

No241,576 (63%)

Would have allowed a business operated by the Narragansett Indian Tribe to open
a privately run resort casino in West Warwick. Tax proceeds from the casino
would have been used for property tax relief.

South Carolina

Marriage definition(amend 1) Amendment 1 Define Marriage( 97%)

X

Yes781,260 (78%)

No219,324 (22%)

Will define marriage as existing between one man and one woman.

Eminent domain(amend 5) Amendment 5 Eminent Domain( 97%)

X

Yes834,120 (86%)

No136,257 (14%)

Will prohibit eminent domain from being used for anything other than public use.

South Dakota

Marriage definition(amend C) Amendment C Define Marriage( 85%)

Yes134,166 (52%)

No123,395 (48%)

Would define marriage as existing only between one man and one woman. Would also
prohibit the recognition of civil unions or any other "quasi-marital
relationships" regardless of sexual orientation.

Tobacco tax(Init 2) Initiative 2 Tobacco Tax( 85%)

X

Yes156,547 (61%)

No101,843 (39%)

Will raise tobacco taxes and direct revenues toward the property tax reduction
fund, the education enhancement trust fund and the health care trust fund.

Medical marijuana(Init 4) Initiative 4 Medical Marijuana( 85%)

Yes122,194 (48%)

No135,056 (53%)

Would permit the growth, processing and use of marijuana for certain medical
purposes.

Abortion ban(ref 6) Referendum 6 Abortion Ban( 85%)

Yes117,121 (45%)

X

No141,588 (55%)

Would have upheld the ban on abortion signed into law March 6 by Gov. Rounds.
The ban criminalized abortions in all cases except for those in which the
mother's life is in danger. It could have prevented a showdown in federal courts
that would have sought to overturn Roe v. Wade.

Tennessee

Marriage definition(amend 1) Amendment Define Marriage( 98%)

X

Yes1,407,717 (81%)

No322,575 (19%)

Will define marriage as existing only between one man and one woman.

Virginia

Marriage definition(amend 1) Amendment 1 Define Marriage(100%)

X

Yes1,300,884 (57%)

No972,640 (43%)

Will define marriage as a union between one man and one woman and ban
recognition of any other form of union.

Wisconsin

Marriage definitionReferendum 1 Same-Sex Marriage Ban( 77%)

X

Yes1,008,056 (59%)

No707,676 (41%)

Will define marriage as existing only between one man and one woman.

Death penaltyReferendum 2 Death Penalty( 77%)

Yes933,748 (55%)

No760,502 (45%)

Non-binding question on whether the death penalty should be reinstated in cases
of first-degree intentional murder when the conviction is supported by DNA
evidence.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              433 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 12, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Cheap Mexican flights trek to border;
'Migrant Air' takes crossers closer to USA

BYLINE: Chris Hawley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 413 words


MEXICALI, Mexico -- Mexican discount airlines are using rock-bottom fares to
cater to legal and illegal migrants heading for the USA.

The new airlines --  known among fliers as Aeromigrante, or "Migrant Air" --
take passengers from central or southern Mexico to cities along the northern
border such as Tijuana and Mexicali. From there, customers make their way across
the U.S. border.

The flights are part of a booming services industry for the estimated 13 million
Mexican and Central American migrants who reside in the USA. Passengers who used
to make bus trips of several days can arrive at the border well-rested for the
often dangerous crossing.

Return flights south are often nearly empty, and some routes offer only one-way
service. One of the airlines, Tijuana-based Avolar, estimates that 70% of its
customers have the USA as their final destination.

"The most productive routes we have are cities where you have those passengers
who are traveling with the idea of the American dream," said Luis Ceceoa, a
company spokesman.

Other budget carriers such as Volaris, Interjet and Click have started
operations in the past two years and make air travel affordable to poorer
Mexicans. One-way flights to Tijuana from central Mexico cost about $150, half
what they did a few years ago.

"It's much more comfortable than the bus, and about the same price," said
Leopoldo Torres, 37, of Mexico City as he stretched his legs aboard a Volaris
flight to Mexicali. He and a traveling companion, Julio Menendez, planned to
cross into the USA illegally through the California desert.

Migrants said another factor driving them to fly is the difficulty of crossing
the border as the United States builds fences and adds Border Patrol agents.
Smugglers who aid their journey have doubled their fees to $2,000 or more,
making an airline ticket seem less expensive, said Guillermo Hernandez of
Guerrero.

Some airlines try to get even more migrant business. Avolar offers Greyhound bus
connections from Tijuana to Fresno, where many migrants work on farms. Aero
California takes payments through Western Union, used by many migrants to send
money home.

Ceceoa said the airlines should not be responsible for policing their
passengers.

"We have a saying in Mexico: 'Let the other hens cackle; you take care of your
own eggs,'" he said. "It's a good business for us, and we're going to keep
taking care of those customers."

Hawley is Latin America correspondent for USA TODAY and The Arizona Republic

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Claudio Cruz, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              434 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 15, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Given the chance, illegal immigrants can succeed

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 603 words


I am an immigrant, and regardless of what some people might think, I have the
potential to become somebody in American society. I'm a college student at
Northwestern University, and I plan to become a lawyer.

I came to the USA illegally when I was 5 years old, but I became a U.S. citizen
and, thankfully, I was able to pursue my higher education. Sometimes I think
about what life would have been like had I not received my certificate of
citizenship. I wouldn't be in college, that's for sure -- just like many high
schools students who graduated across the USA this year.

The U.S. Senate refused to take up the Development, Relief and Education for
Alien Minors, or the DREAM Act, shutting the doors of opportunity for many
immigrant teens.  This carefully constructed legislation could have made
thousands of students' higher educational dreams a reality.

Many intelligent individuals cannot attend college because they are illegal
immigrants. America might value education, but it is failing to ensure that
everyone has the opportunity to receive it. Ironically, U.S. officials go to
other countries across the world to promote and develop educational institutions
-- to ensure that as many people in the world become educated citizens. Yet, the
U.S. government can't provide postsecondary education for many students in its
own country?

Immigrants have the potential to become great participants in American society,
too.

Luis Sotelo, student

Northwestern University

Evanston, Ill.

Follow law, honor country

Immigrants who want to live in the USA should respect U.S. laws by going through
the legal citizenship process. Unfortunately, the U.S. government has opted for
a head-in-the-sand approach to immigration, so some U.S. citizens have become
enablers of illegal immigration. Those who employ illegal immigrants imperil the
livelihood and welfare of their fellow countrymen, tradesmen and families.

Who should be considered a better countryman and a better neighbor? Those who
are willing to engage in illegal activities in order to achieve their goals? Or
those who fulfill their pursuits in a just and legal manner? My gratitude and
support go out to both U.S. employers and to immigrants who have stepped forward
with the courage and resolve to follow U.S. laws.

John Stroble

Claremore, Okla.

Grant military authority

While there is no perfect solution to the illegal immigration nightmare, one
that makes some sense would be to increase the size of the U.S. Customs and
Border Protection and to make it a branch of the military. As it is now, the
border patrol is part of the Department of Homeland Security.

We don't need any more laws. The United States needs to enforce the laws that
are on the books and do it with the full backing of the U. S. military. It
wouldn't solve all the political problems that are associated with the issue.
But it would give politicians bargaining power to reach a consensus.

Reggie Marselus

Lenexa, Kan.

Provide opportunities

As an English-as-a-second-language instructor, I witness the challenges of
immigrants daily.

For many of them, the risk of coming to the USA is trivial compared with the
hopeless situation they face in their own country. Have we become so
desensitized that we don't understand their plight? Laws are circumvented; yet,
are we so pompous as to believe that laws aren't conveniently violated among our
own?

I am not disputing that illegal immigration must be addressed in a humane,
diplomatic manner. I am an immigrant from an era marked by fear and hatred. We
are a nation revered as "the land of opportunity." Let us provide opportunity.

Susie Marazita

Buchanan, Mich.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Chip Somodevilla, Getty Images

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              435 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 11, 2008 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

In Mexico, an energized economy raises hopes;
Increasing stability could help curb illegal migration to USA

BYLINE: Chris Hawley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1877 words


IXMIQUILPAN, Mexico -- As Mexicans risk their lives to illegally immigrate to
the USA and shootouts among drug lords dominate the news, it's understandable
why Mexico might be perceived as a place with little hope.

Yet in places such as this tourist town that caters to the burgeoning middle
class outside Mexico City, many Mexicans say their future looks brighter than it
has in generations.

On weekends, a line of Chevrolet hatchbacks and other inexpensive new cars
snakes into parking lots at the town's water-slide parks. There, tourists munch
on $2 corn dogs, snap pictures with digital cameras and spend some of their
modest incomes. Every year, their numbers grow, the town's tourism department
says. And every year, they have a little more to spend.

"The last five or six years have been good for Mexico," says Crescenciano
Montiel, 34, manager of the Valle Paraiso water park. "Little by little, things
have improved."

Such stories abound, involving Mexicans of all income levels. The economy is
growing steadily, and poverty rates are declining significantly. Crime is down,
public health and education levels are improving, and Mexico's democracy is more
robust than at any time in its history.

"The country is stronger than ever," says Leon Krauze, a political author and
television host in Mexico. "We have managed to overcome many of the political
and economic tempests that used to threaten us."

As the debate over illegal immigration percolates in the USA, there are hopes on
both sides of the border that Mexico's improving economy eventually will provide
enough jobs to encourage significant numbers of Mexicans to stay and prosper in
their country.

There are signs that's starting to happen.

The brighter economic outlook in Mexico is one reason the number of migrants
caught by U.S. border agents has declined 20% during the past year or so,
although tighter border enforcement and the slowing U.S. economy also are
factors, says Wayne Cornelius, a specialist in Mexican migration at the
University of California, San Diego.

Continued improvements in Mexico would be good for the U.S. economy, says
Eduardo Loria, an economist at the National Autonomous University of Mexico.
Mexico bought $126 billion in U.S. goods from January to November last year, up
25% since 2004. Mexico probably would continue to buy more if its economy
continued to improve, he says.

Reduced Mexican emigration and an increasingly stable government here also could
ease turmoil along the U.S.-Mexican border, Krauze says. Immigrant smugglers
have brought violence to the U.S. side, engaging in shootouts in the Arizona
desert, attacking Border Patrol agents and kidnapping each other's clients on
U.S. soil.

"In terms of the tensions that are very evident as far as migration and the
turmoil along the border, I would hope that, in a decade, if Mexico continues
along this path and begins to see these microeconomic benefits, the United
States would see a reduction in those areas," Krauze says.

For now, though, problems remain.

Corruption and a feeble legal system are constraints on growth here, and there
is still an acute shortage of well-paying jobs. And Mexico's dependence on the
United States for exports and cash remittances could leave it especially
vulnerable to a U.S. recession.

Even so, Mexicans such as Montiel cite increasing examples of how their country
is undergoing a slow but dramatic transformation.

Born into a farming family of 14 siblings in Ixmiquilpan, 70 miles north of
Mexico City, Montiel says he could have headed to the USA like many of his
relatives and neighbors.

Instead, he went to college on a small scholarship, got a business degree and
worked at a bank and insurance company. Montiel and his wife have one child, a
2-year-old daughter, a reflection of how Mexican families have become smaller in
recent years, thanks in part to better planning. The fertility rate is 2.1
children per woman, on par with the U.S. rate and just enough to keep population
levels stable.

In 2003, Montiel persuaded his family to build a water park on a corner of their
25-acre farm, using water from a thermal spring formerly used for irrigation.
The park has five swimming pools, three water slides, a restaurant and a
nine-room inn, and is visited by 800-1,500 people a month.

"We've been subsidizing it with our crops, but I think this year we're going to
break even," Montiel says as he supervises installation of a faux-rock fountain
topped with a fiberglass dolphin. "This is going to be the new family business."

A stabilizing economy

Such displays of entrepreneurship and optimism were uncommon a decade ago, when
Mexico was reeling from an economic meltdown and an armed uprising in the
southern state of Chiapas. Banks collapsed nationwide under a mountain of unpaid
loans.

Politically, Mexico was monopolized by the Institutional Revolutionary Party
(PRI), which had used payoffs, intimidation and election fraud to rule the
nation under a virtual one-party system since 1929.

But change was in the air.

The 1994 North American Free Trade Agreement opened a huge market for
Mexican-made goods, spurring the construction of factories along the U.S.
border.

Meanwhile, a new generation of government technocrats, many of them Ivy League
graduates, began to tame the runaway public spending and inflation that had
locked the Mexican economy in bust-and-boom cycles for generations.

In 2000, the conservative Vicente Fox became the first president from outside
the PRI in seven decades. Under Fox and his successor, Felipe Calderon,
inflation has averaged about 4% a year with no major financial meltdowns.

"The stability of the past decade-plus has allowed financial markets and banks
to grow up. Mortgages exist now. People can get loans. There has been a birth of
a middle class in Mexico," says Gray Newman, head economist for Latin America at
Morgan Stanley investment bank in New York.

Economic growth has been modest, averaging about 3% per year, but the greatest
improvement in living standards among Mexico's 103 million people has been seen
among those of humble means -- surprising, perhaps, given the historic gap
between rich and poor.

"All of the international indicators show improvement," Loria says. "And it's
not just improvement in poverty. There's improvement in equality as well."

Mexico's economy created roughly 950,000 jobs last year, according to the
government.

That is a major improvement from a decade ago, when job growth was nearly flat,
but still not quite enough to absorb the 1.1 million Mexicans who entered the
workforce in 2007.

That disparity, plus the fact U.S. jobs often pay five times as much as those in
Mexico, is a major reason why migrants continue crossing into the USA, Newman
says.

However, if Mexico's economy keeps growing at similar or slightly better rates,
and if population growth continues to level out, then within a generation there
might not be enough working-age people to fill its labor force, says Leonardo
Martinez-Diaz, a Mexico specialist at the Brookings Institution, a
Washington-based think tank.

Mexico "could go over the next 20 years from being an exporter of people to an
importer of people," Martinez-Diaz says. "That would be a pretty remarkable
change."

The emerging suburbs

Perhaps nothing is more emblematic of Mexico's transformation than the rows of
identical, low-cost houses growing like corn on the dusty plain in places such
as Zumpango and Tecamac, north of Mexico City.

At the 7,000-home Paseos de San Juan subdivision, construction workers move in
waves across the ground, seemingly unable to meet demand fast enough -- one team
pouring concrete, others applying stucco, running cable and installing windows.

At the sales office, former schoolteacher Manuel Navarro waited to pick up the
keys to his new retirement home.

Navarro built his first house the traditional Mexican way: He saved a little
money, bought some blocks and mortar and built it himself, one room at a time,
over 15 years. Mexican cities are full of such half-finished homes.

Navarro's new home -- a two-bedroom, two-story concrete town house -- cost him
$41,200 with financing through a housing fund for government employees. "Who
wants to wait 15 years for a house anymore?" he says.

In all, 1.2 million homes were purchased using mortgages in 2007, up from
476,788 in 2000. Most of the mortgages were arranged through Infonavit, a
government-backed fund that has doubled its lending in seven years.

Navarro credits Mexico's move to a multiparty democracy for the change.

"When the PRI was in power, you could get housing credit from the government,
but only if you were a party member or from a PRI town," he says. "Things are
more transparent now, more open to everybody."

After decades in which big-ticket items had to be purchased with cash, credit is
available for other purchases at terms more typical of developed countries.

At Abamex Chevrolet in Mexico City, supermarket clerk David Galvez, 20, and
girlfriend Priscilla Torres were shopping for their first new car.

"I've pretty much decided on that one," he says, pointing to a burgundy
hatchback called the C2, which sells for $7,300.

Chevrolet was offering interest-free, 30-month financing to any buyer who
supplied a 35% down payment.

A rapid transformation

At places such as Las Americas shopping mall, which opened two years ago on the
site of an old chemical factory in the Mexico City suburb of Ecatepec, many of
the shoppers are a generation or two removed from peasants who lived the same
way for centuries.

Its movie theater buzzes with people lining up to see the latest Will Smith
flick, families shop for puppies at the pet store, and the food court is full of
shoppers eating McDonald's and Chinese fast food.

The transformation has been so rapid that some people -- particularly those who
lived through economic meltdowns in 1982 and 1994 -- fear the prosperity could
vanish just as quickly.

"People have houses and cars and things, but they're in debt," says Susana
Hernandez, 34, between bites of an ice cream cone in the food court of the mall.

"I'm afraid a lot of people are going to be out on the street because they don't
know how to manage credit," she says.

Some Mexicans are cynical about progress because of their country's long history
of high hopes followed by devastating crises, Krauze says.

"We are a country that loves its historical scars," Krauze says. "People don't
listen to the good side of the story."

Crime may be an example of how public perceptions have yet to catch up with
reality.

The nationwide crime rate has been dropping steadily since 2001, according to
the independent Citizens' Institute for Studies on Insecurity. The murder rate
has fallen 23% during the past decade.

Such good news, though, has been overshadowed by the drug war in cities along
the U.S. border.

Beheadings, shootouts in daylight and a wave of police killings have convinced
many Mexicans their country is not safe.

"The middle class has grown, and the political situation is a little better,"
says Cesar Sumano, whose wife was carjacked outside a grocery store last year.

"But it's still a hard country to live in. We've got a long way to go."

Hawley is Latin America correspondent for The Arizona Republic and USA TODAY.
Contributing:

Brian Winter in McLean, Va.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Karl Gelles, USA TODAY, Source: USA TODAY research by
Sergio Solache and Chris Hawley
Mexico's Nat'l Inst. of Statistics, Geography & Informatics
Mexican State of the Union Report, 2007
UNs Statistics Division
Mexico's Nat'l Commission for the Promotion of Housing
Mexico's Automobile Industry Assoc.
CIA's World Factbook
and U.S. Census Bureau (Line graphs, bar graph)
GRAPHIC, B/W, USA TODAY (Map)
PHOTO, Color, Miguel Tovar, AP
PHOTOS, B/W, Chris Hawley, The Arizona Republic (2)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              436 of 436 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 1, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Border Patrol's methods criticized;
Bus riders say agents used racial profiling

BYLINE: Emily Bazar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 804 words


Three times in the past year, Border Patrol agents have approached Silvio
Torres-Saillant in the Greyhound station in Syracuse, N.Y., as he purchased
tickets or waited in the terminal.

Each time, they asked about his immigration status and citizenship, says the
Syracuse University English professor, a naturalized U.S. citizen from the
Dominican Republic.

"It's very likely they come to me because of how I look," he says. "The idea
that there are some people who look more American than others is still very much
alive."

Torres-Saillant is among an increasing number of people, legal and illegal,
crossing paths with the Border Patrol well inside the border. The agency, with a
beefed-up force, is increasing surprise inspections on buses, trains and ferries
on routes that don't cross the border.

"If you have someone attempting to illegally enter the United States, it's very
unlikely that they're going to stay 15 yards from the international border,"
says Jason Ciliberti, a supervisory agent in Washington, D.C. "We want to take a
layered approach."

In places such as western New York, the number of agents and the stations
inspected has grown after 9/11.

"What we do is target transportation nodes, places where people change trains or
buses," says A.J. Price, spokesman for the Buffalo sector, which includes
Buffalo, Rochester, Syracuse and Erie, Pa. "Not only are we encountering
criminals, nefarious individuals, people that have broken immigration laws,
we're also sending a message that we're out there patrolling and looking."

Those inspections have come under fire from people such as Torres-Saillant, who
believe agents sometimes question people based on their skin color or accent.

When he took the bus to and from Buffalo with his wife in December, Border
Patrol agents boarded at a rest stop in Rochester. Each time, he says, they
briefly questioned everyone, then removed a passenger they believed was in the
country illegally.

Torres-Saillant often takes the bus to New York City. In the three times he has
been questioned at the station before that trip, he says, he was singled out.
"We have lost some civil liberties," he says.

Jessica Maxwell, 32, was on a bus from Syracuse to Utica over the July 4
holiday. She says three Border Patrol agents boarded after the passengers. They
approached and questioned only an Asian man until she asked why, she says. One
of the agents then inquired about her legal status, she says. "It seemed like a
very loose, arbitrary procedure," the Syracuse resident says. "They're
stereotyping."

The Border Patrol says it does not profile. "Not only is it wrong, it's simply
not effective," Ciliberti says. "Agents are trained to look at people's
mannerisms, their actions, where they're going."

In western New York, "we talk to everyone in the stations, at the terminals, on
the buses, on the trains, which eliminates the misconception of racial
profiling," Price says.

Rosemary Jenks of NumbersUSA, a group that advocates reduced immigration, says
it isn't racial profiling to ask for proof that someone is in the country
legally. The Border Patrol says legal immigrants other than naturalized citizens
must carry proof of their legal status.

"We all know illegal aliens enter the country, whether across the southern or
northern border," she says. "Their goal is to get to the closest major line of
transportation, whether a train, a bus or a road, for a car to come and pick
them up."

Families for Freedom, a New York City group that advocates for immigrants facing
deportation, protested at Greyhound and Amtrak stations in April and asked the
companies to warn customers that they may face immigration inspections. "One of
the things that makes this really shocking is that nobody's crossing any
borders," says group co-founder Maria Muentes. "For every other type of travel,
you have some sort of warning there will be checkpoints."

"Greyhound is under no obligation to inform customers of law-enforcement
activities at any time," says spokeswoman Abby Wambaugh.

On international routes, both companies remind customers they will need their
passports or other documentation at the border. "There are no notifications to
passengers who are not crossing the border," says Amtrak spokesman Cliff Cole.

At the University of Rochester, several international students on visas have
been detained or questioned by the Border Patrol, mostly in and around the bus
and train stations, says Cary Jensen, director of the international services
office.

For years, officials have told international students to carry copies of their
immigration documents. Now, they're warning students to be prepared even for a
quick trip downtown, he says.

"The students are here legitimately. They're amazing, the best and brightest in
the world," Jensen says. "We're just trying to prepare for every eventuality."

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Michelle Gabel for USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
